-- 
IMF May Need More Cash for Europe Crisis, Canada’s Flaherty Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-11-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-11/imf-may-need-more-firepower-to-avert-global-credit-crunch-flaherty-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  may
need to commit more funds to prevent global credit markets from
seizing up if  Europe ’s debt crisis continues to deteriorate,
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said.  Finance ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum today discussed what role the IMF should play
in the eurozone debt crisis, Flaherty told Bloomberg News in an
interview at the conference in Honolulu.  “We’re in favor of more funding, more resources for the
IMF, and my colleagues here are in favor of that, generally
speaking,” Flaherty said. “The question whether any of those
resources should be used for Europe is more debatable.”  Canada  has sided with the U.S. in saying Europe has enough
financial resources to deal with the crisis. Still, Flaherty
didn’t rule out the prospect of the IMF, which is funded by its
187-member countries, offering more support.  Italian bond yields this week rose to levels at which
Greece, Portugal and Ireland had to be bailed out by the 17-
nation eurozone. Italy is the world’s third biggest sovereign-
bond market, raising questions about whether Europe alone could
stop a run on the country’s debt.  “Our position has been that these countries in Europe have
adequate resources themselves, so that if they commit those
resources, they can resolve their issues themselves,” said
Flaherty, 61. “But I would never say never on this subject,
because it depends on the depth and breadth of the
consequences.”  ‘Serious Situation’  Finance ministers representing the APEC group, which
includes the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and  Australia , agreed that
Europe must deliver on the plan that eurozone countries outlined
on Oct. 26 in Brussels, he said. The plan would bulk up the
European Financial Stability Facility fund, recapitalize
European banks and implement a 50-percent “haircut” on Greek
bonds.  “We all agree it’s a serious situation,” said Flaherty,
who has called the European crisis the most pressing problem
facing the world. “We all recognize that there are global
consequences to what’s going on in Europe, particularly with the
European banks that hold a lot of this sovereign debt. So we
again urge the European ministers to marshal their resources and
implement the plan.”  European leaders need to act quickly to “overwhelm”
markets, he added. “There’s always the danger in these
situations, as we learned back in 2008, that markets and events
can get ahead of government authorities,” he said.  Canadian banks, ranked the soundest in the world by the
 World Economic Forum , have “limited” exposure to European
bonds, the minister said.  Sovereign Debt Danger  “The danger is that European banks are weakened by this
sovereign debt situation in Europe, that affects the American
banking system and that affects the Canadian banking system, in
fact the global banking system, where we can see a constriction
of credit, and we know that doesn’t take long to lead to
reduction of business activity,” Flaherty said.  Canada, the world’s 10th-largest economy, shrank in the
second quarter, two years after its last recession. Flaherty
this week said Canada would eliminate its  budget deficit  one
year later than projected in June as a result of slower-than-
expected economic growth.  The  Bank of Canada  held its main  interest rate  at 1 percent
Oct. 25, saying the outlook for the economy had weakened since
July. The central bank also cut its economic growth forecasts
through the middle of 2012, based on its outlook for a brief
European recession and slow U.S. growth.  Canada’s economy lost the most jobs since the 2009
recession during October, led by declines in the manufacturing
and construction industries, the country’s statistical agency
reported Nov. 4. Employment fell by 54,000 after an increase of
60,900 jobs in September,  Statistics Canada  said. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 7.3 percent from 7.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  