-- 
U.S. Holding Talks With Taliban: Karzai

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-06-18T22:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/afghan-president-karzai-says-u-s-is-negotiating-with-taliban-guerrillas.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  said
the U.S. is holding peace talks with Taliban guerrillas who
accept  Afghanistan ’s constitution.  “Peace talks with the Taliban and other countrymen who
accept the Afghan constitution, Afghanistan’s development,
democracy and freedom have started this year, and God willing
they are going well,” Karzai told a national youth conference
in the capital, Kabul, yesterday. “International forces,
especially America, are carrying out these talks.”  The U.S. hasn’t confirmed the talks and Afghan Taliban
spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahid  has denied that they are taking
place.  The Taliban ruled Afghanistan, harboring the al-Qaeda
terrorist network, until they were ousted by a U.S.-led invasion
following the Sept. 11 attacks in the U.S. President  Barack Obama  has said he will announce the first reduction of U.S.
troops in Afghanistan next month.  About 100,000 U.S. soldiers are in Afghanistan, according
to the Pentagon and Obama has pledged to fully transfer security
duties to the Afghan government by 2014. Concern over the rising
American debt has helped increase calls in Congress for the
White House to withdraw a substantial number of U.S. troops from
the country.  Karzai’s statement was his first to corroborate reports
this month by the Washington Post and  Associated Press  that
cited unidentified U.S. and Afghan officials as saying secret
U.S. talks were under way with a Taliban official close to the
group’s leader, Mullah  Mohammad Omar .  Renounce Violence  White House National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin
Hayden said in an e-mail yesterday that she couldn’t “confirm
any specific interactions, but we continue to support an Afghan-
led reconciliation and reintegration process that would bring
insurgents in from the cold provided they meet the Afghan
government’s long-standing redlines: renounce violence, break
with al-Qaeda, and live under the constitution, including
respect for the rights of women.”  “We have consistently supported an Afghan-led process of
reconciliation,” State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in
an e-mail yesterday. “Currently, we have a broad range of
contacts across Afghanistan and the region, and at many levels,
to support that effort.”  Karzai said his government isn’t taking part in the talks,
and he underscored the essential role of neighboring  Pakistan  in
any  peace process . “Getting Pakistan’s help in peace talks is
very important for us,” he said.  Pakistan’s military has backed the Afghan Taliban as a
proxy force, according to analysts such as Pakistani author
Ahmed Rashid and U.S. officials such as Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Last week, Karzai met
Pakistani leaders to discuss their participation in Afghan
peacemaking.  The Afghan leader said a High Peace Council that he
appointed, which includes former Taliban officials, has opened
contacts with the guerrillas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  