-- 
Hana Says Talks Continue With Lone Star on Deal to Buy Korea Exchange Bank

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-18T01:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/hana-says-talks-continue-with-lone-star-on-deal-to-buy-korea-exchange-bank.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  remains in
talks to acquire Korea Exchange Bank for 4.7 trillion won ($4.3
billion), after its stock plunged to a seven-month low yesterday
on speculation the deal will fall through.  Hana,  South Korea ’s fourth-biggest financial company, is
continuing negotiations to renew a contract with  Lone Star Funds 
initially signed in November, the Seoul-based bank said in an e-
mailed statement. Talks will continue even with the U.S. fund
mired in a court case over Korea Exchange, Hana said.  Shares of Hana slid 4.9 percent in Seoul trading yesterday
to 35,300 won, their lowest close since Nov. 22, on speculation
Lone Star’s prolonged legal disputes may jeopardize Hana’s bid
for  Korea Exchange Bank. (004940)   The Seoul High Court on June 16 opened a retrial for Lone
Star’s former local head Paul Yoo, the firm and Korea Exchange
Bank on stock price manipulation charges after the nation’s top
court in March overturned a 2008 acquittal.  South Korea’s  Financial Services Commission  is delaying
approval of Hana’s planned purchase of a 51 percent stake in
Korea Exchange from Dallas-based Lone Star until legal disputes
involving the buyout fund are cleared, the commission’s vice
chairman, Shin Je Yoon, said on May 12.  Korea Exchange Bank’s attorney told the presiding judge on
June 16 that it may file a constitutional appeal if the bank is
convicted as an employer of a manager who violated the law.
Prosecutors said  Lone Star  is also responsible for the stock
manipulation charges as an employer of Yoo.  The appeal process could take years, according to Hong Hun
Pio, an analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  