-- 
BHP Australia Coal Miners Hold Third Day of Strikes Before Starting Talks

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-18T02:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/bhp-australia-coal-miners-hold-third-day-of-strikes-before-starting-talks.html
More than 1,000 workers at two  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  coking coal mines in Australia staged a third day
of strikes in a dispute that is disrupting production from the
world’s largest exporter of the steelmaking commodity.  Six-hour rolling stoppages are in place at the Goonyella
Riverside and Peak Downs mines owned by  BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
Alliance  in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, Stephen Smyth, president
of the  Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union ’s mining
and energy division in Queensland, said by telephone today. The
stoppages complete strike action involving about 3,500 workers
at sites owned by BMA.  The strikes may further boost coking coal prices already
driven higher by supply shortages following floods in the state,
Natalie Robertson, resources analyst at  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. said this week. Further industrial action is
possible if talks between the labor union and the company
beginning June 20 breakdown.  “We’ll see what sort of attitude and approach BHP bring to
the table this week,” said Smyth. “We’ll go back to the
membership and explain what’s gone on, and the membership will
decide whether or not we take further industrial action.”  Labor unions in Australia are stepping up demands for wage
rises and  job security  after rising commodity prices swelled
profits at mining companies including Melbourne-based BHP.
Steelmaking coal prices rose 47 percent to a record $330 a
metric ton for three-month contracts starting April 1.  The earlier stoppages took place at the Saraji and Norwich
Park mines on June 14 and the Gregory, Crinum and Blackwater
mines on June 15.  Action Premature  “BMA is strongly of the view that taking industrial action
is premature given discussions are still progressing,” BHP said
in an e-mailed statement on June 13. The company has nothing to
add to that statement, spokeswoman Kelly Quirke said today.  “Support has been overwhelming for the position the union
has taken,” said Smyth. “The guys are well aware of the
matters we’re apart on because from the onset they put those
issues to us to take to the bargaining table.”  A strike may further cut output at BHP, which reported a 14
percent decline in production last quarter after torrential
rains from November to January inundated mines in Queensland,
Australia’s biggest exporter of the commodity. The nation’s
coking-coal exports plunged to 7.9 million metric tons in
February, the lowest monthly volume in two years.  Steel Production  Almost all the coal mined at the BMA mines, with annual
capacity of 58 million tons, is shipped overseas for steel
production, BMA said on its website. BMA is equally owned by BHP
and Mitsubishi Development Pty. It directly employs more than
4,800 people, the website shows.  China ’s imports of coking coal are forecast to gain at an
average rate of 9 percent a year to reach 73 million metric tons
in 2016, according to Australian government forecasts.  India  may
triple coking coal imports within five years to meet surging
demand from steelmakers, ANZ said last month.  Exports of coking coal from Australia are forecast to rise
3 percent this year even after the floods, according to
government forecasts. They may total 163 million tons this year
compared with 159 million tons last year, the Australian Bureau
of Agricultural & Resource Economics and Sciences said in a
March report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  