-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls on U.S. ‘Soft Patch,’ Drop in Crude Oil

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/canadian-dollar-falls-on-u-s-soft-patch-drop-in-crude-oil.html
The Canadian dollar sank to the
lowest since March versus its U.S. counterpart as weaker-than-
forecast data signaled the American economy is slowing, and
 crude oil , Canada’s biggest export, dropped the most in a month.  Canada’s currency, sometimes known as the loonie, gained
for a second week versus the euro as European leaders bickered
over a rescue for  Greece  before reaching a compromise yesterday.
The loonie fell against the currencies of fellow commodity
exporters Australia and South Africa before a report next week
that may show that growth in Canadian leading indicators slowed.  “The Canadian’s economy’s largest trading partner is the
U.S., and the  U.S. economy  has hit a bit of a temporary soft
patch,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital
markets in  Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “There has been so much flow related to oil
lately that we’re seeing the major sell-off in commodities
really steer  Canada .”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the bird on the C$1
coin, traded at 97.94 cents per  U.S. dollar , compared with 97.99
on June 10. It reached 98.99 cents on June 16, the weakest level
since March 17. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0210.  Canada ships 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.  The Canadian currency gained 0.4 percent for the week
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It rose 0.3
percent versus the euro to C$1.4015 and touched the strongest
level in three weeks, C$1.3825, on June 16. It fell 0.8 percent
to C$1.0405 per Australian dollar and weakened 0.6 percent to
14.49 cents per South African rand.  Bonds Gain  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.94 percent. It touched 2.89 percent on June 16, the
lowest level since November. The price of the 3.25 percent
security due in June 2021 gained 52 cents to C$102.62.  Crude oil for July delivery tumbled 6.3 percent to $93.01 a
barrel in New York and touched $91.84, the lowest level since
Feb. 22. It closed at $99.29 on June 10. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of raw materials dropped 4.7 percent, its first
weekly loss in more than a month. Canada derives about half its
export revenue from raw materials including oil.  The loonie tumbled on June 16 as the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia’s general economic index unexpectedly fell in
June to minus 7.7, the lowest level since July 2009, from 3.9 in
May. Readings less than zero signal contraction. The data
followed the  New York  Fed’s Empire State Index a day earlier,
which showed manufacturing in its region also fell this month.  Greek Crisis  The Canadian currency also weakened as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said he would reshuffle his cabinet and call a
confidence vote in parliament after failing to win support for
an austerity program. The political turmoil came as European
Union talks on forging a new bailout to prevent the first euro-
area default stalled.  The loonie erased early losses yesterday as  Germany 
retreated from demands that bondholders be forced to share in
the costs of a Greek rescue.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to avoid disrupting
markets. She spoke at a press conference in Berlin with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who had backed the ECB in opposition
to the German stance.  The currency appreciated earlier in the week versus the
greenback as a report showed  China ’s industrial output
increased. It erased the gains amid the U.S. data and
speculation the Greek crisis would worsen.  Risk Aversion  “We had a massive increase in risk aversion half-way
through the week, and commodities started to decline off that,
and the Canadian dollar followed,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  Implied volatility for one-week U.S.-Canadian dollar
options surged 91.8 basis points to 9.15 percent in its first
weekly increase in a month. It reached 10.24 percent on June 16,
the highest level since May 16. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of swings in the underlying currency.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in June more than
forecast as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 71.8, from
74.3 in May, data showed yesterday. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 74.  “When we have weak U.S. data, by default that’s negative
for Canada,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. “U.S. consumer confidence is a
little concerning.”  Factory Sales  Manufacturing sales in Canada fell in April for the second
time in three months. They decreased 1.3 percent to C$46.7
billion on a seasonally adjusted basis,  Statistics Canada  said.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  restated his forecast
that economic growth in Canada is slowing to a “modest pace,”
weighed down by temporary factors such as supply-chain
disruptions in the auto sector and rising energy prices.  Carney, in a speech in  Vancouver  on June 15, also
reiterated that the bank plans to “eventually” raise its
benchmark interest rate.  Investors expect the Bank of Canada to boost the 1 percent
rate by 53 basis points in the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  The index of leading economic indicators probably advanced
0.5 percent in May, compared with a gain of 0.8 percent in
April, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Statistics Canada is due to report the data June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  