-- 
China Home Prices Cool as Government Steps Up Bid to Avoid Property Bubble

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T09:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/china-s-may-home-prices-rise-in-67-of-70-cities-defying-government-curbs.html
China ’s effort to cool home prices
is damping the market for existing homes, with prices in May
falling from the previous month in 23 of 70 cities measured.  That’s more than the 16 cities that posted declines in
April, data from the National Bureau of Statistics posted to its
 website  June 18 showed. Existing home prices in Beijing fell 0.2
percent from April while those in  Shanghai  increased 0.2 percent.
The price of new homes, typically sold by developers, rose last
month in 67 of the 70 cities monitored.  Authorities in China and Hong Kong are stepping up property
curbs amid concerns prices are becoming unaffordable. China on
June 14 ordered banks to hold more money as reserves for the
sixth time in 2011 as it fights to contain inflation.  “Government measures work better in the existing home
market because the strict home purchase restrictions effectively
restrain some purchasing power,” Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a phone interview.
“Developers on the other hand are not in a rush to cut  home
prices  as they watch the direction of government policies.”  The measure of property stocks on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose 0.3 percent at the 3 p.m. close of trading, posting
the only gain among the five industry groups on the benchmark
gauge.  The slowing home price growth in the market for existing
homes may force more property agencies out of business, said Gao.
Midland Realty Ltd. said it will close all of its branches that
broker existing homes sales and rentals in Shanghai, because it
“isn’t optimistic” about the market in the city, China
Business News said on May 9, citing Ding Wei, a company official.  Slower Gains  Price increases for new homes slowed last month in big
cities such as the capital of Beijing, the statistics bureau
said. Efforts to rein in property prices have been focused on
the nation’s largest urban areas. A total of 29 cities posted
increases exceeding 5 percent, down from 33 cities in April,
according to the bureau’s data.  New-home prices in Beijing rose 2.1 percent in May from a
year earlier, while those in Shanghai climbed 1.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said. The biggest gains last month were in
smaller cities including Urumqi, Mudanjiang, Lanzhou and
Qinhuangdao, which all posted increases of at least 7.7 percent,
according to the data. Prices in northeastern China’s Dandong
rose 9.7 percent in May, the most among the 70 cities monitored.  Compared with the previous month, new home prices fell in
nine cities in May, the same number as in April.  Developers may cut home prices in the second half of the
year after facing a drain on  cash flow , Gao said.  Outlook Cut  Chinese developers’ outlook was cut to “negative” from
“stable” by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 on concern tighter
credit and further government curbs may lead to rating
downgrades in the next year. Property sales may start to slow as
the government’s policy “starts to bite,” leading to price
cuts that may drive home prices 10 percent lower in the next 12
months, the credit rating company said.  Some developers such as China Vanke Co. and China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. started to cut prices in some Chinese
cities, and more may follow suit in the second half of this year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Developers are still watching to see how strict the
government’s property measures will be before cutting prices,”
said Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., in a phone interview. “The slowdown of
existing home prices is showing the government’s home purchase
restrictions are having some effect.”  Hong Kong ’s home prices are “quite frightening” as
growing wealth in China fuels increases of 2 percent a month,
the city’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang said in an interview in
 Melbourne  on June 17. Savills Plc ranks Hong Kong as the world’s
most expensive place to buy an apartment.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Paul Tighe.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  