-- 
EADS Chief Sees Upside of Higher Freefloat

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/eads-chief-gallois-says-higher-freefloat-would-benefit-investors.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  said investors would
benefit from a higher proportion of freely traded stock, as two
major shareholders consider cutting their stakes.  “The extension of the free float would be a benefit for
all shareholders,” Gallois told journalists at a meeting in
Paris ahead of this year’s air show in Le Bourget. “Discussions
have been engaged in  Germany  on the organization of
shareholders. I suggest we take this opportunity to adopt not a
short-term solution, but a solution that is sustainable in the
long term.”  German carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  and French publisher  Lagardere
SCA (MMB)  have expressed interest in cutting their stakes in EADS to
focus on their main businesses. France and Germany have sought
to maintain a balance in their stakes since EADS was founded a
decade ago, and the main investors still control slightly more
than 50 percent, partly to protect EADS from a hostile takeover.  Daimler owns 15 percent of EADS and has voting control over
a 7.5 percent stake that German banks and federal states agreed
to buy in 2007. Both the banks and states as well as Daimler are
looking to reduce their holdings. Lagardere owns 7.5 percent and
also has management control over  France ’s 15 percent stake.
Spain controls 5.46 percent of EADS.  France and Germany would be unable to hold so-called golden
shares, a system granted by European law only for direct defense
interests, Gallois said EADS is exploring other options, he
said, without elaborating  Ultimately, the balance between French and German
shareholdings is a “fact of life” that can’t change, Gallois
said.  “It’s an industry of sovereign importance,” Gallois said.
“Both countries have put most of their aerospace assets into
this, and both want to have their share of jobs technologies,
design office facilities. We have not merged France and Germany
yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Andrea Rothman at the  Paris Air Show  at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  