-- 
Medvedev to Meet Bankers on Moscow Financial Hub in October

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-18T09:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/medvedev-to-meet-top-bankers-on-moscow-financial-hub-in-october.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said he plans to meet with the heads of international banks in
October to discuss plans to transform Moscow into a global
financial hub.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Chairman John Mack may head groups within an advisory
panel for the financial-center project, German Gref, the head of
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, said today at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum.  Russia is targeting a bigger role in international finance
as it seeks to diversify its economy away from energy exports.
The president in March picked a 27-man board to advise Russia on
how to boost the capital’s financial clout.  We are all full of optimism for this interesting project,
Urs Rohner, chairman of Credit Suisse AG, said in St. Petersburg
today.  Medvedev is setting up a private-equity fund to lure as
much as $40 billion in foreign investment in addition to the
fund’s $10 billion in government backing.  “There is a good deal flow already from our potential co-
investor partners and from companies approaching us,” the head
of the fund, Kirill Dmitriev, said yesterday.  Earlier, Medvedev had urged a diminished role for the state
in the Russian economy, saying the “dominance” of government-
controlled companies is making the country less competitive and
calling for an accelerated privatization program that may see
Russia’s stake in oil producer OAO Rosneft trimmed to less than
50 percent.  “This economic model is dangerous for the future,”
Medvedev told participants at the forum’s official opening
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  St. Petersburg  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 