-- 
EU to Discuss Greek Plan That Skirts Default Risk

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-18T11:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/eu-officials-seek-greek-fix-as-merkel-outlines-uncontrollable-default-risk.html
European finance ministers meet
tomorrow to hammer out a new Greek bailout package watertight
enough to avoid triggering a default that German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said would be uncontrollable.  Officials must figure out how to design a plan that will
encourage investors to roll over expiring Greek debt after
Merkel yesterday ended a standoff with the  European Central Bank 
over restructuring the country’s debt load. Talks will start at
6 p.m. in Luxembourg and continue the next day. EU leaders meet
on June 23-24.  “Now comes the tricky part,” said Tullia Bucco, an
economist at Unicredit Global Research in Milan. “This proposal
is fraught with difficulties in identifying ways to provide
banks with incentives to rollover their bonds. Any deterioration
in bond conditions via new coupons below market rates would be
seen by rating agencies as the trigger of a  credit event .”  Stocks, bonds and the euro jumped yesterday after Merkel
ended a feud with the ECB that roiled markets. Highlighting the
risks still facing the euro region, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  must win a parliamentary confidence vote next week
that could delay Greece’s next round of austerity and Moody’s
Investors Service said late yesterday it may cut its Aa2 rating
on  Italy ’s sovereign debt.  Lehman Experience  Merkel said today in Berlin that policy makers must make
sure the Greek crisis doesn’t infect the rest of the euro region
and spark a new global financial crisis.  “We all lived through  Lehman Brothers ,” she told a
meeting of activists from her ruling  Christian Democrat  party.
“I don’t want another such threat to emanate from  Europe . We
wouldn’t be able to control an insolvency.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
tomorrow’s talks, says a new Greek plan will have to be
rubberstamped by the ECB.  “If we made a move that would be rejected by the ECB, by
the rating agencies and therefore the financial markets, we risk
setting the euro area aflame,” La Libre Belgique quoted Juncker
as saying in an interview published today.  The risk is that any pact will still be classified as a
form of default by rating companies, effectively cutting Greek
banks off from emergency ECB funding.  Fitch Ratings  said June 15
that a rollover would prompt it to cut  Greece ’s sovereign rating
to “restricted default.” The bonds themselves would still avoid
default and be left at “a low non-investment grade probably in
the region of CCC,” it said.  Collateral Incentive  The debt is currently graded B+ at Fitch.  Standard & Poor’s 
on June 13 cut its rating on Greece by three levels to CCC,
branding it with the world’s lowest debt grade.  EU officials have discussed incentives for investors to
reinvest the proceeds of their maturing bonds into new debt,
according to people familiar with the situation. They include
giving investors preferred status, higher coupon payments or
collateral as inducements to buy bonds replacing Greek debt
maturing between 2012 and 2014, they said.  The yield on Greece’s two-year bond, which topped 30
percent for the first time on June 16, fell 90 basis points to
28.79 percent yesterday. The signs of flexibility from  Germany 
sent the euro up as much as 1 percent to $1.4339.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said in
 St. Petersburg  today that he expects EU leaders to make a
“political commitment” to Greece next week.  Merkel said yesterday she was now willing to accept that
the so-called Vienna initiative of 2009, which encouraged
creditors to roll over expiring bonds, could be a model for
private-investor participation in the new aid package.  Greek Reshuffle  That marked a reversal from the position set out by her
finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who had insisted that
Greek bond maturities be extended by seven years. The approach
met ECB resistance and led to credit-rating company warnings
that the move was tantamount to default, stalling efforts to
craft an aid package.  Officials will meet two days after Papandreou announced a
Cabinet reshuffle that included replacing Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  in a bid to get rebelling allies to back
the 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) austerity plan that the EU
and IMF have made a condition for new aid.  Papandreou named Evangelos Venizelos, his defense minister
and a former rival for leadership of the ruling Socialist party,
to replace Papaconstantinou.  Papandreou then called for a vote of confidence in his new
government, which will probably be held the evening of June 21
after three days of debate.  Merkel Push  Merkel is nevertheless still pushing for private investors
to play a “substantial” role in any new package, without
specifying what that would look like.  “Let us try to get together a substantial contribution in
this participation of private creditors,” she said today. “But
we don’t do this on the street, we don’t do this in press
conferences, we do this in serious talks with those
making the contribution.”  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros. It would be filled by about 45
billion euros of loans, plus 57 billion euros in unspent
aid from the 2010 bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in asset-
sale proceeds and about 30 billion euros from creditors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  