-- 
Euro Strengthens on Possible Aid Deal

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/euro-strengthens-as-germany-signals-compromise-on-greek-crisis.html
The euro rose from a record low
versus the Swiss franc as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday she would work with the  European Central Bank  on a
debt plan for  Greece .  Europe’s shared currency reversed its losses against the
Swiss currency after Merkel retreated from demands that
bondholders shoulder a “substantial” share of a Greek rescue,
easing concern the region’s sovereign debt problems will worsen.
Currencies of commodity exporting countries dropped this week as
raw material prices slumped by the most in six weeks. The dollar
gained against the euro before a Federal Reserve policy meeting
next week.  “The focus for the market is the situation transpiring in
Europe and how much risk is in the system,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto. “We are moving very quickly from one side of the boat
to the other in terms of euro and it’s highlighting how much
uncertainty there is.”  The euro rose 0.4 percent to 1.2142 francs, from 1.2098
June 10, and reached a record 1.19466. It weakened 0.3 percent
to $1.4306, from $1.4347 last week. The shared currency fell 0.6
percent to 114.52 yen, from 115.24.  The dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 80.05 yen, from 80.32, a
fourth straight week loss.  Year-to-Date  The 17-nation currency has gained 2.5 percent this year
against nine other developed-nation currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
declined 4.8 percent while the yen has lost 3.4 percent.  Net dollar short positions against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc rose for a
third week and reached 185,700 in the five days ended June 14,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission figures
released yesterday and data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand ’s dollar and  Sweden ’s krona fell the most
against the dollar this week among the 16 most-traded
currencies. The kiwi, as the South Pacific island nation’s
currency is known, lost 1.1 percent to 81.28 U.S. cents, from
82.14. The krona fell 1.4 percent to 6.4142 per dollar, from
6.3273.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened after earthquakes with
magnitudes of 5.2 and 6.0 struck near Christchurch, according to
the  U.S. Geological Survey .  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities fell
3.6 percent, the biggest drop since the week ended May 6. The
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities dropped 0.6 percent.  The euro plunged the most in almost six weeks against the
dollar on June 15 after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government lost political support. The currency recovered
yesterday as Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  reached
an agreement on the Greek crisis at a meeting in Berlin.  Vienna Agenda  “The aim is involvement of the private sector on a
voluntary basis, and for that the Vienna Initiative, as it’s
called, is a good basis,” Merkel said. “I think we can achieve
something on this basis.”  Adopting the Vienna plan, used during the financial crisis
of 2009 for eastern European units of banks to maintain their
exposure, would involve encouraging creditors to roll over
expiring bonds, buying time for Greece until its austerity
program shows results or until a permanent rescue fund kicks in
from mid-2013. A rollover involves reinvesting the proceeds from
maturing bonds in new securities.  “If Sarkozy and Merkel are indicating that there is
progress in  Europe , then you know that there is progress and
that’s what the market wanted to see,” said  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit
in Toronto.  Italy Watch  Italy’s Aa2 local and foreign currency government bond
ratings may be cut by Moody’s, the company said yesterday.  “With the focus squarely on the  euro zone , Italy being
placed on review by Moody’s does highlight the idea that there
are a number of issues affecting Europe,” said  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “There are a number of
headwinds to Europe’s recovery and even some of the core euro-
zone economies are facing serious challenges, including  Italy .”  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, rose even as U.S.
economic reports showed a slowing recovery. The index advanced
0.3 percent to 75.983 from 74.795 last week.  The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index dropped
to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November, from 11.9 in May.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was
12. The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index fell
to minus 7.7, the lowest since July 2009.  The Fed’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee will
meet June 21-22.  Economic View  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said recent
U.S. economic data have prompted him to reconsider his forecast
for growth.  The data are “causing us to rethink our outlook for
growth,” Lacker said to reporters after a speech June 13 in
Roanoke, Virginia. “We could be stuck below trend for some
time,” he said.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.8 percent after a revised 0.4 percent
decline in April, the New York-based group said yesterday.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Two-year U.S. Treasury note yields fell for a 10th straight
week, the longest slump in 25 years. They ended the week at 0.38
percent, from 0.4 onJune 10.  “Dollar-yen is going to struggle to move higher without
U.S. yields moving higher,” said  Derek Halpenny , London-based
European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ. “We’ve had disappointing data from the U.S., so that’s
helped contain the two-year yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  