-- 
Goldman Says Russia Stocks Attractive, Election Shouldn’t Delay Investment

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-06-18T08:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/goldman-says-invest-in-russia-now-don-t-wait-for-2012-elections.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising
clients to avoid delaying investment decisions for Russia until
it becomes clear who will be the next president in elections in
March.  “There’s not a lot of wisdom to wait,” said Christopher Barter, co-chief executive officer for Goldman’s Russia unit, at
a conference in St. Petersburg today. “Our advice to clients
who think there could be a dramatic change is not to wait. The
opportunities are enormous and valuations are very attractive.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
have yet to announce whether either will run for the presidency
next year and political uncertainty before parliamentary
elections in December and the 2012 vote are spurring capital
flight from  Russia , German Gref, chief executive officer at OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, said April 15. Russia’s
central bank posted $30 billion of outflows in the first four
months of the year, near the $35.3 billion for all of 2010.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
jumped to fourth place in handling equity sales for Russian
companies last year, its highest position ever, behind VTB
Capital and Renaissance Capital, both based in Moscow, and
Morgan Stanley.  “The old perception of Goldman Sachs in Russia is that we
haven’t been consistent in our efforts in this country,” Barter
said in an interview in Moscow May 12. “This is not the reality
today.”  Sberbank, Yandex  Goldman was one of the four banks chosen by the central
bank June 14 to manage a sale of part of its stake in Sberbank,
a transaction that may be worth as much as $7 billion. It also
helped sell 300 million pounds ($487 million) of sterling-
denominated bonds issued by OAO Russian Railways June 15 and
assisted with Russian search engine owner Yandex NV’s $1.3
billion initial public offering in May.  Last year was the biggest for Russian mergers and
acquisitions since 2007, helped by 96 deals worth $50.9 billion
in the fourth quarter alone, Bloomberg data show. Russia has
seen deals worth $36 billion in the first half, up from $26
billion for the same period a year earlier.  “A large part of why these banks are coming to  St.
Petersburg  is because of this M&A and privatization business,”
said  Clemens Grafe , chief economist for Goldman in Russia, at
the conference in St. Petersburg on June 16. “The old corporate
landscape is changing.”  Stocks Still Cheap  Russian stocks are still cheap,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong , broadcast May 13. A global
stock rally “could start in  China ,” he said.  Russia’s benchmark Micex Index has risen 21 percent over
the last year, advancing to a three-year high on April 6. The
30-stock gauge slid 2.3 percent last week as oil, the country’s
main export earner, tumbled 6.3 percent on concern  Greece ’s debt
crisis will hobble a global recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  