-- 
Greek Government Bonds Slump on Default Concern; Merkel Rally Trims Drop

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-06-18T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/greek-government-bonds-slump-on-default-concern-merkel-rally-trims-drop.html
Greek bonds plunged, driving yields
on the nation’s two- and 10-year securities to records, as Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s failure to win parliamentary
support for more austerity fueled speculation of a default.  Greek 10-year bonds fell for the second consecutive week,
driving the yield difference, or spread, between the securities
and similar-maturity German bunds to an all-time high. The debt
rallied yesterday after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
retreated from German demands that bondholders be forced to bear
a “substantial” share of a new rescue for  Greece . Standard &
Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to CCC from B on June 13.  “There are still concerns that the Greek situation won’t
get sorted,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “The overwhelming
concern over possible contagion is weighing on  Portugal  and
Ireland.”  The Greek 10-year yield rose 21 basis points in the week to
16.94 percent as of 5 p.m. yesterday in London after reaching a
euro-era record 18.35 percent earlier. The spread versus
benchmark bunds widened to as much as 1,543 basis points, or
15.43 percentage points. Greece’s two-year note yield climbed
284 basis points to 28.79 percent. It reached a record 30.32
percent on June 16.  Ireland and Portugal’s bond yields also reached records,
while the costs of insuring Greek, Irish and Portuguese debt
against default reached all-time highs.  A default by Greece is “almost certain,” former Federal
Reserve chairman  Alan Greenspan  said June 16.  Default Chances ’Small’  Merkel will work with the  European Central Bank  to avoid
disrupting markets, she told reporters in Berlin yesterday at a
joint press conference with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  German two-year note yields dropped three basis points in
the week to 1.51 percent. They reached 1.43 percent on June 16,
the lowest level since Feb. 22, as investors sought the euro
area’s safest assets. Ten-year bund yields were little changed
at 2.96 percent after falling to 2.91 percent on June 16, the
least since Jan. 11.  A gauge of German business sentiment fell in June according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Ifo
institute in Munich releases its business climate index on June
24.  Greek government bonds have lost investors 20 percent this
year through June 16, while Portuguese debt declined 19 percent,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Irish securities
dropped 11 percent, while German debt, perceived to be the
safest in the region, returned 0.7 percent. Treasuries gained
3.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  