-- 
J&J Wins Trial Over Claims Antibiotic Levaquin Caused Injuries

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-06-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/johnson-johnson-wins-second-trial-over-injury-claims-against-antibiotic.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  isn’t responsible
for a tendon injury sustained by an 84-year-old man and properly
warned of the risks posed by its antibiotic Levaquin, a
Minneapolis jury decided.  Calvin Christensen, who said he ruptured the Achilles
tendon in his right foot after taking the drug while
hospitalized for pneumonia, sued the company and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit in 2007. Christensen said the
companies downplayed the risks of Levaquin to boost sales of the
drug.  Johnson & Johnson denied any failure to warn and contended
Christensen needed Levaquin to treat the pneumonia. The
Minneapolis federal court jury rejected his claim yesterday.  “The jury took a good, hard look at all the evidence and
correctly concluded that Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. acted responsibly and properly in disclosing the risks
associated with this effective and life-saving medicine,” James
B. Irwin, a lawyer for the company, said in a statement after
the verdict.  Christensen’s case is the second of more than 2,500 pending
claims in U.S. courts to go to trial over allegations that
Levaquin caused tendon damage in patients and that the company
failed to adequately disclose the risk. J&J and Ortho-McNeil
lost the first trial when a separate Minneapolis jury awarded
$1.8 million to an 82-year-old man who ruptured both Achilles
tendons.  ‘Disappointed’ Plaintiff  Ron Goldser, a lawyer for the plaintiff, said in a brief
interview that his side is “disappointed.”  The trial began June 1.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 2008 required an
upgraded warning on tendon damage by Levaquin and similar drugs.  Christensen claimed the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and that Johnson & Johnson and Ortho-McNeil, now Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen, targeted the elderly for drug sales.  The Levaquin label “has included warnings about tendinitis
and tendon ruptures,” since it was first approved by the FDA in
1996, Bill Foster, a J&J spokesman, said in an e-mail before
trial.  Levaquin had U.S. sales of $1.3 billion in 2010 and $422
million in the first quarter of 2011. Levaquin, a member of a
class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, was developed to
treat serious and life-threatening infections, Foster said.  Millions of Prescriptions  The drug has been prescribed more than 430 million times
worldwide, company lawyers said in court papers last year.  The FDA in 2008 required Johnson & Johnson and makers of
other drugs in the class to include a so-called black box or
enhanced warning on the risk of tendon ruptures. The risk was
higher in patients older than 60, those taking steroids, or who
have had kidney, heart or lung transplants, the FDA said.  J&J was aware of the increased risk before adding the black
box warning, Christensen said in his complaint. Regulatory
officials in France, Italy and  Belgium  sent out so-called Dear
Doctor letters of the risk of tendon injury among the elderly in
2002, Christensen said.  Ortho-McNeil upgraded its warning in the U.S. in 2002,
adding the increased risk to patients taking steroids,
particularly elderly patients, Christensen said. This wasn’t
enough, because Ortho-McNeil didn’t send out Dear Doctor letters
in the U.S. about the change and “muted” the additional
warning, he said in court papers.  Label Change  Johnson & Johnson changed the label on its own after
reviewing initial data from  Europe  in 2001, Irwin said yesterday
in closing arguments.  “That’s how we like to see corporate America do things,”
he said.  Christensen, who took the drug in May 2006, required surgery
after rupturing his right Achilles tendon and was left with
“permanent instability and loss of balance,” according to his
complaint. “Even with immobilization for long periods of time
and physical therapy, the Achilles tendons in the elderly rarely
fully recover,” he said in court papers.  Christensen needed Levaquin to treat his pneumonia, Irwin
said.  “All medicines have risks and benefits, we all know
that,” said Irwin said. “A huge benefit outweighs the risk of
harm.”  Christensen’s doctor was aware of the warning of tendon
ruptures on the Levaquin label, Irwin said. The doctor
prescribed Levaquin to Christensen because “it was important to
get him home,” Irwin said.  ‘Other Drugs’  “There were lots of other drugs available for Calvin,”
his lawyer, Ronald Goldser, said at trial yesterday. “Did he
have an alternative? Of course, he did.”  Goldser played a portion of a video deposition of
Christensen’s doctor, Greg Clark, in his closing argument. In
the deposition, Goldser asked Clark if he would have prescribed
Levaquin if he knew then what he now knows about the drug.  “We should have considered alternatives for him,” Clark
replied.  “Johnson & Johnson failed to provide Dr. Clark complete
and proper information in a manner intended to attract notice,”
Goldser said.  The lawsuit is Christensen v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-03960,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 