-- 
NBA, Players Remain Split on Key Issues After Five Hours of New York Talks

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/nba-players-remain-split-on-key-issues-after-five-hours-of-new-york-talks.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players union remained divided on key negotiation
points as they moved within two weeks of a possible lockout.  The NBA and  National Basketball Players Association  met
yesterday for about five hours in a New York hotel. The league
agreed to rescind a demand that would have taken away players’
rights to negotiate guaranteed contracts, which is in the
current collective bargaining agreement, representatives of
both groups said. Still unresolved is how to split basketball-
related income and what type of salary cap to institute.  The two sides agreed to meet again in New York on June 21,
with the labor contract set to expire on June 30.  “Did we substantially narrow the gap today? Possibly on
one issue,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  told reporters after
the talks. “But we have a deal with the players that nothing
is narrowed until everything is narrowed.”  After weeks of speculation, the league this weekend
officially will cancel its Las Vegas summer league because the
timing of planning for the games has become unworkable, NBA
Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver said yesterday.  As for the decision to change the league’s stance on
guaranteed contracts, Stern said it was “more than a
gesture.”  “It was a response to particular presentations by many of
the players present and their lawyer that said that of all of
the issues, the guarantee is one that is very, very important
to individual players,” Stern said.  Hard Salary Cap  The league has proposed a hard salary cap, a no-wigggle-
room ceiling on what teams can pay players. The current labor
accord has a flexible, or soft, cap that includes exceptions
that allowed teams to exceed last season’s $58 million
threshold. Union President Derek Fisher of the  Los Angeles
Lakers  last week said the group was “adamantly against a hard
salary-cap system.”  Jeffrey Kessler, an attorney for the union, yesterday said
the owners did not back off their demand for a hard salary cap.  “Every move is important, but while there’s a hard cap
with it, it’s not as big a move as it would have been,”
Kessler said of the owners’ move on guaranteed contracts.
“That really undermines, from the players’ standpoint, what it
means.”  The two sides have time to reach an agreement before the
contract expires if they find common ground on the major
issues, Fisher said.  “We could put together a million-piece puzzle in a very
short time if we can get two or three pieces in the right
place,” he said.  Following June 8 negotiations, both Stern and Fisher used
the phrase “very far apart” to characterize the state of
negotiations.  Players Attending  All-Star  Carmelo Anthony  of the  New York  Knicks, as well
as players John Salmons and Sebastian Telfair, sat in on
yesterday’s session and heavy player attendance at next week’s
meeting is expected.  Stern said the two sides have each made four proposals to
the other since negotiations began and that he was hoping to
receive another from the union directed at the economics in the
next meeting, with time dwindling before the deadline.  “The time to have an optimistic or pessimistic view is at
the close of the day on Tuesday,” he said. “Tuesday is a very
important day in these negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  