-- 
Obama Stresses Importance of Fatherhood in Weekly Address

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-18T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/obama-stresses-importance-of-fatherhood-in-weekly-address.html
President  Barack Obama , who grew up
without his father, today stressed the importance of fatherhood
and urged dads to spend time with their children, provide
structure and give unconditional love.  “Every father has a personal responsibility to do right by
our kids,” the president said in his weekly address on the
radio and Internet.  Obama, who was raised by his mother and his maternal
grandparents, has used the U.S. celebration of Father’s Day to
speak out on the importance of fatherhood in each of his three
years as president. Father’s Day this year is tomorrow.  Obama’s father left the family when Obama was a toddler.
Obama met his father once after that, when he was 10 years old.
Barack Obama Sr. died in an automobile accident in 1982.  “Even though my sister and I were lucky enough to have a
wonderful mother and caring grandparents to raise us, I felt his
absence,” Obama said. “And I wonder what my life would have
been like had he been a greater presence.”  Obama called raising his two daughters his “most rewarding
job,” and said other fathers should make sure to spend time
with their children.  “More than anything, they just want us to be a part of
their lives,” he said. “In the end, that’s what being a parent
is all about.”  Trade Accords  In the Republican address, Senator John Hoeven of  North
Dakota  called on the Senate to ratify pending free-trade
agreements with  South Korea , Columbia and  Panama .  “Our country needs the kind of pro-jobs, pro-growth
policies that will help us live up to our vision of a strong,
peaceful, prosperous America,” he said.  The Obama administration has delayed submitting for
approval the free-trade accords until lawmakers agree to renew
trade aid for workers.  Hoeven said the agreements shouldn’t be delayed while the
U.S. experiences high unemployment, which was 9.1 percent last
month.  “Free and fair trade agreements can help us create the
kind of pro-jobs, pro-growth economy that will lift our nation
up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  