-- 
Pound Weakens Against Dollar Amid Concern Over Pace of Economic Recovery

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-18T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/pound-weakens-against-dollar-amid-concern-over-pace-of-economic-recovery.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar for a third week as investors bet the  Bank of England 
will leave its key rate lower for longer amid concern that
Britain’s economic recovery is stalling.  Sterling fell to the lowest level since May 24 versus the
greenback after data showed retail sales slid and jobless-
benefit claims surged. U.K. 10-year gilts advanced for a 10th
week, the longest run since Bloomberg began collecting the data
in 1989, as central bank Governor Mervyn King said officials
should continue to hold rates at a record low.  “It’s primarily been its own interest-rate dynamic that’s
done damage to sterling as the market priced out the rate hikes
that it had previously” priced in, said  Adam Cole , global head
of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in  London . “It
will take a turn in the data, in the U.K. especially but also
internationally, for the market to start bringing forward rate-
hike expectations again.”  The pound slipped 0.4 percent in the week to trade at
$1.6166, as of 4 p.m. in London yesterday. It declined 0.1
percent to 88.49 pence per euro and 0.7 percent to 129.44 yen.  UBS AG pushed back its forecast for the central bank to
start raising  interest rates  to February from August after King
said in a speech in London on June 15 that a rate increase
“would have meant a weaker recovery, or even further falls in
output” and “a risk of inflation falling well below the target
in the medium term.”  Gilts Advance  The Bank of England held rates at a record low 0.5 percent
this month, even as data on June 14 showed consumer prices
stayed at the fastest pace since October 2008 in May. The bank
publishes the minutes of its June 9 meeting next week, a day
after the government plans to sell 4.75 billion pounds of five-
year debt.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell three basis points from
June 10 to 3.19 percent yesterday. The two-year note yield fell
five basis points to 0.76 percent, after slipping to 0.73
percent a day earlier, the lowest level since Nov. 10.  Gilts have handed investors 3.1 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds have
returned 0.7 percent, while U.S. Treasuries made 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 