-- 
Stormers Join Reds in Super Rugby Semifinals, Bulls Miss Out on Playoffs

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-18T23:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/stormers-join-reds-in-super-rugby-semis-bulls-miss-playoffs.html
The Stormers beat the Cheetahs 44-34
in the final Super Rugby regular-season match to join the
 Queensland Reds  in the semifinals as the defending champion
Bulls missed the playoffs.  Fly-half Peter Grant kicked 24 points in Bloemfontein,
 South Africa , last night, while Gio Aplon, Juan de Jongh, Nick
Koster and Bryan Habana added tries to help earn the Stormers a
week off before the July 2 semifinals.  “We were in the privileged position of knowing what was
needed to secure direct entry to the semis and now we can put
our feet up, have a few beers and then start preparing,”
Stormers captain Schalk Burger told Fox Sports. “Having a bye
next weekend will allow sore bodies to recover.”  Australia’s Reds, who already were guaranteed a spot in the
last four, earlier finished atop the standings with 66 points by
completing the 16-game regular season with a 19-11 win over New
Zealand’s Chiefs. The Reds and Stormers, who have never won
southern hemisphere rugby’s elite provincial competition, will
have home advantage in the semifinals.  Their opponents will be determined in next weekend’s
qualifying finals in New Zealand. The Auckland Blues host
 Australia ’s New South Wales Waratahs on June 24 before record
seven-time champions Canterbury Crusaders play South Africa’s
Sharks in Nelson the following day.  The Reds will take on the lowest-ranked qualifier in
Brisbane on July 2 before the Stormers face the highest-ranked
qualifier at Newlands stadium in  Cape Town . The final is
scheduled July 9 and will be hosted by whichever finalist
finished highest in the regular-season standings.  Bulls Beaten  The Pretoria-based Bulls, who were seeking a fourth
southern hemisphere championship in five years, missed out on a
top-six place and a playoff berth following a 26-23 home loss to
the Sharks. The victory ensured the Sharks joined the Blues and
Waratahs in the three wildcard spots behind conference winners
the Reds, Stormers and Crusaders.  The competition this year split into Australian,  New
Zealand  and South African conferences and added the Melbourne
Rebels as the 15th franchise.  The Reds’ tournament-leading 13th victory yesterday,
secured through a Liam Gill try and four penalties from fly-half
Quade Cooper, sealed first place and a home final should they
win their semifinal.  “To finish the season number one is a massive effort,”
said Reds captain James Horwill. “It shows the consistency this
team has been building towards. But finals are a totally
different ball game, so we’ll have a week off now and prepare
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  