-- 
U.S. Mayors See Few Recovery Signs as Cutbacks Pose Fresh Economic Risk

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/u-s-mayors-find-few-recovery-signs-as-cutbacks-pose-new-risks.html
Little Rock,  Arkansas , has stopped
replacing aging police cars. Mesa, Arizona, is losing $5 million
a year from thousands of vacant homes that aren’t paying utility
bills. Providence,  Rhode Island , closed schools, fired teachers
and may cut almost a fifth of its police force.  “Even with all that, we’re still looking at a huge tax
increase,” said Providence Mayor Angel Taveras, who proposed a
$15 million boost in property levies. “Mayors are having to
make difficult decisions. They are making them in  Boston ,  New
York ,  Newark ,  Detroit , all across the country.”  U.S. mayors gathered in Baltimore for their annual meeting
this weekend say they are being squeezed by rising costs, tax
collections below their peak and cuts from states and the
federal government that threaten their nascent financial
stability. While state governments are showing signs of emerging
from the fiscal crisis caused by the recession, cities are still
waiting for recovery, the mayors say.  “The big pieces aren’t coming back,” said  Little Rock 
Mayor Mark Stodola. “They’re not coming back fast at all.”  Property-tax collection, a key revenue source for cities,
dropped during the last three months of 2010 at the fastest pace
since housing prices peaked as assessments were lowered, U.S.
Census data show. Prices have dropped further this year.  New Blow  With businesses adding jobs in May at the slowest pace in
eight months, an economic slowdown may deal a new blow to sales-
and income-tax collections. Local governments have exerted their
own drag on the economy, cutting payrolls to where they were in
2006. This month, brokerage MF Global Inc. told clients that
local governments are facing their most challenging year in
decades, a development that may stoke worries in the municipal
 bond market .  At the conference, which began yesterday, mayors voiced
concern that the federal government and the states, seeking to
rein in their own budget deficits, will only make cities’
struggles worse. For the next fiscal year, 42 states and the
 District of Columbia  have closed, or are working to close,
$103 billion in budget gaps, the Washington-based Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  and Congress cut spending this year
on community development funding as well as on grants for local
fire departments and law enforcement. Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter said more cutbacks would only add pressure on the economy
at a time when his city is stabilizing.  “These kinds of cuts negatively impact the economic
recovery the president is trying to push forward,” he said in
an interview.  Passing the Buck  Columbus,  Ohio , is bracing for cutbacks by the state, Mayor
 Michael Coleman  said.  “Our revenues are increasing and the economy is turning
around, gradually,” he told reporters. “That’s the good news.
Here’s the bad news: State governments continue to pass the buck
when it comes to making budget cuts. Rather than making budget
cuts at their level, they pass the buck to cities.”  Mesa,  Arizona , Mayor Scott Smith said he’s seen no
indication that the fiscal constraints have started to ease. If
anything, he said, they are starting to hit the city in
unforeseen ways.  He said the city’s revenue has slid by about one-fifth from
its peak, hit by tumbling sales taxes and a smaller share of
revenue from the cash-strapped state. It’s also losing about $5
million in revenue because its water utility is losing customers
who are forced to leave their homes.  ‘Shock’ to System  “We didn’t anticipate this kind of shock to our utility,”
he said. “We’re just waiting to really be assured we hit
bottom. We don’t have confidence we’ve hit that yet.”  Mayor Ron Littlefield of Chattanooga,  Tennessee , said his
city has fared better than most, thanks to investments by
companies including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  that have helped create jobs.
Even so, he said the city’s finances are being aided by a real
estate tax increase, which angered some voters so much he faced
an effort to recall him.  “Without having done that, we would have been laying off
police and firefighters,” he said.  In Little Rock, Stodola said he may seek to raise sales
taxes. He said the city has used one-time funds to balance its
budget, let jobs go unfilled and hasn’t replaced a police car in
about three years. He said revenue is projected to rise 2
percent this year, though results from the first three months of
the year are falling short of expectations.  “If we do not get the city sales tax passed in September,
we will be looking at a radically different city,” he said.
“There will be layoffs, there will be cuts.”  Taveras of Providence said he needs to raise real estate
taxes because even his budget cuts weren’t enough to close the
gap he faced.  “It’s a very kind of slow recovery,” he said. “We’ve got
a lot more work to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 Wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  