-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Rise for a 10th Week, Longest Advance in 25 Years

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/u-s-two-year-notes-rise-for-10th-week-longest-gain-in-25-years.html
Treasuries advanced, with two-year
notes rising for a 10th straight week in their longest rally in
a quarter-century, on concern  Greece  will struggle to avoid the
euro area’s first sovereign-debt default.  Yields on notes of all maturities touched their 2011 lows
this week as Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pleaded
with his allies in parliament to support his austerity plans.
U.S. reports unexpectedly showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia and New York regions contracted before next week’s
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  “There is a lot of embedded fear in the marketplace,”
said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  in Salem,
 Massachusetts , at Cabot Money Management, which oversees $500
million. “People think the solution for Greece is going to be
in years, if not decades.”  Yields on two-year notes decreased two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 0.38 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent security due in May 2013
advanced 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/4.  The two-year note yields fell on June 16 to 0.33 percent,
the lowest level since Nov. 5. The record low of 0.3118 percent
was set the day before that. The last time two-year note yields
dropped for 10 straight weeks was in February to April 1986.  Treasury Volatility  Volatility of  U.S. debt  is the highest in two months,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Move index. The
gauge, measuring price swings based on over-the-counter options
maturing in two to 30 years, rose to 87.90 on June 16, the most
since April 8.  “I don’t know how it’s going to play out, and neither does
the market,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New
York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “That’s why we’re
volatile, jumpy.”  Yields on 10-year notes slid three basis points to 2.94
percent this week after touching 2.88 percent on June 16, the
lowest level since Dec. 1. They dropped 17 basis points in the
two days ended June 16, the most since the period ended March
16. The yields increased 11 basis points on June 14 in the
biggest advance since Jan. 5.  Bonds fluctuated yesterday as  Germany ’s Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled a willingness to compromise with the  European
Central Bank  to avoid a default by Greece and a report showed
U.S. leading indicators rose more than forecast.  Merkel’s Stance  Merkel told reporters in Berlin at a press conference with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that “we would like to have a
participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,”
regarding aid for Greece.  Her comments indicated reconciliation between Germany’s
insistence that investors help bail out Greece with ECB warnings
backed by  France  that any compulsory move risked a default.  Attention now shifts to  Athens , where Papandreou overhauled
the Cabinet to secure passage of austerity measures needed for a
European Union and International Monetary Fund bailout.  Italy’s credit ratings may be reduced by Moody’s Investors
Service because of economic growth challenges, risks associated
with efforts to reduce debt and the potential for higher
borrowing costs.  The nation’s Aa2 local and foreign currency government bond
ratings were placed under review for a possible downgrade,
Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Treasuries have rallied this quarter, pushing 10-year note
yields down 50 basis points, on economic reports showing a
slowdown in global growth as well as concern Europe is
struggling to contain its debt crisis.  Regional Manufacturing  U.S. figures showed regional manufacturing shrank this
month. The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index dropped to
negative 7.7, from 3.9 a month earlier. The  New York  Fed’s
Empire State Index fell to minus 7.8 from 11.9. Economists
forecast readings greater than zero, indicating expansion.  Investors have reduced bets on an increase in the Fed’s
target rate for overnight lending. Futures indicating the
likelihood of higher borrowing costs by March 2012 dropped to 22
percent yesterday from 32 percent a month ago. The fed funds
target has been held at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008. Policy makers meet June 21-22.  The Fed purchased $19.308 billion of Treasuries this week
as part of its $600 billion second round of quantitative easing.
The program to support the economy expires this month.  Bond fell briefly yesterday as the Conference Board’s
leading indicators advanced 0.8 percent in May after a 0.4
percent drop in the previous month. The median forecast of 51
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.3 percent
increase in the gauge of the U.S. outlook for the next three to
six months.  “The leading indicators seem to be one of the first
positive economic data that we’ve had in a while,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “The market has priced in uncertainty in  Europe  and
poor economic data in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  