-- 
Cable Operators Fight Online Competition by Mimicking the Web

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/u-s-cable-operators-fight-online-competition-by-mimicking-web-interface.html
U.S. cable companies are trying to
stem video customer losses by embracing one of the things that’s
pulling them away: the Internet.  The  National Cable & Telecommunications Association’s 
annual show, which wrapped up Thursday in  Chicago , showcased
services including Internet-connected set-top boxes and
personalized viewing guides.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest cable
operator, capped the conference with a demonstration of its
Xcalibur guide that integrates social media into the TV.  Following Comcast’s lead, companies including  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  and Cox Communications Inc. plan to tweak interfaces
and offer interactive services to retain subscribers who spend
more time using smartphones and Internet-connected devices. The
industry lost  about 2 million  basic video subscribers last year
and continued shedding customers in the first quarter, as it
faces competition from online alternatives like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and
 Hulu LLC.   “We know we need to get better, and we’re working on it,”
Pat Esser, president of Atlanta-based Cox, said in an interview.
“Our video interface does not meet the needs of our
customers.”  Personalizing the viewing guide is a boon for advertisers,
who can eventually utilize Internet provider data to offer
tailored commercials to cable customers, according to Thomas Eagan, an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in  New York .  Using Facebook  Comcast Chief Executive Officer Brian Roberts stressed the
need for personalization on a TV interface. The company’s
Xcalibur service allows customers to “like” shows through
Facebook and offer suggestions based on their friends’
recommendations. Users can also watch TV in a way that closely
resembles how they watch video on a smartphone or tablet
computer.  Philadelphia-based Comcast has begun testing the service in
Augusta,  Georgia , and plans to introduce it in all of its
markets next year, according to Jennifer Khoury, a spokeswoman.  Set-top boxes with Internet connectivity will potentially
allow cable operators to deliver streamed video, from companies
such as Netflix and Hulu, to subscribers. Consumers may not be
able to experience the full Internet on their TVs before content
providers and cable operators reach agreements over rights,
according to Paul Sweeney, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  Studios and networks may want more money from distributors
showing their Internet content on a TV screen, and providers may
ask for a larger slice of the rights to pay for the extra
bandwidth it takes to deliver HD content.  Video Infrastructure  “I don’t expect to see cable operators giving customers
full access to Hulu,” said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc., referring to the online streaming service
controlled by three of the biggest U.S. broadcasters. “There’s
an existing video infrastructure for the cable operators that
works well. You wouldn’t build that from scratch if you were
starting over again, but given it’s in place, replacing it with
an all-IP based delivery to the set-top box doesn’t make a lot
of sense until you need to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  