-- 
U.S. Says S. China Sea Events ‘Troubling’ After Vietnam Meeting

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-18T13:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/u-s-says-s-china-sea-events-troubling-after-vietnam-meeting.html
Stability in South  China  Sea is in
the “common interests” of the international community, the
U.S. and  Vietnam  said in a  joint statement  in which the American
side referred to “troubling incidents” recently in the area.  Tensions between Vietnam and China have escalated, with the
Vietnamese government accusing Chinese vessels of harassing
Vietnam Oil & Gas Group survey ships twice within the last
month. A Chinese fishing boat “tangled with the cables” of an
exploration ship while being “chased” by armed Vietnamese
ships on June 9, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
 said .  Vietnam welcomes international involvement to keep the
peace in the  South China Sea , the government said in  a statement 
on the website of the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  dated June 11.
China believes in a resolution of disputes in the sea “through
bilateral direct negotiation and friendly consultation with
relevant countries,”  Hong said  on June 14, according to a
statement on the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s website.  “The maintenance of peace, stability, safety and freedom
of navigation in the South China Sea is in the common interests
of the international community,” the U.S. and Vietnamese
governments said in the joint statement, which followed
yesterday’s  meeting in Washington  of the “U.S.-Vietnam
Political, Security and Defense Dialogue.”  Territorial disputes should be resolved through a
“collaborative, diplomatic process without coercion or the use
of force,” the governments of the two countries said. The
meeting’s agenda included “recent developments” in the South
China Sea.  Condemning Resolution  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
subcommittee on East Asian and Public Affairs and a former U.S.
Secretary of the Navy, and James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican,
during the past week submitted  a resolution  condemning what they
described as “the use of force” by Chinese vessels.  In the June 9 incident, which took place within 200 miles
(322 kilometers) of the Vietnamese coastline, three Chinese
vessels ran into and disabled the cables of a Vietnamese ship,
Webb and Inhofe said in the resolution.  “Relations with Vietnam right now are extremely good,”
Webb told the Council on Foreign Relations on June 13, according
to  a transcript  posted on the organization’s Web site. “The
situation with the sovereignty issues in the South China Sea has
actually helped our relationship in a sense that they understand
that they have a commonality of interest.”  American government leaders have said the U.S. has a
national interest in East Asia and the region has “an interest
in our being here,” and following the Chinese-Vietnamese ship
incidents, the U.S. has to “give clear signals,” Webb told the
 Council on Foreign Relations .  “Non-parties” to disputes in the area should respect
“directly concerned parties” efforts to negotiate directly,
China’s Hong said on June 14.  “Recently, some countries took unilateral actions which
impaired China’s sovereignty as well as maritime rights and
interests and released untrue and irresponsible remarks with the
attempt to expand and complicate disputes over the South China
Sea,” said Hong, when asked about Webb calling for a
condemnation of China and for multilateral negotiations. Hong
did not cite the names of any countries.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City   Editors: Kim McLaughlin,
Michael Harrison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  