-- 
Turkey Takes New Measures Against Banks to Curb Loan Growth

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-06-18T16:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/turkey-increases-costs-to-banks-of-consumer-lending-to-curb-loan-growth.html
Turkey ’s banking regulator increased
costs for banks that exceed a new limit for consumer lending,
the latest in a series of steps designed to slow loan growth and
rein in a booming economy.  The Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency in Ankara
increased the general provisions a bank must pay against
consumer loans to 4 percent from 1 percent should its consumer
loan portfolio exceed 20 percent of total loans. The decision,
published in today’s  Official Gazette , applies to consumer
lending excluding housing and car loans.  “There are a lot of banks exceeding the 20 percent limit
and they are generally the larger banks,” chief regulator
Tevfik Bilgin said by telephone.  The changes follow central bank increases in the reserves
banks must set aside against liabilities such as deposits.
Turkey wants to slow loan growth, without increasing interest
rates, in order to reduce the size of the current-account
deficit and slow the pace of the economic expansion from the 8.9
percent it recorded last year.  “Clearly this means that the Turkish authorities feel that
they need to do something and the central bank efforts are
really not working fast enough,” Tim Ash, head of emerging
markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a phone
interview today. “But this step on its own probably isn’t going
to be enough.”  Banks Fall  Turkey’s banking index has dropped 12 percent this year,
almost double the rate of decline for the main  ISE National 100
index (XU100) , after the central bank raised  reserve requirements  on
liabilities by 10 percentage points in six months. Foreign
lenders including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  have
bought stakes in Turkish banks over the past decade, seeking
higher profits in an economy that’s grown at more than three
times the average in the European Union.  Loans increased an annual 36.5 percent to 610 billion liras
($382 billion) on June 3 compared with 35.6 percent a week
previously, the regulator said on June 13. The government and
central bank say banks should cut loan growth to an annual 25
percent by the end of the year.  Lira ‘Pressure’  “It is encouraging to see that the central bank is not
alone in its efforts to slow down loan growth,”  Yarkin Cebeci ,
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “This should ease the pressure on
the central bank and on the lira in the short term and should
provide more room for the central bank to remain on hold and to
stick to its unorthodox policy mix.”  The lira has declined 3.3 percent against the dollar this
year, the biggest decline among major emerging market
currencies.  The regulator today also redefined how it calculates
consumer credit risk for the purpose of capital adequacy ratios,
assigning a higher risk value to short-term consumer loans and
increasing reserves for non-performing loans that exceed 8
percent of the total.  The change will penalize banks that offer large amounts of
short-term  consumer credit  and may force some to set aside
additional capital to stay above the 12 percent adequacy limit,
an official at the regulator said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he’s not authorized to speak to the media.  Credit card loans are also included as consumer loans in
the new lending limits, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net 
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  