-- 
Yemeni Religious Clerics Demand Saleh’s Ouster, Seek Elections in 60 Days

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-06-18T22:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-18/yemeni-religious-clerics-demand-saleh-s-ouster-seek-elections-in-60-days.html
Yemeni religious clerics called for
President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s ouster, joining demands from
protesters that the embattled leader step down.  The clerics urged Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi to
establish a caretaker government to run the country and prepare
for presidential elections in 60 days, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday signed by 110 clerics.  The statement said Saleh is unable to perform his job and
must step down. Saleh is recuperating in  Saudi Arabia  after
surgery for injuries sustained during a June 3 bombing of a
mosque in his presidential compound in Sana’a, the capital. The
state-run Saba news agency reported yesterday that Saleh’s
health is improving and he will return to his country soon.  Elsewhere in the  Middle East , the U.K. advised all British
nationals to leave Syria immediately amid an unrelenting
government crackdown on pro-democracy protesters that has killed
more than 1,200 people, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights.  Twenty-five people were killed during protests June 17, Al
Arabiya television reported, citing an unidentified Syrian human
rights activist.  “Our advice is very clear: Because of the current
situation, we advise against all travel to  Syria ,” the Foreign
Office in  London  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Syrian troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad yesterday
entered the village of Bdama near the Turkish border, arresting
residents and setting homes on fire, Al Arabiya television
reported.  Protests against the Syrian ruler began in mid-March, part
of demonstrations across the Middle East and North Africa this
year that have unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia , while
fighting rages in Syria and  Libya .  Qaddafi Attacks  In Libya, the country’s prime minister called for “new”
negotiations between the government and rebel leaders to resolve
the conflict, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday,
citing the premier, Baghdadi Mahmudi.  Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  fired rockets at the port
and center of Misrata June 17, attacking the besieged western
city for the first time since government units were pushed out
of the urban areas on May 12.  NATO said the Libyan leader is “brutally attacking” his
people and using mosques and children’s parks as shields for
military operations, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday.  Western and Arab leaders are demanding an end to Qaddafi’s
four-decade rule, and NATO aircraft are targeting his forces in
a military campaign about to enter its fourth month.  Qaddafi, in an audio message aired on state television June
17, vowed that his forces will defeat the air campaign of the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization .  “We don’t want to negotiate, we are resilient even if they
strike with atomic bombs,” Qaddafi said. “We will provoke them
to use atomic bombs, let them strike with atomic bombs.”  NATO yesterday confirmed that an airstrike June 16 hit
opposition forces fighting troops loyal to Qaddafi near Brega.
The military vehicles, including tanks, were deemed a threat to
civilians and were targeted by NATO aircraft, NATO said in a
statement on its website.  “We regret any possible loss of life or injuries caused by
this unfortunate incident,” NATO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  