-- 3i May Cut Jobs, Shrink in Singapore as Investors Seek Cash
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-22T16:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/3i-may-shrink-in-singapore-cut-jobs-as-investors-seek-cash-1-.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s oldest
private-equity investor, may cut at least 160 jobs, about 40
percent of its employees, in an overhaul to revive profit,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the plans.  Chief Executive Officer Simon Borrows, who replaced Michael Queen last month, may also tell shareholders at the company’s
annual general meeting in London next week that 3i will shrink
its operations in  Singapore , the firm’s first office in  Asia ,
said three people with knowledge of the plans, who asked not to
be identified because a decision hasn’t been formally made.  “This would be a drastic scale-back,” said Iain Scouller,
an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London , who met with
Borrows last week and expected a 20 percent job reduction.
“Borrows is moving more quickly than anticipated, with a blank
sheet of paper. There are no sacred cows.”  Borrows, 53, who was hired as chief investment officer in
October from New York-based Greenhill & Co., said he will
outline a plan for London-based 3i at the shareholders meeting
on June 29 to improve profitability and deal-making after the
firm’s shares  plunged  80 percent in five years. 3i posted a 425
million-pound ($663 million) loss for the year ended March 2012.  “Nothing will be decided until next week, when the board
meets before the AGM,” Patrick Dunne, a 3i spokesman, said by
telephone. The company later issued a statement saying it would
have no comment, though would provide a full update at the
investor meeting.  Shares Jump  The stock climbed 2.2 percent in London trading to 184
pence for a market value of about 1.8 billion pounds.  A month-long strategic review by Borrows may result in a
leaner firm, focusing on smaller transactions in fewer countries
and distributing more dividends, Scouller said.  Singapore, opened in 1997, was 3i’s first office in Asia.
The firm is also considering focusing on its Beijing office in
 China , the people said. 3i has smaller offices in  Hong Kong  and
 Shanghai .  Started just after World War II, 3i was one of the first
private-equity firms in  Europe , establishing a network of
offices on the continent in the 1980s and focusing on medium-
sized companies. After going public in London in 1994, it
expanded in Asia and targeted bigger transactions. It raised a 5
billion-euro ($6.3 billion) buyout fund in 2006, its largest.  Philip Yea  The 2008 credit crisis halted the firm’s expansion. Queen
replaced Philip Yea in January 2009 and raised 700 million
pounds five months later to cut debt after the value of the
firm’s assets dropped by half. Queen cut jobs, combined the
leveraged buyout team with its growth capital unit, opened an
office in  Brazil  and added employees in China. He also bought
Mizuho Investment Management U.K. Ltd. to expand the firm’s
businesses in debt management. The firm’s debt declined to 1.6
billion pounds as the end of March from more than 2.5 billion
pounds in 2009.  Queen last July rejected shareholder demands to use some of
the firm’s 1.9 billion pounds in cash to buy back shares. He
announced his departure in March. Two months later, the firm
reported a 21 percent drop in net asset value for the year ended
March 31, and Borrows said the firm would more than double the
dividend and return 15 percent to 20 percent of the profit from
any asset sales.  At next week’s shareholder meeting, hedge fund Laxey
Partners Ltd., which owns 1 percent of 3i, plans to call on the
firm to stop investing and return cash to boost the share price.
Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd., a London-based
corporate-governance consultant that advises shareholders on
their votes, is opposing Borrows’s hiring bonus, equivalent to
200 percent of his base salary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  