-- Madoff Trustee Seeks to Revive Tossed Suits: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-06-22T13:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/madoff-trustee-seeks-to-revive-tossed-suits-bankruptcy.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC filed a mass appeal asking the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan to revive about $10 billion
in lawsuits against 635 customers that have been or will be
dismissed by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.  The appeal will determine whether Rakoff was correct in
dramatically limiting the amount of fictional profits trustee
Irving Picard can sue customers to recover. Rakoff ruled that
the so-called safe harbor in bankruptcy only allows Picard to
sue for fictional profits taken out within two years of
bankruptcy. Rakoff stopped Picard from suing for six years of
fictional profits that would be fraudulent transfers under state
law.  Rakoff also ruled that Picard is barred from suing to
recover preferences paid to customers.  For the 1,000 lawsuits Picard initially filed, Rakoff’s
rulings meant that the trustee would lose on $11.1 billion in
claims against customers. Picard was left with the ability to
sue for two-year profits totaling about $8 billion.  If Picard wins on the mass appeal filed yesterday, he can
restore about $10 billion in customer lawsuits, representing the
original $11.1 billion, less about $1 billion given up in
settlement in March with the group including  Fred Wilpon  and
other owners of the New York Mets baseball club.  Picard’s appeal also asks the appeals court to rule that
Rakoff was in error when he took the lawsuits out of  bankruptcy
court  in the first place.  The rulings now being taken up on appeal to the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals include an opinion in September in the
lawsuit against the Wilpon group, where Rakoff prevented Picard
from suing for anything other than false profits taken out
within two years of bankruptcy.  Rakoff based his ruling on the so-called safe harbor in
bankruptcy law. In the same opinion, Rakoff ruled that the safe
harbor likewise blocks all lawsuits for so-called preferences.  In decisions in late April and early May, Rakoff applied
his Wilpon ruling to 78 lawsuits against other customers. Later,
Rakoff made his Wilpon rulings applicable to almost 560
additional lawsuits raising identical legal issues.  Defendants in about 550 of the lawsuits had the right to
opt out of the single-appeal procedure.  Rakoff said he was allowing a single, mass appeal to
“avoid protracted, expensive and potentially duplicative
litigation proceedings and facilitate the prompt resolution of
the case.”  If Picard wins on appeal, he can restore claims for about
$2.6 billion in fictitious profits, about $7 billion in claims
against customers or feeder funds that allegedly had reason to
believe there was a fraud, and about $160 million in
preferences.  In other Madoff developments, California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  and individual plaintiffs in four lawsuits filed
papers arguing they should be free to sue the estate of  Stanley Chais .  The new filings were in response to a request by the
bankruptcy judge for the parties’ views on the relevance of
three recent appellate cases deciding when a bankruptcy court
can stop lawsuits against third parties. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  Picard filed his supplemental papers early this month.  Harris argues that she is exercising police and regulatory
powers that aren’t halted by bankruptcy. The other plaintiffs
contend they can sue because they have claims of fraud and
negligence that belong to them alone.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  is scheduled to hold a
hearing on July 18 to decide whether he will stop the suits. If
Picard wins, he will have the only lawsuit against Chais.  The three cases on which Lifland sought comment involved
Quigley Co., Nortel Networks Inc. and a Madoff case decided by
U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken. To read about the three
opinions, click here, here and here for the Bloomberg bankruptcy
reports.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The mass appeal is being taken in Picard v. Fishman
Revocable Trust, 11-07603, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The mass cases are also being
handled in Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff
liquidation case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Dynegy Creditors to Recover 59% to 89%, Footnote Says  The settlements negotiated by  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  with creditors of
bankrupt subsidiary Dynegy Holdings LLC had the effect of
raising the pool of unsecured claims to $4.2 billion, according
to the latest version of the draft disclosure statement filed
this week.  In a prior version of disclosure materials, the universe of
unsecured claims was a maximum of about $3.9 billion.  With the claims pool larger, the projected recovery by
unsecured creditors is 59 percent to 89 percent, the newest
version of the disclosure statement states in a footnote.  The new plan has the Dynegy parent filing its own Chapter
11 petition at an undisclosed time. The papers don’t yet say
whether the power producer’s existing shareholders will be wiped
out entirely or retain 1 percent of the stock. For a discussion
of the newest version of the Dynegy plan, click here for the
June 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  A hearing is currently scheduled for July 2 where the
bankruptcy judge in Poughkeepsie, New York, can approve
disclosure materials and allow creditors to vote on the plan.  The latest version of the plan traces its history to the
reorganization that Dynegy Holdings worked out before filing
under Chapter 11 in November. Creditor objections led to the
appointment of an examiner who said that a restructuring last
year involved fraudulent transfers with actual intent to hinder
and delay creditors. Two settlements followed before there was
global agreement on a new plan structure.  For details on the second settlement, click here for the
June 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on the original
settlement, click here for the April 5 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The plan gives $200 million in cash and 99 percent of the
merged companies’ stock to holders of $4.2 billion of unsecured
claims against Dynegy Holdings. The claims include about $3.5
billion on six issues of notes, $110 million for a tax-indemnity
claim, $540 million on lease guaranty claims, and $55 million to
holders of $222 million in subordinated debt.  The other 1 percent of the merged companies’ stock, plus
warrants for 13.5 percent more, will go to a trust for what the
papers refer to as “stakeholders” in the Dynegy parent. The
five-year warrants will have an exercise price based on a $4
billion net equity value for the reorganized company.  The $1.05 billion in 8.375 percent senior unsecured notes
of Dynegy Holdings traded June 20 for 63.05 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  As a result of the examiner’s March 9 report, Dynegy lost
almost 60 percent of its value in two days’ trading. The shares
closed yesterday at 56 cents, down 1.5 cents in New York Stock
Exchange trading.  The companies in Chapter 11 are Dynegy Holdings and four of
Dynegy Holding’s units.  The Dynegy parent, not itself in bankruptcy, listed assets
of $11.1 billion and total liabilities of $8.6 billion on the
Sept. 30 balance sheet. Following the subsidiaries’ bankruptcy,
the parent deconsolidated them, resulting in a March 31 balance
sheet with assets of $4.11 billion and liabilities of $3.05
billion.  Dynegy reported a net loss of $1.65 billion in 2011 on
revenue of $1.56 billion. The net loss included a $1.66 billion
“loss on deconsolidation.” For the first quarter of 2012,
Dynegy reported a $58 million net loss and a $21 million
operating loss on revenue of $177 million.  The Dynegy companies in bankruptcy listed assets of $7.56
billion and debt totaling $6.74 billion.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Poughkeepsie).  Triaxx Objects to ResCap’s $8.7 Billion Settlement  Triaxx collateralized-debt obligations objected to the $8.7
billion settlement proposed by Residential Capital LLC to
compromise claims for including substandard mortgages into 392
securitization trusts sold between 2004 and 2007.  The securitization trusts being offered the settlement
represent 1.6 million mortgages with $221 billion in original
principal balances, ResCap said when proposing the accord
earlier this month.  Triaxx filed papers yesterday objecting to the settlement,
saying it owns $637 million in face amount of certificates
issued by 20 of the trusts. Triaxx contends the settlement is
unfair because it assumes securities in all the trusts were
equally risky.  ResCap, the mortgage-servicing subsidiary of non-bankrupt
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , said it negotiated the settlement with
holders of 25 percent of the securities issued by 328 of the
trusts.  Triaxx explained how it intentionally invested in trusts
with the highest-quality mortgages. They were less risky than
others with lower-quality mortgages. Therefore, Triaxx says it’s
improper for the settlement to assume that all investors
incurred similar damages and took on equal risk.  Triaxx also faults the settlement for not taking into
account claims for faulty servicing by ResCap. Triaxx says it
has more than 25 percent of the certificates in 23 classes.  Objections to the settlement were supposed to be filed by
yesterday, Triaxx says. ResCap violated bankruptcy rules by not
giving enough time to file objections, according to Triaxx. In
addition, the trustees haven’t yet been able to give notice of
the settlement to holders of the certificates. Consequently,
Triaxx contends the settlement-approval hearing shouldn’t go
forward on July 10.  From analyzing 356 of the trusts, Triaxx calculates that
losses already are $27.1 billion and eventually will rise to $48
billion.  ResCap said that the settlement, if approved, would resolve
the single-largest group of disputed claims in the Chapter 11
reorganization begun May 14. The trusts being offered the
settlement have the ability to accept or reject. Triaxx said
it’s unclear how the $8.7 billion in approved claims will be
distributed between ResCap and affiliates such as Residential
Funding LLC and GMAC Mortgage LLC.  For details on the proposed settlement, click here for the
June 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The bankruptcy judge this week called for appointment of an
examiner and approved procedures for selling the business in two
auctions, one for the servicing business and the other for the
mortgage portfolio.  The $473.4 million of ResCap senior unsecured notes due in
April 2013 last traded yesterday for 24 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $2.1 billion in
third-lien 9.625 percent secured notes due in 2015 last traded
yesterday for 96 cents on the dollar, Trace reported.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Vitro Seeks Stay Pending Appeal in District Court  A federal district judge in  Dallas  will decide on June 28
whether holders of $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds issued by
Vitro SAB can begin seizing assets belonging to the Mexican
glassmaker and its subsidiaries.  A bankruptcy judge in Dallas ruled on June 13 that Vitro’s
Mexican reorganization plan violated U.S. law and public policy
by chopping down the subsidiaries’ guarantees on the bonds even
though they weren’t in bankruptcy in any country. The bankruptcy
judge said his ruling wouldn’t take effect until June 29, saying
any injunction halting seizure of assets beyond that date must
be granted by an appellate court.  Yesterday, the bankruptcy judge formally recommended that
the appeal from the June 13 ruling go directly to the U.S. Court
of Appeals in New Orleans, skipping an intermediate appeal to a
federal district judge in Dallas.  Because the appeals court in New Orleans hasn’t yet
accepted the appeal, Vitro filed papers in district court
yesterday and arranged a June 28 hearing to continue the
injunction barring the seizure of assets to collect on the
bonds.  Vitro characterized the bankruptcy court’s ruling as
“unprecedented and erroneous.”  For a discussion of the bankruptcy court’s June 13 opinion,
click here for the June 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  After being defeated in courts in Mexico, holders of 60
percent of the bonds notched their victory in the Vitro parent’s
 Chapter 15  case in Dallas. Chapter 15 isn’t a full-blown
reorganization like Chapter 11. It allows a foreign company in
bankruptcy abroad to enlist assistance from the U.S. court to
enforce rulings from the home country.  Vitro’s motion in district court for a stay pending appeal
will be decided in In re  Vitro SAB de CV (VITROA) , 11-3554, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The suit in
bankruptcy court where the judge decided not to enforce the
Mexican reorganization in the U.S. is Vitro SAB de CV v. ACP
Master Ltd. (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 12-03027, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The bondholders’
previous appeal in the circuit court is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro
Noteholders v. Vitro SAB de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV),
11-11239, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The bondholders’ appeal of Chapter 15 recognition in
district court is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB
de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 11-02888, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The Chapter 11 cases for
U.S. subsidiaries is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 11-32600, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The
Chapter 15 case for the parent is Vitro SAB de CV, 11-33335, in
the same court.  LightSquared Lands $30 Million Secured Loan Facility  LightSquared Inc. scheduled a June 28 hearing for interim
approval of a $30 million credit to help finance the Chapter 11
effort begun May 14.  The new facility is being provided by the so-called Inc.
lenders owed $322.3 million. Interest on the new loan at 11
percent will be paid with more debt. Similarly, the 3 percent
fee on initial funding for the loan is payable with more debt.  The bulk of the loan, about $28 million, may be used only
to continue work on subsidiary One Dot Six. Along with interim
approval, LightSquared can borrow $10 million.  LightSquared eventually won an agreement to use incoming
cash representing collateral for the Inc. lenders and for the
so-called LP lenders, who are owed $1.7 billion from a secured
borrowing in October 2010 by LightSquared LP. The cash agreement
allows the lenders to return to court to ask for more protection
from diminution of their collateral.  LightSquared is developing a wireless communications
systems using earth-based and satellite technology. It filed in
Chapter 11 on May 14 after the Federal Communications Commission
denied permission to build out the system on concern it would
interfere with reception by global positioning devices.  Assets were listed for $4.48 billion, with liabilities
totaling $2.29 billion. The company says it spent $4 billion
developing the satellite system.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for
$1.05 billion in cash.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kodak Retirees’ Committee Seeks Unlimited Budget  The official committee representing  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) 
retirees asked the bankruptcy judge to allow its three
professional firms to charge more than $50,000 a month.  Without an increase, the committee says it’s impossible for
retirees to receive “adequate representation.”  The retirees filed papers yesterday seeking modification of
limitations the bankruptcy judge put on the committee’s
professionals when he authorized its appointment on April 16.
The judge said at the time he would consider increasing the fee
cap on request.  The retiree committee says it must have the “unfettered
ability to represent and protect its constituency, not merely
‘monitor’” the case. The committee wants the fee cap removed
entirely.  Absent a change, the committee would be limited to spending
$175,000 a month after Kodak formally starts court proceedings
to reduce or eliminate retiree benefits. The retiree committee
hired two law firms and financial advisers.  The controversy with retirees began in February when Kodak
filed papers claiming the right to terminate health benefits for
some retired workers. Although Kodak claimed the right to end
those benefits without court approval, the bankruptcy judge
declined to do so until there was an official retirees’
committee. Kodak responded by having the judge appoint a
committee with limitations on the committee’s expenses.  Kodak says that retiree medical benefits represent a $1.2
billion balance sheet liability for 39,000 retired workers.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due
2017 traded yesterday for 14.6 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit.  Other liabilities include $750 million in second-lien
notes, $406.1 million in convertible notes and $252.4 million in
senior unsecured notes. Trade debt was $425 million.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Dewey Law Firm Terminating 24 Worldwide Office Leases  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP filed papers this week to terminate 14
office leases in the U.S. and 10 abroad. The liquidating  law
firm  intends to walk away from furnishings and equipment in the
offices, except for artwork in some locations.  There will be a hearing on July 9 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York for authority to reject the leases, the technical
term for terminating the leases. If the judge goes along,
rejection will be effective as of May 28, when the firm filed in
Chapter 11.  The firm is now only using some space in the former New
York office that was subleased, according to court papers.  The official creditors’ committee selected Brown Rudnick
LLP to serve as legal counsel. For the Bloomberg story, click
here.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers. There are two official
committees, one representing creditors and the other for former
partners. There is secured debt of about $225 million and
accounts receivable the firm recently said was $217.4 million.
The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities of
$245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Houghton Mifflin Confirms Prepacked Plan in One Month  Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co. confirmed a
bankruptcy reorganization one month to the day after entering
Chapter 11.  The Boston-based educational publisher filed under Chapter
11 in New York on May 21 and saw the bankruptcy judge sign a
confirmation order yesterday approving the so-called prepackaged
reorganization where creditors voted in advance.  When the company first walked into bankruptcy court, the
plan was supported by holders of 90.3 percent of the secured
debt and 76 percent of the stock. They are the only classes
affected by the plan. Unsecured creditors are to be paid in
full.  The plan gives ownership of the company to senior secured
creditors in exchange for debt. Stockholders are receiving
seven-year warrants for 5 percent of the stock exercisable at a
price equivalent to a $3.1 billion equity value for the
reorganized company. For details on the plan and the company’s
financial condition, click here for the May 22 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Revenue in 2011 was about $1.29 billion. The petition
listed assets of $2.68 billion and debt totaling $3.54 billion.  The case is In re Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co.,
12-12171, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Indianapolis Downs Prepares for August Confirmation  Indianapolis Downs LLC, the operator of a horserace track
and casino 25 miles (40 kilometers) from Indianapolis, could be
out of Chapter 11 around the end of August, under procedures
approved yesterday by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware.  The track’s owner filed a reorganization plan in April that
was negotiated with second-lien creditors and  Fortress
Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  The plan calls for selling the facility if
the price is acceptable to the second-lien creditors. Otherwise,
the plan will give ownership mostly to second-lien lenders.  Yesterday, the bankruptcy judge approved the disclosure
statement explaining the plan. The judge also gave his stamp of
approval for auction procedures. The disclosure statement
provides pertinent information about the plan.  Bids must be submitted by July 20. There will be an auction
on July 31 if there are acceptable bids. If the track is to be
sold, the judge is requiring the filing of additional papers to
approve the sale. Although prospective buyer have been
negotiating and submitting offers, none so far is acceptable to
the second-lien lenders, according to the disclosure statement.  Creditors can vote on the plan until July 31. The
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is set for Aug.
22.  The plan provides that if there isn’t a third-party buyer,
the loan of about $100 million financing the Chapter 11 case
will be paid off. Second-lien lenders will receive a new second-
lien  term loan , 95 percent of Class A warrants, and 95 percent
of a new unsecured term loan paying interest with more debt. If
there is an acceptable sale price to a third party, second-lien
creditors will receive the proceeds, less an agreed amount
earmarked for third-lien creditors.  If there is a sale, third-lien creditors are to receive the
agreed amount from second-lien creditors plus the surplus if the
second-lien is fully paid. Absent a sale, third-lien creditors
will receive 5 percent of the new unsecured term loan, 5 percent
of the Class A warrants, and all of the Class B warrants.  Unsecured creditors, with claims that may total from $9
million to $24 million, are not to receive anything.  The track missed an interest payment in November 2010 on
$375 million in second-lien notes. The reorganization begun in
April 2011 is being financed with a $103.1 million loan from the
existing first-lien lenders, with  Wells Fargo Bank NA (WFC)  as agent.
Secured liabilities of the so-called racino include $98.1
million owing on the first-lien financing, $375 million
outstanding on the second-lien notes and $72.7 million on third-
lien subordinated notes.  The Indiana Downs track opened in 2002. The casino began
operations in 2008. The permanent facility opened in March 2009
with 2,000  slot machines  and electronic table games. Revenue in
2010 was $270 million.  The petition says assets are more than $500 million while
debt is less than $500 million.  The case is In re Indianapolis Downs LLC, 11-11046, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  RG Steel Auction to be July 31 or August 21  RG Steel LLC  resolved objections from the creditors’
committee to a quick sale of the assets by stretching out the
schedule if a buyer signs a contract before July 30.  Under sale procedures approved by the bankruptcy court
yesterday, bids are due July 25. Assuming a prospective buyer
signs a contract to be a so-called stalking horse and submit the
first bid at auction, the auction will take place Aug. 21, with
a hearing to approve the sale on Aug. 23.  If no buyer signs a contract, the auction will take place
July 31, with a sale-approval hearing on Aug. 8.  The creditors’ committee accused RG, which filed under
Chapter 11 on May 31, of attempting to conduct a “fire sale.”
The auction will dispose of the three main plants in Sparrows
Point, Maryland; Warren, Ohio, and Wheeling, West Virginia. No
buyer is yet under contract.  At yesterday’s hearing, RG also was given final approval
for $50 million in financing.  RG is majority owned by Renco Group Inc., which has the
court’s permission to bid secured debt rather than cash at
auction.  At yesterday’s hearing, the judge also authorized RG to
sell a non-operating plant in Steubenville, Ohio, for $15
million. The buyers are Herman Strauss Inc. and River Rail
Development LLC.  For Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.  RG has capacity for producing 8.2 million tons a year. It
is the fourth-largest flat-rolled steel producer in the U.S.
Renco acquired the business from U.S. subsidiaries of  OAO
Severstal (CHMF)  in March 2011.  The petition said assets and debt both exceed $1 billion.
Liabilities include $440 million on a senior revolving credit
with Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC as agent. There is $218.7
million outstanding on a second-lien revolving credit with
Cerberus Finance LLC as agent. A Cerberus affiliate is a
minority shareholder. Parent Renco is owed $130.5 million on
subordinated notes.  Severstal is owed $100 million on a note dating from the
acquisition. RG claims Severstal owes $82 million for a working
capital shortfall when the business was sold.  The case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  AMR and Pilots Allowed Another Week to Negotiate New Contract  American Airlines  Inc. and the pilots’ union jointly
requested that the bankruptcy judge not issue a ruling today on
whether the company can modify existing union contract with the
pilots, flight attendants and mechanics.  The judge granted the request, according to the airline,
and said he won’t rule until June 29. Absent consent by the
company, the judge would have been forced to rule today.  The additional time will allow the pilots’ union leaders to
give further consideration to the company’s offer made last
week. Union leadership had decided not to send the proposal to
the pilots for a vote. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  At a hearing yesterday in U.S. District Court in Dallas,
the airline requested that the court block the  National
Mediation Board  from conducting an election where passenger
service agents could decide whether to join a union. The
district judge had enjoined the election temporarily, saying it
was likely the airline would win the suit contending the NMB
wasn’t authorized to hold the election. For the Bloomberg story,
click here.  AMR, based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth, Texas, listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Arcapita Managers’ Bonuses Opposed by U.S. Trustee  Arcapita Bank BSC, a Bahrainian investment bank
reorganizing in New York, will face opposition from the U.S.
Trustee at a June 26 hearing for approval of a bonus program
benefiting 20 managers.  The U.S. Trustee is also against making a secret of the
amounts of the bonuses.  The U.S. Trustee, the  Justice Department ’s bankruptcy
watchdog, faults the bonus motion for failing to set out the
standards of performance that must be met to dole out $3 million
or more in bonuses. The bonuses will equal three months to a
year’s wages, the company said in court papers.  Arcapita filed for Chapter 11 protection in March, after
being unable to complete an out-of-court workout of $1.1 billion
in unsecured debt. It has interests in 39 companies, each with
other investors and their own credit facilities. On a
consolidated basis, Arcapita said assets are $3.06 billion, with
debt totaling $2.55 billion.  There are $7 billion in assets under management. There is
only one secured debt, of $96.7 million owing to Standard
Chartered Bank.  Arcapita, also known as First Islamic Investment Bank BSC,
says its lines of business are private equity, real estate,
venture capital and infrastructure. Based in Bahrain, Arcapita
has offices in Atlanta, London and Singapore.  The case is In re Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  TCIM Setting up Procedures for Auction on July 24  TCIM Services Inc. , an operator of six  call centers  for the
banking and telecommunications industries, sought Chapter 11
protection on June 3 in Delaware and filed papers on June 20 to
set up procedures for an auction on July 24.  There is a letter of intent for Ipacesetters LLC to
purchase the business, according to this week’s court filing.
The price isn’t stated. There are discussions with two other
potential purchasers, according to TCIM.  If Ipacesetters signs a contract by July 3, TCIM is willing
to give the buyer a breakup fee should someone else emerge the
winner at auction.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court on July 9 for
approval of auction and sale procedures. TCIM intends to have a
hearing by July 31 to approve the sale.  Based in Wilmington, Delaware, TCIM filed under Chapter 11
after revenue declined more than 45 percent since January 2011.  The petition stated that assets are less than $10 million
while debt exceeds $10 million. Liabilities include $7.8 million
owing to Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. on a revolving credit
facility.  The case is In re TCIM Services Inc., 12-11711, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  DRI Sale to Levine Leichtman to Be Approved by Judge  DRI Inc., a provider of  digital signs  for transportation
systems, received a commitment from the bankruptcy judge at a
June 20 hearing to approve a sale of the business for $25.3
million to an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners
Inc. The price rose almost 15 percent at auction.  DRI previously said the price should be sufficient to pay
secured creditors in full and cover expenses of the bankruptcy,
with a surplus for unsecured creditors.  Intending to sell the business from the outset, Dallas-
based DRI filed for Chapter 11 protection in Wilson, North
Carolina, on March 25. Assets were listed for $42.8 million,
with liabilities totaling $31.4 million.  Debt includes $9.6 million owing to BHC Interim Funding III
LP, a secured lender with liens on all assets. BHC is providing
$5 million in financing for the bankruptcy.  The principal assets are in North Carolina, according to
the Chapter 11 petition.  The case is In re DRI Inc., 12-02298, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of North Carolina (Wilson).  Watch List  Vocational School Operator ATI Given S&P ‘D’ Rating  ATI Acquisition Co., the operator of 23 vocational schools
for students beyond high school age, was demoted to a D rating
by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 20.  The action was taken based on “confidential information”
about the company “regarding its debt obligations,” S&P said.
The rating company didn’t describe the nature of the default
warranting a D rating.  S&P is projecting that senior secured lenders won’t recover
more than 10 percent following payment default.  ATI generates 90 percent of revenue from federal financial
aid and grants for students, S&P said.  ATI is based in North Richmond Hills, Texas. Most of the
campuses are in Texas and Florida.  BCBG Max Azria Demoted to CCC by Standard & Poor’s  BCBG Max Azria Group Inc., a designer, marketer and
retailer of women’s wear, was demoted to a CCC rating yesterday
by Standard & Poor’s, matching the action taken in February by
Moody’s Investors Service. The downgrade was the second in five
months from S&P.  S&P said its action was based on a belief the company
violated loan covenants for the fourth quarter of 2011.  Now that the company has completed an exit from the mass-
market business, S&P said it’s “more likely” there will be a
covenant amendment than a bankruptcy in the next six months.  The company quit making Miley & Max products that were sold
through Wal-Mart Stores Inc., leading to a significant decline
in revenue and resulting in a possible covenant violation, S&P
said.  S&P also lowered the rating on the $230 million term loan
to CCC.  The Vernon, California-based company had 467 stores in
February, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  New Filing  First Regional Files More Than Two Years after Bank Failure  First Regional Bancorp (FRGB) , whose bank subsidiary was taken
over by regulators in January 2010, filed a petition this week
in Los Angeles for reorganization in Chapter 11.  The petition was a so-called bare-bones filing because
little was filed aside from the three-page standard form and a
list of creditors with the largest claims.  Assets total $1.3 million and $97.5 million is owing on
debt securities, according to the petition.  The last financial statement for the holding company before
the bank was taken over listed assets of $2.18 billion and
liabilities of $2.15 billion.  The case is In re First Regional Bancorp, 12-31372, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Downgrade  Production Resource Group Lowered to B- on Cash Flow  Production Resource Group LLC, a provider of production
services for the entertainment industry, was dealt a downgrade
yesterday in view of what Standard & Poor’s characterized as
“high negative discretionary  cash flow ” that isn’t expected to
reverse in 2012.  S&P lowered the corporate rating by one grade to B-. The
senior unsecured notes went to CCC+, coupled with a prediction
the holders won’t recover more than 30 percent following payment
default.  PRG, based in New York, supplies audio, video, scenery and
automation systems for theaters and live events.  Daily Podcast  Paulson Resorts, Dynegy, Quick RG Steel Sale: Bankruptcy Audio  The four bankrupt resorts still owned by Paulson & Co. and
 Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  may be forced to modify their
reorganization strategy should they lose a trial beginning June
27 with Hilton Worldwide Inc., as Bloomberg News bankruptcy
columnist Bill Rochelle and Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia discuss
on their podcast. Dynegy Inc. has details to work out before the
power producer initiates what could be a record short-lived
bankruptcy reorganization. The creditors’ committee for steel
producer  RG Steel LLC  is trying to slow down the sale, as
Rochelle discusses on the podcast’s last item. To listen, click
here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  