-- AFSCME Elects Chief Who Backs National Political Role
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-22T01:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/afscme-elects-chief-who-backs-national-political-role.html
The  American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees  elected its No. 2 leader as
president, signaling the biggest U.S. public-workers union will
remain active in President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign.  Lee Saunders, 60, was seen by workers as a leader who would
maintain predecessor  Gerald McEntee ’s push to spend on national
political campaigns, while recruiting members among workers such
as home- and child-care employees and in Southern states
traditionally unfriendly to unions. McEntee is retiring after
more than three decades in the top job.  Saunders’ opponent, Danny Donohue, the head of New York’s
Civil Service Employees Association, conceded the election in a
statement tonight.  Saunders’ supporters said his experience in the national
office would be beneficial after unions lost an effort to recall
 Wisconsin  Republican Governor  Scott Walker  and were set back
when two California cities voted to overhaul worker benefits.  “It comes down to who is the best leader,” Michael
Dempsey, a representative of Local 1912 in Binghamton,  New York ,
said before voting today at the union’s biennial convention in
Los Angeles. “There is so much going on with union busting,
especially in places like Wisconsin.”  Donohue had said before the convention that the union has
become too much of “a top-down organization.” In an interview,
Donohue pledged to shift money from national elections to state
and local votes.  Campaign Spending  Labor groups such as AFSCME spent about $450 million, a
record, in 2008 helping elect Democrats to the White House and
Congress, including through political-action committees.
McEntee, 77, pledged more than $90 million to elect Democrats
this year.  “The unions will make huge investments in trying to turn
out Democratic voters,” said  Thomas Mann , a senior fellow at
the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “The union organizers
will work side-by-side with the Obama campaign to turnout
Democratic voters.”  Labor remains supportive of Obama, with 57 percent of union
members who are registered to vote supporting him, compared with
35 percent for his likely Republican opponent  Mitt Romney ,
according to a Gallup poll released June 11. Among government
employees who are members of unions, Obama’s support rises to 59
percent and Romney’s slips to 34 percent, according to Gallup.  The AFSCME race was a rematch from 2010, when Saunders and
Donahue sought to be secretary-treasurer. Saunders won by about
3,000 votes from more than 1 million cast.  Yellow, Blue  Before today’s vote, supporters waved signs and handed out
fliers for their candidates in the halls of the  Los Angeles 
Convention Center. Delegates wearing AFSCME’s green shirts were
hard to spot as Donohue supporters in blue shirts and Saunders
backers in yellow sought to round up votes from delegates.  The son of a bus driver and a community activist in
 Cleveland , Saunders started as a worker in Ohio employment
services in 1975. He joined AFSCME as a labor economist in 1978
and later worked as an administrator of several AFSCME councils,
including District Council 37, New York City’s largest.  Delegates also voted to cut the salary of the president,
which had climbed to $387,000 for McEntee, who was first elected
president in 1981. The delegates  approved  a measure yesterday
reducing the pay to $295,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  