-- Maid to Appeal Residence Ruling to Hong Kong’s Top Court
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-06-22T02:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/maid-to-appeal-residence-ruling-to-hong-kong-s-top-court.html
A Philippine woman whose application
for permanent residence in  Hong Kong  was rejected on the basis
that she is a foreign domestic helper will appeal to the city’s
highest court.  Judges Andrew Cheung, Frank Stock and Robert Tang of Hong
Kong’s Court of Appeal gave Evangeline Banao Vallejos, a maid
who has lived and worked in the city since 1986, permission to
appeal a March ruling.  Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal will decide whether an
immigration rule excluding foreign domestic helpers from
becoming eligible for permanent residence is constitutional
under the city’s Basic Law. The government argues the imported
workers live in the special administrative region under
restrictions that make them a separate group. Vallejos’ lawyers
say the maids aren’t different from other kinds of workers and
should have the same rights.  Cheung said today that the question to be decided is if the
immigration law is inconsistent with the Basic Law.  Hong Kong’s government, faced with calls to limit the
strain on public resources, fought a September ruling that would
have allowed a potential 117,000 people, or one-third of the
city’s foreign maids according to government figures cited in
court, to apply to live in former British colony without a visa,
take up any jobs, and vote.  Limited Purpose  Under the immigration department’s domestic helper
importation program, the foreign worker must live with their
employer and be paid a minimum wage of $3,740 ($482) a month.  “Their stays in Hong Kong are highly regulated so as to
ensure that they are here to fulfill the special, limited
purpose for which they have been allowed to come here in the
first place, and no more,” Cheung wrote in his March judgment
that overturned the September ruling by a lower court.  In 2004, maids contributed HK$13.8 billion to the economy,
or one percent of Hong Kong’s output, according to a report by
the Asian Migrant Centre, a non-governmental organization.  The Basic Law is the de-facto constitution that Hong Kong
adopted after the British handed the city back to  China  in 1997.
The special administrative region was guaranteed an independent
judiciary for 50 years under the “one country, two systems”
framework.  The case is Vallejos Evangeline Banao and Commissioner of
Registration, CACV204/2011 in Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  