-- Courpron Has Pay Cut After Probe in Latest ILFC Setback
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/aig-s-courpron-has-pay-cut-after-probe-in-latest-ilfc-setback.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
punishment of its plane-leasing chief executive officer for a
relationship with an employee is the latest setback for the
insurer as it seeks to take the unit public.  AIG named ex- Boeing Co. (BA)  executive Laurette Koellner to
oversee International Lease Finance Corp., putting her in charge
of CEO Henri Courpron and cutting his pay after he had a
personal relationship with an employee, AIG said yesterday.  AIG is seeking to prepare Los Angeles-based ILFC for an
initial public offering as the insurer works to raise funds to
repay a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. Courpron,
49, a former Airbus SAS manager, was named to lead ILFC in 2010.
Two other executives led the unit between the departure of
founder Steven Udvar-Hazy that year and Courpron’s arrival.  “Courpron has significant technical knowledge and skills
and was hired for a reason,” said George Hamlin, president of
Hamlin Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. “How
people view Henri Courpron as a result of this, that’s
unpredictable and personal. There may be some people who think
less of him.”  Courpron’s stock salary was cut by $1 million to $3.43
million after his conduct was found to be “contrary to AIG’s
expectations,” the company said. Courpron and the employee
acknowledged a voluntary relationship that had ended, according
to New York-based AIG.  ‘My Mistake’  “I apologize for my mistake,” Courpron said in the
statement. “I am committed to keep moving forward with the ILFC
team and Laurette.”  The Courpron probe followed an anonymous complaint that
also alleged that the relationship involved improper use of
company assets and inappropriate personnel decisions, according
to AIG. Those claims were found to be unsubstantiated after a
review conducted with  outside counsel , the insurer said.  “Management misbehavior could cloud the IPO,” said  Clark Troy , an independent consultant in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina .
“He was a potential risk to the IPO, so they’re dealing with
that.” Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment on the
IPO prospects.  The shuffle means ILFC will have new leadership for next
month’s Farnborough International Air Show. The U.K. expo is
held every other year, rotating with a Paris event. Together
they constitute aerospace’s largest trade event and a forum for
planemakers to showcase products and announce orders.  Farnborough Show  “Sadly, it’s been a few Farnboroughs since ILFC has had
much of an impact,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of
the Teal Group, an aviation forecaster in Fairfax, Virginia.
“It’s been the smaller guys that have grabbed all the headlines
at the past few air shows.”  AIG has explored selling ILFC since at least 2009, when it
solicited bids from private-equity groups. The insurer filed in
September to take the company public and has said financial-
markets volatility delayed the sale.  Koellner, 57, worked at planemaker Boeing from 1997 through
2008, becoming president of Boeing International. Before that
she spent 19 years at McDonnell Douglas Corp., AIG said. Her
experience in aviation and finance “will make her a valuable
resource,” ILFC said in a filing.  She is stepping down from AIG’s board of directors because
she no longer meets the panel’s requirement for independence,
the insurer said. As head of ILFC, reporting to AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , she’ll be paid a salary of $950,000 and is eligible
for bonuses. The position will require about 60 percent of her
working time, ILFC said in a filing.  Steenland’s Role  Koellner has been an AIG director since 2009, when she was
one of six candidates in the first nomination since the trustees
managing the U.S. stake vowed to overhaul the board. She’s also
on the boards of  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  and  Celestica Inc. (CLS)   Douglas Steenland, who led ILFC’s board, will remain a
director while relinquishing the chairmanship. He was involved
in discussions about creating the executive chairman post and
asked not to be considered for the role, said a person familiar
with the situation who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private.  AIG has sought to increase stability among the ranks of its
top managers. Benmosche is the insurer’s fifth CEO since 2005.  The company said in February that it was reviewing its
succession planning after Chairman  Steve Miller  was named CEO of
jet maker Hawker Beechcraft Inc. Miller, the insurer’s sixth
chairman since 2005, had been designated in 2010 as the
executive who would become interim CEO in the event that
Benmosche had to step down while fighting cancer.  1,000 Planes  ILFC owns or manages more than 1,000 planes that it leases
to operators in  Europe ,  Asia  and  North America , according to a
company filing.  ILFC was founded in 1973 by Udvar-Hazy, who built it into
the world’s biggest such lessor and sold it to AIG in 1990. The
insurer was able to borrow funds at attractive rates for plane
purchases when it had a top  credit rating .  Downgrades of the insurer and its 2008 bailout squeezed
ILFC’s access to private funding and the unit took writedowns in
2010 as competition from newer, more fuel-efficient engines
reduced demand for some of its planes.  Udvar-Hazy left in 2010 and started Los Angeles-based  Air
Lease Corp. (AL)  AIG filed a complaint in April accusing Udvar-Hazy
and other former ILFC executives of breach of fiduciary duty and
stealing  trade secrets .  Air Lease  said that ILFC resorted to a
lawsuit because it hadn’t been able to compete and considered
the new rival a growing threat.  Courpron, a former executive at Airbus SAS and president of
aviation advisory firm Seabury Group who speaks French and
English, has worked to improve liquidity and upgrade the fleet,
signing a contract in 2011 for 100 Airbus A320neo aircraft.
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded ILFC’s debt to Ba3 on June
15, citing reduced leverage.  Dunn, Hurd  Courpron is the latest executive to be punished after a
relationship with an employee was revealed. Best Buy Co. CEO
 Brian Dunn  resigned this year after a probe found he was having
an inappropriate relationship with an employee.  Mark Hurd  stepped down as CEO of computer-maker Hewlett-
Packard Co. in 2010 after an investigation found he had a
personal relationship with a contractor. Boeing’s Harry Stonecipher was replaced as CEO in 2005 after an affair with an
employee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  