-- Air Nigeria Suspended for Financial Audit by Regulator
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-06-22T17:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/air-nigeria-flights-suspended-on-safety-concerns-ncaa-says-1-.html
Nigeria suspended domestic flights
by  Air Nigeria  to allow for a financial audit of the airline,
aviation officials said.  Local flights by the airline, which flies to eight cities
in  Africa ’s top oil producer, were grounded yesterday, Joe Obi,
a spokesman for the Aviation Ministry said today by phone. The
suspension will remain in place until the airline resolves
“internal issues” that are “critical to safety,”  Nigerian
Civil Aviation Authority  spokesman Sam Adurogboye said earlier
by phone from Lagos, the commercial capital, without giving
details.  Flights were suspended “over alleged indications that the
airline is in financial distress,” Air Nigeria said in a
statement e-mailed today. Its  Lagos-London  services aren’t
affected, the company said.  The halting of the airline’s flights comes after a Dana
Airlines Ltd.  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-83 flight from Abuja, the capital,
crashed into buildings on approach to Lagos airport on June 3,
killing all 153 on board. It was the world’s deadliest air crash
this year.  Air Nigeria resumed flights after Adurogboye said on June
13 that the airline was grounded for routine safety checks on
its planes following the suspension of a strike by its workers.
The airline said it was given a “clean bill of health.”  The Federal Inland Revenue Service said on June 18 it
 arrested  Kinfe Kayssay, Air Nigeria’s managing director, for an
alleged failure to pay taxes of 4.9 billion naira ($30 million),
including arrears. The company hasn’t filed annual tax returns
for 2011, the agency said in a statement on its website.  Police Raid  The airline said it was  raided  by armed policemen and
inland revenue service officials demanding taxes allegedly owed
when the airline was partly owned by  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd., before Jimoh Ibrahim, the current owner,
acquired it in April 2010.  “We are at a loss as to what the FIRS has been doing for
the past eight years without collecting the taxes from the
previous management of the airline,” Air Nigeria said in the
statement. All taxes have been paid since Ibrahim acquired the
airline, it said.  The Aviation Ministry said on June 11 it set up a panel to
review the enforcement of regulations by the NCAA, and
compliance by domestic airlines.  Dana flights were suspended on June 5 indefinitely. The
Dana plane’s flight and cockpit voice recorders were sent to the
U.S. for analysis, and the cause of the crash is still unknown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  