-- Malaysia Joins Indonesia, China Seeing Asian Strength: Economy
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-06-22T06:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/malaysia-joins-indonesia-china-seeing-asian-strength-economy.html
Asian nations are more prepared to
face global economic shocks after they strengthened domestic
demand and financial systems since the 1997-98 regional crisis,
said Malaysian central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, a veteran
of that turmoil.  Asia  is in a “better state of readiness” to face shocks as
policies geared toward strengthening domestic demand anchor
growth prospects, Zeti, 64, said in a speech in Jakarta today.
Her confidence echoes the sentiment of policy makers across the
region, with  China  saying its economy is heading for a rebound
this month and  Indonesia  saying this week that its banks are
still growing amid Europe’s woes, underscoring domestic strength.  Malaysia ’s economic  expansion  has stayed above 4 percent
since it emerged from a recession in 2009, as rising public
spending and a yearlong pause in interest-rate increases
countered Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.
Zeti, who oversaw the country’s capital controls in response to
the Asian crisis, has guided monetary policy in the Southeast
Asian nation through regional health epidemics, natural
disasters and the last global slump.  “Asia is consuming more and more,”  Irvin Seah , an economist
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said yesterday. “Its
domestic demand is contributing to global growth and driving its
own growth.”  Much of the region has grown through the persistent
European sovereign-debt crisis, Japan’s tsunami and the
disruption to manufacturing from Thailand’s floods last year,
even as stocks and currencies slid in recent months on concern
weakening global demand will hurt Asian exports.  Asian Crisis  Indonesia, which turned to the  International Monetary Fund 
for a bailout and spent 450 trillion rupiah ($47 billion) to
rescue lenders during the Asian financial crisis, has seen
growth exceed 6 percent since 2010. Lending growth in Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy was an annual 28 percent pace in May,
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad said June 19.  China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said this week his
nation’s economy is “turning for the better,” in June following
government measures to support growth, adding to signals of
confidence among officials that the slowdown is ebbing. The
comments added to remarks by President  Hu Jintao  that China will
“maintain steady and robust growth.”  The comments signal confidence amid escalating global risks.
Asian stocks fell today and the Indian rupee slid to a record
low as manufacturing and jobs reports added to signs of a U.S.
economic slowdown. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 1
percent as of 1:40 p.m. in Tokyo.  German Confidence  Taiwan’s  unemployment rate  rose for the second straight
month in May, a report showed today. Industrial production
probably fell for a third month, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before data due today. Malaysia may say
inflation eased, a separate survey showed.  In Europe, German business confidence probably fell to the
lowest in more than two years in June and  consumer confidence  in
 Italy  probably slid this month, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Asia’s growth prospects are being supported by a shift from
being a producer to consumer, with a middle class that is
projected to increase from 500 million to more than 3 billion by
2030, Zeti said today.  “Distinct strategies have been implemented to strengthen
further the macroeconomic fundamentals and financial system
soundness in the region,” Zeti said. “These stronger foundations
of steady growth, low unemployment, relatively low inflation,
and strong and more developed financial systems, have
strengthened Asia’s resilience and its ability to manage
external vulnerabilities.”  Baht Devaluation  Zeti was assistant central bank governor responsible for
economics, reserves management, money market and foreign
exchange operations when Thailand devalued the baht on July 2,
1997. The ringgit fell 89 percent in the next six months as
regional currencies plunged and investors fled the region,
pushing Asian economies into recession and prompting Thailand,
Indonesia and  South Korea  to turn to IMF bailouts. It was Zeti
who announced Malaysia’s capital controls in 1998 as acting
governor, drawing the ire of the IMF.  The first Malaysian woman to become central bank governor,
Zeti obtained a doctorate in economics from the  University of
Pennsylvania  in 1978, with a thesis focusing on international
capital flows and their implications for macroeconomic policies.  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept the  benchmark overnight policy
rate  unchanged at 3 percent for a sixth straight meeting on May
11, joining Indonesia and Thailand in holding borrowing costs
steady in recent months.  The $238 billion economy expanded 4.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, after a 5.2 percent pace in the
previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  