-- Taliban Luxury Hotel Attack Near Kabul Leaves 23 Dead
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-06-22T15:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/taliban-take-hostages-in-raid-on-afghan-luxury-hotel-near-kabul.html
Taliban guerrillas armed with
rocket-propelled grenades stormed a luxury hotel outside the
Afghan capital of Kabul, taking more than 40 people hostage, and
triggering a 12-hour gun battle that left 23 people dead.  The siege ended when five militants were shot dead by
Afghan security forces supported by helicopter gunships from the
U.S.-led international  coalition force , according to an e-mail
from Kabul’s police department. Fourteen Afghan civilians, three
hotel guards and one policeman were killed in the attack on the
Spozhmai hotel on Qarga Lake, according to the statement.  The Taliban attacked the hotel because it is a “place for
Afghan and foreigners to hold non-Islamic parties, come on dates
and where alcohol is drunk,”  Zabihullah Mujahed , a spokesman
for the group, said in a phone interview.  The attack is the latest blow to U.S.-led coalition troops
as they aim to weaken the Islamic insurgent movement before
handing over security responsibilities to Afghan forces ahead of
a withdrawal from the country in 2014. In the past two-and-a-
half months, the Taliban have attacked government office
buildings, including the parliament, the U.S., German and
British embassies and the offices of two provincial governors.  The attack “bears all the hallmarks of the Haqqani”
network, a militant Islamic group based in  Pakistan  and
affiliated with the Taliban, U.S. Defense Department spokesman
 George Little  told reporters at the Pentagon today. The group
has become a major concern of U.S. commanders in  Afghanistan  and
a growing source of friction between the Obama administration
and Pakistan.  Having Dinner  Security forces rescued more than 40 Afghans who were being
held in the hotel by the gunmen, the police said. The hotel is
located about nine kilometers (5.6 miles) outside Kabul and is
popular with wealthy Afghans and tourists.  Four militants armed with rocket-propelled grenades, AK-47s
and hand grenades entered the compound of the hotel at about 10
p.m. yesterday, Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Siddiqui said
in a phone interview. They forced their way into the hotel by
shooting dead the hotel guards, the police said.  The attack took place as many guests were having dinner,
Ayub Salangi, the police chief of Kabul said in a phone
interview today. There were more than 300 people in the hotel at
the time and to escape the gunfire, some guests jumped into the
nearby lake, even though they could not swim, he said.  This was the latest indicator of the Taliban’s ability to
hit high-profile targets close to the heart of the Afghan
government. In April, militants fired rifles and rocket-
propelled grenades at government buildings about a kilometer
from President Hamid Karzai’s palace.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  plans to have the U.S. and its
partners switch from the lead combat force in Afghanistan to
supporting Afghan units by next year amid waning public support
for a war now in its 11th year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  