-- American Wins Fight With Mediation Board Over Union Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-22T23:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/american-wins-fight-with-mediation-board-over-union-vote.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  won a
court ruling preventing a union-representation election among
passenger service employees until they meet a higher threshold
for proceeding with a vote.  The National Mediation Board used the wrong standard when
it authorized the election and “acted in excess of its
delegated authority,” U.S. District Judge Terry Means in  Fort
Worth , Texas, said in a decision today.  The ruling comes as American is seeking $1.25 billion in
annual labor cost reductions as part of its bankruptcy
reorganization. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane postponed a
ruling to next week on whether the Fort Worth-based airline can
scrap union contracts.  The  Communications Workers of America , which seeks to
represent the employees, said in a statement it would appeal the
decision, which it called “a disgrace and a travesty of
justice.”  “Agents have been denied their democratic right to vote,”
the union said.  American sued the National Mediation Board in May, saying
the agency applied the incorrect standard when it authorized
passenger service employees, who book reservations and work in
airports, to vote on whether to join the CWA.  The airline sought a ruling prohibiting the agency from
directing an election unless there is a “showing of interest”
from at least 50 percent of the employees, not the 35 percent
standard the board used.  Means sided with American, saying the 50 percent standard
governs the board’s conduct and blocking the agency from
directing an election unless that threshold is met.  American spokesman  Bruce Hicks  said in a statement that the
airline was pleased with the decision.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-00276, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  