-- Hammerson Investors See $814 Million Disposal Fueling Purchases
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-06-22T06:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/hammerson-investors-see-814-million-disposal-fueling-purchases.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO) ’s 518 million-pound
($814 million) sale of most of its London office buildings makes
acquisitions easier and accelerates its transformation into a
specialist retail-property investor, according to one of the
U.K. company’s largest shareholders.  “It puts them in a reasonably comfortable position to look
for further growth,” said Nicolas Scherf, an analyst at Cohen &
Steers Inc., which manages funds owning more than 6.4 percent of
Hammerson. “They need to look at everything that exceeds their
cost of capital -- it doesn’t have to be a big deal.”  The asset sale to  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  of  New
York  gives Hammerson about 1 billion pounds of cash or credit
lines, the company said when it announced the deal on June 19.
Chief Executive Officer David Atkins plans to deploy the capital
beyond existing projects, he said in an interview after the
sale.  On Feb. 24, Atkins said he would make the company a retail
specialist over two to three years. Once the Brookfield deal is
completed, malls, retail parks and other shopping assets will
make up 97 percent of Hammerson’s portfolio.  Hammerson has been the best performer in the 11-member  FTSE
350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index (F3REITS)  since Atkins announced
the change in strategy. The shares have appreciated by 11
percent, compared with 5.4 percent gain for the index.  “We have huge firepower,” said Atkins, 46. Diminished
bank lending and a lackluster economic outlook “will give rise
to interesting opportunities that we are in a good position to
exploit with our liquidity.”  Value Retail  Hammerson is in talks to increase its stake in  Value Retail
Plc , a closely held operator of designer outlets including
Bicester Village near Oxford. The company’s investments in Value
Retail and some out-of-town shopping villages across  Europe  were
valued at 214 million pounds at the end of 2011.  Atkins may buy French retail properties to bolster its
presence there, said  Robert Duncan , a Jefferies Group Inc.
analyst. He has buy rating on the shares.  France  accounted for 27 percent of the company’s 4.93
billion pounds of retail-related property at the end of 2011.
The rest is in the U.K., including stakes in London’s Brent
Cross mall and Birmingham’s Bullring.  Brookfield plans to pay Hammerson 329 million pounds in
September and the rest in June 2013. That will lower the U.K.
company’s debt to 26 percent of the value of its real estate at
the end of 2011, Hammerson said.  “It was an excellent exit and in the next 12 months having
gearing at that level may not be a bad thing,” said Marcus Phayre-Mudge, lead manager for  TR Property Investment Trust (TRY) ,
which owns 5.2 percent of Hammerson.  Stay Put  “I would be fairly disappointed if they went and racked up
another operating platform elsewhere in Europe or in a submarket
where they don’t already have a presence,” he said. “They have
plenty of stuff to get on with in the U.K. and France.”  Atkins has earmarked about 320 million pounds to refurbish
or extend a dozen of its existing shopping centers in France and
the U.K. Hammerson has a 200 million-pound additional commitment
during the next two years to build Les Terrasses du Port mall in
Marseilles, France, and it has three other major developments
that will start as early as 2013.  Atkins said the investments in improving and enlarging
existing centers will generate an 8 percent income return for
shareholders.  “That’s a better return than shareholders would achieve
for a special dividend or a share buyback and provides a longer-
run return,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  