-- Marketo CEO Plans Initial Public Offering After U.S. Election
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-22T22:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/marketo-ceo-plans-initial-public-offering-after-u-s-election.html
Marketo Inc. , a software maker that
raised more than $100 million in  venture capital , plans an
initial public offering after the  U.S. presidential election  in
November, founder and Chief Executive Officer Phil Fernandez
said.  “The time to do it is after the elections, when we’re
going to see a quieting of the public markets,” Fernandez said
in a telephone interview today. “In the next few months we’re
spending a lot of time on cultures and value, and getting ready
to be on the playing field under the bright lights.”  The  San Mateo , California-based company, which sells
software for marketing automation and sales effectiveness, would
use the proceeds to build its business and acquire technology,
Fernandez said. While Marketo previously signaled it plans an
IPO, the company said today for the first time it will wait
until after the November election.  Intensifying concern over Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
and a global economic slowdown have damped IPOs around the world
in recent months, making this year’s second quarter the slowest
for initial sales since 2009.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  sank last month following its own $16 billion
offering, a record for a technology company. Still, some
Internet-based software companies, including ServiceNow Inc.,
have announced plans to enter public markets.  Marketo has $50 million from its last funding round in
November, led by  Battery Ventures , and isn’t planning further
private financing, Fernandez said.  Fernandez has been adding analytics and social-marketing
capabilities to the company’s software to set Marketo apart from
competitors, including Vienna, Virginia-based  Eloqua .  He listed IPOs at three other companies he helped build:
E.piphany, Red Brick Systems and Masstor Systems Corp.  E.piphany was acquired by SSA Global Technologies, now part
of Infor Global Solutions Inc. Red Brick was acquired by
Ascential Software Corp., which became part of International
Business Machines Corp. Masstor was delisted from the over-the-
counter market in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  