-- Lance Armstrong Says Agency Overstepped Authority in Doping Case
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/armstrong-says-agency-overstepped-authority-in-doping-case-1-.html
Lance Armstrong  said the  U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency  overstepped its authority, violated federal laws
and failed to give him a meaningful opportunity to defend
himself against allegations that he and five others participated
in a wide-ranging doping conspiracy.  Armstrong’s attorney, Robert Luskin, responding to initial
allegations USADA made on June 12, sent an 11-page letter to an
agency review board yesterday. A copy of the response was
provided to Bloomberg News.  The response from Armstrong’s representatives offered
little new information, referring to past news articles and
court cases.  The letter asked the agency to submit evidence supporting
its allegations or the review board “should summarily recommend
that this matter be dismissed for lack of sufficient evidence.”  Armstrong, who won the  Tour de France  every year from 1999
to 2005, is in jeopardy of being stripped of those titles and
has been banned from participating in events organized by the
World Triathlon Corp., which owns the Ironman series, after
USADA brought the doping allegations against him and five
others.  “USADA’s overly expansive view of its own authority -- not
to mention its smug self-regard -- undoubtedly explains its
threadbare charging document, its arrogant and craven refusal to
disclose its evidence, and its complacent expectation that the
review board will not hold it accountable,” Armstrong’s
attorneys said in the letter.  USADA Chief Executive Officer Travis Tygart issued a
statement in response to the letter, saying “the established
rules provide full due process and are designed to get to the
truth.”  A three-person USADA review board will decide if there is
enough evidence to support the allegations against Armstrong. If
USADA files formal charges, the case then would go to a three-
person arbitration panel.  Charging Letter  USADA said in its initial charging letter, a first step in
the process for alleged doping violations, that if the case
proceeded beyond the review board it would recommend a sanction
that “may include up to a lifetime period of ineligibility from
participation in sport.”  The  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based agency “already has
advised us that USADA may ignore what the review board
recommends and continue its obsessive pursuit of Mr. Armstrong,
even if the review board finds no evidence upon which to
proceed,” Luskin said in his response.  Luskin’s letter also said offers of light treatment to
other riders in exchange for testimony against Armstrong, such
as that given to former teammate  Floyd Landis , “violate federal
law, namely, the federal bribery statute.”  Armstrong said the day after USADA’s notification that the
allegations were “baseless.” He turned down a chance to meet
with the doping agency prior to receiving the charging letter,
and Luskin wrote in a letter to USADA that the meeting would
have been a “demand wrapped in a threat” seeking Armstrong’s
confession.  Ironman Race  Armstrong was scheduled to race his first professional full
Ironman triathlon tomorrow to try to qualify for the Ironman
World Championship in  Hawaii  in October.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
Network said this month it planned to air this year’s
championship six weeks earlier than usual and expand the
coverage to focus on Armstrong.  USADA said the six men engaged in a doping conspiracy from
1998 to 2011. The agency said it had examined blood samples from
Armstrong in 2009 and 2010 that were “fully consistent with
blood manipulation including EPO use and/or blood
transfusions.” EPO is the abbreviation for erythropoietin,
which can add energy-boosting properties to blood.  Armstrong, who survived testicular cancer and created
Livestrong, the largest athlete-founded charity by donations,
never has been publicly identified as testing positive for
performance-enhancing drugs. In February, the U.S. attorney in
 Los Angeles  ended a criminal drug probe involving Armstrong and
his professional bicycle racing team without filing charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 