-- Asian Stocks Drop on Falling Commodity Prices, U.S. Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-06-22T10:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/asian-stocks-drop-as-u-s-housing-jobs-add-to-growth-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index headed for a one-week low, as raw-material
suppliers dropped after commodities entered a  bear market  and
reports on U.S. home sales and manufacturing missed estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
slipped 2.1 percent in Sydney. Samsung Electronics Co., the
largest mobile-phone maker by sales, fell 3.7 percent in Seoul.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 1 lender, lost
1.1 percent in  Tokyo  after 15 global banks were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 1.2 percent to 114.18 as
of 7:21 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its lowest close since June
15. About three shares declined for each that rose in the gauge,
which is erasing this week’s advance. More than $5 trillion has
been wiped from global equities since a March peak amid slowing
economic growth in the U.S. and China, and a spreading  European
debt crisis  that pushed Spain’s borrowing costs to a record.  “There will be further downside,” said Peter Elston,
Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific strategy and  asset
allocation  at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees about
$270 billion. “Things are still getting worse. When you have an
essentially weak private sector, you’re relying on the
government to step in and support things. You’re seeing a
gradual weakening of the ability of governments to step in.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.3 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 2.2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped
1.4 percent. Markets in mainland China were closed today for a
holiday. Trading volumes across  Asia  were below the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Bear Market  Resources and energy companies led losses among the 10
industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials retreated 2.1
percent yesterday. The S&P GSCI commodities gauge slid to the
lowest level since 2010 yesterday and is down 22 percent from a
February peak, entering a so-called bear market.  BHP Billiton  fell 2.1 percent to A$31.52 in Sydney.  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-biggest mining company by market
value, slid 1.6 percent to A$56.02. Glencore International Plc,
the world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
slipped 2.7 percent to HK$38.40 in Hong Kong.  Bridgestone Corp. dropped 1.2 percent to 1,755 yen in Tokyo
after the world’s biggest maker of tires said it may extend
output cuts in the second half as Europe’s debt crisis and
China’s slowdown curb demand.  U.S. Economy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent today. The gauge declined 2.2 percent in New York
yesterday as manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank to
the lowest level since August and sales of previously owned
homes in May fell, adding to evidence U.S. economic growth is
weakening.  Exporters to the U.S. declined. Samsung Electronics fell
3.7 percent to 1.182 million won in Seoul. Li & Fung Ltd., a
supplier of toys and clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., sank 5.5 percent to HK$14.48 in  Hong Kong .  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building-materials supplier that counts
the U.S. as its biggest market, dropped 1.7 percent to A$7.57 in
Sydney.  Financial stocks dropped after Moody’s cut credit ratings
for Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley and 13 other banks.
The lenders have “significant exposure to the volatility and
risk of outsized losses inherent to capital-markets
activities,” Moody’s Global Banking Managing Director Greg
Bauer said in a statement.  HSBC, Westpac  Mitsubishi UFJ declined 1.1 percent to 368 yen in Tokyo.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value, slid
1.2 percent to HK$67.45 in Hong Kong. Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender by market value, fell 1.1
percent to A$20.75 in Sydney.  The Asian benchmark stock gauge slumped 10 percent from its
peak on Feb. 29 through yesterday, dragging shares on the index
to 1.2 times  book value . That compares with 2.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one means
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  