-- Asian Currencies Complete Weekly Drop as Growth Forecasts Cut
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-22T08:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/asian-currencies-complete-weekly-drop-as-growth-forecasts-cut.html
Asian currencies had a weekly loss,
led by the Indian rupee and  Thailand ’s baht, as signs the world
economy is deteriorating dimmed the outlook for regional exports
and curbed demand for emerging-market assets.  Taiwan’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged
yesterday and Governor Perng Fai-nan said there is a high risk
of the global outlook worsening. Bank of Korea Deputy Governor
Kim Jun Il said yesterday the monetary authority may lower its
projection for the nation’s expansion in July.  Malaysia  forecast
this week that its services output growth will slow to 5.1
percent this year from 6.8 percent in 2011. Manufacturing in
China, Asia’s biggest economy, may shrink for an eighth month in
June, according to preliminary data released yesterday.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis is lingering in the
market and on top of that there’s growing worry about the global
economic slowdown,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based trader
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “Slowdowns in Europe, China
and the U.S. will clearly impact Asian exports and the regional
currencies will continue to see some selling pressure.”  The  Indian rupee  weakened 3.1 percent this week to 57.2550
per dollar as of 2 p.m. in Mumbai and reached a record low of
57.3275 today, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Thailand’s baht slid 1.1 percent to 31.81, while Malaysia’s
ringgit declined 0.9 percent to 3.1915. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index fell 0.4 percent.  India Rating  The  Federal Reserve  lowered its 2012 U.S. growth forecast
this week to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from an
April projection of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. European finance
ministers meeting in Luxembourg yesterday disagreed on how to
contain the region’s debt crisis, with creditor countries
refusing leniency for Greece to meet deficit-cut targets.
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 15 global banks yesterday,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., citing their exposure to
financial market volatility.  “We have to wait and see what happens in Europe and the
U.S. and whether China can achieve a soft landing,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “We will see  risk aversion . There is anxiety
regarding the financial sector worldwide after the U.S. banks
were downgraded.”  The rupee fell this week after  Fitch Ratings  cut India’s
sovereign credit-rating outlook to negative on June 18, joining
 Standard & Poor’s  in signaling the country is at risk of losing
its investment-grade status.  Thai Export Growth  The  Reserve Bank  of India unexpectedly left the benchmark
repurchase rate at 8 percent on the same day as the fastest
inflation among the biggest  emerging markets  deterred policy
makers from lowering borrowing costs.  The baht had its largest weekly decline in a month. The
Bank of Thailand cut its 2012 export-growth forecast to about 8
percent from 9 percent due to the crisis in Europe, Songtham
Pinto, director of the central bank’s office of macroeconomics,
said June 19.  Exports gained 0.65 percent in May after a decline of 3.67
percent in April, while imports climbed 8 percent following a
7.87 percent increase, according to median estimates of
economists in Bloomberg News surveys before government data next
week.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 1.1 percent this week
to 9,488 per dollar, the Philippine peso fell 0.5 percent to
42.450 and Taiwan’s currency slipped 0.2 percent to NT$29.968.
China’s  yuan  traded at 6.3642, little changed from 6.3651 at the
end of last week. South Korea’s won advanced 0.8 percent to
1,157.05.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  