-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Moody’s Bank Rating Cuts; Oil Gains
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-22T20:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/asian-stocks-drop-on-u-s-oil-near-nine-month-low.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rebounding from the second-biggest drop this
year, as bank downgrades from Moody’s Investors Service were no
worse than the firm had warned. Oil rallied from an eight-month
low, while Treasuries fell.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed 0.7 percent as of 4 p.m. in  New York 
after falling 2.2 percent yesterday. Treasury 10-year yields
increased five basis points to 1.67 percent, while rates on
similar maturity Portuguese debt slid below 10 percent for the
first time in more than a year. Oil climbed 2.5 percent in New
York and corn posted the biggest weekly jump since May 2011.  Financial shares rallied and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  rose after
Moody’s reduced the bank by two levels rather than a threatened
three grades. The  European Central Bank  said it decided this
week to relax some rules on the collateral that banks can offer
in exchange for central bank funds.  “The rating companies are always late to the party,” said
 Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management
in Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about $47 billion. “The
markets were pricing in the worst possible scenario. To the
extent that the downgrades were not as bad as expected, that was
positive.”  Bank Shares  The  S&P 500  has fallen 0.6 percent this week. The best time
to purchase equities when the index drops more than 2 percent is
noon the next day, according to Birinyi Associates Inc., which
studied similar scenarios going back 18 months.  Morgan Stanley gained 1.3 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
added 1.4 percent. The prospect of downgrades had weighed on
banks since Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing 17 banks with
capital-markets operations because of fragile confidence and
tighter regulations that pinched revenue.  The reductions by Moody’s are “a  mea culpa  from 2007 and
2008,” said James Leonard, a credit analyst at Morningstar Inc.
“The banks have gotten so much better in the last few years in
terms of capital, yet their ratings keep going down. What does
that tell you? That the ratings were so wrong before.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.7 percent as German
business confidence declined to its lowest level in more than
two years. The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to
105.3 from 106.9 in May.  Euro Climbs  The euro gained against half its major counterparts. The
European Central Bank eased terms for collateral, while German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said direct bailout funding to banks
violates the region’s treaties. The 17-nation currency
strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.2564.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, according to measures of 10-year debt, the spread
between two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said the nation is “determined”
to meet its budget deficit target this year.  “Portugal’s adjustment program has been carried out as
expected,” Gaspar told reporters in Luxembourg after a meeting
of euro-area finance ministers late yesterday. “The successful
completion of Portugal’s fourth adjustment program review was
followed by very favorable developments in the  bond market .”  Portuguese 10-year bonds advanced for a seventh day,
sending yields down 66 basis points to 9.49 percent.  Natural gas gained for a second day on speculation that a
weather system near the Yucatan Peninsula may strengthen into a
tropical storm and move toward production platforms in  Gulf of
Mexico  next week. The futures for July delivery increased 1.8
percent.  Corn futures jumped 1 percent on concern dry weather and
warmer temperatures next week will increase stress on crops in
the U.S. Midwest. Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5
billion in 2011, government data show.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1.6 percent. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies listed in
 Hong Kong  fell 1.7 percent and the BSE India  Sensitive (SENSEX)  Index
slid 0.4 percent. Russia’s Micex Index sank 1.1 percent and the
ruble slipped 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  