-- Massachusetts Court Says Foreclosures Valid Without Note
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-22T22:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/massachusetts-court-says-foreclosures-can-be-valid-without-note.html
Massachusetts’s highest court ruled
that a  foreclosure sale  in the state can be valid even when the
entity foreclosing on the home doesn’t hold the mortgage note as
long as it has proper authority.  The state’s  Supreme Judicial Court  reversed a lower court
decision, saying it is enough that the foreclosing party is
acting on behalf of the note holder and doesn’t need to
physically possess the note, according to a decision today.  The case stems from a foreclosure involving mortgage-
finance company Fannie Mae. The homeowner, Henrietta Eaton,
claimed the foreclosure on her home in the Roslindale section of
Boston was invalid because the mortgage servicer didn’t hold the
mortgage note and lacked the authority to foreclose, according
to the court’s decision.  Samuel Levine, a Harvard Law School graduate who
represented Eaton in the case, said in an interview that the
decision is a victory for homeowners facing foreclosure because
servicers will have to establish their authority to foreclose.
It will require more due diligence by lenders before seizing
homes, he said.  “Our hope is that with this ruling it will create some
clarity and create some actual opportunity for homeowners to
figure out who owns their loan,” Levine said in a telephone
interview.  Highest Bidder  At a foreclosure auction in 2009, mortgage servicer Green
Tree Servicing LLC was the highest bidder for Eaton’s home and
then transferred the property to  Fannie Mae .  The lower court blocked Eaton’s eviction from the home,
saying she would probably succeed in proving the transfer was
void, according to today’s decision. That court said a
foreclosing entity at the time of the sale must hold both the
mortgage and the underlying mortgage note. Green Tree had
stipulated that it didn’t hold the note.  The  Supreme Judicial Court ’s ruling applies only to future
foreclosures and not past home seizures, the court said. Fannie
Mae argued in court papers that a retroactive ruling requiring a
united mortgage and note for a foreclosure would damage title to
properties that were subject to earlier repossession.  “Today’s ruling will hopefully bring clarity and certainty
to the foreclosure process in Massachusetts,”  Andrew Wilson , a
Fannie Mae spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Supreme Judicial Court remanded the case to the
Superior Court and said Eaton may argue that Green Tree neither
held the note nor acted on behalf of the note holder.  The case is Eaton v.  Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) ,
11041, Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  