-- Atraverda to Raise Funds in Plan to Boost Battery Output 12-Fold
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-22T15:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/atraverda-to-raise-funds-in-plan-to-boost-battery-output-12-fold.html
Atraverda Ltd. is seeking to raise
funds for a transition into commercial battery production as
part of a plan to increase output by more than 12-fold by 2014
and meet demand for electric cars and storing power.  Atraverda, a closely held company set up to make batteries
that can be used to drive motorbikes, scooters and wheelchairs,
proposes to raise 10 million pounds ($16 million) from current
investors and venture capital companies, said Chief Executive
Officer Graham Ryan in an interview in  London .  “People are moving to electric vehicles and hybrid cars,”
Ryan said, with the world’s market for lead-acid batteries
totaling about $8 billion. “We’re targeting three areas
initially: Stationary power such as distributed energy storage
and backup power; light motive; and then highway vehicles.”  Countries need to store electricity as they strive to reach
renewable-energy targets by relying more on sun and wind power,
which provide variable generation depending on the weather. The
power storage industry may be valued at as much as $25 billion
by 2020, the U.K. Institution of Mechanical Engineers says.  Atraverda plans to raise the funds by September and boost
capacity at its plant in Wales by the middle of next year, with
the factory producing about 150,000 batteries a year by 2014. It
is completing a first order, from a U.S. solar power installer
building commercial-scale projects on rooftops and some solar
farms, Ryan said, without naming the company.  The installer plans to use the batteries, which Ryan says
are smaller and lighter than rivals’ products as they include a
patented ceramic material, for a backup power-storage system.  Fukushima Catastrophe  Atraverda is also talking to a Japanese original equipment
manufacturer as the nation spurs householders to put batteries
in their homes to store power after deciding to quit atomic
power following the crisis at the Fukushima nuclear plant.  “They’ve turned off their nuclear power, which is 30
percent of their generating capacity, so we’re talking to a
domestic supplier in the country,” Ryan said.  The contracts with both companies may start around October,
with sales of about 6,000 batteries a month, using all of the
company’s capacity over the next 12 months. The U.S. order may
deliver as much as $14 million in revenue over three years and
the Japanese deal about an annual $2 million, he said.  Atraverda is also trying to secure customers for next year
when its capacity increases and is talking with a light vehicle
maker in  China  in the hope of signing a deal in the next two
months, Ryan said. It’s in discussions with a U.S.-based
wheelchair manufacturer and an auto company in  Asia .  Atraverda, now backed by seven venture capital firms, would
“love” a strategic investor and has made some approaches,
including venture arms of utilities and energy companies.  “We’ve also spoken to a number of Chinese battery
businesses,” Ryan said. “It will be much easier for us to grow
with some real long-term strategic backing, either from a
battery company or a potential customer like a utility.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  