-- Latvia Agrees to Sell Parts of Mortgage Bank to Swedbank, SEB
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-06-22T11:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/latvia-agrees-to-sell-parts-of-mortgage-bank-to-swedbank-seb.html
Latvia’s state-owned Hipoteku un
Zemes Banka AS agreed to sell some of its assets, subsidiaries
and liabilities to units of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA)  as part of a
restructuring, the  Finance Ministry   said .  Swedbank’s Latvian unit agreed to buy bundles of commercial
loans to individuals and companies, deposits and a leasing
company, the ministry said in a statement today. SEB’s Wealth
Management subsidiary in Latvia agreed to acquire the lender’s
pension-management business, according to the statement. Price
details weren’t given.  Hipoteku, which the European Commission barred from
commercial lending as a condition for state aid, had a combined
net loss of about 118 million lati ($212.5 million) over 2009
and 2010. The lender, which recorded a 1.4 million-lati profit
last year, also needed an additional 25 million lati capital
boost due to a revaluation of assets as part of the sale of its
commercial portfolio, according to the statement.  “We’ve agreed with both parties to a gradual process for
client transfer purposes from Hipoteku to the acquiring banks,”
Martins Krutainis, the SEB Enskilda consultant hired by the
government to help manage the sale of the lender’s commercial
assets, said by phone. The discount on the assets is between 10
percent and 30 percent, Krutainis said.  Bundles Remain  Two bundles of non-perfoming loans and a real-estate
portfolio remain and may be sold later this year or transferred
for management by the country’s asset sales department or
Reverta, according to Krutainis.  The Baltic country had repeatedly delayed splitting the
bank due to a lack of political consensus, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a staff report in June last year. The
government submitted a plan to the commission after “long
delays,” the IMF said. The government plans to turn Hipoteku
into a state development bank.  Latvia  completed a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.4 billion) lending
program from a group led by the European Union and the IMF in
December and is planning on adopting the euro in 2014. The
country was forced to seek the loan after rescuing Parex Banka
AS, the Baltic country’s second-biggest lender in 2008. The
country’s economy expanded 5.5 percent last year after shrinking
by almost a quarter in 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 