-- Obama Health Law Seen Valid, Scholars Expect Rejection
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-22T16:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/law-experts-say-health-measure-legal-as-some-doubt-court-agrees.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  should uphold
a law requiring most Americans to have health insurance if the
justices follow legal precedent, according to 19 of 21
constitutional law professors who ventured an opinion on the
most-anticipated ruling in years.  Only eight of them predicted the court would do so.  “The precedent makes this a very easy case,” said
 Christina Whitman , a  University of Michigan  law professor. “But
the oral argument indicated that the more conservative justices
are striving to find a way to strike down the mandate.”  A ruling on the constitutionality of the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate is among the last
pieces of business heading into the final week of the Supreme
Court’s term. Bloomberg News last week e-mailed questionnaires
to constitutional law experts at the top 12 U.S. law schools in
U.S. News & World Report magazine’s 2012 college rankings.  Five of the 21 professors who responded, including Whitman,
said the court is likely to strike down the coverage
requirement. Underscoring the high stakes and complexity of the
debate, eight described the outcome as a toss-up.  During arguments in March, four justices appointed by
Republican presidents questioned Congress’s constitutional power
to enact the mandate, including Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who had been viewed as potential swing
votes. A fifth, Justice  Clarence Thomas , rarely speaks during
courtroom sessions. Questioning by four Democratic appointees
was more sympathetic to the provision, a centerpiece of
President Barack Obama’s health-care law.  ‘Hostile Questioning’  “There was certainly a lot of hostile questioning by the
more conservative members of the court,” said Jesse Choper, a
law professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley who
described the court as likely to support the mandate. “It’s
relatively straightforward -- if they adhere to existing
doctrine, it seemed to me they’re likely to uphold it.”  There was broad agreement that the ruling, barely four
months before November’s presidential election, has the
potential to hurt the Supreme Court’s reputation as an impartial
institution.  Eighteen of the 21 professors said the court’s credibility
will be damaged if the insurance requirement -- which passed
Congress without a single Republican vote -- is ruled
unconstitutional by a 5-4 majority of justices appointed by
Republican presidents.  ‘Narrowest Majority’  “When you take the fact of a high-profile, enormously
controversial and politically salient case -- to have it decided
by the narrowest majority with a party-line split looks very
bad, it looks like the court is simply an arm of one political
party,”  University of Chicago  Law Professor Dennis Hutchinson
said in an interview.  Nine of the law professors said if the coverage mandate is
invalidated the justices are likely or very likely to throw out
several related provisions, such as requiring insurance
companies to offer policies without regard to pre-existing
medical conditions. Five respondents said the justices will
leave those provisions in place; seven called it a toss-up.  By a large margin, 15 of the 21 professors predicted the
Supreme Court won’t kill the entire law even if justices throw
out the insurance mandate and related provisions. Only three
said the rest of the statute is likely to be voided and three
called it a toss-up.  Political Freight  A decision on Obama’s most prominent legislative
accomplishment will be the Supreme Court’s most politically
freighted ruling since 2000’s Bush v. Gore, which halted a
ballot recount in Florida and gave Republican  George W. Bush  --
who lost the nationwide popular vote -- enough electoral votes
to win the White House.  The law, the biggest overhaul of the U.S. health-care
system since the enactment of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965, is
designed to extend coverage to at least 30 million uninsured
Americans and would reshape an industry that makes up about 18
percent of the  U.S. economy .  The law professors split over whether they expect
Republican and Democratic court appointees to line up on
opposing sides: Eight said a partisan divide is likely, eight
said it isn’t likely, and five called it a toss-up.  “I continue to find it extremely unlikely that Justices
Roberts and Kennedy will support a 5-4 decision that has such an
insubstantial basis in 75 years of Supreme Court case law,”
said  Yale University  Professor Bruce Ackerman, the only
respondent who said the court is very likely to uphold the
insurance-coverage requirement.  Arguments Mislead  Choper, who was a clerk for Chief Justice  Earl Warren  in
the 1960s, said in a telephone interview that questioning by
justices doesn’t always predict how they’ll vote.  “You can be misled by oral arguments,” he said. “You
can’t rely on their tone.”  A party-line vote would prompt questions about political
motives because most constitutional scholars thought courts
would uphold a mandate before small-government  Tea Party 
activists rallied Republicans around complaints that Congress
exceeded its authority to regulate interstate commerce, said
Harvard University Law Professor  Charles Fried .  “It’s become just a very partisan battle cry on behalf of
an argument which a few years ago was thought to be completely
bogus,” Fried, who represented Republican President  Ronald Reagan ’s administration at the Supreme Court as U.S. solicitor
general from 1985 to 1989, said in a telephone interview. “For
objective observers on all sides, this was thought to be a lousy
argument and the only people who were making it were sort of the
wing nuts.”  Political Influence  In a separate Bloomberg National Poll of 1,002 adults
released this week, 71 percent of Americans said politics will
influence the Supreme Court’s ruling, compared with 20 percent
who said the court will decide the case solely on legal merits.  Requiring Americans to have health-coverage was  proposed 
more than two decades ago by the Washington-based Heritage
Foundation, which describes itself as a conservative public
policy research institution. Before it was incorporated into
Obama’s health-care law, the notion of an individual mandate had
Republican support as an alternative to Democratic proposals for
a single government-run health system or mandatory coverage by
employers.  Romney’s Stance  Obama’s Republican re-election opponent,  Mitt Romney , has
opposed the nationwide insurance requirement. While a
Massachusetts state law enacted when he was governor includes a
coverage mandate, Romney has said states may adopt policies that
aren’t appropriate for the country as a whole.  University of Pennsylvania  Professor Kermit Roosevelt said
Kennedy is a key vote and that, “whatever happens,” Roberts is
likely to be in the majority.  “If Kennedy joins the four Democratic appointees to
uphold, I think Roberts will vote that way, too,” Roosevelt
said in an e-mail. “If Kennedy goes the other way, Roberts will
probably vote to strike it down.”  The Bloomberg News questionnaires were sent to 131
professors at the top law schools in U.S. News’s ranking who
have taught or written about constitutional law or have
professional experience with constitutional litigation,
according to school biographies. Questions were sent to office
e-mail addresses listed in faculty directories.  Law schools included were:  Columbia University ; Duke
University;  Harvard University ;  New York  University;
Northwestern University;  Stanford University ; the University of
California at Berkeley; the University of Chicago; the
University of Michigan; the University of Pennsylvania; the
University of Virginia, and Yale University.  ‘Rule of Law’  Hutchinson, who has edited the University of Chicago’s
Supreme Court Review journal since 1981, said it’s important for
the public to view the high court as staying above the political
fray and providing “a disinterested interpretation” of the
Constitution.  “We believe in something called the rule of law,” he
said. “That’s why we have faith in courts, that they’re not
just another arm of a political party, so it’s worth respecting
their judgments.”  The Supreme Court has, during its history, often responded
“over the course of a decade or two” to changing views in
broader U.S. society on topics such as racial segregation and
abortion, Harvard Professor  Michael Klarman  said.  Changing Law  If justices strike down the insurance mandate, it will show
“that the ‘law’ in constitutional law is subject to change,
based on politics, and in a much more rapid way than most people
would have assumed,” Klarman said in an e-mail.  Respondents to the questionnaire were: Ackerman; Choper;
Fried; Hutchinson; Klarman; Roosevelt; Whitman; Guy-Uriel
Charles, Duke; Norman Dorsen, NYU; Jamal Greene, Columbia;
Andrew Koppelman, Northwestern; Gillian Metzger, Columbia; Anne
Joseph O’Connell, California; John David Ohlendorf,
Northwestern; Richard Parker, Harvard; David Richards, NYU; Adam
Samaha, Chicago; Neil Siegel, Duke;  Fred Smith , California;
Laurence Tribe, Harvard; G. Edward White, Virginia.  The health-care cases are National Federation of
Independent Business v. Sebelius, 11-393; Department of Health
and Human Services v. Florida, 11-398; and Florida v. Department
of Health and Human Services, 11-400.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  