-- Baht Has Weekly Decline After Central Bank Cuts Export Forecast
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-22T08:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/baht-set-for-weekly-drop-after-central-bank-cuts-export-forecast.html
Thailand ’s baht had its biggest
weekly decline in a month and government bonds rose after the
central bank cut the growth forecast for exports, citing
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Overseas shipments will increase 8 percent this year,
compared with an earlier estimate of about 9 percent, Songtham
Pinto, director of the Bank of Thailand’s office of
macroeconomics, said this week. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares fell for a second day after data from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics showed that  China ’s manufacturing may
shrink for an eighth month in June.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis is lingering in the
market, and there are growing worries about the global economic
slowdown,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based trader at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “Regional currencies will
continue to see some selling pressure for a while.”  The baht retreated 1.1 percent this week, the most since
the five-day period ended May 25, to 31.81 per dollar as of 3:16
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
lost 0.4 percent today and touched 31.85, the weakest level
since June 1.  The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was steady at 4.52
percent this week and today.  Exports rose 0.65 percent in May from a year earlier after
declining 3.67 percent in April, while imports climbed 8 percent
following a 7.87 percent increase, according to median estimates
of economists in Bloomberg News surveys before government data
next week.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.34 percent this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was unchanged today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 