-- Barclays, RBS, HSBC Little Changed After Moody’s Lowers Ratings
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-22T16:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/barclays-leads-u-k-banks-lower-after-moody-s-cuts-credit-rating.html
U.K. bank stocks  were little changed
after Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings of the
country’s four largest lenders, partly because of the risks
associated with their capital markets businesses.  The  FTSE 350 Banks index (F3BANK)  fell less than 0.1 percent in
 London  trading.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  fell 0.1 pence
to 243.2 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  fell 0.8 percent to 200.7 pence.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  advanced 0.6 percent to 31.39 pence,
while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  climbed 0.6 percent.  “The credit rating downgrades by Moody’s had been
anticipated for some time, while the scale of the downgrades put
through were in line with market expectations,” Gary Greenwood,
an analyst at Shore Capital, said in a note to clients today.
“We don’t think these downgrades will have a material impact on
U.K. bank funding costs or lending capacity.”  None of the financial firms was cut more than Moody’s had
forecast when it announced the review in February. HSBC,
 Europe ’s largest bank, was lowered one grade instead of two.
Barclays was lowered two steps, and Edinburgh-based RBS was cut
one level, in line with Moody’s forecasts.  Lloyds’s main banking unit, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, was
separately downgraded a step, Moody’s said in a statement late
yesterday. The company cited Lloyds’s reliance on wholesale
funding and sensitivity to the shrinking British economy.  The actions are part of a Moody’s review of about 100
European banks and eight non-European firms with large capital-
market businesses. The firm cut the ratings of 15 banks
yesterday, including Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley.
The downgrades could raise borrowing costs and make banks to
increase collateral.  Opaque Risks  “What triggered the review was the banks’ exposure to
capital-market operations,” Johannes Wassenberg, a managing
director at Moody’s covering European banks, said in a telephone
interview today. “Their opacity of risks, the sensitivity of
the funding and interconnectedness of their activities
constitutes a more significant tail-risk than to other banks.”  The review, due in May, was delayed because Moody’s wanted
to ensure it did a “robust analysis,” Wassenberg said. “We
have had negative outlooks for these banks for some time and
clearly, as risk increased, we had to reassess our ratings.”  RBS said in a statement today it disagreed with Moody’s
decision, describing it as “backward-looking.”  It “does not give adequate credit for the substantial
improvements the group has made to its balance sheet, funding
and risk profile,” RBS said in the statement. “Nonetheless,
the group believes the impacts of this downgrade are
manageable.”  ‘Material Effect’  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, said Moody’s
decision to cut its longer-term senior debt rating one step to
A2 from A1 won’t have a “material effect” on its funding costs
and market capacity.  The downgraded banks fell into three categories, Moody’s
said. HSBC is in a group of lenders that have “shock
absorbers” in the form of earnings from other businesses, such
as consumer or commercial banking. The second group, including
Barclays, has less loss-absorption capacity because  capital
markets  account for a larger share of revenue, Moody’s said.  The third group includes banks such as RBS, which are
restructuring their operations and have legacy assets to sell or
run down, the ratings company said.  “This downgrading demonstrates that, without their retail
operations, large financial conglomerates aren’t sustainable and
their risky investment banking activities put retail depositors
and customers at risk.” Ismail Erturk, senior lecturer in
banking at Manchester Business School in Northern England, said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  