-- Bardot, Jesse Jackson; Stephen Peck Helps Vets: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-22T15:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bardot-jesse-jackson-stephen-peck-helps-vets-d-c-.html
Tousled hair and sexy pouts were the
stars last night at the  Sofitel Lafayette Square ’s opening party
for “BB Forever:  Brigitte Bardot , La Legende,” a collection of
photographs of the French actress.  A snap of Bardot in sunglasses outside the hotel greeted
arriving guests such as chef Michel Richard, Air France-KLM
station manager Etienne Dailly, and Francoise Parguel, the vice
president of communication for  Sofitel (AC)  Worldwide.  Inside, a black-and-white theme prevailed, punctuated by
red roses and bowls of purple macaroons. A deejay played French
pop tunes.  The collection of 35 photographs was curated by French
journalist Henry-Jean Servat, who said he has known the
reclusive star for more than 20 years. When he was young, he
joked, priests warned him to avoid the “she-devil’s” movies.  With her permission (she rarely leaves her home in  France ,
he said), he collaborated with Parguel to select photos that
represent Bardot, now 77, as an icon embodying innocence and
wantonness, much like  Marilyn Monroe .  Sofitel agreed to donate 10,000 euros ($12,576) to the
Brigitte Bardot Foundation, which helps animals.  Josh Studl, a director at  Sidar Global Advisors , and arts
patron Philippa Hughes sipped specialty cocktails such as the
“Bardot Pout,” a mixture of Grand Marnier, orange juice and
soda water. Others were content with a flute of Taittinger
Champagne.  Vets Housing  Stephen Peck, the son of actor Gregory Peck, was honored
last night at the 40th Annual Housing Person of the Year Gala,
held in the National Building Museum.  Peck, the president and chief executive of  U.S. Vets ; Kelly
Caffarelli, the president of the Home Depot Foundation; Jim Knotts, CEO of Operation Homefront; Mike King, CEO of Volunteers
of America; and Tim Cantwell, president of  Cloudbreak
Communities , were all honored for their work on behalf of
veterans with housing problems.  Peck said his late father was never able to serve in the
military because of his bad back but would be thrilled with the
event. Its goal was to raise $500,000 for the  National Housing
Conference , a nonprofit established in 1931 to advocate for safe
and affordable American housing.  This year’s gala had a special focus on housing and
foreclosure problems among veterans, which Carol Galante, the
acting assistant secretary for housing-Federal Housing
Administration commissioner for the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, said were especially severe at present.  Caffarelli said that the  Home Depot (HD)  Foundation has given
$23 million in the past year to charities focused on veteran
housing.  Wells Fargo (WFC) , represented by Don Gilbert, senior vice
president and community-development manager, and Tim Hanlon,
president of the Wells Fargo Foundation, said that the Wells
Fargo Housing Foundation would be matching five-to-one all
contributions made last night and through noon today up to
$100,000.  After the awards, the 800 guests enjoyed a buffet dinner of
potato gnocchi and rockfish.  American Progress  The attire at the Campaign for America’s Future annual gala
Monday night could best be described as “anti-establishment
chic.”  Young liberal activists such as Jesse Littlewood, a project
manager with  Echoditto.com , arrived at the  Washington  Hilton in
jeans and sneakers. One attendee sported a sticker that read
“healthcare not warfare.”  The honorees were Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor and
publisher of the Nation magazine, civil-rights leader  Jesse Jackson  and  Occupy Wall Street , which received the Paul
Wellstone Citizenship Award.  Jackson said that he and Robert Borosage, the co-director
of Campaign for America’s Future, met during Jackson’s 1984
presidential bid.  Representing the labor contingency of the progressive
movement was Shane Larson, legislative director of the
Communication Workers of America. Sean Crowley, communications
director and Frank Clemente, campaign manager for Americans for
Tax Fairness, were spotted sampling canapés and cocktails at the
dinner’s pre-reception.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  and  Warwick Thompson 
on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 