-- BCBG Max Azria’s Loan Rises as S&P Says Bankruptcy Risk Lessens
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-06-22T16:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bcbg-max-azria-s-loan-rises-as-s-p-says-bankruptcy-risk-lessens.html
BCBG Max Azria Group Inc.’s $230
million  term loan  climbed after  Standard & Poor’s  said the
apparel retailer is more likely to receive a covenant amendment
in the next six months than file for bankruptcy.  The debt due in June 2015 was quoted at 98.125 cents on the
dollar yesterday, up from 97.9 cents on June 1 and as low as
93.1 cents on Jan. 27, according to information provider Markit
Group Ltd.  S&P lowered BCBG one level to CCC, four steps above
default, saying the Vernon, California-based company may have
breached financial covenants in the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter
after a “meaningful” decline in revenue during the year, the
credit ratings company said yesterday in a report.  “We expect its revenue base and operating performance to
stabilize somewhat in fiscal 2012,” Helena Song, a New York-
based analyst at S&P, wrote in the report. “As a result, we
believe that it is more likely for the company to receive a
covenant amendment than to enter into bankruptcy in the next six
months.”  BCBG’s revenue has “declined meaningfully” as the company
tries to wind down its Miley & Max product line at Wal-Mart,
Song said.  Comparable-store sales were in the “mid-single-digit
area” in fiscal 2011 and were positive for the first four
months of fiscal 2012, according to S&P. The ratings company
expects comparable-store sales to remain in the low-single-digit
range for the rest of this fiscal year.  “We are working with our lenders to modify covenants and
our loan agreement,” Lalena Luba, BCBG’s vice president of
public relations, said in a telephone interview. “Business is
good and we have a positive outlook for the future.”  BCBG’s ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or leverage, was 7.2 times as of
April 30, according to S&P.  BCBG pays interest at 9.5 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate on the loan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The retailer obtained the loan last June
and proceeds were used to refinance debt, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 