-- Belgian Business Confidence Drops More Than Forecast on Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-06-22T13:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/belgian-business-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-on-outlook.html
Belgian business confidence fell
more than economists forecast in June to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years as factory executives reduced their expectations for
demand and employment.  The  confidence index  for  Belgium  dropped for a fourth
straight month to minus 13.2 from minus 11.2 in May, the
Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium  said in a statement
today. Economists had predicted a decline to minus 12, according
to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “Confidence in the manufacturing industry once more took a
turn for the worse, partly as a result of a significant downward
revision of the outlook for employment and demand,” the central
bank said in the statement. “The overall synthetic curve is
pointing downwards for the second consecutive month, confirming
a weakening of economic activity since the month of March.”  The worsening sentiment among Belgian manufacturers mirrors
declines in Germany and  France , which are Belgium’s largest
export markets and the two biggest economies in the 17-nation
euro currency bloc. The European Commission forecasts the euro-
area economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year. At least eight
 member states  are in a recession.  Consumer confidence  in Belgium was  unchanged  in June as
deteriorating prospects for employment offset a more positive
assessment about the economic outlook.  Roularta Media Group NV (ROU) , Belgium’s biggest magazine
publisher, said on June 19 that earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization may drop as much as 25 percent
because of lower advertising revenue. Sales fell in May and June
as companies reduced media budgets amid uncertainty on financial
markets regarding Greece and Spain, Roularta said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  