-- Bernanke’s Twist Sharpens Year-End Anxiety Over Stimulus
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-06-22T21:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bernanke-s-twist-sharpens-year-end-anxiety-over-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has repeatedly warned lawmakers that a fiscal cliff
threatens the economy. Now he’s created a precipice of his own.  The Fed on June 20 extended its Operation Twist program to
swap $267 billion in short-term securities with longer-term debt
through December. That end date coincides with reductions in
federal spending, a halt to payroll-tax cuts and expiration of
income-tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush .  The timing of Bernanke’s easing raises the stakes for the
Fed’s four remaining policy meetings this year as investors
focus on whether the central bank will provide stimulus for 2013
to help the economy overcome the impact of the fiscal tightening
due to take hold in January, said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S.
economist at Morgan Stanley.  “They create their own monetary cliff to match the fiscal
cliff,” said Reinhart, former head of the Fed board’s Division
of Monetary Affairs. That may mean “a world of hurt” for the
central bank because there would be a perception the Fed allows
fiscal politics to influence its actions.  The Fed’s extension of Operation Twist, along with cuts to
its growth and employment forecasts, sent U.S. shares lower.
Stocks rallied today, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up
0.7 percent to 1,335.02 at the close of trading in  New York , as
bank downgrades from Moody’s Investors Service were no worse
than the firm had warned.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  should have prolonged
Twist into 2013, said Kathy Jones, fixed income strategist in
New York for Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.76 trillion in
client assets. “I’m surprised they didn’t extend further into
the first quarter to get over the hump” from fiscal tightening.  Reduced Expectations  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today that this week’s
FOMC decision was a “continuation of the existing policy” as
officials “felt that it was maybe a bit imprudent to end the
Twist program right at this particular juncture.”  “The committee has kind of been haunted by having end
dates on programs,” Bullard said.  Policy makers this week cut their expectations for growth
in 2012 to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, down from an
April prediction of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. The forecasts
have been lowered in five of the six economic projections since
January 2011, when most central bankers predicted the economy
would grow 3.5 percent to 4.4 percent in 2012.  The latest estimate is in line with those of private
forecasters, who project 2012 growth of 2.2 percent, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The FOMC has cut its projections for 2013
six times since January 2011.  Fragile Economy  “The Fed has repeatedly underestimated how fragile the
economy is,” said  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economics
research at Bank of America Corp. in New York. Policy makers are
“being a little too optimistic that all they need to do is
nudge the economy back on course and then they can stop.”  Bernanke said June 20 he sees “a lot of uncertainty”
about the economic outlook because of slowing global growth and
financial volatility stemming from  Europe ’s credit crisis.  Figures from the Munich-based Ifo institute today showed
German business confidence dropped in June to the lowest level
in more than two years. In  Italy , a measure of consumer
sentiment fell to the weakest level since 1996.  The fiscal cliff in the U.S. would result in a “very
substantial withdrawal of income from the economy” that would
damage the expansion, Bernanke said at a press conference this
week after the FOMC decision. The Fed is “prepared to take
additional steps if appropriate,” he said.  Limiting Damage  The tax increases and spending cuts would trim a combined 3
percentage points from growth next year, according to economists
surveyed last month by Bloomberg News. Political compromises
would limit the damage to 0.8 percentage point, sustaining the
expansion, the survey showed.  Harris predicts the Fed will announce a third round of
asset purchases in September, partly to minimize damage to the
economy from fiscal cutbacks. He has maintained his forecast for
1.9 percent growth in 2012 since last year and projects a 1.4
percent expansion in 2013.  “Right now, there’s a guessing game about when the Fed
intervenes,” he said. Announcing an open-ended program
conditional on the economy’s health “would reduce the
uncertainty around what the Fed’s objectives are.”  Bernanke in a 2004 speech described how monetary policy
typically changes in a gradual way. In times when the economic
outlook is unclear, central bankers tend to change the benchmark
 interest rate  in small steps over time while gathering fresh
information.  New Information  “Because policy makers cannot be sure about the underlying
structure of the economy or the effects that their actions will
have on economic outcomes, and because new information about the
economic situation arrives continually, the case for policy
makers to move slowly and cautiously when changing rates seems
intuitive,” Bernanke said in 2004.  When the Fed hit zero on the benchmark lending rate in
December 2008, the option of lowering interest rates vanished,
leaving policy makers with choices focused on the central bank’s
balance sheet. The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of outright bond purchases and last September began
extending the maturity of its portfolio.  Those programs were more of what Bernanke described in 2004
as a “big bang” approach. They also proceeded for defined
periods with little regard for changes in the economy because
adjustments may cause market disruptions.  The FOMC should tie its easing to the economy’s outlook
rather than provide finite stimulus linked to a specific date,
Reinhart said.  Small Batches  The central bank could purchase small batches of bonds over
short time periods and make them conditional on achieving a
particular economic goal, said Michael Gapen, a senior economist
at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  “The pace of purchases go up when economic conditions slow,
and they slow when economic conditions improve,” said Gapen, a
former member of the Fed’s Monetary Affairs division. That
strategy averts end-point moments “when the Fed feels like it
has to do something” if economic growth is weak.  Bernanke has said the Fed doesn’t view the end of bond-
buying programs as tightening because the measures work by
removing a stock of debt from the markets rather than through
the flow of purchases.  Bullard suggested tying Fed purchases to “risks that the
economy faces” in a talk just before the central bank’s launch
of a $600 billion bond purchase program known as QE2 in November
2010.  “‘Shock and awe’ is almost never a good way to proceed,”
Bullard said in August 2010.  Congressional Mandate  The FOMC hasn’t adopted Bullard’s idea in part because its
congressional mandate is vague about how fast the Fed has to
return to its goals of full employment and stable prices, and
the committee is divided about how to measure near-term
progress, Reinhart said.  Those divisions are visible in the forecasts the Fed
published this week, which are supposed to take into account
each Fed official’s view of appropriate monetary policy. Policy
makers said that by 2014, the  unemployment rate  could be 6.3
percent to 7.7 percent and put the longer-run goal for
joblessness at 4.9 to 6.3 percent.  Reinhart said a communications subcommittee headed by Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is probably trying to build consensus
on a rule to provide a benchmark for conducting near-term policy
with long-range goals in mind. Such an approach would insulate
the Fed from partisan conflict over the deficit.  Purchasing more bonds to support the economy “looks like
you are facilitating one side of the debate -- those who don’t
want fiscal consolidation,” Reinhart said. “A conditional rule
puts the economy between the Fed and that action. They don’t
have to talk about  Washington  at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  