-- Billionaire George Soros Bets on Brazil’s Wireless Boom
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-22T14:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/billionaire-george-soros-bets-on-brazil-s-wireless-boom.html
George Soros , the billionaire
investor and philanthropist, continues to bet on  Brazil .  Quattro Telecomunicacoes, a Brazilian holding company that
Soros acquired earlier this year, is angling to buy more 4G
wireless airwaves in the country’s next government auction. The
spectrum would be used to deliver high-speed  Internet service  to
mobile devices in Latin America’s biggest economy.  The company is making the investments through its Sunrise
Telecomunicacoes division, a  pay-TV provider  that is expanding
into mobile services. Sunrise already spent 19.1 million reais
($9.3 million) to acquire two spectrum licenses for offering
fourth-generation wireless access. The licenses cover 134 cities
in the state of  Sao Paulo , Brazil’s most populous area.  “We’re on the lookout for opportunities,” Fares Nassar,
the president of Quattro Telecomunicacoes, said in an interview
yesterday from Sao Paulo. “There are several states that have
similar characteristics to Sao Paulo state that interest us.”  Soros, 81, agreed to initially invest 500 million reais in
Sunrise, Nassar said. That could be increased for future
licenses, he said. Right now, the company is studying its
business plan to determine how to use the airwaves it acquired.  Soros’s net worth has increased 3.1 percent this year to
$21.9 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He
ranks 19th on the list of the world’s richest people.  Carlos
Slim  -- who made much of his fortune from the Latin American
wireless market -- ranks first, with $68.3 billion.  Funding Options  Sunrise also could get more financing from banks or
network-equipment sellers, Nassar said.  “We’re analyzing a combination of financing options,” he
said. “The options under review are local and foreign banks,
direct vendor financing or an increase in Soros’s investment,
because it would provide more speed and the opportunity to
expand even more geographically.”  Nassar said he persuaded Soros to invest in Brazilian
telecommunications during a promotional tour in November in the
U.S., selling him on the promise of Brazil’s growth and the
potential of high-speed wireless Internet access.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for New York-based  Soros Fund
Management , declined to comment.  Anatel, Brazil’s telecommunications commission, plans to
hold another spectrum auction by early next year, an effort to
attract new investors to the industry, Joao Rezende, the
agency’s president, said in an interview this month.  Sunrise doesn’t intend to directly compete with the big
wireless carriers, such as Slim’s America Movil SAB and
 Telefonica SA. (TEF)  Instead, it will offer a complementary service
that lets Wi-Fi devices connect to mobile-phone networks, Nassar
said. The company’s 4G service may begin in 18 to 24 months,
said Carlos Andre de Albuquerque, Sunrise’s president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  