-- Black Keys Rock Duo Sues Pizza Hut, Home Depot Over Songs
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-06-22T16:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/black-keys-rock-duo-sues-pizza-hut-home-depot-over-songs.html
The Black Keys  sued  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
and  Yum Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s  Pizza Hut , alleging the companies used the
rock duo’s songs in commercials without authorization.  Patrick Carney and Daniel Auerbach, known as the Black
Keys, sued Home Depot for the unauthorized use of “Lonely
Boy,” and sued Pizza Hut and its advertising company,
Interpublic Group of Cos., over “Gold on the Ceiling,” in
separate filings yesterday in federal court in Los Angeles.  The group said Pizza Hut and its ad agency created a
commercial for a product called Cheesy Bites Pizza that
“prominently features significant portions” of “Gold on the
Ceiling.” Home Depot ran a commercial for its Ryobi brand of
power tools that uses parts of “Lonely Boy,” the band said.  The use of the songs was “a brazen and improper effort to
capitalize on plaintiffs’ hard-earned success,” lawyers for the
Black Keys said in the complaints.  “We haven’t seen the complaint but we take intellectual
property very seriously,” Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for
Atlanta-based Home Depot, said in a telephone interview.  Chris Fuller, a spokesman for Louisville, Kentucky-based
Yum Brands, referred a request for comment to Pizza Hut’s ad
firm, the Martin Agency, a unit of Interpublic. Dean Jarrett of
Richmond, Virginia-based Martin had no immediate comment. Tom Cunningham, a spokesman for New York-based Interpublic, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  Letters Sent  The band said in the lawsuits that letters were sent to
Pizza Hut and Home Depot in May requesting that they stop
showing the ads with the music.  “Lonely Boy” and “Gold on the Ceiling” are the first
two singles from the Black Keys’ seventh album, “El Camino,”
released in December on Nonesuch Records, a division of Warner
Music Group. According to the complaint, “El Camino” has sold
more than 800,000 copies so far. Auerbach plays guitars and
Carney drums.  Also suing the companies is co-writer Brian Burton, known
professionally as Danger Mouse. The plaintiffs asked for jury
trials of the copyright-infringement suits.  The case are Auerbach v. Pizza Hut, 12-05385, and Auerbach
v. Home Depot, 2:12-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  