-- BM&FBovespa May Lose 30% Share to Competitors: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-22T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bm-fbovespa-may-lose-30-share-to-competitors-corporate-brazil.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) ,  Brazil ’s stock
exchange, is facing a loss in market share estimated at as much
as 30 percent by HSBC Holdings Plc and Banco Itau BBA SA as the
nation considers boosting competition among trading platforms.  BM&FBovespa fell 12 percent in the five days through
yesterday to a two-week low on concern surging trading in the
world’s second-largest emerging market will lure rivals. As the
only exchange in Brazil, BM&FBovespa has benefited from daily
trading volumes that have climbed 50 percent in the past five
years to a 100-day average of $4 billion. That compares with a
49 percent drop in the period for the top exchanges in the
world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  Securities regulators will meet with market participants in
July to discuss competition after commissioning a report that
found opening up the market would reduce transaction costs by as
much as 8.1 percent. The  report , released this week, bolsters
bids by Direct Edge Holdings LLC, Bats Global Markets Inc.,
Cetip SA-Mercados Organizados and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
to compete against BM&FBovespa.  “With more competition, BM&FBovespa’s market share will
fall, hurting its growth outlook,” Paulo Ribeiro, an analyst at
HSBC, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Ribeiro, who has the equivalent of a buy recommendation on
BM&FBovespa, expects competition to start in 2014, with outside
providers capturing 30 percent of equities trading by 2016. Itau
analysts including Regina Longo Sanchez expect BM&FBovespa may
lose 20 to 30 percent of its share, according to a June 18
research note. Itau has the equivalent of a hold recommendation
on the stock.  Fending Off Rivals  BM&FBovespa, based in Sao Paulo, said it will discuss the
report’s findings with Brazil’s securities regulator, known as
CVM, before making comments on the issue, according to an e-
mailed statement from the exchange’s press office.  The  Sao Paulo  exchange is working to integrate its clearing
operations to lower margin requirements by up to 40 percent,
which could help the exchange fend off potential competition,
Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said in an interview in
August. The bourse said in a statement on its website that
trading fees in Brazil are in line with other countries.  The report “confirmed what market participants always
suspected: trading at BVMF is expensive and there are
substantial gains to be extracted from introducing
competition,” Banco Santander Brasil SA analysts including
Henrique Navarro wrote in a note to clients on June 19.  Mexico, Colombia  BM&FBovespa’s shares in Sao Paulo have lost 1.5 percent
this year, while Bolsa de Valores de  Colombia  has jumped 10
percent in Bogota and  Mexico ’s Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB has
surged 17 percent. The Brazilian stock trades at 17.8 times its
reported earnings, which compares with a ratio of 19.3 percent
for the Colombian bourse and 20 for Mexico’s exchange.  While growth in trading volumes slowed to 2 percent in 2011
from 22 percent a year before amid concern about the outlook for
the global economy, Brazil still offers attractive opportunities
for foreign exchange operators, Ribeiro said. Foreign investors
pulled 1.35 billion reais ($655 million) from the Bovespa in
2011, which compares with an inflow of 5.96 billion reais in
2010, according to data from the exchange.  Cetip, whose main businesses include collateral
registration and fixed-income securities depository, is seeking
permission to act as a clearinghouse for fixed-income
securities, according to a regulatory filing on June 20. The
company said in an April filing it signed a contract with
IntercontinentalExchange to develop an electronic platform to
trade fixed-income securities in Brazil. The announcement
followed plans by  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge, the
fourth-largest U.S. equity exchange, to start an electronic
platform for stocks trading in Rio de Janeiro.  Monopoly End  Bats and Sao Paulo-based Claritas Investmentos also signed
an agreement to work on the creation of a new stock exchange
with clearing and depository services in Brazil, according to a
 statement  from Bats in Feb. 2011.  Ending BM&FBovespa’s monopoly would help spur economic
growth, Oxera Consulting Ltd. said in the report commissioned by
the CVM and released on June 18.  While the regulator says in a statement on its website the
findings don’t necessarily reflect its views on the issue, the
report will help it decide if a regulatory change is needed to
deal with increased competition. BM&FBovespa is the second-
largest exchange operator in the Americas after Chicago-based
CME Group Inc., which owns a  minority stake  in the Brazilian
bourse.  While the end of BM&FBovespa’s monopoly would likely drive
trading fees lower, the impact on the company’s revenue should
be offset by rising trading volumes, said HSBC’s Ribeiro.  “The market may be over-reacting a bit when it comes to
the effect competition will have on BM&FBovespa,” Ribeiro said.
“It will depend on how BM&FBovespa reacts to this competition.
It could adopt a smarter pricing system instead of charging a
flat fee to almost all investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  