-- BNP Paribas’s Villeroy Says Italian Unit BNL is ‘Solid’
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-06-22T18:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bnp-paribas-s-villeroy-says-italian-unit-bnl-is-solid-.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, shrugged off a Moody’s Investors Service downgrade, saying
the ratings company failed to take into account lowered
liquidity needs, in particular at its Italian unit.  “There are especially two points on which we disagree”
with Moody’s,” Francois Villeroy de Galhau, co-chief operating
officer, said in a telephone interview today. “They take into
account neither our deleveraging plan and its execution speed,
nor the reduction of our liquidity needs.”  BNP Paribas, together with French rivals  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole  SA, was among 15 global banks downgraded
by Moody’s yesterday. The three large banks have “weaker”
funding than many of their global competitors, Nicholas Hill,
senior vice president at Moody’s in Paris, said in an interview
today.  The  Moody’s action  on BNP Paribas was based partly on
funding needs at its Rome-based Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, or
BNL, unit in  Italy . BNP Paribas’s cross-border funding to BNL is
down to 20 billion euros ($25 billion) from close to 30 billion
euros at the end of 2010, Villeroy said.  BNP Paribas plans to keep cutting the  funding exposure  “by
developing BNL’s own financings,” he said, adding that the
business is “ extremely solid,” allowing the reduced support.  “Our strategy for BNL is extremely clear: continually
improve operational performance and progressively reduce intra-
group funding,” he said.  Share Performance  The possibility of the downgrades had weighed on the banks
since Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing 17 banks with
capital-markets operations because of fragile confidence and
tighter regulations that pinched revenue. Pressure has mounted
as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified and cast doubt on
the health of some of the continent’s lenders.  BNP Paribas rose 0.7 percent in Paris today to 29.40 euros,
 Societe Generale  closed 0.3 percent higher at 17.80 euros and
 Credit Agricole (ACA)  climbed 0.4 percent at 3.35 euros. Before today,
BNP Paribas had fallen 3.8 percent this year, Societe Generale
had risen 3.1 percent and Credit Agricole had tumbled 23 percent.  BNP Paribas has a “strong liquidity profile” with 201
billion euros liquid asset reserves as of the end of March, the
Paris-based bank said in a statement earlier today. BNP Paribas
has 51 billion euros of “excess stable resources against
customer funding needs,” it said.  Italian Business  BNP Paribas’s weakness comes in part from its risks in
Italy, including its sovereign-debt holdings and BNL’s loan book,
Moody’s Hill said.  Italy is “by far not the weakest economy, but at the same
time it’s not as strong as  France ,” he said.  BNL’s “focus on midsize corporate loans in central and
southern Italy has weakened its asset quality,” Moody’s said in
its statement yesterday. “Profitability was low in 2011 and is
unlikely to improve significantly in 2012.”  BNP Paribas dismissed the concerns.  “Our client portfolio doesn’t correspond to Moody’s
description,” Villeroy said. “You can’t say that the bank’s
focus is on midcaps in central and southern Italy. In reality we
are a bank for large Italian corporates. The proportion of our
portfolio of very-small companies -- with less than 7.5 million
euros in revenue and therefore managed by the branches -- is
smaller than in our other European networks.”  Loans Demand  BNL’s loans are equivalent to 212 percent of its retail
funding and BNP’s Italian unit relies “heavily” on its parent
support, Moody’s said.  “Over time BNL may be required to reduce its use of
parental funding, which may in turn create pressure to reduce
its balance sheet,” the ratings company said.  At the end of 2011, BNL borrowed 5.2 billion euros from the
 European Central Bank  in its three-year loan program at 1
percent, according to BNL’s  financial statements . BNP Paribas
declined to give details on BNL’s use of a second round of long-
term funds the ECB provided to the region’s lenders in February.  BNL had 32.2 billion euros of deposits at the end of March,
1.6 percent higher than a year earlier, BNP Paribas said on May
4. Loans at the Italian retail-banking unit were at 71.3 billion
euros by the end of the first quarter, unchanged from a year
earlier, it said.  “Demand for loans is inching down in Italy,” Villeroy
said. “There is no credit crunch from BNL.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  