-- Brazil Real Posts Second Weekly Decline on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-06-22T21:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/brazilian-real-gains-as-eased-europe-concern-boosts-yield-demand.html
Brazil’s real posted a second
straight weekly drop amid concern Europe’s deepening debt crisis
will reduce global growth, curbing demand for higher-yielding
assets in  emerging markets .  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 2.0665 per  U.S. dollar  at
5:15 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , extending its decline this week to 0.8
percent. The yield on interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 was unchanged at 8.05 percent today, leaving it
down 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week.  “The currency is still vulnerable to spikes in risk
aversion,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief economist of Credit
Agricole SA’s Brazilian unit, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Some people were expecting a little more from the Fed and in
Europe, nothing is solved, so the feeling about the real is not
good.”  On June 20, the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its estimates for
growth amid a slowdown in hiring and extended its stimulus
program known as Operation Twist, disappointing investors
anticipating a more aggressive approach.  Data yesterday showed euro-area manufacturing shrank at the
fastest pace in three years and U.S. reports pointed to a
slowdown in the world’s largest economy, fueling concern that
demand for exports from developing nations will slow.
Manufacturing in  China , Asia’s biggest economy, may shrink for
an eighth month in June, according to preliminary data released
yesterday.  “China concerns continue to be another source for the
increase in  risk aversion  that we’ve seen, and it’s very
important for Brazil,” Caramaschi said.  Rate Cuts  Brazil’s government said yesterday that prices rose 0.18
percent in the month through mid-June, less than every estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 42 analysts and pushing down the annual
inflation rate for a ninth straight month.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have reduced the key overnight interest rate by 4
percentage points since August, the most among Group of 20
nations, to a record low 8.5 percent. The government has also
cut taxes on consumer and industrial goods and boosted low-cost
loans by state development bank BNDES to revive growth that
slowed to 2.7 percent last year from 7.5 percent in 2010.  Economists lowered their growth estimate for a sixth
straight week, to 2.3 percent, according to a weekly central
bank survey of about 100 analysts released June 18.  Capital Economics Ltd. lowered its forecast to 1.7 percent
this year, according to an e-mailed report today by economist
 Neil Shearing . Inflation is likely to reach the central bank’s
4.5 percent target by the end of this year, according to the
report.  “The winds abroad aren’t favorable and are contributing to
the fall in rate expectations,” said  Solange Srour , chief
economist at BNY Mellon ARX, in a phone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “In a scenario in which the world grows less,
inflation isn’t as much of a concern as it was thought to be.
We’re expecting the benchmark Selic to fall to 7 percent now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  