-- Bridgestone May Scale Back Output as Europe Damps Demand
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-06-22T05:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bridgestone-may-scale-back-output-as-europe-damps-demand.html
Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s
biggest maker of tires, may extend output cuts in the second
half as  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown curb demand.  “In Europe, we reduced production through the second
quarter as demand was lower than we expected, and if necessary,
we may continue to do so in the third and fourth quarter as
well,” Masaaki Tsuya, Bridgestone’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview at its headquarters in Tokyo yesterday.
“We will watch inventory levels carefully and be very lean.”  The Japanese tiremaker is concerned that Europe’s turmoil
may impact other markets such as China, depressing demand for
its products even as it targets a record  operating profit  ratio
this year. In Europe, the company reduced production through the
second quarter by 20 percent on lower-than-expected demand.  “What concerns us is the global impact that may come from
Europe,” Tsuya said. The “European Union seems to be in a very
shaky position.”  Europe  contributed  14 percent of Bridgestone’s revenue last
year, while  Japan  accounted for 23 percent.  “Our business in specialty tires is doing very well,”
Tsuya said. “The price of rubber is stable” and benefits tire
companies, he said, declining to comment on Bridgestone’s
forecast for the price of the commodity.  Rubber Slumps  November-delivery rubber lost as much as 4 percent to 234.5
yen a kilogram ($2,920 a metric ton), the most since June 6,
before trading at 235.4 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange at
1:19 p.m. Futures have lost 28 percent this quarter, the most
since the global financial crisis in 2008.  Bridgestone forecasts net income will rise 63 percent to
168 billion yen this year.  Second-quarter profit will be “very much in line” with
Bridgestone’s forecast, Tsuya said. The company has no plans of
revising its full-year earnings  forecast  for now, he said.  Bridgestone fell as much as 2.5 percent to 1,732 yen in
Tokyo trading today. The stock’s 12-month price target is
2,308.18 yen, according to the  average of 11 analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  While commodity analysts are getting more bearish, those
following tiremakers are increasingly bullish, with 71 percent
covering Bridgestone recommending investors buy the shares. The
proportion was 21 percent in January 2011, a month before rubber
reached a record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 12-month price target for  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , the second-
biggest tiremaker, is 65.85 euros, according to the average of
13 analysts’ estimates. Of the 22 analysts covering the
Clermont-Ferrand, France-based  company  and tracked by Bloomberg,
77 percent recommend buying the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  