-- British Banks’ Pension Funds Boosted Allocation to Cash in 2011
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-06-22T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/british-banks-pension-funds-boosted-allocation-to-cash-in-2011.html
Three of the U.K.’s four largest
banks put more of their pension fund assets into cash than any
of the other twenty companies with the largest pension funds
last year, according to a survey by the Bloomberg Risk
newsletter.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s pension funds increased their cash holdings to a
combined 11 billion pounds ($17 billion) at the end of 2011 from
6.6 billion pounds in 2010, according to a Bloomberg Brief
survey of the pension liabilities in the  Stoxx 600 index . The
three U.K. banks manage the largest pension liabilities among
financial companies included in the index.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is
implementing the latest rules set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , said in February last year it expected
banks to take pension risks into account in their capital
calculations. The cut in equities, which may have implemented to
reduce  investment risk , could also have helped the funds in the
second quarter of 2012 when equity markets in  Europe  tumbled.  “Banks, looking at what the effect of Basel is likely to
be, may look at their own pension schemes and try and increase
stability by encouraging trustees to invest more
conservatively,” Deborah Cooper, a London-based pension
consultant at Mercer, said in an interview. “As a pure
 investment decision , many would be looking to do so anyway given
the market environment.”  Barclays, RBS  Barclays increased cash as a percentage of total assets by
almost eight percentage points to 14 percent between the end of
2010 and Dec. 31, 2011, according to its annual report. London-
based Lloyds boosted its cash holdings to 17 percent from 13
percent of total assets, while RBS climbed to 14 percent from
8.1 percent, according to their annual reports.  Barclays and RBS both completed triennial valuations that
increased required cash contributions to fill funding gaps,
their reports showed. Barclays said in its report some of the
cash would be re-invested “shortly” after the end of 2011.
Officials at Barclays, RBS and Lloyds declined to comment on
their pension fund’s cash positions beyond the filings.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, cut its cash
holdings by three percentage points to five percent of total
assets, after making a decision in 2006 to reduce investment
risk and increase its bond holdings over time.  Barclays reduced its forecast return by 130 basis points to
5 percent at the end of 2011. RBS reduced its return assumption
by 70 basis points to 5.6 percent over the period, compared with
the average 5.5 percent applied by the companies with the
largest pension obligations in the survey.  Discount Rates  Declining discount rates and investment returns have
prompted companies managing the largest deficits to continue to
invest in equities, betting they will boost returns and allow
them to plug their deficits.  The company with the largest allocation to equities in the
survey was  BP Plc (BP/) , which invested 68 percent of its  pension plan 
in equities. Even after a ten percentage-point decline in its
share devoted to equities,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  invested more than
half of its pension plan in stocks at the end of last year.  David Nicholas, a spokesman at BP declined to comment on
the oil producer’s equity allocation. Leonie Foster, a
spokeswoman at BAE, said part of the decline was part of a
``de-risking'' program.  The largest decline of allocation to equities was a 19
percentage point reduction by  Fiat SpA (F)  to 25 percent. The
Italian auto maker’s holdings of so-called alternative assets
such as private equity and hedge funds increased after it took
control of U.S. carmaker Chrysler Group LLC during its 2009
bankruptcy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh@bloomberg.net 
Albert Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at   ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  