-- Bryson’s Crashes Reveal Gaps in U.S. Cabinet Protections
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/bryson-s-crashes-reveal-gaps-in-u-s-cabinet-protections.html
When Los Angeles County police found
U.S. Commerce Secretary John Bryson unconscious and alone in his
bashed-up Lexus on June 9, he had no security team or automatic
system to sound the alarm that he was in trouble.  While Bryson survived -- he resigned yesterday citing a
condition that caused a seizure diagnosed after he repeatedly
crashed his car that day -- the case raises questions about why
the 10th official in line to succeed the president was left so
vulnerable, according to James Carafano, a terrorism scholar at
the  Heritage Foundation  in  Washington .  “They lost track of him,” Carafano said in an interview.
“Post 9/11, that’s a bit of a head scratcher.”  Bryson’s incident highlights potential gaps in security for
senior U.S. government officials, who receive varying levels of
protection.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , who are high in the line of succession and have
national-security responsibilities, are provided protection 24
hours a day, seven days a week.  Such full-time safeguards remain the exception. Federal
officials, even in cabinet-level positions or other top posts,
often travel without the security details that even a big-city
mayor or state governor would be provided.  Although Bryson, who was off-duty when the crashes took
place, didn’t have a national-security portfolio, he oversaw an
agency with 47,000 employees and a $7.5 billion budget. A member
of President  Barack Obama ’s economic team, Bryson was charged
with delivering on Obama’s goal of doubling annual U.S. exports
to $3.14 trillion by the end of 2014 from 2009 levels.  ‘Headless Government’  Threats to cabinet-level officials aren’t overblown, said
Norman Ornstein, a congressional scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based policy group. Since the
Sept. 11 attacks, he has urged the government to revamp its
succession plans.  A nuclear bomb hidden in a suitcase detonated in Washington
“could leave a headless government,” he said.  Government officials face a steady stream of threats.
Prosecutors brought 301 cases against defendants who assaulted
federal workers performing their duties in the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, according to the  Justice Department , about the
same amount as the previous two years.  The Secret Service had a $1.1 billion budget to provide
protection in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. The Obama
administration has requested $988 million for fiscal year 2013.
George Ogilvie, a Secret Service spokesman, declined to say how
many people the agency is protecting.  In addition to the president, vice president and their
families, the agency protects others at risk such as major
presidential candidates and former presidents.  ‘Deemed Unnecessary’  After the Sept. 11 attacks, President  George W. Bush ’s
administration considered extending Secret Service protection to
all cabinet members, said W. Ralph Basham, a former director of
the agency.  The administration decided against the change.  “It was deemed unnecessary to require that level of
security,” Basham said, and the administration approved a plan
to better share threat information between agencies.  Most departments have their own security details for their
leaders. Clinton, for example, has a State Department team
guarding her “everywhere she travels in the world,” according
to the department website. Seventy-two special agents provide
protection for the secretary, according to a November 2009
report by the Government Accountability Office.  Panetta relies on agents from the Army Criminal
Investigation Command, who are sworn federal law enforcement
officers, said Chris Grey, a spokesman for the command.  Sworn Officers  Some of the agents protecting Panetta have backgrounds in
military special forces or federal law enforcement agencies,
such as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
Grey said.  The Commerce Department’s Office of Security provides
protection for its secretary, according to the agency website.  A past job posting on allPoliceJobs.us said the duties of
the protection team’s supervisor include overseeing the
secretary’s travel plans and accompanying the cabinet official
on trips. Special Agent Duane R. Christian died in the same 1996
plane crash in  Croatia  that killed then-Secretary of Commerce
Ron Brown.  Bryson, 68, was in  California , where he owns a house, when
he crashed his vehicle into two other cars about two miles
apart.  Bryson became Commerce secretary after  Gary Locke  took over
as U.S. ambassador to  China . On June 11, Bryson transferred his
duties to Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank , an economist
whom he named as acting secretary.  Giffords Shooting  Concerns that U.S. lawmakers may be vulnerable to threats
rose again after Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an  Arizona 
Democrat, was shot in the head last year in Tuscon, Arizona,
during in an incident that claimed six lives and prompted her
resignation from Congress.  Lawmakers are accompanied by U.S. Capitol Police in their
states only in some cases, said Lieutenant Kimberly Schneider, a
spokeswoman for the force.  After Giffords was shot, members of Congress considered
whether they needed more protection, Ornstein said. Ultimately,
most lawmakers rejected making major changes to their security
because they thought it would be a barrier between them and
their constituents, he said.  Last month, Supreme Court Justice  Stephen Breyer ’s
Washington home was burglarized. Three months earlier, he and
his wife were robbed in their vacation home on the Caribbean
island of Nevis by a man brandishing a machete.  ‘Goon Squad’  Supreme Court justices are protected by the court’s police
force when in Washington, and U.S. Marshals Service provides
security at events in the rest of the country.  Providing all cabinet secretaries with a similar level of
security is unnecessary because the threats they face aren’t the
same, Ornstein and Carafano said.  “I would be cautious about every cabinet official needing
to be followed by a goon squad,” Carafano said.
“Overprotecting cabinet officials could be a waste of money.”  For Bryson and cabinet officials in similar roles, a device
that would communicate with security when there’s trouble might
be all that’s needed, Basham said. Such technology is readily
available to consumers and could be adapted.  “They should have some means of alerting authorities,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  