-- California Cigarette Tax Defeated by $47 Million Tobacco Pitch
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-22T19:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/california-cigarette-tax-defeated-by-47-million-tobacco-pitch.html
California voters  rejected  a ballot
measure to raise cigarette taxes by $1 a pack to discourage
smoking and pay for  cancer research , delivering a victory to the
tobacco industry, which led a $46.8 million campaign to kill the
measure.  Proposition 29 failed 50.3 percent to 49.7 percent, the
Associated Press said. The measure was losing by about 28,000
votes of 5 million cast, with about 111,000 uncounted, the
secretary of state said today. That was too few for the “yes”
side to pull ahead, AP said.  The plan to raise the tax to $1.87 a pack starting in
October pitted Lance Armstrong, the cycling champion and cancer
survivor, and groups such as the  American Cancer Society  against
the tobacco industry, led by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)   The industry led the $46.8 million in campaign
contributions to defeat the ballot measure. Two-thirds came from
Altria, based in Richmond, Virginia, which contributed $31.3
million through its  Philip Morris USA , John Middleton Co. and
U.S. Smokeless Tobacco units, according to data compiled by
MapLight, a nonpartisan research organization based in Berkeley.  Reynolds American’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, American Snuff
and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco units gave $14.1 million, according
to MapLight data. Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, announced in March that it plans to cut 10 percent of
its U.S. workforce by the end of 2014 as demand for cigarettes
wanes.  Opponents said the tax wouldn’t allocate funds to pay down
the state’s budget deficit and didn’t require the tax revenue to
be spent on research in California.  Supporters, who argued the measure would keep kids from
smoking and save lives, raised about $12.3 million, with $8.5
million coming from the American Cancer Society, according to
MapLight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  