-- California Gasoline Gains on Refiner Buying, Tesoro Unit Delay
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-22T19:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/california-gasoline-gains-on-refiner-buying-tesoro-unit-delay.html
Gasoline in  Los Angeles  advanced to
the highest level against futures in three weeks on speculation
that refiners are buying fuel and after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Los
Angeles plant suspended work on a new unit.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  were performing planned work
on units at their refineries near Los Angeles. California-blend
gasoline, or Carbob, inventories dropped 3.9 percent last week
to 4.55 million barrels, the lowest level in a month, the state
Energy Commission said.  Carbob in Los Angeles jumped 6.75 cents to a premium of
4.75 cents a gallon versus August gasoline futures traded on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange at 2:47 p.m. East Coast time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt-delivery of the
fuel increased 9.02 cents to $2.5222 a gallon.  Tesoro was ordered by city regulators to halt work on a new
$40 million vacuum distillation unit at the Los Angeles refinery
that would boost the plant’s gasoline, diesel and jet fuel
yields. The company started work without completing inspections
required by the city, David Lara, a spokesman for the Los
Angeles building and safety department, said.  City inspectors are waiting on testing data from Tesoro
“to see if there’s an evaluation they can do without having to
tear everything out and start over,” Lara said by telephone
from Los Angeles yesterday.  Carbob in  San Francisco  rose 6.75 cents a gallon to 2.75
cents a gallon above futures.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles, slipped
0.13 cent to a 4.25-cent-a-gallon premium over Nymex heating oil
futures. San Francisco CARB diesel was unchanged at 4.13 cents a
gallon above futures.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , narrowed 4 cents to 7 cents a gallon. Low-
sulfur diesel  there  rose 3.25 cents to 9.5 cents a gallon above
heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  