-- California Mayor Allegedly Took Medical Marijuana Bribes
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-23T01:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/california-mayor-allegedly-took-medical-marijuana-bribes.html
The mayor of Cudahy, California, and
two other city officials were charged with accepting $17,000 in
bribes for supporting the opening of a medical marijuana store
in the city of 23,800 people southeast of  Los Angeles .  After weeks of soliciting and discussing bribes, the three
officials met in February with a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
informant at the El Potrero nightclub in Cudahy, where they
accepted a $15,000 cash payment, according to a statement today
from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los Angeles. One of the three
accepted a separate $2,000 payment, according to the statement.  The three charged are Mayor  David Silva , 61, City Council
member Osvaldo Conde, 50, and Angel Perales, 43, who runs the
city’s code enforcement division and allegedly brokered the
bribe payments. Each of them faces as long as 10 years in prison
if convicted.  “The allegations in this case describe a corrosive and
freewheeling attitude among certain officials in the city of
Cudahy,” U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles said in
the statement. “The  Department of Justice  will aggressively
investigate and pursue cases like this to ensure that the
integrity of good government is protected and preserved.”  City Cooperating  Hector Rodriguez, Cudahy’s city manager, said in a phone
interview that he hadn’t seen the charges and that the city
would cooperate with investigators. Silva and Conde are part-
time officials and Perales resigned last week, Rodriguez said.  The city currently has a moratorium on medical marijuana
dispensaries and, Rodriguez said, he will propose extending the
moratorium for another year.  The city, named after an Irish meatpacker who bought a
ranch east of Los Angeles in 1908 and subdivided the land, is 94
percent Latino and the residents have a median income of
$29,040, according to an affidavit of the FBI agent
investigating the case.  James Bisnow, Silva’s lawyer according to the court’s
criminal duty calendar, and Charles Brown, a federal public
defender listed as representing Conde, didn’t immediately return
calls to their offices seeking comment on the charges. Calls to
the office of Carlos Iriarte, a lawyer listed for Perales,
weren’t answered.  The cases are U.S. v. Conde, 12-1490M, U.S. v. Perales,
12-1491M, and U.S. v. Silva, 12-1492M, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 