-- Cambodia Won’t Extradite French Citizen Linked to China’s Bo
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-22T05:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/cambodia-won-t-extradite-frenchman-linked-to-china-s-bo-xilai.html
Cambodia  decided not to extradite a
French citizen linked to the family of ousted Chinese politician
Bo Xilai, Foreign Ministry spokesman Koy Kuong said.  Cambodia detained Patrick Devillers earlier this month at
 China ’s request, Interior Ministry spokesman Khieu Sopheak said
yesterday. Devillers has not yet been charged with a crime, Koy
Kuong said, without providing details on the reason behind the
decision.  “Cambodia decided to keep him in Cambodia,” he said by
phone today. “Concerned authorities are investigating into the
case right now.”  China, Cambodia’s biggest investor, is investigating
accusations that Bo committed disciplinary violations in
relation to his wife, Gu Kailai, who was arrested in April on
suspicion that she was involved in the death of a British
businessman. Devillers, an architect, had business ties to Gu,
Britain’s Telegraph newspaper reported in April.  Cambodian authorities earlier said they would wait for
China to submit evidence on Devillers before making a decision
on whether to send him to Beijing. Under the two countries’
extradition treaty, China has 60 days to provide evidence of a
crime and Cambodia then has 60 days to respond, according to
Khieu Sopheak.  Bo was ousted as Communist Party secretary of the
municipality of Chongqing in March and was later suspended from
the Politburo. Cambodian officials have provided no details on
what crime Devillers stands accused of committing.  China and Cambodia have deepened ties in recent months,
underscored when Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in March became his
country’s first head of state to visit in 12 years. Two-way
trade rose to $2.5 billion in 2011, 11 times the amount in 2000,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported March 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  