-- Canadian Dollar Advances as Stocks, Oil Rise on Demand for Risk
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-06-22T21:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/canadian-dollar-advances-as-stocks-oil-rise-on-demand-for-risk.html
Canada’s dollar rose from the lowest
level in a week as stocks and commodities gained, boosting
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the water bird on the C$1 coin, erased a gain earlier after the
inflation rate in May was the slowest since June 2010,
supporting the central bank’s projection for modest output and
price gains. The Canadian dollar rose against most of its major
counterparts.  “The rebound in risk has been good for the loonie,” said
 Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU)  “It has helped
overshadow the inflation number out of Canada that suggested
policy makers may be in no hurry to shift toward a tightening
bias.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0246 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in New York. It earlier fell to as low as
C$1.0300, the weakest since June 14. One Canadian dollar buys
97.60 U.S. cents.  Canadian 10-year bonds declined, pushing the yield up six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.80 percent. The
yield touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest since 1950,
according to Bloomberg and Bank of Canada data.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent and oil,
Canada’s largest export, gained 2.4 percent to $80.11 a barrel
in New York.  Carney, Flaherty  Canada’s  consumer price index  added 1.2 percent in May from
a year ago, compared with a 2 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The core rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.8 percent after an
April gain of 2.1 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a 1.5 percent rise in consumer prices and a 1.9 percent
gain in the core.  “The numbers weren’t dramatically outside of expectations,
but a little bit on the softer side,” said  Shane Enright ,
executive director in Toronto at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit. “The market feels a little
bit on the fragile side.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , speaking yesterday in
Halifax, Nova Scotia, reiterated that he may raise  interest
rates  as the economy continues to move toward full output.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Royal Bank of Canada economists
are reconsidering forecasts for higher borrowing costs after
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  took steps to cool the nation’s
housing market.  September 2012 bankers’ acceptances contracts used to gauge
market expectations of a change in monetary policy dropped
yesterday to 1.185 percent from 1.225 percent.  ‘Growth Slowing’  Flaherty’s move to diffuse a potential housing bubble by
shutting out some first-time home buyers will offset low central
bank  borrowing costs  that have fueled a debt surge in Canada and
threaten the country’s economy, according to  David Tulk , chief
Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in Toronto.  Changes to mortgage rules are equivalent to a rate increase
of 1.5 percentage points to 2 percentage points, and will prompt
him to review his forecasts for two quarter-point increases this
year, Tulk said.  “The bigger, broader theme is global growth slowing,  oil
prices  lower and a central bank that is less likely to hike,”
said  Camilla Sutton , a currency strategist at Scotiabank in
Toronto, in a phone interview. “Plus, we’ve had weak data.”  The Canadian dollar fell 0.3 percent this week versus its
U.S. counterpart, which gained against most major peers on
demand for safety amid concerns global growth is stalling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  