-- Canada’s Inflation Was Slowest Since June 2010 on Energy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-22T14:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/canada-s-inflation-was-slowest-since-june-2010-on-energy.html
Canada’s  inflation  rate in May was
the slowest since June 2010 as energy costs declined, supporting
the central bank’s projection for modest output and price gains.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in May from a
year ago, compared with a 2 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.8 percent after an
April gain of 2.1 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a 1.5 percent rise in consumer prices and a 1.9 percent
gain in the core.  Bank of Canada  Governor Mark Carney said yesterday that
inflation will slip below 2 percent in the short term because of
lower gasoline prices. At the same time, he reiterated that it
“may become appropriate” to raise his key 1 percent  interest
rate  for the first time since September 2010 as the economy
moves gradually toward full output.  “I find it very difficult to believe the Bank of Canada
will raise rates this year,” said  Douglas Porter , deputy chief
economist with  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto. “The inflation data today is just the cherry on top of
the sundae.”  Canada’s currency strengthened 0.3 percent to C$1.0266 per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:23 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
97.41 U.S. cents.  Gasoline Drops  Gasoline prices fell 2.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, the first decline in 23 months, Statistics Canada said,
and natural gas costs dropped 16.6 percent.  Inflation in May was also restrained by a 0.3 percent
decrease in clothing costs following April’s 2.4 percent
increase, while fresh vegetable costs dropped 7.1 percent.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  fell 0.1 percent in May
and the core rate rose 0.2 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted total monthly inflation would rise 0.1
percent and the core rate would advance 0.3 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation fell 0.2 percent in May while
the adjusted core rate was unchanged.  Other reports this month have shown a decline in retail
sales, slower housing starts and falling exports. Carney
yesterday said the expansion this year may be slower than the
2.4 percent pace he forecast in April.  While inflation has averaged 1.6 percent so far in the
second quarter, lagging the central bank’s 2 percent forecast,
average  core inflation  has been close to the bank’s 1.9 percent
prediction.  “These developments are largely consistent with what the
Bank has signaled in its recent communications,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s
TD Securities unit. “Core inflation is unlikely to fade
significantly, which underscores our view that the next move in
the overnight rate is up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  