-- CapitaLand Says CEO and President Liew to Retire in 1 Year
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-06-25T09:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/capitaland-says-ceo-and-president-liew-to-retire-in-one-year-1-.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest developer, said President and Chief Executive Officer
Liew Mun Leong will retire in a year from the company he helped
create almost 12 years ago.  CapitaLand will review succession candidates, it said in a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange on June 22. Liew will
retire on June 28, 2013 when he turns 67, the company said.  Liew’s planned departure comes amid management changes at
CapitaLand. In the past year, the developer named a new chief
financial officer and swapped jobs of senior managers including
the head of its serviced apartment unit. Jennie Chua retired as
group chief corporate officer earlier this year.  “Mr. Liew’s retirement is not likely to surprise the
market, partly given his long tenure,” Chong Kang Ho, an
analyst at BNP Paribas with a buy rating on the stock, said in a
report sent to clients today. “Key question is who the
successor is. Mr. Liew guided that many of his CEOs in the
group’s business units are capable of succeeding his position.”  The stock was unchanged at S$2.64 at the close in Singapore.
The shares have risen 19 percent this year, compared with the
6.4 percent gain in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Liew said he’s not retiring from work and is looking for a
new career outside of the real estate industry. He may make an
entrepreneurial investment and is interested in “something
where I can globalize,” he said.  ‘Long Time’  The developer was formed in 2000 through a merger between
Singapore-based DBS Land and Pidemco Land, which Liew ran as
president from 1996, according to the statement. At CapitaLand,
he served two extensions on his contract after reaching the
Singapore retirement age of 62 in 2008.  “It’s a long time to be CEO,” Liew said at a press
conference. “Younger people are being groomed and are ready to
take on higher responsibility. We are looking internally and
externally for a candidate.”  Internal candidates may include Lim Ming Yan, CapitaLand’s
chief operating officer, Olivier Lim, chief investment officer,
and Arthur Lang, a 15-year Morgan Stanley veteran who joined in
August as chief financial officer.  “All my chiefs can succeed me,” Liew said. “All my CEOs
have potential. The CFO, CIO, COO.”  ‘Almost Inhuman’  Liew’s views on the Singapore real estate market have
become talking points in the industry. He said in an interview
last month that the government should curb the increasing trend
of so-called shoebox apartments because they are “almost
inhuman,” sparking a debate in the local media on the issue
after record purchases of units smaller than 50 square meters
(538 square feet).  “I am dead against shoebox developments,” Liew said in
the May 23 interview. “The government should intervene.
Singapore’s land is very precious and you are wasting your
scarce resources” by building shoebox apartments.  Under Liew, CapitaLand expanded beyond the limited
Singapore market with a population of 5.2 million.  China  now
makes up 38 percent of the company’s S$33.1 billion ($25.8
billion) of assets as of March, exceeding Singapore’s 34 percent,
according to data from CapitaLand.  Australia  contributed 17
percent.  The company, which develops homes, malls and office
buildings, also runs a chain of serviced apartments in the Asia-
Pacific region and  Europe .  Largely Anticipated  “Mr. Liew’s retirement has been largely anticipated by the
market,” Vikrant Pandey and Vijay Natarajan, analysts at UOB-
Kay Hian, said in a report on June 22. “As part of its
succession planning strategy, CapitaLand has been actively
grooming its internal candidates.”  CapitaLand’s first-quarter profit rose 31 percent as gains
from the sale of a hotel and higher shopping-mall income offset
declines in residential earnings from  Singapore  and China. Net
income increased to S$133.2 million in the quarter ended March
31 from S$101.5 million a year earlier, it said on April 30.  CapitaLand committed a total of S$11 billion for new
investments last year, an 83 percent increase from the S$6
billion worth of investments made in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  