-- Chilean Breakeven Inflation Drops to Two-Year Low on Crude Drop
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-22T19:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/chilean-breakeven-inflation-drops-to-two-year-low-on-crude-drop.html
A key measure of Chilean inflation
expectations fell to the lowest in more than two years this week
as traders reacted to tumbling  oil prices .  Two-year breakeven inflation reached 2.36 percent today,
the lowest since February 2010. The 28 basis point decline this
week is the steepest since August last year.  Oil futures dropped to an eight-month low yesterday,
tumbling the most this year as manufacturing slumped in  China 
and  Europe . Chile’s central bank this week cited falling oil and
food prices as it lowered its inflation forecast for this year
by 80 basis points to 2.7 percent on June 18. Inflation
expectations fell further after state-owned oil refiner Empresa
Nacional del Petroleo reported domestic wholesale fuel prices
would decline this week.  “There has been a sharp readjustment after the monetary
policy report, the information on local prices and the decline
in commodities,” said Sebastian Ide, head of rates trading at
Banco de  Chile  in Santiago. “It’s not just oil. Coffee is down
this year, cocoa is down, corn is down, sugar is down. Local
breakevens hadn’t reflected that worsening international mood.”  Breakeven inflation measures the future average price rises
being discounted by swap and bond traders.  The forwards market for unidades de fomento, Chile’s
inflation-linked currency unit, shows traders are pricing in a
0.08 percent fall in prices in June from May. The expectation of
falling unidad de fomento values makes it more expensive for
investors to finance bets on breakeven inflation rising.  Forwards traders are pricing in inflation of 1.97 percent
in 2012, down from 2.35 percent a week ago.  Peso Weakens  Chile’s peso recorded a weekly drop after data showed
manufacturing in China, the biggest buyer of Chile’s exports,
waned and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s efforts to boost growth
fell short of some analysts’ expectations.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 503.17 per  U.S.
dollar , extending the weekly decline to 0.6 percent. The peso
posted gains in the previous two weeks.  The peso reached a high of 494.04 per dollar earlier this
week on the expectation that the U.S. Federal Reserve would
announce a third round of stimulus that went beyond extending
its current program. Data published yesterday suggested that
manufacturing in China is on course to contract for an eighth
month in June.  “It was pricing in too much stimulus from the U.S.,” said
Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at EuroAmerican
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “That didn’t happen and
when some more negative data came out, that pushed the dollar
back up. The China data hit commodities and that impacts the
peso directly.”  The price of copper, which makes up half of Chile’s
exports, fell as much as 1.3 percent in  New York  today before
rebounding. China is the world’s biggest consumer of the metal,
used in new homes and cars, and buys more than twice as much
from Chile as second-largest customer,  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  