-- Citigroup Leads Wall Street in Moody’s Downgrade Dismissal
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-06-22T15:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/citigroup-leads-wall-street-banks-in-moody-s-downgrade-dismissal.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the lender whose
credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service to the lowest
since its 1998 creation, led  Wall Street  banks in dismissing
downgrades and urged investors to seek alternative analyses.  Moody’s two-grade cut of Citigroup’s ratings was
unwarranted, arbitrary and failed to recognize the lender’s
financial strength, the New York-based bank said in a statement.
Investors shouldn’t rely on “opaque” credit ratings, it said.  “Moody’s approach is backward-looking and fails to
recognize Citi’s transformation over the past several years,”
said the bank, created in 1998 through the merger of Citicorp
and Travelers Group Inc. “Citi believes that investors and
clients have become much more sophisticated in their  credit
analysis  over the past few years, and that few rely on ratings
alone -- particularly from a single agency -- to make their
credit decisions.”  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  are among banks reacting to the
downgrades, which could boost the firms’ borrowing costs and
force them to post more collateral to trading partners when
dealing in derivatives. Moody’s said the four firms, which took
taxpayer-funded bailouts, have a history of “high volatility”
and problems with risk management.  ‘Risk Profile’  The action by Moody’s “does not give adequate credit for
the substantial improvements the group has made to its balance
sheet, funding and risk profile,” Edinburgh-based RBS said in a
statement. “The impacts of this downgrade are manageable.”  Moody’s lowered Citigroup and  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America  to Baa2, two levels above junk. The
ratings firm also reduced the Citibank NA bank subsidiary by two
grades. The cuts could result in “cash obligations and
collateral requirements” of $1.1 billion as of the end of
March, the lender said in a quarterly filing.  Citigroup and Bank of America both took $45 billion
bailouts from U.S. taxpayers, which the banks have since repaid.
Bank of America, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , has “significant liquidity and resources to serve
clients and customers as we have transformed the company,”
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The ratings firm reduced RBS by one grade to Baa1. The bank
received the biggest bailout of any lender during the financial
crisis and is 64 percent-owned by U.K. taxpayers.  ‘Somewhat Stunning’  Moody’s cut Morgan Stanley by two grades instead of three
after CEO  James Gorman  said the bigger reduction would have been
“somewhat stunning.”  “While Moody’s revised ratings are better than its initial
guidance of up to three notches, we believe the ratings still do
not fully reflect the key strategic actions we have taken in
recent years,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in a statement. “With our
de-risked balance sheet, stable sources of funding, diverse
business mix and strong leadership team, we are well positioned
to deliver for clients and shareholders.”  Moody’s has dealt “disproportionately adverse treatment”
to U.S. banks compared with their rivals in Europe, Citigroup
said. This “especially surprised” the bank, which is led by
CEO Vikram Pandit. The U.S. financial system is stronger than it
was before the financial crisis, the lender said.  Enhanced Stability  “Actions by legislators, regulators and firms themselves
have substantially enhanced the stability, and resilience, of
the system,” Citigroup said. “Moody’s actions ignore this
fact.”  Moody’s cut  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  by three levels.  David Mathers , chief financial officer of the Zurich-based firm, said
the bank has a “strong liquidity position” and a “low
exposure” to the most indebted European countries.  The ratings firm, which had said it might reduce  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s
credit grade by three levels, cut that Zurich-based lender by
two instead. UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, was still
“disappointed” by the decision,  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman
for the firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  Under Pandit, Citigroup faces challenges in “instilling a
risk culture” that reduces volatile results, in part because
the bank is under pressure to return capital to shareholders,
Moody’s said. Citigroup said that suggestion was “simply
without merit.”  “Investors and clients should make their own decisions,”
the bank said. “Citi is aware that analytical alternatives to
the  ratings agencies  exist today from several providers that
would further enhance the ability of investors and clients to
arrive at their own conclusions without being captive to the
judgments of rating agencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  