-- CME Group Sued by Traders Over Price-Settlement Rule Change
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-22T22:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/cme-group-sued-by-traders-over-price-settlement-rule-change-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , operator of the
world’s biggest futures market, was sued by 24  Chicago  Board of
Trade brokers and traders over a shift in how the exchange
determines final trade settlement prices.  The exchange in May announced it was changing its method
for computing final price settlements in agricultural trading,
abandoning a traditional open-outcry trading pit system for one
using an algorithm that combines open-outcry and electronic
trading information, according to a complaint filed today in an
 Illinois  state court in Chicago.  “This will cause -- and as this complaint was filed, has
already caused -- a rapid, dramatic decrease in trades being
sent to the plaintiffs in the ‘pits,’” they said, causing the
loss of jobs and violating their rights as board shareholders.  Also named as defendants in the complaint are CME Group
Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill.  The brokers and traders are seeking a court order barring
the CME Group and the Board of Trade from making that change,
scheduled to take effect June 25, as well as money damages.
Their lawyers will go before a Cook County Circuit Court judge
that day to ask for injunctive relief, attorney George Sang
said.  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based CME
Group, declined to comment on the allegations in the complaint.  The organization is making changes on June 25 to ensure the
exchange is “consistent” with the federal Commodity Exchange
Act and with Commodity Futures Trading Commission requirements,
Bischel said today in a telephone interview.  “We believe that the new settlement methodology accurately
captures contract value across both open outcry and electronic
trading during the settlement period,” she said, adding it is
“fully consistent” with CME Group’s  functions  as a designated
contract market and derivatives clearing organization.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago Inc., 12CH23185, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  