-- Colombia to Offer Gold, Coal Rights From Amazon to Pacifi
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-06-22T15:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/colombia-to-auction-rights-in-2013-to-gold-and-coal-not-coltan.html
Colombia  expects to auction gold,
coal and copper reserves for the first time next year to draw
investment in energy and metals deposits stretching from the
nation’s Pacific coast to the Amazon jungle.  Rights to explore for coltan, used in mobile phones,
uranium and platinum won’t be part of next year’s auction, Mines
and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said yesterday in an
interview in central Colombia.  “We’re not going to offer all of them at the same time,”
he said. “We will just take the areas where we have the best
geological information.”  Colombia aims to draw more spending from investors such as
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  with auctions that may lead
to producing mines by 2020, Cardenas said. Investment in mining
has lagged spending on oil production that helped push foreign
direct investment in Colombia to a record $13.2 billion in 2011.  Next year’s auction will include areas where the government
has more data on reserves, such as the Andean mountains,
Cardenas said. Colombia hasn’t set the number of blocks it will
offer.  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said this week that
the government has put aside 20.5 million hectares (50.7 million
acres) where new mining rights will be restricted to companies
winning at auction.  There is less information available about potential mining
reserves than for  oil deposits , where auctions helped increase
investment, said Gabriel Bayona, an analyst at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s largest brokerage.  ‘Lack of Knowledge’  “There’s a lack of knowledge about the areas,” Bayona
said today by phone from Medellin. “The plan perhaps is too
ambitious.”  Concern about global economic growth also may cool demand
for new projects, he said.  Colombia will still award mining rights without auctions
outside of the areas set aside by the government.  Colombia is the largest coal supplier in  South America ,
exporting the fuel from mines owned by companies including
Drummond Co.,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and BHP Billiton
Plc. Companies already developing gold projects in Colombia
include  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Batista’s AUX Canada
Acquisition Inc., which bought control of Ventana Gold Corp.
last year to gain gold deposits in Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  