-- Conrad Black Says ‘Corrupt’ U.S. Will Reverse Its Decline
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-22T20:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/conrad-black-says-corrupt-u-s-will-reverse-its-decline.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman found guilty of fraud and
obstruction of justice, said a “terribly corrupt” U.S.
weakened by debt will eventually “renovate itself” and escape
its temporary decline.  “It’s fundamentally an extremely strong country,” Black,
67, said today at an Empire Club of  Canada  luncheon in Toronto,
speaking seven weeks after being freed from a U.S. prison. “It
is a country with an incomparably talented and motivated
workforce.”  The 25-minute speech by Black, who has written biographies
on U.S. presidents  Richard Nixon  and  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ,
delved into the history of the U.S. and its relationship with
Canada, its northern neighbor. Black, found guilty by a federal
jury in  Chicago  after a four-month trial in 2007, made only a
passing mention to the “difficult moments” of his 3 1/2-year
imprisonment.  “No one who has not gone through it can easily imagine how
lonely it is to be unjustly convicted and confined in a society
that is generally assumed to be just,” the Toronto resident
told an audience of about 1,000. Black said that “living in the
belly of the great American beast” gave him “a refreshed
perspective on Canada and its evolution and distinction from the
 United States .”  ‘Radical Reform’  Americans will “sort their own house out” and the U.S.
won’t remain a country in “inexorable decline,” Black said.  “It is terribly corrupt, not perhaps by the standards of a
great many countries in the world, but by the standards of a
great many of its peers,” he said.  Black urged Canada in his speech to step up as a global
influence during a period when the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, the  International Monetary Fund  and the  United
Nations  are in need of “radical reform” and the world’s
currency system is in “free fall.”  “Canada has an opportunity it has never had before to be a
benign influence in the world,” Black said. “It’s Canada’s
turn to speak and it will not have to shout to be heard.”  When Black was chairman and chief executive officer at
Hollinger from October 1995 to November 2003, the company was
the world’s third-largest publisher of English-language
newspapers. Its holdings included the  Chicago Sun-Times , the
U.K.’s Daily Telegraph and Canada’s National Post.  In 2001, Black renounced his Canadian citizenship when he
accepted a life peerage in the U.K.’s House of Lords, where he
holds the title Lord Black of Crossharbour.  He and four other men were accused of skimming money from
the Chicago-based company. One of them, ex-finance chief F. David Radler, pleaded guilty to fraud and testified against the
others. Black’s initial 6 1/2 year prison sentence was reduced
by three years after Black successfully appealed two of three
fraud convictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  