-- Morgan Stanley Credit Swaps Fall After Moody’s Downgrades
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-22T21:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-a-day-after-moody-s-bank-downgrades.html
The cost to protect bonds of  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  from default fell to the lowest level in more than seven
weeks the day after Moody’s Investors Service cut the bank’s
credit grade less than the ratings company previously said it
was considering.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley declined 26.7 basis
points to a mid-price of 354.6 basis points as of 4:25 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since the contracts closed at 352.6 basis points on
May 3. Contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
also decreased. All are based in New York.  Moody’s, after initiating a review of the financial
companies in February, announced downgrades on 15 global banks
with capital-markets operations because of fragile confidence
and tighter regulations that pinched revenue. None of the banks
was cut more than the ratings company had forecast and only one
bank, Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG, had its ranking
reduced by the maximum three levels it said was possible.  The Moody’s action “removes a major sword of Damocles that
was hanging over the U.S. banking sector,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , referring to an ancient Greek metaphor
for the constant dangers that haunt those in power. “The bottom
line is markets don’t like uncertainty, and this has clarified
where all the institutions are.”  Goldman CDS  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs fell 13.4 basis
points to 280.8 basis points, the lowest close since May 7, and
Citigroup decreased 14.1 basis points to 244.9, Bloomberg prices
show.  Morgan Stanley’s long-term senior unsecured credit rating
was cut two levels by Moody’s to Baa1 from A2, Goldman Sachs was
reduced to A3 from A1 and Citigroup was downgraded to Baa2 from
A3.  “Morgan Stanley was probably the most at risk of a three-
notch downgrade, which would have put them right on the verge of
below-investment grade,”  Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at
Delaware Investments in Philadelphia with about $170 billion
under management, said in a telephone interview. “The surprise
was that they came in a little better than initially guided by
the agency, so that probably helped calm some fears.”  Morgan Stanley’s $2.45 billion of 5.5 percent notes due
July 2021 rose 2.1 cents to 99.9 cents on the dollar as of 4:04
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Markit CDX  A benchmark credit-default swaps gauge in the U.S. fell,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
decreasing 2.6 basis points to a mid-price of 115.4 basis points
at 5 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show. The measure
declined for a third straight week, slipping 2.4 basis points.  The index, used to hedge against losses on corporate debt
or to speculate on creditworthiness, typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  