-- Credit Suisse Board Backs CEO in Feud With Swiss Central Bank
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-06-22T18:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/credit-suisse-s-board-comfortable-with-bank-s-capital-level.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s board threw
its support behind Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  a week
after the Swiss National Bank said the company needs to
accelerate efforts to raise capital.  “The board is comfortable with the progress that has been
made toward meeting the Basel 3  capital requirements ,” the
directors said in a statement today, adding that they’re
“confident” that management’s plans will ensure the Zurich-
based bank exceeds capital requirements.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank by assets,
fell as much as 11 percent on June 14, hitting the lowest level
since 1992, when the Swiss central bank surprised the company by
urging it to boost capital “during the current year.” Dougan,
a 52-year-old U.S. citizen who’s been CEO since May 2007, has
contended he doesn’t plan to sell stock to raise capital.  “They’re going into battle with the Swiss National Bank
because they feel unfairly treated,” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “They have a glide
path to increasing capital based on retaining earnings but the
SNB is quite aggressive in wanting them to move earlier.”  The board’s statement, issued after a regularly scheduled
meeting, may help quell speculation that Dougan’s job was at
risk. Swiss newspapers including Tages-Anzeiger and Der Sonntag,
citing unidentified sources, reported last month that the board
may be interested in finding a new CEO.  “Pressure is building and if they do have to go to the
market to raise equity capital it could have a big impact on the
CEO’s position,” Wheeler said.  ‘Very Confident’  The board includes representatives from the bank’s two
biggest shareholders, Olayan Group of Saudi Arabia and
sovereign-wealth fund Qatar Holding LLC, which participated in
Credit Suisse’s 10 billion-franc ($10.5 billion) capital
increase in October 2008.  Koor Industries Ltd. (KOR) , a Tel Aviv-based
company that also helped the lender raise capital, said in an e-
mail this week that it’s “very confident in the bank’s
management and performance.”  The Swiss government, the SNB and the market regulator are
stepping up efforts to make the country’s biggest banks prepared
in the event that the  European debt crisis  worsens. The  Swiss
National Bank  on June 14 singled out Credit Suisse as needing a
bigger capital boost than UBS AG, and put a time-frame on its
recommendation.  New Stock  The lender has no plans to sell shares, Dougan told
SonntagsZeitung in an interview published on June 17. Some
employees, disagreeing with Dougan, favor selling new stock even
at current levels to put an end to questions about the firm’s
capital strength, four senior managers said in interviews this
week.  Credit Suisse’s common equity and contingent convertible
bonds, known as CoCos, amounted to about 5.9 percent of risk-
weighted assets under Basel 3 at the end of March, the central
bank said. That ratio stood at 7.5 percent for UBS, it said. Had
the SNB included CoCos to be issued next year in its
calculations, Credit Suisse’s capital ratio would have been 7.9
percent, Dougan told SonntagsZeitung. CoCos convert into shares
when the bank’s capital ratio falls below a predefined level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net .
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 