-- Crude Oil Trades Near Eight-Month Low, Heads for Weekly Decline
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-22T08:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/crude-oil-trades-near-eight-month-low-heads-for-weekly-decline.html
Oil traded near an eight-month low
below $80 a barrel in New York and headed for a second weekly
decline amid signs of a global economic slowdown that may curb
fuel demand.  Futures were little changed after decreasing 4 percent
yesterday, the biggest drop this year.  German business
confidence  fell to the lowest in more than two years in June as
the worsening sovereign debt crisis clouded the economic
outlook. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s economic
index yesterday signaled the biggest contraction in
manufacturing in almost a year.  “The euro-zone implosion brought prices down
significantly,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna, who predicts oil will rebound.
“The market is being dominated by disappointing key indicators
from the U.S. and  China , and a lethargic stance from Saudi
Arabia at the last OPEC meeting on its readiness to cut back
production.”  Oil for August delivery fell as much as 64 cents to $77.56
a barrel, the lowest since Oct. 5, in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $78.14 at 9:31 a.m.
London time. Prices are down 7 percent this week and 21 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for August settlement was up 31 cents at $89.54 a
barrel after sliding 74 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $88.49 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. That’s the lowest
since Dec. 2, 2010. The European benchmark’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $11.40 after closing at $11.03
yesterday, the narrowest gap since January.  Technical Support  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its German
business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
dropped for a second straight month to 105.3 from 106.9 in May.
That’s the lowest reading since March 2010. Economists predicted
a decline to 105.6, according to the median of 39 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band on the 30-day chart, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Futures yesterday halted their decline near the indicator,
which is at about $77.37 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Prices may fall next week on signals that global economic
growth is slowing, a Bloomberg survey showed. Fourteen of 27
analysts, or 52 percent, forecast crude will decline through
June 29. Nine respondents, or 33 percent, predicted that futures
will be little changed and four said there will be an increase.  Worldwide Manufacturing Weakens  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory index
dropped to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest reading since August.
A gauge of euro-region manufacturing fell to 44.8, the weakest
in three years, London-based Markit Economics said yesterday in
an initial estimate. The preliminary reading for a Chinese
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit was
48.1, signaling an eighth month of contraction.  Brent settled below $90 a barrel yesterday for the first
time since December 2010 and has dropped 30 percent since its
high for the year on March 1. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries agreed June 14 to keep its output quota
unchanged at 30 million barrels a day amid calls from some
members including  Iran  to cut supply to avoid further price
declines.  OPEC Curbs Shipments  The group will trim exports in the four weeks to July 7 as
Gulf producers led by  Saudi Arabia  pare a surge in output,
according to Oil Movements, a tanker tracker. OPEC, responsible
for about 40 percent of global supplies, will reduce shipments
by 20,000 barrels a day to 23.92 million a day, the researcher
said yesterday in a report. The data exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  “If Brent is below $90 a barrel, some action from OPEC
might be expected,” said Hasegawa, who forecasts the European
marker grade will trade between $86 a barrel and $93 in the
short term. “We have to keep an eye out for comments from OPEC.
The economy will not be happy if suddenly there is some supply
cut” that boosts prices, he said.  A swath of rain and thunderstorms across the Caribbean from
 Mexico  to southern  Florida  has a 70 percent chance of becoming a
tropical storm in 48 hours, according to the National Hurricane
Center in Miami.  The weather system may move into the Gulf, threatening
disruptions to oil and gas operations in the region. Rain and
flooding is possible from southern Florida to Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula for the next two days, the hurricane center said in an
 advisory  at 2 a.m. New York time. The Gulf is home to 6.5
percent of U.S. natural-gas output, 29 percent of oil production
and 40 percent of refining capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  