-- Denmark’s PenSam Fund Unwinds Rate Swap on Discount Rule Change
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 2012-06-22T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/denmark-s-pensam-fund-unwinds-rate-swap-on-discount-rule-change.html
PenSam, a pension fund for Danish
health-care workers, unwound 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) in
30-year interest rate swap hedges after the Nordic country last
week eased rules for setting discount rates.  The government said June 12 it would no longer require
mark-to-market discount rates for longer-dated liabilities after
falling Danish bond yields increased the cost of guarantees life
insurers and pension funds offered to policyholders. Danish
yields had plunged because the AAA-rated country emerged as a
haven amid a deepening  European debt crisis .  “We removed all our exposure to 30-year rates and moved
down to 20 year, maximum,” PenSam Chief Investment Officer
Benny Andersen said in an interview this week. “We were hedging
14 billion to 15 billion euros of assets under management, and
we removed close to 3 billion euros of 30-year swaps.”  The move to a higher fixed rate reduces liabilities and
removes the benefits of longer-dated rate derivative hedges held
by pension funds to protect against falling rates. The yield on
Denmark’s bond due in 2039 soared 28 basis points to 2.08
percent after the announcement and the 30-year euro swap rate
surged 34 basis points to 2.29 percent from June 11 to June 14.  More Coming  The euro swap curve will still be required for calculating
liabilities up to 20 years, according to a note published on the
government’s website. Liabilities of 30 years or longer will be
discounted at a fixed “ultimate forward rate” of 4.2 percent,
with a transition period in between.  In an interest swap, funds and traders agree to exchange
fixed and floating rate payments based on a notional amount.  Other Danish pension funds may also unwind hedges. Danica Pension, a unit of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  with 36 billion euros of
liabilities, bought about 18 billion euros in notional interest
rate derivatives last year, according to its annual report.  “We don’t comment on specific trades, but obviously
there’s less need for hedging the low guarantees,” Danske
Bank’s Chief Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said in an
interview. “It’s the 20-year rate that now determines the
hedging requirement”.  Denmark , a European Union member, has opted out of the euro
and has pegged its krone to the 17-nation currency.  To contact the reports responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  