-- Deutsche Bank Sued by Sealink Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-22T21:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/deutsche-bank-sued-by-sealink-over-mortgage-securities-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by Sealink
Funding Ltd., which accuses  Germany ’s largest lender of fraud
over the sale of $960 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The suit was filed today in  New York  State Supreme Court by
Dublin-based Sealink, a fund created to manage Landesbank
Sachsen AG’s riskiest assets after it almost collapsed. The
complaint accuses Deutsche Bank of misrepresenting information
about loans that were pooled into 19 securities bought by
Sealink in 2006 and 2007.  “Deutsche Bank originated, purchased, financed and
securitized exceptionally high-risk loans into these RMBS, all
while internally disparaging the poor quality of these loans and
the RMBS they backed as ’pigs,’” Sealink said in a complaint,
referring to residential mortgage-backed securities.  Sealink has filed similar lawsuits in the same court
against Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Barclays Plc, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG in the past year.
Sealink accuses them of misrepresenting the risks and
characteristics of the loans underlying mortgage-backed
securities.  The lawsuit “is without merit,”  Renee Calabro , a New
York-based spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said
in an e-mail.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Deutsche Bank AG,
652174/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  