-- Djokovic Draws Ferrero, Sharapova Plays Rodionova at Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-22T11:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/djokovic-draws-ferrero-sharapova-plays-rodionova-at-wimbledon.html
Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic of
Serbia begins his title defense at  Wimbledon  against former
Grand Slam champion Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain.  Six-time title holder  Roger Federer  was drawn in the same
top half as the Serb today at the All England Club, meaning the
two could meet in the semifinals. The third-seeded Swiss plays
Spain’s Albert Ramos in his opening round.  Second-seeded Rafael Nadal was drawn in the bottom half
along with the No. 4 seed from Britain,  Andy Murray . The 
Spaniard plays Brazil's Thomaz Bellucci while Murray is up 
against Russia's Nikolay Davydenko. The Scot has lost the last
two semifinals at Wimbledon against Nadal, who won his seventh 
French Open title last week.  Women’s top seed and French Open champion  Maria Sharapova 
of Russia opens against Anastasia Rodionova of Australia.
Sharapova, who won the 2004 Wimbledon title when she was just
17, was drawn in the top half alongside U.S. Open champion
Samantha Stosur, who plays Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain. Also
in the top half is  Li Na , Asia’s first Grand Slam singles
champion at  Roland Garros  last year, who starts against Ksenia
Pervak of Kazakhstan.  In the bottom half of the women’s draw, defending champion
Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic plays Akgul Amanmuradova of
Uzbekistan, while No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus faces
Irina Falconi of the U.S.  Four-time winner  Serena Williams  of the U.S., the No. 6
seed, starts against Czech Barbora Zahlavova Strycova. In the
other half, her sister and five-time champion Venus Williams
plays Russia’s Elena Vesnina in the first round and could play
Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 3 seed, in the second
round.  Unseeded Venus  Venus, who is ranked 55th on the women’s WTA tour, is not
seeded at Wimbledon for the first time since 1997. The American
has not been playing a full schedule since being diagnosed with
energy-sapping Sjogren’s syndrome last year.  Four-time major champion  Kim Clijsters  opens her final
Wimbledon tournament against former world No. 1 Jelena Jankovic
of Serbia. The unseeded Belgian, who will retire after the U.S.
Open, missed the clay-court season because of a hip injury and
has dropped to No. 53 in the rankings.  Andy Roddick  of the U.S., a three-time finalist who is
seeded 30th, plays Britain’s  Jamie Baker . Fellow American Mardy Fish, the highest-seeded American man at 10, faces Spain’s Ruben Ramirez Hidalgo.  John Isner , the No. 11 seed also from the U.S.
meets Colombia’s Alejandro Falla. Isner may play France’s
Nicolas Mahut in the second round. The two played the longest
tennis match at 11 hours, 5 minutes at 2010 Wimbledon and met
again in the first round last year.  Nalbandian’s Start  David Nalbandian, who was disqualified from the finals of
last week’s Queen’s tournament in London after he kicked an
advertising board at the base of the line judge chair, injuring
the official, plays Serbian No. 8 seed Janko Tipsarevic.  Lucky loser Wayne Odesnik faces Germany’s Bjorn Phau. The
American in March 2010 pleaded guilty to importing human growth
hormones into Australia. In December of that year, the
 International Tennis Federation  cut in half a two-year ban
handed out to the 134th-ranked player. This will be Odesnik’s
first Grand Slam since the incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  