-- First ’Voice of Wall Street’ a Study in Risk
-- B y   E d w a r d   J .   B a l l e i s e n
-- 2012-06-22T15:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/downfall-of-first-voice-of-wall-street-a-study-in-risk.html
In recent weeks, the financial pages
have intensively covered  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
losses in derivatives trading. The episode has raised questions
about the ability of  Jamie Dimon , “the King of Wall Street,” to
continue as the financial industry’s leading spokesman for
regulatory restraint.  Some commentators have speculated that this incident may
stiffen the resolve of legislators and regulators to demand
tight limits on proprietary trading by  depository institutions .
This possibility suggests a look back to a moment during the
Great Depression that did trigger more rigorous financial
regulation -- the spectacular downfall of Richard Whitney.  Whitney, the head of a highly regarded brokerage firm,
became the public face of the U.S. financial community after the
1929 stock-market crash. When Tom Lamont, JPMorgan’s managing
partner, tried to shore up the collapsing stock market in
October 1929, he sent the urbane Whitney to the exchange floor
to purchase tens of thousands of shares.  Whitney served as New York Stock Exchange president from
1930 to 1935. From this perch, he scoffed at reform proposal
after reform proposal in congressional testimony, speeches to
business organizations and private letters to President  Franklin D. Roosevelt . By the early 1930s, reporters had anointed him
“the Voice of Wall Street.”  Judgment and Knowledge  Whitney’s views about financial regulation anticipated
Dimon’s. Like Dimon, Whitney conceded that financial markets
depend on a framework of rules to ensure trustworthiness and
systemic stability. Like Dimon, he also argued that the enormity
of an economic crisis required some new policy directions. And
as with Dimon, financial crisis did not weaken Whitney’s
conviction that private governance offered the most effective
means of achieving stability, nor his belief that excessive
regulatory constraints would stifle economic recovery.  Only the leaders of financial exchanges, Whitney insisted,
had the judgment and inside knowledge to make securities
regulation work.  These arguments had weight because of Whitney’s position at
the industry’s apex, his reputation for market savvy and
personal rectitude, and his apparent grasp of technical detail.
And he was able to marshal the forces opposed to the
reconstruction of securities regulation.  But Whitney’s plea that the  New York  Stock Exchange was “a
perfect institution” fell on deaf ears after the 1932
presidential election. Roosevelt ignored his offers of a face-
to-face tutorial about the dangers of excessively bureaucratic
securities legislation, and the Securities and Exchange
Commission received far greater authority than Whitney would
have preferred. When he persisted with a rear-guard action
against the new regulatory framework, more moderate voices
pushed him out as the exchange’s president in 1935.  Nonetheless, Whitney continued to rally industry opposition
to several SEC proposals for the exchange’s reorganization,
including segregation of brokers and floor traders, a more
democratic governance structure, and the creation of a paid
president to manage the exchange.  Despite his assurances that the financial establishment
would rein in speculative excesses, manipulative practices and
conflicts of interest, the disastrous consequences of his own
business dealings eventually cemented a political consensus for
dramatic reconfiguration of the exchange.  Leveraged Speculation  Whitney’s leveraged speculations in a fertilizer company
and a distillery saddled him with such big losses from the 1920s
onward that he constantly needed loans to stay afloat. Through
1933, he was able to borrow sufficient sums from friends and his
brother George. Thereafter, he turned to creditors who demanded
security.  As credit lines dried up, Whitney manufactured lenders of
last resort -- his brokerage clients, the estate of his wife’s
father, the New York Yacht Club (where he served as treasurer),
and the NYSE Gratuity Fund (for which was a trustee). From time
to time, Whitney illegally appropriated other people’s assets to
use as collateral for additional borrowing.  Such acts of desperation merely delayed the inevitable.
With the discovery of Whitney’s insolvency in early 1938 came
revelations of his fiduciary breaches and the cozy loans from
kith and kin. Then came the humiliation of prosecution for grand
larceny, jail time and a public skewering that only confirmed
widespread rejection of  Wall Street ’s old ways. If the venerable
Whitney could so readily stick his hand in the till, surely the
country’s financial markets required tougher regulatory
oversight. Within days of Whitney’s failure and arrest, the
exchange’s governing board bowed to public anger and acceded to
the SEC’s demands for internal reform.  The political ramifications of Whitney’s fall remind us
that under the right conditions, financial scandals can dislodge
conventional wisdom, fostering consensus about the need for
policy reforms. But this event also signals some cautions about
the distinctive circumstances necessary for such political
“focusing events.”  Whitney’s actions unambiguously transgressed moral and
legal limits. Here was the one-time face of Wall Street’s
opposition to public oversight, transformed into a tragic symbol
of the financial industry’s incapacity to govern itself.  The Whitney scandal also occurred nearly a decade after the
onset of a crisis, by which point Wall Street’s anti-New Deal
solidarity had begun to crack. By early 1938, the SEC had
hammered out the kinks of the new disclosure regime and coaxed
widespread compliance through a combination of informal nudging
and selective prosecutions. Years of paralyzed markets had also
convinced many in the industry that more robust government
action might improve investor confidence.  Misguided Ethos  In this context, Whitney’s actions signified not just a
“great optical illusion,” as Time Magazine put it, but the
misguided ethos of a bygone era. Considering JPMorgan’s recent
troubles through the lens of Whitney’s dramatic fall highlights
the daunting barriers to tighter financial regulations now.  It is much easier to dramatize misappropriation of trust
funds and customer accounts than ill-fated bets on the direction
of a corporate-bond rate index. It is much easier to personalize
the head of a brokerage firm’s theft than the abstract oversight
duties of a megabank’s executive.  And it is far easier to impose a new regulatory framework
on a chastened financial elite than one that remains wealthy,
politically powerful and convinced of its own righteousness.  (Edward J. Balleisen teaches history at  Duke University  and
is the co-editor of “Government and Markets: Toward a New Theory
of Regulation.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Edward J. Balleisen at
 eballeis@duke.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 