-- Dreaded A-Word Looms in France as Hollande Eyes Deficit Cut
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-06-22T15:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/dreaded-a-word-looms-in-france-as-hollande-seeks-spending-cuts.html
Francoise, a 64-year-old teacher of
French literature in the eighth arrondissement of Paris, says
whatever President  Francois Hollande  chooses to call it, France
is in for austerity.  With growth stalling, Hollande -- who pushed back against
the austerity measures that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  had
advocated to tame Europe’s debt crisis -- may need spending cuts
on top of planned tax increases to meet his deficit targets.  The election campaigns, both presidential and parliamentary,
shielded the French from sacrifices demanded elsewhere in Europe.
Now, reconciling vote-winning vows like an increase in the
minimum wage with a balanced-budget pledge may bring pain.  “The measures that need to be taken will be austere,
unpopular and difficult,” said Dominique Reynie, a professor at
Sciences Po in Paris. “Politically, the only way to do that is
to say to the population that we’re in a crisis and need to take
drastic action.”  The national auditor is due to report on the state of
government’s finances on July 2, which will be followed by a new
budget on July 4, government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem
said today. Hollande’s pledge to shrink the budget gap to 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2013 from 4.5 percent this
year and 5.2 percent in 2011 has helped  France  sell debt at
record low borrowing costs.  Home Austerity  “Others are making considerable efforts, sometimes very
tough ones for their public opinion,” Hollande said at a press
conference today in  Rome . “I think we must have a serious
budget in France too. Wanting growth is precisely to make sure
that a serious budget is not austerity. I am against austerity.”  Many French people say they would like Hollande to start
the belt-tightening at home -- in government.  Herve and Annie, a Paris couple in their 40s, would like to
see fewer top-level bureaucrats. Marie, a 63-year-old retiree,
said Hollande needs to cut politicians’ perks, such as their
cars and their staff, before asking ordinary people to tighten
their belts. Gregoire, a 33-year-old engineer, says Hollande
shouldn’t cut spending on education. They declined to provide
their last names.  “The No. 1 domestic issue Mr. Hollande needs to deal with
is the  budget deficit ,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Paris. “Avoiding a budget overshoot this year
and coming up with a budget that meets existing fiscal targets
is crucial. We expect some tough budgetary tweaking.”  Tough Climate  Hollande cut government salaries by a third at his first
cabinet meeting last month, fulfilling an election promise.
French ministers will now be paid 9,940 euros ($12,628) a month
instead of the 14,200 euros under former president  Nicolas Sarkozy .  For its 2013-2015 budgets, the government plans to reduce
the number of civil service jobs by 2.5 percent annually,
reducing operating costs -- including car fleets -- by 10
percent next year,  Le Figaro  reported this week, citing an
unnamed Budget Ministry official.  Subsidies for non-social-welfare items, such as farming and
culture, will be cut by 40 percent, the daily said. A budget
ministry official denied the report.  Any spending cuts would come in a tough environment with
 Europe ’s second-largest economy posting zero growth in the first
quarter, its unemployment at 10 percent and  joblessness  at a 12-
year high.  Job Cuts  Making matters worse, companies from Air France-KLM Group
to carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen and mobile phone operators plan
job cuts to countenance a slowdown in demand and increased
competition.  Air France told employees yesterday that it plans to
eliminate more than 5,000 jobs from its French workforce as it
seeks a return to profitability.  France has lost more industrial jobs than any other
European country in the past decade. Its employment rate, which
measures the proportion of people with jobs, is lower than
 Germany ,  Austria , the Netherlands and  Portugal , according to
economic think-tank Coe-Rexecode.  Labor unions see companies including ArcelorMittal,
 Carrefour SA (CA) , Peugeot and EON France  cutting as many as 45,000
jobs in the months ahead, an estimate that’s “realistic,”
according to Labor Minister Michel Sapin.  Hollande is meeting with unions and business leaders on
July 9 to broker an increase in the minimum wage, and discuss
youth unemployment and reviving French industry.  Austerity Elsewhere  Belt-tightening by France would come as Greece,  Spain  and
 Italy  struggle under their austerity regimes.  In Italy, the euro area’s third-largest economy, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  has introduced new property taxes, higher
gasoline taxes, raised the  retirement age  and made pensions
dependent on contributions.  In Spain, the government has slashed public wages,
increased income taxes and cut spending on services, including
education and health care.  With the May 6 presidential elections and the June 17
legislative elections behind them, the French are bracing for
some pull back in their way of life.  “Everything is heading toward restraint,” said Sciences
Po’s Reynie.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told his counterparts
yesterday in Luxembourg that the government would meet deficit
targets and improve competitiveness. Opposition lawmakers say
Hollande hasn’t prepared the French for what’s coming.  “These targets require a very heavy, difficult effort that
we estimate at 30 billion euros in 2012 and 2013,” they wrote
in an open letter to Hollande last week. “No one can work
miracles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  