-- MVP LeBron James Wins First NBA Title as Heat Upset Thunder
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-22T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/lebron-james-wins-first-nba-title-as-miami-heat-beat-thunder-1-.html
LeBron James  left behind the hate
and went back to playing basketball with “love and
dedication.” The result was his first National Basketball
Association championship.  James scored 26 points and the  Miami Heat  tied an NBA
Finals record with 14 3-pointers in a 121-106 defeat of the
visiting Oklahoma City Thunder to clinch their first title since
2006 in a series upset.  James, chosen the Most Valuable Player in the Finals, also
had 13 assists and 11 rebounds. Mike Miller added 23 points,
including seven 3-pointers, as Miami won the best-of-seven
series four games to one a year after losing to Dallas in the
Finals in James’s first year with the Heat.  “I know what got me to this point: hard work and
dedication,” James said during the trophy ceremony. “Last year
I played with a lot of hate. I play this game with love and
dedication.”  It has been almost two years since James, 27, walked away
from his home-state team, the Cleveland Cavaliers, in a made-
for-television announcement ridiculed by Cavs owner  Dan Gilbert .
James, who signed a six-year, $110 million deal with Miami,
promised 13,000 fans at AmericanAirlines Arena that the Heat
would win multiple championships.  Underdogs  James and the Heat started the series as underdogs. Before
the Finals began, betting lines in Las Vegas favored the
Thunder, giving Oklahoma City a 61 percent chance of winning,
according to Las Vegas-based handicapping information website
Pregame.com. A $100 bet on the Heat -- which had a 39 percent
chance of winning -- returned $145 plus the initial stake.  The title comes one year after James was criticized for his
performance in the Finals when the Heat lost the last three
games to the Mavericks. James was held to eight points on 3-of-
11 shooting in the pivotal Game 4 of that series, his lowest
scoring output in more than five years.  “It’s about damn time,” James said last night.  James joined  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh , who also moved to
Miami as a free agent, on the Heat roster two years ago.  “We came here to win a championship and we got it done,”
Bosh said.  Heat President  Pat Riley , 67, won his sixth NBA title. He
coached the 1980s “Showtime”  Los Angeles Lakers  to four titles
and added another in 2006 as Miami’s coach.  ‘Hardest Things’  “It’s one of the hardest things they’ll ever have to do,”
Riley said.  Coach  Erik Spoelstra , who was an assistant when the Heat
won the 2006 title, said this time it meant “more pressure, a
lot more gray hairs, but this one was more gratifying. Thank you
for your patience. We remember last year.”  Las Vegas-based handicapping information service
Pregame.com installed the Heat and Thunder as 3-1 joint
favorites to win the 2013 NBA Finals, with the Chicago Bulls at
5-1 and  San Antonio Spurs  a 7-1 chance. The  New York Knicks  are
60-1.  Miami rallied after falling behind in each of its last
three series in this year’s playoffs. After eliminating the  New
York  Knicks by four games to one in the first round, the Heat
had to come back from deficits in best-of-seven series against
the  Indiana Pacers ,  Boston Celtics  and Oklahoma City.  Comeback  Against Indiana, the Heat trailed two games to one before
James had 40 points, 18 rebounds and nine assists in a Game 4
win. Miami won the following two games as well.  In the Eastern Conference finals, Miami trailed 3-2 against
the Celtics before winning at Boston to force a decisive seventh
game that the Heat won at home.  The Thunder won the first game of the NBA Finals before the
Heat captured four straight for the championship. In Game 4 two
nights ago, James hit a tie-breaking 3-pointer with less than
three minutes remaining despite being hobbled by leg cramps.  James, who shares a Dec. 30 birthday with  Tiger Woods , is a
three-time league Most Valuable Player. He also led the
Cavaliers in 2007 to the NBA Finals, where they were swept in
four games by the San Antonio Spurs.  The Heat built a 10-point halftime margin into a 95-71 lead
entering the fourth period last night. Miller came off the bench
to hit all four of his 3-point attempts in the opening two
periods and Miami used a 19-4 run to take a 59-49 halftime lead
at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami.  Kevin Durant  led the Thunder with 32 points and  Russell Westbrook  added 19.  “When you play against the best, you learn,” Thunder
coach Scott Brooks said. “You hate to go home and not win the
whole thing. We lost to a team that played better than us in
four of the five games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  