-- LeBron James Completes NBA Ascendancy With Title in Miami
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-22T16:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/lebron-james-completes-nba-ascendancy-with-first-title-in-miami.html
Tim Duncan  took  LeBron James  aside
after the  San Antonio Spurs  swept the Cleveland Cavaliers in the
2007 National Basketball Association Finals and told James the
league would soon be his.  While it may have taken longer than expected by many --
including Duncan, a two-time NBA Most Valuable Player and three-
time NBA Finals MVP -- James now sits at the sport’s pinnacle
after capturing his first championship with the Miami Heat.  Nine years after turning professional out of high school
and two seasons into his move to Miami, James’s All-Star resume
finally includes an NBA title, after the Heat beat the Oklahoma
City Thunder 121-106 last night to win the series in an upset.  “It’s about damn time,” James said at the trophy
presentation after being named Most Valuable Player of the
Finals. He scored 26 points and had 11 rebounds and 13 assists
last night.  James pledged to produce multiple titles when he left the
Cavaliers and signed with the Heat as a free agent in 2010. Last
night’s victory to clinch the best-of-seven Finals 4-1 was his
first step in delivering on that promise and may have also
furthered his global brand.  James at 27 is younger than  Michael Jordan  was when he
captured the first of his six NBA titles over an eight-year
stretch. Jordan, the Hall of Fame player with whom James has
most often been compared, was 28 and in his seventh season when
he and the  Chicago Bulls  broke through in 1991.  International Face  While he can’t yet match Jordan’s legacy as a champion and
pitchman, the title may stamp James’s ascension as the
international face of the NBA. The three-time MVP already was
among the league’s most popular -- and polarizing -- players. He
boosts television ratings, jersey sales and attendance while
making millions of dollars in endorsements.  James also made money for gamblers who bet on the Heat.
Before the series, the betting lines in Las Vegas favored the
Thunder, giving Oklahoma City a 61 percent chance of winning,
according to Las Vegas-based handicapping information website
Pregame.com.  A winning $100 bet on the Heat -- which had a 39 percent
chance of winning before the series -- returned $145 plus the
initial stake.  Jordan’s Deals  Jordan hasn’t played in the NBA since 2003 -- six months
before James broke into the league -- and now owns the Charlotte
Bobcats. Even so, Forbes estimated in September that Jordan made
a total of  $60 million  the previous year from endorsements with
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , with whom he has a signature brand, and companies
such as  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Gatorade,  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI)  and Upper Deck
Co.  Now that James has earned a ring of his own and five-time
NBA champion  Kobe Bryant  of the Los Angeles Lakers is turning 34
next month, the NBA may be under James’s rule, as Duncan
predicted five years ago.  “He’s at a point where he has to decide does he want to be
more of an aggressive endorser-slash-businessman than he has in
the past,” Steve Rosner, co-founder of Rutherford, New Jersey-
based  16W Marketing LLC , said in a telephone interview. “Jordan
at one point made that decision. If there was any kind of
reluctance to do it before because, ‘I haven’t won the
championship and that’s still my No. 1 goal,’ well, at least
that box will be checked.”  Final Statistics  James averaged 30.3 points, 9.7 rebounds and 5.6 assists in
the Heat’s postseason run.  In the clinching game, Mike Miller came off the bench to
hit all four of his 3-point attempts in the opening two periods
and Miami used a 19-4 run to take a 59-49 halftime lead. The
Heat built that into a 95-71 lead entering the fourth period,
and led by as many as 27 points. They tied an NBA Finals record
with 14 3-pointers.  Kevin Durant  led the Thunder with 32 points and  Russell Westbrook  added 19.  Walt Disney Co.’s ABC television network said the Finals
attracted the largest average audience for the series since
2004. Last night’s Game 5 delivered a 12.6 overnight rating,
matching last year’s Game 5, according to preliminary Nielsen
ratings released today.  After James teamed with fellow All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and
 Chris Bosh  last season, the Heat reached the championship round
before losing in six games to the Dallas Mavericks. In 2007,
James carried the Cavaliers to the NBA Finals, where Duncan and
the Spurs swept the series for their third title in a five-year
span.  A native of Akron, Ohio, James spent his first seven
seasons with the Cavaliers before moving to Miami. His arrival
immediately made the Heat title favorites, and at an
introductory rally James proclaimed that he, Wade and Bosh would
lead the team to at least seven titles in addition to the one
the franchise won in 2006. Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert 
guaranteed at the time that his team would win a championship
“before the self-titled former ‘king’ wins one.”  Nay Sayers  When James’s first attempt fell short last season, he
lashed out at those he said took joy in his failure.  “All the people that was rooting on me to fail, at the end
of the day they have to wake up and have the same life that they
had before,” James, who has a six-year, $110 million contract,
said at the time. “They have the same personal problems. I’m
going to continue to live the way I want to live.”  James has twice had the NBA’s best-selling jersey,
including during his first year with the Heat in 2011, and was
the fourth highest-paid athlete in the world over the past year,
according to  Forbes . He made a total of $53 million in salary
and endorsements, Forbes said, trailing only boxers Floyd Mayweather and  Manny Pacquiao , and golfer  Tiger Woods .  James hauled in an estimated $40 million in the past year
from sponsorships with companies such as McDonald’s Corp.,  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  and Nike, where he’s followed Jordan as a top endorser
for the world’s largest sporting-goods maker. ABC aired a Nike
ad immediately after the game ended depicting James as an NBA
champion.  ‘Fixing’ Image  His one-hour television special to announce he was going to
“take my talents to South Beach” was “ill-conceived,” in the
words of NBA Commissioner  David Stern , yet James remains a draw.
He had the league’s fourth-best selling jersey in the U.S. and
third-best seller internationally this season.  “He still has some ‘fixing’ to do with his image based on
the negative publicity he got for the ‘Decision’ and purists not
thrilled the three guys got together and game-planned about
putting this together,” Rosner said. “But this is more about
perception and the way he’s seen rather than actual dollars
attached to the winning.”  James is especially influential in China, where the NBA is
the most popular sports league. He helped the U.S. capture a
gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and a year ago sought to
expand his marketing opportunities in Asia by joining hedge-fund
billionaire  John Henry  as part-owner of the Fenway Sports Group,
which owns Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox and England’s
Liverpool Football Club.  China Appeal  Winning an NBA championship may only enhance James’s
standing in the world’s most populous country, said Terry Rhoads, who left as Nike’s China sports marketing director in
2002 to form Shanghai-based Zou Marketing Inc.  While the title is probably a boon for Nike, which posted
$2.44 billion in sales from China in the 12 months through
February, it’s the ultimate coronation for James. He became the
eighth player in league history to win at least three MVP awards
after finishing third in the NBA this season with an average of
27.1 points a game. His production increased during the
postseason, when the Heat knocked off the  New York Knicks ,
Indiana Pacers and Boston Celtics to reach the Finals.  James helped keep Miami’s season alive with a 45-point, 15-
rebound performance in a Game 6 win in Boston, and then had 31
points and 12 rebounds as the Heat captured the Eastern
Conference title with a seventh-game victory at home.  After leaving last night’s game with three minutes to play,
James danced on the sidelines and embraced teammates, coach Erik Spoelstra and Heat officials.  “This might be the happiest day of my life,” James said
at the trophy presentation. “It’s a dream come true.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  