-- ECB Decision on Collateral Rules Draws Bundesbank Rebuke
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ecb-loosens-collateral-rules-for-banks-to-ease-access-to-funds.html
The Bundesbank opposition to the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to help ailing financial
institutions is its latest swipe at the crisis-fighting efforts
of  Mario Draghi ’s central bank.  As Spanish banks scramble for collateral to use in the
refinancing operations that are keeping them afloat, the
Frankfurt-based ECB said it will cut the rating thresholds and
amend eligibility requirements for some asset-backed securities.
While the move will give stressed banks greater access to ECB
liquidity, it may also increase the amount of risk on the
central bank’s balance sheet.  “We’re critical of this,” Bundesbank spokesman Michael Best said yesterday. In terms of collateral, “we won’t accept
what we don’t have to accept,” he said.  The criticism highlights one of the fault lines dividing
European officials as they struggle to end a crisis threatening
to rip the currency union apart. As Draghi’s officials scramble
to put together policies that will fight the latest stage of the
turmoil, German policy makers are emphasizing the dangers of
pursuing unorthodox policies that potentially put taxpayers on
the hook for future losses.  “It’s almost the usual game: the ECB has to do something
to alleviate a liquidity crisis and the Bundesbank isn’t very
happy about it,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone interview. “The
Bundesbank being critical doesn’t fully counteract what the ECB
is doing, but possibly makes it a little less effective.”  Fault Lines  Looser collateral is the latest issue to divide Europeans
days before a summit that Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said must succeed or risk a bond-market selloff. German policy
makers are reluctant to put too much on the line to help debt-
strapped nations before they fix their budgets and banks. French
and Italian leaders are pushing for a wider range of crisis-
fighting tools.  Those debates have flared on the ECB’s Governing Council
too. Two years ago, the German central bank came out and opposed
the ECB’s unprecedented decision to buy the bonds of distressed
nations as part of a broader push to stamp out a crisis that was
starting to spread from  Greece . While the German central bank
ultimately went along with the plan, it has since been largely
shelved and deemed ineffective by most ECB officials.  Weidmann Letter  In February, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann wrote to
Draghi warning of the risks the ECB is taking in lending more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to banks. The ECB’s
Target2 system, which calculates debts between the euro region’s
central banks, shows that the amount owed to the Bundesbank has
soared as  Germany  helps fund the region’s most indebted nations.  Earlier this year, the German central bank shunned another
measure aimed at easing collateral requirements.  The ECB’s latest announcement is a “clear sign that the
Bundesbank opposes any further increase in risks on the euro
system’s balance sheet,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area
economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Draghi says that the money the ECB has pumped into the
banking system prevented what he called earlier this month a
“more serious credit crunch and possibly more serious
disruptions.”  Haircuts  In its statement yesterday, the ECB Governing Council
expanded the pool of securities eligible as collateral with a
lower threshold.  Residential mortgage-backed securities and loans to small
and medium-sized enterprises rated at least BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s  will now be accepted with a valuation haircut, or  risk
premium , of 26 percent, the ECB said. The previous minimum
rating on such securities was A-.  Auto loan, leasing and consumer finance asset-backed
securities and those backed by commercial mortgages with a
second-best rating of at least A- at Standard & Poor’s will now
be eligible with a haircut of 16 percent, the ECB said.  Commercial mortgage-backed securities with a second-best
rating of at least BBB- from S&P would face a haircut of 32
percent, according to the statement.  The “risk control framework with higher haircuts
applicable to the newly eligible ABS aims at ensuring risk
equalization across asset classes and maintaining the risk
profile of the Eurosystem,” the ECB said in the statement.  “This is a case of the ECB having to do something to
ensure that liquidity keeps flowing into the euro-zone banking
system,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “It’s a solid reminder to those who say the ECB is not
doing enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Luxembourg at  gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  