-- Hedge Funds Say Moody’s Downgrades Call for Dodd-Frank Clearing
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-22T20:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/hedge-funds-say-moody-s-downgrades-call-for-dodd-frank-clearing.html
Moody’s Investors Service credit
downgrades of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and 13
other banks highlight risk in the financial system and the need
for regulators to quickly adopt a swaps-clearing rule, according
to a coalition of proprietary traders and hedge funds.  “The Moody’s downgrades underscore the critical need to
reduce the risk to the financial system associated with the
interconnectedness of the global financial markets,” according
to a statement from The Clearing Coalition, which includes
Citadel LLC and Getco LLC and other asset managers, trading
platforms and banks.  The group has urged the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission to implement
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act’s clearing rules before next year.
Clearinghouses owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  stand between buyers and
sellers and intend to reduce risk in trades. Dodd-Frank was
enacted after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  “We urge the regulators to complete the implementation of
the clearing mandate under Dodd-Frank as expeditiously as
possible,” the coalition said in the statement.  Interest-rate and credit-default indexes would face the
first Dodd-Frank clearing requirements, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , said in May. “Standard swaps between financial firms
will move into central clearing, which will significantly lower
the risks of the highly interconnected financial system,”
Gensler said in testimony May 22 at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing.  The coalition sent a letter to Gensler and  Mary Schapiro ,
SEC chairman, in May urging regulators to implement central
clearing this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  