-- MediaTek to Buy Chip Design Rival MStar for $3.8 Billion
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-22T11:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/mediatek-to-buy-chip-design-rival-mstar-for-3-8-billion.html
MediaTek Inc. (2454)  agreed to buy  MStar
Semiconductor Inc. (3697)  in a stock and cash deal that values the
smaller rival at $3.8 billion, and end competition between the
two Taiwanese designers of chips used in televisions and phones.  MediaTek plans to acquire up to 48 percent of MStar in a
tender offer before a full merger expected to close early next
year, the two Hsinchu, Taiwan-based companies said in a
 statement  today. MStar  shareholders  would get 0.794 of a new
MediaTek share plus NT$1 ($0.03) in cash for each stock held, a
20 percent premium to today’s  closing price , they said.  Both companies, which together design more than 70 percent
of the chips used in televisions globally, have lost more than
36 percent in value in the 18 months since MStar listed on the
 Taiwan Stock Exchange . The deal on completion would be the
fifth-largest semiconductor acquisition globally in the past ten
years and the largest in  Asia  over that period, according to
Bloomberg data.  “This is good for MediaTek and MStar to lower price
competition in TV and handset chips and to build up R&D and
operational efficiency,” Eric Chen, who has a buy rating on
both companies at Daiwa Capital Markets in  Hong Kong , wrote in a
note today. “We believe the new MediaTek has better bargaining
power to deal with China TV makers without excessive price
competition.”  Chen estimates the combined entity will have more than 75
percent of the worldwide TV chip market, and 60 percent share of
the semiconductors used in cellphones sold in  China .  ‘Stronger Position’  The terms value a full acquisition of MStar at $3.8 billion
and 20 percent higher than today’s market value, MediaTek Chief
Financial Officer David Ku said today. The 19 semiconductor
acquisitions in the past 10 years valued more than $1 billion
have an average premium of about 30 percent, Bloomberg data
show.                         “Given intense competition globally, including rapid
changes in market dynamics, the combined company will be in a
stronger position and become more competitive,” MediaTek
Chairman M.K. Tsai said at a press conference today in Taipei.
There will be no job losses as a result of the deal, he said.  MediaTek shares climbed 1.1 percent to NT$274 and MStar
added 1.1 percent to NT$182.50 at the close of trading in Taipei
before the deal was announced. MStar has lost 39 percent since
it listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange in December 2010 with an
offer price of NT$300, while MediaTek has fallen 37 percent over
the same period.  “We don’t really get caught up with the history of our
IPO, we have to judge the dynamics of the market and take the
long-term view,” Wayne Liang, Chairman of MStar said. “The
market changes, the competition is changing.”  MStar, founded in 2002, had revenue of NT$36 billion ($1.2
billion) last year and gets about 65 of its sales from chips
used in televisions. MediaTek, formed in 1997, had revenue last
year of NT$87 billion, its second consecutive year of sales
declines.  The deal requires approval of both companies’ shareholders
as well as regulators, Liang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 