-- Edmonton Oilers Make Russian Wing Yakupov Top Pick in NHL Draft
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-23T04:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/edmonton-oilers-make-russian-wing-yakupov-top-pick-in-nhl-draft.html
The  Edmonton  Oilers selected right
wing Nail Yakupov with the first overall pick in the National
Hockey League draft.  The  New York  Rangers selected defenseman Brady Skjei last
night as the 28th overall pick. Skjei, 18, had four goals and 18
assists in 56 games with U.S. Hockey’s National Team Development
Program last season.  The NHL draft will continue with rounds two through seven
today at the Pittsburgh Penguins’ home ice at the Consol Energy
Center.  The  New Jersey Devils  will host next year’s draft at the
Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, the first time the
draft will be held in the New York metropolitan area, the league
said. The 2014 draft will be at the  Philadelphia Flyers ’ home at
the Wells Fargo Center.  Yakupov, 18, who played junior hockey in Sarnia, Ontario,
is the first Russian in eight years to be selected among the top
five picks of the draft. The 5-foot-10, 189-pound forward this
year led Russia to a silver medal at the World Junior
Championships, where he had nine assists in seven games.  Yakupov scored 31 goals in 42 games last season for the
Sarnia Sting of the Ontario Hockey League.  “There’s no pressure now, I’m just excited,” said
Yakupov, the first Russian-born player taken as the No. 1
selection since  Alex Ovechkin  was picked by the Washington
Capitals in 2004.  Skjei, the Rangers’ first-round selection, said he looked
forward to skating under coach  John Tortorella .  “I have seen Tortorella on film and I like the way he
coaches,” Skjei said. “He demands a lot and I’m a hard worker,
so it’s good.”  Islanders’ Pick  The  New York Islanders , picking in the No. 4 spot, chose
defenseman Griffin Reinhart of Edmonton in the Western Hockey
League. Reinhart is the son of former NHL defenseman Paul
Reinhart.  The Devils selected Stefan Matteau from the U.S. under-18
team as the 29th overall pick. His father, Stephane, was playing
for the Rangers when he scored in overtime of Game 7 of the 1994
Eastern Conference finals to beat the Devils.  The Pittsburgh Penguins, who got the eighth pick when they
traded Jordan Staal to the  Carolina Hurricanes , took defenseman
Derrick Pouliot, 18, who had 11 goals and 48 assists for the
Portland Winterhawks last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  