-- Emerging Stocks Fall to One-Week Low on U.S. Slowdown
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-22T22:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/emerging-stocks-fall-to-one-week-low-on-u-s-slowdown.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, erasing
the benchmark index’s weekly gains, as U.S. data pointed to a
slowdown in the world’s largest economy, fueling concern exports
from developing nations will drop.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.6 percent to 917.18
as of 5:15 p.m. in New York, pushing the weekly drop to 0.9
percent. Brookfield Incorporacoes SA, a Brazilian real-estate
company, led declines on the Bovespa benchmark gauge.  Russia ’s
Micex Index retreated for a third day as Brent declined for a
second week. India’s rupee plunged to the lowest level on
record.  A Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia index signaled the
worst contraction in manufacturing in almost a year, while
existing U.S. home sales fell more than forecast and jobless
claims exceeded estimates. Moody’s Investors Service cut credit
ratings for Credit Suisse Group AG and 14 other banks. U.S.
policy makers cut this week their expectations for growth in
2012 to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, down from an
April prediction of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent.  “A U.S slowdown hits  emerging markets  much harder,” Kit Juckes, head of currency research at Societe Generale SA in
London, said in an e-mail. “The U.S. is the engine of global
growth and therefore of commodities, raw materials and emerging-
market assets. A lot of money may be taken off the table in
emerging markets in a hurry.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index (VXEEM)  exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
gained 0.3 percent to $37.79.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 4.5 percent to 27.47.  Brazil, Russia  The Bovespa dropped 0.1 percent as Brookfield declined 3.7
percent and Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, the electricity
company known as Eletrobras, retreated 3 percent.  The Micex sank 1.2 percent in Moscow as OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, fell 1.7 percent, and  OAO Mechel (MTL) , the
country’s largest coal producer for steelmakers, lost 6.8
percent.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  slipped 0.4 percent, the
first decline in four days, as  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
operator of the world’s largest refining complex, fell to a two-
week low. Hindalco Industries Ltd., the aluminum maker that
controls U.S.-based Novelis Inc., dropped the most in a month.  The rupee depreciated 1.5 percent to 57.1550 per dollar in
Mumbai, plunging the most in nine months on concern slower
economic growth will reduce capital inflows.  Fitch Ratings  cut India’s sovereign credit-rating outlook
to negative on June 19, joining  Standard & Poor’s  in signaling
the country is at risk of losing its investment-grade status.  South African Shares  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index slipped 1.2 percent in
as metal prices retreated.  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the diversified
miner that makes up almost 8 percent of the index, slid 2.2
percent, a second day of losses.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , which
has suspended operations at two mines in the past two weeks,
slumped to a seven-year low.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 1.7 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
led declines among Asian benchmark indexes as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  lost 3.7 percent to the lowest level since May
18. Weaker-than-expected handset shipments and lower margin will
likely cause the company to miss earnings consensus, according
to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.  Funds Outflow  Emerging-market stock funds posted redemptions of $216
million for the week ending June 20, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. Asia funds excluding Japan
posted a $1.03 billion outflow during the week, the largest
among emerging markets and the biggest for the region this year,
EPFR said.  The retreat that erased $3.6 trillion from global stocks
this quarter has left more than 580 companies in MSCI Inc.
indexes valued at less than their net assets, prompting some
investors including Harris Associates LP’s David Herro to buy
shares.  “I’ve been significantly adding,” said Herro, whose $7.9
billion Oakmark International Fund beat 81 percent of peers in
the past three years. “Even though it feels gloomy, this type
of environment makes my job quite easy.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 380, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  