-- Lenzing of Austria Loses EU Duty on Furfuraldehyde From China
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-22T10:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/lenzing-of-austria-loses-eu-duty-on-furfuraldehyde-from-china.html
The European Union ended a 17-year-
old tariff on a chemical substance from China used to make
lubricating oils and foundry molds, denying protection to
 Austria ’s  Lenzing AG. (LNZ)   The EU scrapped the duty on furfuraldehyde because of a
“significant increase” in the prices of imports from China
last year and in 2010. The levy of 352 euros ($442) a metric ton
was meant to punish Chinese exporters for selling furfuraldehyde
in  Europe  below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The removal of the duty represents a policy reversal after
the EU re-imposed the trade protection in May 2011 for five
years because of the threat of a recurrence of “injury” to the
European furfuraldehyde industry from dumping. Two months later,
the bloc said it would review the need for the duty.  “The significant price increase in 2010 and 2011 has
dramatically reduced the margin of dumping,” the 27-nation EU
said in a decision yesterday in Luxembourg that marks the
outcome of the review. “This change is of a lasting nature.”
The decision will take effect after its scheduled publication in
the EU Official Journal on June 26.  Furfuraldehyde, which comes from agricultural waste, is
used as a selective solvent in petroleum refining for the
production of lubricating oils and as a raw material for
processing into furfuryl alcohol, used to make synthetic resin
for foundry molds.  The EU introduced the anti-dumping duty against  China  in
January 1995, reimposed the levy for four years in December
1999, kept it in place after December 2003 while conducting a
review of the expiration and then prolonged the measure for five
years in  April 2005 .  Lenzing and Slovenia-based  Tanin Sevnica dd , which
accounted for all the EU’s production of furfuraldehyde in the
12 months through June 2011, asked in January 2010 for extended
trade protection. Three months later, the EU opened a probe that
led to the five-year renewal in May last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  