-- Equitable Poised to Benefit From Tighter Mortgage Rules
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-22T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/equitable-poised-to-benefit-from-tighter-mortgage-rules.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG)  and
 Equitable Group Inc. (ETC) , two of  Canada ’s biggest non-bank mortgage
lenders, stand to benefit from new lending restrictions that may
drive clients away from commercial banks.  Canada will shorten the maximum amortization period of
mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years and
lower the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the value
of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said yesterday.  The rules, along with new guidelines announced yesterday by
Canada’s banking regulator, will increase due diligence and
documentation requirements for lenders, making it harder for
some homeowners to qualify for mortgages at the big banks.  “As more and more business at the margin shifts away from
the banks, the alternative lenders stand to benefit from
increased product and higher quality customers,” said Stephen Boland, an analyst at GMP Securities in Toronto.  Adam Seanor, a research analyst at M Partners in Toronto,
said the new measures play to the advantage of Toronto-based
Home Capital and Equitable, which are already doing such client
reviews.  “The announcement should be great news for the alternative
lenders,” Seanor said in an interview. “They’ll get better
quality clients and more volume.”  Home Capital fell 26 cents to C$44.90 at 4 p.m. trading in
Toronto. Equitable rose 2 cents to C$25.57.  Scaling Back  Banks including Toronto-Dominion and  Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce (CM)  have already scaled back on certain areas of home
lending. Toronto-Dominion, the No. 2 bank, stopped originating
non-prime residential mortgages at the end of March, while CIBC,
the fifth-biggest, said June 20 it’s shuttering its FirstLine
mortgage brand after failing to find a buyer.  “To the extent that it makes it more difficult for people
to qualify, it’s obviously additive to the pressure that they’re
going to experience,” said  Brad Smith , an analyst at Stonecap
Securities Inc. in Toronto. “There’s a broad consensus that
consumer leverage levels are high and should be brought down,
and that’s certainly going to impact growth in the consumer
lending area for the banks.”  Home Capital, which targets the C$200 billion ($194
billion) mortgage market of home buyers who don’t qualify at
chartered banks, operates in “a space that the banks did not
quite infringe on,” because of a niche group of employees,
Chief Executive Officer Gerald Soloway said.  “We do a lot of training with the underwriters that will
look and ask questions and try to get the documentation to get
people qualified who may get turned down at the bank,” Soloway
said in an interview.  ‘Gone Bonkers’  He said the new rules, including shorter amortizations, are
“small potatoes,” and the government is simply returning to
the 25-year mortgages that were the norm for many years.  “In my opinion, they had gone bonkers” with the 40-year
mortgages and looser criteria, he said.  Equitable, which sold the majority of its mortgages in
Ontario at the end of the first quarter, also said the new
guidelines could be a benefit.  “Our view of these changes is that they will have the
impact of making a greater share of the market addressable to
lenders like Equitable,” CEO Andrew Moor told investors
yesterday during a presentation in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  