-- Ernst & Young Cleared by U.K. Regulator Over Lehman Work
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-22T13:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ernst-young-cleared-by-u-k-regulator-over-lehman-work.html
Ernst & Young LLP won’t face legal
action in Britain over the way it dealt with Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s off-balance sheet transactions in 2007, the
country’s accounting regulator said.  The probe that started in June 2010 found no wrongdoing by
the firm in its accounting for Lehman’s so-called Repo 105 and
Repo 108 transactions, which helped the bank raise short-term
funds before its collapse, the  Financial Reporting Council  said
today on its website.  “No action should be taken against Ernst & Young LLP or
any individuals in connection with their conduct in this
matter,” Gareth Rees, a lawyer for the regulator’s Accountancy
and Actuarial Discipline Board, said in the statement.  The probe began after revelations the repurchase deals
helped Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and 2008. A
2,200-page report on the bank’s collapse, filed in March 2010 by
bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas in  New York , said Ernst &
Young could be accused of “professional malpractice” for its
role in auditing New York-based Lehman.  The deals took advantage of accounting rules that treated
certain transactions as sales instead of financing and helped
Lehman reduce its balance sheet and leverage ratios, the FRC
said today. Valukas found that, while the transactions weren’t
“inherently improper,” their primary use by Lehman was
“balance sheet manipulation,” the watchdog said.  The probe covered Ernst & Young’s audits of Lehman’s
London-based European unit for the year ended Nov. 30, 2007, the
regulator said.  The regulator is still probing the accounting firm’s
preparation of reports on the Lehman unit’s compliance with U.K.
rules governing the protection of client money. That
investigation started in October 2010.  Lehman filed the  biggest bankruptcy  in U.S. history in
September 2008 after mounting losses on mortgage-backed
securities spooked investors and creditors. The investment
bank’s failure helped trigger a freeze of global credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  