-- Ethiopian Troops to Stay in Somalia Until Government Set Up
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-06-22T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ethiopian-troops-to-stay-in-somalia-until-government-set-up-1-.html
Ethiopian forces will stay in
Somalia until an elected government is set up and takes over
from the interim administration, State Communications Minister
 Shimeles Kemal  told reporters in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian
capital.  Ethiopia’s intervention in Somalia is its second since
2006. Its forces withdrew in January 2009 after pushing the
Islamic Courts Union out of Mogadishu, and later becoming bogged
down in a guerrilla war with Islamic militants.  Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government is
supposed to hold elections and finish its transitional rule by
Aug. 20.  “Until the constituent assembly will ratify the
constitution, and thereby the establishment of a new democratic
and constitutional government will be ensured, Ethiopian forces
will remain there,” Shimeles said today.  Ethiopian troops in the towns of Baidoa and Beledweyne were
to be replaced by African Union peacekeepers from Uganda,
Djibouti and Burundi by the end of April, the AU said on March
10. The continental bloc sent its first 100 peacekeepers to
Baidoa on April 5, it said.  Ethiopian and AU forces, including troops from  Kenya , are
fighting to drive out al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-linked militant
group that has waged a five-year insurgency trying to topple the
country’s United Nations-backed transitional government.  Peacekeepers will remain until a new Somali government can
“control and secure the peace and stability of Somalia against
any possible attacks by extremists forces,” Shimeles said.  Somalia has had no effective central government since
rebels deposed former leader Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  