-- EU CO2 Auction Delay Proposal Said to Face Hurdles in Commission
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-22T14:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/eu-co2-auction-delay-proposal-said-to-face-hurdles-in-commission.html
A draft European Union proposal to
postpone sales of some carbon allowances faces hurdles after it
received a negative opinion from three departments of the bloc’s
regulatory arm, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The proposal on carbon auctions drafted by the European
Commission’s climate department is the subject of objections by
the directorates for industry, transport and economic and
financial affairs, according to three people who declined to be
identified because internal consultations on the document are
confidential.  The draft regulation, which would aim to help carbon prices
recover after they slumped to a record low earlier this year,
needs approval by the 27 EU commissioners before it is sent to
national governments for consideration. While the commission
votes by qualified majority, its members traditionally have
sought compromises on draft rules before adopting them.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said earlier this
month that she aimed to present the proposal to member states
before the European summer recess in August. The negative
opinions from departments headed by Industry Commissioner
Antonio Tajani, Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas and Economic
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  may mean the commission will need
more time to iron out a compromise, the three people said. It is
too early to rule out the end-of-July deadline, they said.  A spokeswoman for the EU, who declined to be named under
department policy, said the commission doesn’t comment on draft
proposals.  Carbon Allowances  Hedegaard first said in April that her directorate was
working on a proposal to delay auctions of some carbon
allowances at the beginning of the next trading period, which
runs from 2013 to 2020, and then reintroduce them to the market
later.  The number of permits to be postponed in the draft
regulation is confidential. The proposal will be based on the
findings of a planned report by the climate department on the
functioning of the EU cap-and-trade carbon market. The report,
which will be published along with the proposal, will sketch out
three theoretical scenarios to temporarily curb the oversupply:
withholding 400 million, 900 million of 1.2 billion permits
through 2015, people familiar with the matter said last week.  The objections voiced by the three departments include
concerns about the impact of the regulation on the
predictability of the EU emissions trading system, or ETS, a
lack of a full impact assessment, and questions over the
legality of postponing auctions.  Climate Department  The climate department has said that delaying the supply of
allowances can be done through an amendment to rules on carbon
auctions through the so-called comitology process. That would
avoid a revision of the bloc’s directive on the ETS, which lays
the foundation for carbon trading in the region.  While lawyers including Brussels-based Mihalis Kritikos, an
expert in EU law at White & Case legal practice, have argued
that a regulation to delay some auctions would be legitimate,
Luther Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH, a German firm representing
energy-intensive industries, said yesterday that the planned
proposal would breach the law.  The bloc’s market will be oversupplied with about 1.1
billion permits by the end of the current 2008-2012 trading
period, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The surplus
may be carried over to the next stage in the ETS.  EU permits for December rose as much as 7.5 percent today
to 8.14 euros a metric ton in the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London . The contract is still down 48 percent from a year ago on
concerns that the excess amount of permits may weigh on the
market at a time of recession and debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  