-- EU Ministers Clear Way for Transaction Tax in Some States
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-22T16:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/eu-ministers-clear-way-for-transaction-tax-in-some-states.html
European Union finance ministers
cleared the way for a financial-transaction tax to move forward
in at least nine  member states  after  Austria  said deadlock among
all 27 could threaten the euro area’s rescue fund.  The European Commission’s tax proposal “does not, as
required, have unanimous support,” Danish Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager , whose country holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, said during a meeting in Luxembourg. Now that an
impasse has been acknowledged, a smaller group of as few as nine
nations can propose to coordinate a tax among themselves.  Germany and Austria today said a transaction tax needs to
move forward in some form so their lawmakers will approve the
the 500 billion-euro ($627 billion) European Stability Mechanism
for it to start July 9 as planned. Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter urged nations to sign up to the next steps.  “If I don’t get the fellowship of more than 9 colleagues
here then the ESM would not be ratified in the Austrian
parliament. And this would really be a pity,” Fekter said.
After the meeting concluded, she told reporters that she
believed she had taken action to satisfy lawmakers in Austria’s
 Green Party  so they will back the ESM launch.  Negotiations for a tax among all 27 EU nations foundered
because of staunch opposition from the U.K., the Netherlands and
others. The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, last
year proposed a broad-based tax on stocks, bonds, derivatives
and other transactions that could raise an estimated 57 billion
euros annually.  Enhanced Cooperation  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta today said a move to
so-called enhanced cooperation among willing nations would be
better than no tax at all. Now potential participants need to
formally submit a transaction tax proposal with more specifics
on how it would work, which must be considered by the commission
and all 27 nations before the plan can progress.  “We had a show of hands today and discussed the issue
intensely and saw that 10 countries said that they are willing
to work on a financial transaction tax,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters after the meeting.  Luc Frieden, finance minister of Luxembourg, said it’s too
soon to say how the tax should proceed among willing countries.
“At this stage I can’t take part,” Frieden said, saying there
are “too many open questions.”  ‘Negative Impact’  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said his
nation would seek assurances that a financial transaction tax
among some nations would not harm the broader EU market. Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg today reiterated his country’s
skepticism toward the tax.  “A financial-transaction tax will increase borrowing costs
and it will have a negative impact on European growth and what
we need to do is restore growth, not to reduce it,” Borg said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  supported speeding up
efforts to introduce a tax on share and bond transactions in
order to overcome a hurdle that has held up German ratification
of the euro area’s new budget rules and the permanent rescue
fund.  With the time frame narrowing for the government to pass
the fiscal pact and bills setting up the ESM before parliament’s
summer recess, Merkel agreed to ignore the lack of broad support
in  Europe  for a financial-transaction tax and press ahead to
find backers, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the opposition  Social
Democratic Party  floor-leader, told reporters yesterday in
Berlin.  In Austria, the coalition government requires the votes of
one of the three opposition parties to achieve the required two-
thirds majority for the ESM in parliament. While the far-right
Freedom Party and Alliance for Austria’s Future have both said
they won’t vote for the ESM, the Green Party has made its vote
conditional on the introduction of a financial-transaction tax.
Fekter also has already budgeted revenue of 500 million euros
from a European financial-transaction tax as of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Luxembourg at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Luxembourg at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  