-- Merkel Parries Push for Euro Debt Plan as Growth Outline Agreed
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/european-leaders-agree-to-growth-plan-worth-1-of-euro-bloc-gdp.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
parried attempts to get her to accept more flexibility for the
euro-region’s rescue funds, while agreeing with leaders of
 Italy , Spain and  France  on an outline to spur economic growth.  At a four-way summit meeting in Rome yesterday, Merkel,
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , French President  Francois Hollande  and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said they
would lobby their European Union partners to accept a growth
plan of as much as 130 billion euros ($163 billion), or about 1
percent of the euro-region’s economic output.  With pressure mounting on Merkel to relent on her rejection
of additional joint debt burdens, European leaders are looking
to focus on growth as a way out of a sovereign debt crisis now
in its third year. They are racing to come up with a plan to
salvage the monetary union by a summit in Brussels next week,
the fourth such make-or-break meeting this year, as concerns
over  Spain ’s banks and flagging growth across the bloc shake
investor confidence.  “We want to make clear that we’re going to do everything
to fight for the euro,” Merkel told reporters at the Villa
Madama in Rome. “We need to approach the issues of growth and
employment for people more strongly after having already
intensively pursued the issue of consolidation.”  In an interview yesterday with a group of European
newspapers including Le Monde and El Pais, Monti said the
weeklong run up to the summit may prove critical to the survival
of the euro. Should leaders fail to produce a blueprint for a
tighter fiscal and financial union, there will be
“progressively greater speculative attacks” on the currency
bloc’s “weaker” nations.  Monti Proposals  Prior to the meeting, Monti had put forth his own proposal
for a banking union, including a European supervisor and a
deposit guarantee fund. He also pressed for nations to give up
some autonomy over their budgets, calling for a mechanism to
help bring down borrowing costs for nations that are meeting
their fiscal goals. Monti also stands with Hollande in favoring
euro-area countries collectively selling debt.  There was little sign at the four-way press conference that
Merkel backed a more flexible use of the existing bailout
mechanism. Asked why she opposed the euro bailout fund directly
recapitalizing Spanish banks, the German leader repeated that
“liabilities and controls go together.”  Merkel said she can’t support German taxpayer money being
channeled directly to a Spanish bank “because I have no
powers” of oversight. “I’m the German chancellor; I can tell
my banks that. You would have a huge problem here,” she said.  Eurobond Support  Hollande, who supports jointly issued euro bonds, said that
in “10 years, when there will be a union, an integration, euro
bonds will be a useful instrument for  Europe .” Merkel opposes
the proposal.  Earlier in the week, Merkel also balked at supporting a
proposal to use the bloc’s bailout fund to ease rising borrowing
costs by buying bonds of indebted countries. After Monti and
Hollande signaled their support for such a measure at a Group of
20 summit, Merkel said it “was not up for debate.”  That left yesterday’s agreement to flesh out a plan to spur
growth in the euro area, which the European Commission expects
to shrink 0.3 percent this year as six of its 17 members
contract. Growth “has become a priority,” Hollande said.  EIB Funding  European leaders have been supportive of boosting funds for
the  European Investment Bank  and financing for regional
infrastructure. The four leaders didn’t give specifics about the
growth plan or how it would be financed.  “The package has a ’shuffling of the deck chairs’ feel to
it,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said in an e-mail.  The four leaders did reach an agreement on moving forward
with a financial-transaction tax that could be used to fund
future bank rescues. Merkel, who has supported the tax, though
only on a wider European level, ceded ground on the issue after
 Germany ’s Social Democratic-led opposition demanded the tax in
exchange for their support for the permanent bailout fund and
the euro’s fiscal pact in parliament next week.  Rajoy, who on June 9 said his government would request a
much as 100 billion euros in aid for its ailing banks, said he
was pleased with the outcome in  Rome  because the leaders agreed
to “put into place all the mechanisms necessary to achieve
financial stability in the EU.” Rajoy didn’t give any details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Rome at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  