-- Ex-King Street Head Trader Goodwin Is Said to Plan Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-06-22T13:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ex-king-street-head-trader-goodwin-is-said-to-plan-fund.html
Kieran Goodwin, the former head
trader at King Street Capital Management LP, plans to start a
credit hedge fund in the fourth quarter, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Panning Capital Management LP, Goodwin’s New York-based
firm, will begin trading in mid-October with bets on and against
securities from loans to distressed assets, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.
Goodwin declined to comment.  Goodwin, 42, quit King Street in 2010 after six years with
the New York-based hedge fund, where he oversaw its team of 20
traders. He had previously worked at UBS Warburg as a director
of proprietary trading, and at Merrill Lynch & Co. and  Salomon
Brothers .  There were 304 hedge-fund startups in the first quarter,
the most in more than four years, according to Hedge Fund
Research Inc. About 232 funds liquidated, the most since the
first quarter of 2010, the Chicago-based research firm said.  Panning Capital plans to open the fund to investors in
November and limit the amount of money it raises to $500
million, the person said.  The firm plans to have an investment team of eight people
and has hired Jason Vivas, who previously worked at King Street,
as a senior trader. Sean Murdock, who oversaw U.S. credit
trading at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, will be a senior
credit analyst along with Craig Perry, who shuttered his hedge
fund Sabretooth Capital this year.  Bill Kelly, who was a founding partner at funds Talisker
Capital Management LP and Archeus Capital Management LLC, will
be Panning Capital’s chief operating officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  