-- Mexican CPI-Linked Bonds Advance as Inflation Rises Above Target
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-06-23T01:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/mexico-bonds-head-to-weekly-surge-after-fed-moves-to-spur-growth.html
Mexican bonds tied to consumer
prices advanced after a report showed annual inflation jumped
above the 4 percent ceiling in the government’s target range.  Yields on inflation-linked bonds, known as Udibonos, due in
December 2013 fell one basis points, 0.01 percentage point, to
0.22 percent at 4 p.m. in  Mexico  City, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has fallen 19 basis points this
week. The peso advanced 0.4 percent to 13.8624 per  U.S. dollar ,
resulting in a 0.4 percent gain this week.  Prices rose 0.24 percent in the first two weeks of June,
pushing annual inflation to 4.30 percent, from 3.85 percent in
May, the national statistics agency said on its website today.
Mexican policy makers were unanimous in their decision to keep
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged this month, according to
the minutes of the meeting published today on the bank’s
website.  “The annual inflation rate has started to rise and this is
what the market is seeing, in particular with Udibonos,”  Rafael
Camarena , an economist at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview. While inflation will end the year
below the upper limit of the government’s target range, “in the
coming months we’re going to have inflation like we’re seeing
now,” he said.  Banco de Mexico’s target range for annual price increases
is 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point. Central bank
board members said in the minutes they see inflation this year
and next at between 3 percent and 4 percent.  Inflation accelerated for the first time in four months in
May as the peso weakened 9.5 percent in the month, the worst
performance of the major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  