-- Mexican Policy Makers Were Unanimous in June Rate Decision
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-22T14:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/mexican-policy-makers-were-unanimous-in-june-rate-decision-1-.html
Mexican policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
this month, according to the minutes of the meeting published
today on the bank’s website.  Policy makers, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept
borrowing costs on hold at 4.5 percent, the second-lowest level
among major rate-setting central banks in  Latin America  after
Peru. The rate has remain at 4.5 percent for 27 straight
meetings.  Mexico and other Pacific coast nations in Latin America
have kept rates unchanged as policy makers study the impact of
the European crisis on their economies. Mexico may continue with
its wait-and-see mode if policy makers expect Europe’s crisis to
keep pressure on the country for months, BNP Paribas analysts
including Florencia Vazquez wrote June 19.  “A rate hike will be unlikely given that a potential
deepening of the eurozone crisis would represent increased risks
to growth,” they wrote in the e-mailed note. “A rate cut will
be unlikely given that any deterioration in eurozone conditions
and heightened global risk-aversion would put depreciation
pressures on the Mexican peso.”  The peso, which has weakened 7.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  so far this quarter, rose 0.7 percent to 13.82 at 10:28
a.m.  New York  time today.  Inflation accelerated for the first time in four months in
May as growth quickened and the peso weakened 9.5 percent in the
month, the worst performance of the major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Prices rose 0.24 percent in the first two weeks of June,
while annual inflation quickened to 4.30 percent from 3.85
percent in May, the national statistics agency said on its
website today. Inflation exceeded the 2 percent to 4 percent
target range.  Still, growth in Latin America’s second-largest economy
will slow to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent in 2011, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 