-- Facebook Starts Ads on Zynga to Expand Marketing Reach
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-22T22:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/facebook-starts-ads-on-zynga-to-expand-marketing-reach.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  has started showing
advertisements on  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s website as the company looks to
find new ways to help marketers reach users of the world’s
largest social network.  Some visitors to Zynga’s site are being shown what Facebook
calls “sponsored stories,” ads triggered when a Facebook
member “likes” a certain brand or business on the social site.
Previously, these ads only appeared on Facebook’s own site and
in its mobile applications.  “People may now see ads and sponsored stories from
Facebook on Zynga.com,” Annie Ta, a spokeswoman for Facebook,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “We don’t share any
information about people or advertisers with Zynga and
advertisers do not have any new targeting criteria.”  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , has fallen 13
percent since its stock market debut last month, amid concerns
that  ad revenue  growth isn’t keeping pace with surging
membership. During the first quarter, revenue rose 45 percent to
$1.06 billion, a slowdown from 55 percent in the December
period. Since the IPO the company has introduced mobile ads and
other services to boost sales.  Amy Sezak, a spokeswoman for Zynga, the San Francisco-based
maker of social games, declined to comment on the ads.  Earlier this week, Facebook agreed to pay $10 million to
advocacy groups for children, consumers and electronic privacy
to settle a group lawsuit challenging the use of subscribers’
likenesses in “sponsored stories.” It also consented to
revising its terms of usage so members can more easily see when
they’re being shown as endorsers of products and games for which
they clicked a “like” button.  The technology blog TechCrunch earlier today reported that
Facebook began showing ads on Zynga.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  