-- Facebook Donations for Unilever Charity Hold Key Ad Data
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-22T08:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/facebook-donations-for-unilever-charity-hold-key-ad-data.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  teamed up with
Unilever to let users donate to a clean water charity using
online credits as the social network tries to convince members
to make more transactions and gather information about them.  The project, called Water Works, will allow donations
through Facebook credits, consumer-goods maker Unilever said
today at the  Cannes Lions advertising festival  in  France .
Facebook Credits is a virtual-currency program that lets users
buy items for applications such as games on the site.  Facebook shares have fallen 16 percent since they began
trading last month amid concern that it will struggle to
increase profit from its more than 900 million users. If sites
such as the Water Works charity encourage more users to spend
money through Facebook, potential advertisers may be able to
identify premium users and their spending habits more easily,
said Miles Young, chief executive officer of  WPP Plc (WPP)  agency
Ogilvy & Mather.  “Facebook is starting to realize its biggest asset is its
data and its customer base, and if it can monetize that, that
will be the answer,” Young said in Cannes. “Then we’ll stop
worrying about it being an effective advertising medium or
not.”  Some advertisers are reluctant to spend with Facebook at
the moment because it’s difficult for companies to determine who
the “valuable” users are, who are willing to spend money and
can be targeted directly, he said.  Advertising Push  Facebook this month said it will introduce real-time
bidding for advertising on its site, a technology used by Google
Inc. and other Web companies to more effectively target ads to
consumers. The service, Facebook Exchange, will let advertisers
reach specific types of users on the social network based on
their browsing history.  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook brought in $3.15
billion from advertising last year and has introduced mobile ads
and other services to boost sales.  Still, a Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted online from May 31 to
June 4 showed a minority of users being influenced by ads. Just
one in five people on Facebook have bought products because of
advertising or comments they saw on the site, that poll found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  