-- FCC Back at Culture-War Center After ‘NYPD Blue’ Ruling
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fcc-back-at-culture-war-center-after-nypd-blue-ruling.html
A U.S.  Supreme Court  decision
tossing out sanctions against Fox and ABC left regulators with
the power to punish broadcasters for airing nudity and
expletives, and writers and performers groping for clarity.  “Creative media artists now likely face many more years of
uncertainty as to what precisely is or is not indecent” under
U.S. policy, Jonathan Rintels, executive director of the Center
for Creative Voices in Media, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Justices, in an 8-0  ruling  yesterday, didn’t address the
constitutionality of the Federal Communications Commission’s
indecency rules, while throwing out almost $1.24 million in
fines against affiliates of Walt Disney Co.’s ABC network and a
notice of liability against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Television Stations
Inc. that didn’t carry a monetary penalty.  The FCC now must decide how vigorously to enforce its
rules, knowing there may be new court challenges, as it faces
pressure from its Republican minority members and lawmakers to
prevent children from seeing nudity and hearing expletives. The
agency hasn’t brought new indecency cases since Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, took office in 2009 following two
Republican chairmen.  Robert McDowell, a Republican FCC member, called for the
agency to rule on a backlog of almost 1.5 million indecency
complaints about 9,700 programs. “The commission has a duty to
act quickly to outline its indecency standards,” he said in an
interview.  Genachowski, in an e-mailed statement yesterday, said he
was reviewing the high court’s decision.  “The FCC will carry out Congress’s directive to protect
young TV viewers,” he said.  ‘Sizeable Backlog’  Genachowski, in a letter released by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee last year, said court action had slowed
progress toward eliminating “the sizeable backlog we
inherited.” Federal law lets the FCC levy a $325,000 fine on
each station that airs indecent material between 6 a.m. and 10
p.m.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Commerce Committee, said the decision is “a
victory for those of us who believe that we must be doing more,
not less” to protect children from indecent programming.  “I would remind executives in  New York  and Hollywood that
they should act responsibly when it comes to the entertainment
they are sending, via the public’s airwaves, into family rooms
across the country,” Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan
Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee,
said in an e-mailed statement.  NYPD Blue  The Supreme Court ruled the FCC didn’t give fair notice
before punishing Fox for airing expletives on two live awards
shows and the ABC stations for showing a naked woman on the
drama series “NYPD Blue.”  In his opinion for the court, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said
the 2004 policy couldn’t be applied to the Fox and ABC shows
because they were aired before the fleeting-expletive rule was
announced.  Broadcasters had wanted more, asking the court to
invalidate the FCC’s policy as being unconstitutionally vague,
and to overturn decades-old rulings that subject over-the-air
programming to stricter rules than cable or satellite shows.  The topic is divisive and unrelated to jobs, so Genachowski
won’t give it the priority of economic issues such as making
more airwaves available for wireless Internet use,  Paul Gallant ,
a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim Securities, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Nicole Richie  Programming sent over the air won’t change because
consumers and advertisers expect broadcast fare to be less
explicit than shows on cable or satellite TV, which isn’t
covered by the indecency rules,  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for
the  National Association of Broadcasters , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Supreme Court case concerned incidents at the Billboard
Music Awards, shown on Fox. At the 2002 show, Cher referred to
critics of her work by saying, “F--- ’em. I still have a job
and they don’t.” A year later,  Nicole Richie  said, “Have you
ever tried to get cow s--- out of a Prada purse? It’s not so f--
-ing simple.”  In the “NYPD Blue” case, a 2003 episode shows actress
 Charlotte Ross ’s buttocks as she disrobes for a shower and later
a frontal view, with her hands covering her breasts and pubic
area, after a young boy inadvertently walks in.  Wardrobe Malfunction  Yesterday’s ruling may affect the FCC’s effort to levy a
$550,000 fine against  CBS Corp. (CBS)  for the split-second exposure of
singer  Janet Jackson ’s breast during the 2004 Super Bowl
halftime show.  As a result of FCC policy, broadcasters airing live
programming are forced to use time-delay technology and make
difficult choices about whether to cover certain events at all,
according to a  brief  filed with the court by the broadcasters’
association. One broadcaster spent about $200,000 to outfit its
24 stations with delay technology, according to the brief that
didn’t identify the broadcaster.  “The court recognized that the case has significant First
Amendment implications that require notice to be clearer,” Dan Berger, a spokesman for Fox, said in an e-mailed statement.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and CBS Corp.’s CBS joined ABC and Fox
in opposing the FCC indecency crackdown.  The case is FCC v. Fox Television Stations, 10-1293.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  