-- Fed’s Bullard Says QE3 Would Have ‘High Hurdle’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-22T14:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fed-s-bullard-says-qe3-would-have-high-hurdle-.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said today a possible third round of
quantitative easing would face a “pretty high hurdle.”  “We can do that and I think it would be effective,”
Bullard said in a television interview on Bloomberg Surveillance
with  Tom Keene . “But we’d be taking a lot more risk on our
balance sheet. We’d be going further into uncharted territory.”  The Fed has already bought $2.3 trillion of securities in
two quantitative-easing programs. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this
week signaled the Federal Reserve will probably add to its
record stimulus should the economy fail to make sufficient
progress in creating jobs for 12.7 million unemployed Americans.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on June 20
extended its Operation Twist program and said it will swap $267
billion in short-term securities with longer-term debt through
the end of 2012.  “It’s a continuation of the existing policy,” said
Bullard, who doesn’t vote on the Fed’s monetary policy this
year. “The committee felt that it was maybe a bit imprudent to
end the twist program right at this particular juncture. The
committee has kind of been haunted by having end dates on
programs and it seems like the end dates never occur at the
right moment.” Operation Twist was to have ended this month.  Low Levels  Bullard said that “Treasury yields have gone to
extraordinarily low levels. That took some of the pressure off
the FOMC since a lot of our policy actions would be trying to
get exactly that result.”  U.S. stocks rose after yesterday’s selloff, as the
downgrade of global banks by Moody’s Investors Service was
followed by rallies in financial shares. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.5 percent to 1,331.83 at 9:31 a.m.  New York 
time.  Borrowing costs have fallen since the Fed announced
Operation Twist last year. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note fell to a record low 1.4387 on June 1. The yield has since
risen to 1.66 percent.  Bullard said today that he expects “modest improvement in
the labor markets as we go through the end of the year here.”  Unemployment, Growth  Fed officials predicted on June 20 that unemployment will
be 8 percent to 8.2 percent at year-end, compared with an April
projection of 7.8 percent to 8 percent.  Fed officials also downgraded their forecasts for growth
and employment while noting “significant downside risks” to
the economy remain.  Bullard said today the “potential growth rate of the  U.S.
economy  is down from what it was.”  “So, 2 percent is really about as good as you can expect.
It might be the potential growth rate of the U.S. economy,”
Bullard said.  The St. Louis Fed president said that although a real
breakdown in Europe could trigger Fed liquidity facilities, he
is not expecting it. Instead, Bullard said he sees a ”long
drawn-out scenario.”  Bullard, 51, who has never dissented from a decision by the
FOMC, will be a voting  member  of the policy-setting body in
2013.  He was deputy director of research and monetary analysis at
the reserve bank before he was named president in 2008, when he
succeeded  William Poole . The St. Louis district includes
 Arkansas  and parts of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,  Mississippi ,
 Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  