-- Fed's Lacker Says Operation Twist Won't Help Growth, Jobs
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-22T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fed-s-lacker-says-operation-twist-won-t-help-growth-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he dissented from the Fed’s $267
billion extension of its Operation Twist program believing it
would spur inflation and not significantly help the economy.  “I do not believe that further monetary stimulus would
make a substantial difference for economic growth and employment
without increasing inflation by more than would be desirable,”
Lacker said in a statement today from the Richmond Fed.  Central bank officials on June 20 downgraded their
forecasts for growth and employment while noting “significant
downside risks” to the economy. Lacker opposed the Fed’s
announcement that it will swap short-term  Treasury securities 
with longer-term debt in an effort to hold down borrowing costs.
He has dissented from all four Federal Open Market Committee
decisions this year.  “While the outlook for economic growth has clearly
weakened in recent weeks, the impediments to stronger growth
appear to be beyond the capacity of monetary policy to offset,”
Lacker said.  The Richmond Fed Chief previously opposed Fed statements
this year because he said it may be necessary to raise  interest
rates  before the late-2014 timeframe the central bank set out in
January. The Fed lowered its target rate to near zero in
December 2008.  The FOMC’s announcement this week was an extension of an
existing program that was announced Sept. 21 and would have
expired this month. Under the program the Fed was selling $400
billion of short-term government debt and replacing it with the
same amount of longer-term Treasuries.  Stocks Fell  U.S. stocks fell on the day of the Fed’s announcement and
tumbled further yesterday, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to the second-biggest loss of the year. Commodities
entered a  bear market  while Treasuries and the dollar rallied as
reports on global manufacturing fueled concern the economy is
slowing.  Borrowing costs have fallen since the Fed announced
Operation Twist last year. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note fell to a record low 1.4387 on June 1. The yield has since
risen to 1.62 percent.  Lacker said that inflation remains close to the central
bank’s 2 percent goal. Prices rose 1.8 percent in the year
through April according to the Department of Commerce’s personal
consumption expenditures index which the Fed prefers. Excluding
food and energy, prices were up 1.9 percent from a year ago,
according to the index.  ‘Persistent Fall’  “Should a substantial and persistent fall in inflation
emerge, monetary stimulus may be appropriate to ensure the
return of inflation toward the Committee’s 2 percent goal,”
Lacker said.  The Fed must remain vigilant about its goal for prices
because “a significant increase in inflation could threaten the
Fed’s credibility and make it more difficult to achieve the
Committee’s longer-run goals, including maximum employment,” he
said.  Lacker, 56, became a voting member of the FOMC in January
as part of a rotation among the Fed’s 12 regional presidents. He
became president of the Richmond Fed in 2004 after five years as
director of the regional bank’s research department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  