-- Fed Twist to Spark Increase in Bill Sales, Stone & McCarthy Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-22T19:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fed-twist-to-spark-increase-in-bill-sales-stone-mccarthy-says.html
The U.S. will probably boost
Treasury-bill sales over the next few months to make up for a
shortfall of cash due to the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to extend
Operation Twist, Stone & McCarthy Research Associates said.  Fed policy makers said this week they’ll expand Operation
Twist, their maturity-extension program, through year-end to
keep borrowing costs low by selling or redeeming shorter-term
 U.S. debt  in their holdings and buying an equal amount of
longer-term securities. In the process, the Treasury will need
to raise $33 billion as the central bank redeems bills and notes
due by the end of the year, the firm said.  When the Fed reinvests maturing holdings at auctions, the
Treasury issues securities to it in addition to what’s sold to
the public, Stone & McCarthy’s Nancy Vanden Houten said in a
note today. If the central bank lets holdings mature, the
Treasury needs to raise the money by increasing the amount sold
to the public or by drawing down cash. It will probably make
“some modest increases in bill auctions,” she wrote.  “Most of the redemptions come in July, and a lot of that
will be bills,” Vanden Houten, senior government policy analyst
at the firm in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “By
increasing the bill-auction sizes, it will allow the Treasury to
accommodate the Fed’s redemptions. Overall, the amount of debt
Treasury has to issue to the public over the next few years will
be quite a bit bigger, because the Fed has sold back virtually
all of its holdings to the public.”  Weekly Auction  The Treasury will increase the size of its weekly auction
of four-week bills to $35 billion by early August, from $30
billion now, to accommodate the shortfall, Vanden Houten
forecast.  After selling $400 billion in debt with maturities of three
years or less in the current program, which was set to end this
month, the Fed’s arsenal of short-term debt has been depleted.
To finance the $267 billion in debt due in six to 30 years it
plans to buy, the central bank will allow $33 billion of
Treasuries due from July 1 to Dec. 31 to mature without
reinvesting the proceeds in new debt. The Fed will sell $234
billion outright of Treasury debt.  The majority of the redemptions will come this summer, with
$20 billion in July and $12 billion in August, according to the
Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . In July, $18.4 billion of that
redeemed will be four-week Treasury bills, with the remainder in
coupon securities, according to Stone & McCarthy.  Rate Slid  The  rate  on the one-month Treasury bill, which was 0.0356
percent today, has averaged 0.0243 percent over the past year.
The rate was just under 5 percent in January 2007, before the
collapse of the subprime lending market triggered the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Fed policy makers have kept the benchmark  interest rate  in
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. In their
statement on June 20, they reiterated that economic conditions
will probably warrant keeping the rate “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014.  “Without reinvestment, the Treasury will have to keep bill
sizes more elevated than otherwise to make up for the lost add-
on amounts at the auction,” Stanley Sun, an  interest-rate 
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, co-wrote with
 George Goncalves , the bank’s head of interest-rate strategy, in
a note published today.  Nomura expects four-week bill auction sizes to increase by
about $5 billion by about mid-July.  Editors: Greg Storey, Kenneth Pringle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  