-- Flaherty’s Mortgage Rules Poised to Take Heat off Toronto
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-22T15:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/flaherty-s-mortgage-rules-poised-to-take-heat-off-toronto.html
Brendan Donnelly is relieved
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is taking additional
steps to cool Toronto’s housing market.  The insurance broker, 25, was married in October and wants
to buy a home when his lease expires on his Toronto condo in
seven months.  “I’m hoping it will make it more likely I will buy a
home,” said Donnelly, who is looking for a two-bedroom home for
under C$500,000 ($486,000) so he can start a family in the next
two years. “There will be less people looking to buy homes in
the near future.”  Donnelly may get his wish. Flaherty’s decision to tighten
mortgage rules could take the heat out of a Toronto real estate
market where average prices have surged by a third to C$516,787
from five years ago and there are more skyscrapers under
construction than any city in  North America .  “I think it will cool off the mortgage real estate market
coast to coast,” said Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer at
the Sun Life Global Investments unit of  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) 
Adatia thinks housing prices will drop 15 percent.  In  reducing  maximum amortization periods to 25 years from
30 and reducing the most homeowners can borrow against the value
of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Flaherty singled
out Toronto -- where the number of completed condo units next
year will be double the five-year average -- for its
“continuous building, without restriction.”  Some Moderation  “This concerns me because it’s distorting the market, quite
frankly,” Flaherty told reporters yesterday in Ottawa. “And
for that reason we’re taking the steps that we have today.”  Flaherty, 62, said condo pricing in  Vancouver  has “seen
some moderation,” while the markets in  Montreal  and  Quebec City 
remain strong.  “What Flaherty must be looking at is just the level of
supply coming online,” Ben Myers, executive vice-president of
Toronto-based research firm  Urbanation . About 18,000 to 20,000
new units are expected to be completed this year, followed by
25,000 to 28,000 units in 2013. Supply has averaged 12,000 to
13,000 new completions over the last five years, he said.  Stricter rules may scare off first-time homebuyers that
have been driving growth in markets such as Toronto, Myers said.  “We’ve already started to see a bit of a cooling” in
Toronto’s condo market, Myers said in a telephone interview.
“This just adds to that.”  Tightened Lending  Along with new guidelines set by  Canada ’s banking
regulator, the changes “may precipitate the housing market
downturn the government so desperately wants to avoid,” said
 Jim Murphy , chief executive officer of the Canadian Association
of Accredited Mortgage Professionals.  Increased levels of construction in some Canadian cities
concerned bank executives including Gerald McCaughey, CEO of
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , who said in April that a
high level of homebuilding could create a glut, leading to a
market correction.  CIBC and other banks tightened lending standards for condo
builders after warnings from Canada’s Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, developers said in
March.  Under the new rules, the monthly payment on a C$350,000
mortgage with an interest rate of 3.29 percent would rise to
C$1,713.01 under a 25-year amortization period from C$1,530.92
over 30 years, Bloomberg calculations show.  Ended Search  Canada also will cap payments on housing-related expenses
at 39 percent of income and limit government mortgage insurance
to homes valued at less than C$1 million.  Jamie McQuay, who recently ended a two-year search to move
his family from their Toronto condominium to a house in the
city’s trendy Trinity-Bellwoods community, is not sure the
changes will have much effect.  “The areas we’re looking at I don’t think it’s going to
work because it’s a shortage of houses,” said McQuay, 36, who
runs a  software company . “There’s just not that many houses for
sale.”  Maria Jenkins, a broker for RE/MAX Hallmark Realty Ltd. on
the Danforth in the city’s east end, said she didn’t believe
there was a housing bubble and wasn’t worried about the new
rules after 28 years in the business.  “There is not much inventory to satisfy the demand and we
are already dealing with major lenders who have tightened their
rules and appraisers being more conservative,” Jenkins said.
“The most affected will be investors in rental properties,
speculators.”  Past Tightening  Jim Ritchie, senior vice president of sales and marketing
at Toronto-based real estate developer Tridel, said most
homebuyers in Toronto won’t be affected because the tightening
won’t apply to them.  “This is going to affect affordability a bit,” said
Ritchie. “But I don’t think it’s draconian and that it’s going
to cause massive problems here.”  Before today’s announcement, Flaherty had tightened
mortgage insurance rules three times since 2008. Following each
move, national average resale housing prices declined, only to
regain the lost ground and continue climbing, according to data
from the  Canadian Real Estate Association . Canadian  home prices 
increased 19 percent from the start of 2007 through April.  The government doesn’t plan to raise the mortgage insurance
limit of CMHC, which had C$570 billion of insurance in force at
the end of March, Flaherty said. He said the government plans
instead to raise the limit for private mortgage insurers such as
 Genworth MI Canada Inc. (MIC)  to C$300 billion from $250 billion.  Alternative lenders may step into the breach as business
shifts away from banks, said Stephen Boland, an analyst at GMP
Securities in Toronto.  “The government doesn’t necessarily need to be, at the end
of the day, in the mortgage insurance business,” Flaherty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  