-- Forint Caps Third Week of Gains on IMF Prospect: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-22T15:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/forint-heads-for-third-week-of-gains-on-imf-budapest-mover.html
The forint capped a third week of
gains as the government proposed amendments to a central bank
law that has blocked bailout talks for seven months.  Hungary ’s currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent and
last traded 0.1 percent stronger at 287.7 per euro by 5:18 p.m.
in Budapest, taking its weekly advance to 2.2 percent, the
biggest jump in the past five days among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The proposed changes to the law on the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
will bring it in line with European Union regulations and
address concerns raised by the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , according to the draft posted on
parliament’s website yesterday. Parliament may approve the bill
in two weeks,  Mihaly Varga , Hungary’s chief negotiator for
international aid, told the MTI state news service on June 20.  “In recent days, appreciation on Hungarian markets was
fueled by increasingly positive expectations regarding the start
of IMF talks in the near future,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, and colleagues wrote in a
research report today.  Investors should sell the forint against the European
common currency as Hungary’s request for the IMF credit line
faces more delays,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  said today.
The forint will “gradually” depreciate against the euro in the
summer, Adam Keszeg, a Budapest-based analyst at the bank, wrote
in a research report today.  Hungary’s economic sentiment index rose in June after the
gauge plunged the most since the onset of the global credit
crisis in the country in late 2008, data showed today. The index
improved to minus 24.5 from minus 24.9 in May, the GKI research
institute in Budapest said in an e-mailed statement.  “While tangible steps forward in IMF talks may justify the
current euro-forint levels, volatility cannot be ruled out until
the market actually witnesses these tangible steps,” Erste’s
Arokszallasi wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  