-- Fortescue Challenges Mining Tax in Australia Court
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-22T07:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fortescue-challenges-mining-tax-in-australia-court.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  sued
Australia’s federal government in the country’s top court over a
plan to tax iron ore and coal company profits, threatening a key
source of future government revenue.  In documents filed today in the  High Court  of Australia,
Fortescue, the nation’s third-biggest iron-ore exporter, seeks a
ruling declaring the Mineral Resource and Rent Tax invalid. The
tax discriminates between the states, curtails their sovereignty
and restricts their ability to encourage mining, Perth-based
Fortescue said in the court filing.  “We have a good case for challenging the Mineral Resource
Rent Tax on constitutional grounds and we look forward to the
resolution of these important issues by the High Court,” Chief
Executive Officer Nev Power said today in a statement.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is implementing the levy from
July 1 as she bids to turn the government’s budget to surplus by
next year. The tax is expected to reap about A$10.6 billion
($10.7 billion) within three years from Fortescue,  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and other mining companies, according to
Treasury estimates released in October. Big policy changes often
draw challenges, said  Nick Economou , a political analyst at
 Monash University  in Melbourne.  Tobacco Challenge  “Historically in Australia, in fights over state and
federal matters, the Commonwealth nearly always wins,” Economou
said. “Still, the High Court can sometimes surprise.” Should
the government lose, Gillard will be able to find other ways to
meet her surplus promise, he said.  Last year, the High Court struck down Gillard’s plan to
send illegal immigrants who arrive by boat to Malaysia.  Tobacco
companies  are challenging a law that would require cigarettes to
be sold in plain packages.  “There’s a significant business interest at stake” in the
Fortescue case and it’s not a surprise that the legality of the
tax would be challenged,  George Williams , a professor of
constitutional law at the University of New South Wales in
Sydney, said today in a phone interview. “Billions of dollars
are at stake.”  Williams said it’s not possible to judge Fortescue’s
prospects of success at this time because they will depend on
the legal arguments the company files. A verdict “can turn on
fine distinctions in the legislation,” he said.  Shares in Fortescue, founded by billionaire  Andrew Forrest ,
rose 2.5 percent to A$4.91 at the close of trading in Sydney,
compared with a 1 percent decline in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200
Index. (AS51)   ‘Dodgy Mining Tax’  “Mr. Forrest has made it clear that he is staunchly
opposed to the government delivering the Minerals Resource Rent
Tax,” the office of Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The government is determined to deliver the
tax to help tackle these patchwork pressures, deliver tax relief
for millions of small businesses and invest in critical
productivity-enhancing infrastructure.”  Tony Abbott , head of the opposition Liberal-National
coalition, has promised to scrap the mining tax if the Labor
government is defeated in the election, scheduled for the second
half of next year.  A challenge against the “dodgy mining tax was always
inevitable,” Senator Mathias Cormann, the opposition treasury
critic, said in a statement today.  Gillard’s  Labor party  trailed the opposition by 22
percentage points in a nationwide poll taken May 31-June 2 by
Nielsen which had a margin of error of 2.6 percent. Her agenda
has prompted criticism by business leaders ranging from BHP
Chairman Jacques Nasser to Rio Tinto Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese to the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  Miners in states with lower rates of royalties than other
states will have to pay more federal tax, Fortescue said in its
court filing. That would eliminate a state’s competitive
advantage, the company said.  Expansion Plan  The federal tax will “have the effect of rendering
illusory and inefficacious any determination by a state to
differentiate itself from other states or countries,” Fortescue
said.  The company plans to almost triple annual  iron-ore  output
from its Western Australian mines to 155 million metric tons by
June 2013.  The case is between Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and The
Commonwealth of Australia. S163/2012. High Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  