-- France’s Three Biggest Banks Have ‘Weak’ Funding, Moody’s Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-06-22T12:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/france-s-three-biggest-banks-have-weak-funding-moody-s-says.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA
and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , among 15 global banks downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service, have “weaker” funding than many of
their large competitors, the ratings company said.  “There is one common factor which does distinguish them,
that’s the financing and liquidity structures, which we see as
weaker than many other banks,” Nicholas Hill, senior vice
president at Moody’s in Paris, said in a telephone interview
today. “Many of the 15 banks have more deposits than loans and
more liquidity on their balance sheets.”  The possibility of the downgrades had weighed on the banks
since Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing 17 banks with
capital-markets operations because of fragile confidence and
tighter regulations that pinched revenue. Pressure has mounted
as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified and cast doubt on
the health of some of the continent’s lenders.  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, has a “strong
liquidity profile” with 201 billion euros ($252 billion) liquid
asset reserves as of the end of March, the Paris-based bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. BNP Paribas has 51 billion euros
of “excess stable resources against customer funding needs,”
it said.  BNP Paribas’s long-term senior unsecured  debt rating  was
reduced two grades to A2,  Societe Generale ’s was lowered one
level to A2 and  Credit Agricole  was cut two steps to A2. While
BNP’s and Societe Generale’s have  stable outlooks , Moody’s gave
Credit Agricole a negative outlook.  Officials at Credit Agricole, based near Paris, and Societe
Generale declined to comment on Moody’s decision.  BNP Paribas was 1.4 percent  lower  at 29.21 euros as of 1:36
p.m. in Paris, Societe Generale was 2.3 percent higher at 18.15
euros and Credit Agricole was up 2.1 percent at 3.41 euros.
Before today, BNP Paribas had fallen 3.8 percent this year,
Societe Generale had risen 3.1 percent and Credit Agricole had
tumbled 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  