-- French Energy Minister Batho Backed Oil Company Tax in Past
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-06-22T13:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/french-energy-minister-batho-backed-oil-company-tax-in-past.html
France ’s newly appointed Energy
Minister Delphine Batho previously supported taxing oil
companies to help replenish government coffers and pay for
transport infrastructure.  Batho, 39, takes over the Ecology, Sustainable Development
and Energy portfolio from Nicole Bricq, who held the position
for five weeks and suspended offshore drilling plans by  Total SA (FP) 
off  French Guiana  only to later reinstate them.  While debating an environment law in 2008, Batho, then in
opposition, presented an amendment that would have tapped the
oil industry as a source of funding for public transport during
times of budgetary constraints.  While the amendment was rejected, it echoes a pledge by
Socialist President  Francois Hollande  during the presidential
campaign to impose special taxes on banks and oil companies to
raise money for the state in the absence of economic growth.  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault reshuffled his
government yesterday following legislative elections that handed
Hollande a parliamentary majority in the National Assembly,
where Batho is a lawmaker from the Deux-Sevres department in
western France. She was one of his spokesmen during the
campaign.  Batho, who specializes in security issues, was a member of
the law commission in parliament and vice-president of the food
and health group, according to the National Assembly  website .  Start Drilling  In the first energy decision by the new government today,
Total, along with partners  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tullow Oil
Plc (TLW) , got the go-ahead to start drilling off the coast of French
Guiana as they seek to confirm last year’s landmark find.  Their drilling plans were thrown into question last week
after Bricq suspended exploration permits and then did an about-
face to reinstate the validity of those already granted. The
companies have a $1 million-a-day drilling rig in place to begin
probing the deepwater Guyane Maritime permit in French Guiana,
an overseas region of France bordering  Brazil .  Bricq’s ouster is a “strange signal” from Ayrault’s
government, Greens Senator Jean-Vincent Place said in an
interview on Europe 1 radio today. The change may have resulted
from “extremely strong lobbying” from the  oil companies , who
wanted to be allowed to continue their exploration campaign.  Batho is expected to make a decision within a month on
whether to raise regulated natural gas prices in the French
market dominated by GDF Suez SA. New power rates by Electricite
de France SA could also be decided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  