-- Fukushima Plant Faces Typhoon Summer Plus Tornado Threat
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-06-22T06:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/fukushima-plant-faces-typhoon-summer-with-added-tornado-threat.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant faces its second typhoon season since
the March 11 disaster last year, raising the risk of further
radiation leaks if storms thrash exposed pools of uranium fuel
rods or tanks holding contaminated water.  Typhoon Guchol hit Japan this week and moved up the main
island of Honshu, prompting warnings of floods and landslides
from the  Japan Meteorological Agency . The Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant wasn’t damaged by the storm, which passed north of the
crippled nuclear station,  Tokyo Electric  spokesman Taichi
Okazaki said by telephone on June 21.  Typhoons rake through Japan’s islands most summers. The
difference this year is Guchol arrived just a month after one of
the most powerful tornadoes ever recorded in the nation hit
Tsukuba, about 170 kilometers (106 miles) southwest of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi facility. The tornado, one of four to make
landfall on May 6, ripped through an area 17 kilometers long and
500 meters wide, the weather agency said in a May 16  report .  The twisters killed a teenage boy, injured 50, wrecked
nearly 300 houses and raised concern among scientists about
tornado risk at the Fukushima plant, where explosions last year
blew roofs off pools holding spent uranium fuel rods.  ‘Naked’ Pools  “Uranium spent fuel pools of No. 3 and No. 4 reactors are
currently naked,” Kazuhiko Kudo, a research professor of
nuclear engineering at  Kyushu University , said on June 5. “A
tornado with winds of 100 meters per second like the one that
hit Tsukuba could suck up the pool water,” exposing the fuel
rods. He raised the concern during a meeting assessing safety
measures at the crippled plant in May, he said.  As dismantling and decommissioning the reactors will take
decades, Tepco should review the plant’s safety measures against
not only aftershocks and tsunamis but also tornadoes and huge
typhoons, even if the possibility of extreme phenomena are very
low, said Kudo, one of 12 members of the  advisory panel  to the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, or NISA.  Hydrogen explosions blew off the roofs and walls of reactor
buildings at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station after the March 11
quake and tsunami disrupted power and cooling systems. There are
1,535 spent fuel rods in the cooling pool of reactor building
four. Without cooling water the rods would heat up and start
releasing radioactive material into the atmosphere  Tornado Risk  The utility known as Tepco hasn’t decided to install any
additional safety measures against tornadoes, Junichi Matsumoto,
a general manager at the utility, told reporters May 7. “It may
be necessary to investigate the possibility of tornadoes in
Fukushima, but we don’t plan to take any action at the moment,”
Matsumoto said.  Tornadoes, which typically occur in flat lands, tend to hit
coastal areas in Japan, mostly in September and October,
according to the weather agency.  “It seems Japan has had more tornadoes, down bursts and
flurries of winds in recent years as atmospheric conditions have
destabilized,” Norio Shimoyama, a weather forecaster at the
Japan Weather Association, said in an interview.  Thirty-seven tornadoes hit Japan in 2010, the most since
the Meteorological Agency expanded its monitoring of them in
2007, according to the agency’s  data . The U.S., about 25 times
bigger than Japan, had an average of  1,253 tornadoes  per year
between 1991 and 2010, according to the National Climate Data
Center.  Radioactive Water  A tornado strike in Fukushima could damage hundreds of
tanks with contaminated water that the utility stockpiles there,
Kudo said.  Much of the water injected into damaged reactors to cool
melted fuel leaked into basements of plant buildings. Nearly
 100,000 cubic meters  of highly radioactive water is stored at
the plant, according to the utility, even after Tepco used
decontamination and desalination systems for about a year.  As concentrated salt water produced in the decontamination
systems contains high levels of radioactive strontium, the
utility keeps the processed water in tanks. About 140,000 cubic
meters, enough to fill 58 Olympic-sized swimming pools, of
concentrated salt water is stored at the plant, according to the
utility.  Scary Tornado  Tepco plans to install a new water processing system that
can remove strontium and other types of radioactive substances
by the end of September and decontaminate all the salt water by
September 2015, it said in a May 12  report  to NISA.  “The site bristles with tanks holding radioactive water,”
said Kudo, who has visited the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant as a
member of the government panel.  Tepco is trying to identify tornado risks and undertaking
necessary safety measures, including construction of dams around
water tanks, Shinji Obata, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the
utility, said by phone. There were 858 tanks at the site as of
May 30, he said.  The Fukushima nuclear plant may have released about 900,000
terabecquerels of the iodine equivalent of radioactive iodine
131 and cesium 137 into the air at the height of the disaster,
Tepco  said  May 24. The amount is about 17 percent of the amount
released at the 1986 Chernobyl accident, it said.  Water Leaks  The utility also has had leaks of radioactive water at the
plant since the disaster. About 11,000 terabecquerels of iodine
131 and 7,100 terabecquerels of cesium 134 and 137 may have
leaked into the sea between March 26 and Sept. 30, Tepco  said .  Tepco’s Matsumoto said he isn’t aware of any internal
discussions about tornado impact. Tepco is more concerned about
a building cover, he said.  Tepco  completed  installing a temporary cover at the No. 1
reactor building to prevent the diffusion of radioactive
substances by the end of October. The cover is designed to
withstand winds of 25 meters per second (56 miles per hour),
Matsumoto said.  The state-owned weather agency upgraded the tornado that
hit the Tsukuba area to F3, the third-strongest on the Fujita
Scale Intensity Scale comprising six categories, from its
initial rating of F2 on June 8. An F3 level tornado has wind
speeds of 70-92 meters per second under the Fujita scale,
according to the weather agency.  Design Risk  The wind speeds may have been over 100 meters per second in
some areas, according to an on-site investigation by Yukio
Tamura, a  professor  of architecture and wind engineering at
Tokyo Polytechnic University.  “Tornadoes haven’t been assumed in designs for Japanese
building for many years as the probability of one building being
hit by a tornado is about once in 40,000 years in  Japan ,” said
Tamura, who is a member of the agency’s  panel  to discuss ways to
improve windblast forecast.  As tornadoes tend to hit coastal areas in Japan, nuclear
power plants and some other structures such as liquefied natural
gas terminals should have higher safety standards against strong
winds, Tamura said. Typhoons sometimes accompany tornadoes,
Tamura said.  “Even when a nuclear power plant is normal, pipes and
power cables may be damaged by objects blown off by a tornado,
which could lead to a big accident, given the Fukushima example,
it should be seriously considered.”  ‘Souteigai’ Not  Tepco’s executives had been informed about its own research
showing the plant could be hit by a tsunami more than 10 meters
high before the station was swamped by powerful waves in March
2011, it said last August. That contradicted earlier claims by
top officials including former President  Masataka Shimizu , who
resigned after the disaster, that such a tsunami was
“souteigai,” which means it was unforeseen.  “The tsunami attack wasn’t ’souteigai.’ Even though many
studies warned about it, Tokyo Electric turned a deaf ear,” a
commission led by Koichi Kitazawa, former chairman of the Japan
Science and Technology Agency, said in its Feb. 28 report.
“Speaking of ‘souteigai’ is an excuse for giving up on risk
management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  