-- Gen Re, AIG Defendants May Win Dismissal of Fraud Cases
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-23T06:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/gen-re-aig-defendants-seek-to-avoid-fraud-retrial.html
Four former General Reinsurance
Corp. executives and one at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
would win dismissal of accounting fraud charges under proposed
deferred-prosecution agreements with the government.  The  Justice Department  yesterday filed in court five
agreements with the executives, who were convicted in 2008 of
fraud for helping to deceive AIG investors through a sham
transaction in 2000 and 2001.  They were sentenced to prison terms of as much as four
years. An appeals court overturned the convictions and ordered a
new trial in Hartford, Connecticut.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant must approve the
agreements covering former General Re Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad,
ex-Senior Vice President Christopher Garand, ex-Assistant
General Counsel Robert Graham, and former AIG Vice President
Christian Milton. Prosecutors agreed to drop the case in a year
if the executives abide by the accords and follow the law.  Each executive would acknowledge that “aspects” of the
transaction were fraudulent, that they disregarded red flags
suggesting the deal would be “improperly accounted for,” and
that they “should have attempted to stop it from going forward,
but instead continued to participate in it,” according to their
agreements filed in federal court in Hartford.  ‘Open Question’  Under the agreements, Ferguson would pay a $200,000 fine,
Milton would pay $200,000, Monrad would pay $250,000, Garand
would pay $150,000, and Graham would pay $100,000.  “It’s not a defeat for the  Department of Justice , but they
also can’t claim any great victory,” said  Peter Henning , a law
professor at  Wayne State University  in Detroit. “It was a very
difficult trial the first time. Whether they could have been
convicted again is very much an open question.”  While prosecutors can close the case, Henning said, “the
defendants avoid prison and made a modest admission of
culpability. It lets them move on with their lives without a
criminal conviction on their record.”  The agreements cited several factors for the government’s
actions including the “significant government resources” that
a retrial would require. Prosecutors also said that the
underlying transaction took place 12 years ago, and several of
the executives have already been barred from serving as officers
or directors of public companies.  New Trial  Thomas Carson, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney David B. Fein
in  Connecticut , declined to comment on the agreements. The case
was handled by the federal prosecutors in Connecticut and the
Eastern District of Virginia and at the Justice Department in
Washington.  Lawyers for the five attorneys didn’t return phone calls or
e-mails seeking comment yesterday.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York had ordered the new
trial in August. A new trial was set for Jan. 22.  At the trial, jurors convicted each defendant of charges
including conspiracy,  securities fraud , mail fraud and making
false statements to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors said Ferguson and his subordinates set up a
phony reinsurance deal after Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, then-
chief executive officer of New York-based AIG, sought to assuage
investors about the reserves.  The trial featured testimony about Greenberg and
billionaire  Warren Buffett , chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which owns General Re. Neither was
charged with a crime, and both denied wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 3:06-cr-00137, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 