-- Spanish Bonds Jump on Optimism Officials to Stem Crisis
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-06-22T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/german-bunds-fall-spanish-bonds-advance-before-merkel-meeting.html
Spanish 10-year bonds jumped, headed
for the biggest weekly gain since January, as investors sought
higher-yielding securities on optimism European policy makers
are taking steps to stem the euro area’s debt crisis.  German 10-year bunds declined after the  European Central
Bank  relaxed some rules on the collateral that banks can offer
in exchange for its loans. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
meet her French, Italian and Spanish counterparts in  Rome  today.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said aid for  Spain 
to help finance its banks will start from Europe’s temporary
rescue facility before being transferred to the permanent fund,
once it’s set up.  “This ECB action is risk positive in the sense that it is
a way of easing monetary policy and it should increase risk
trades,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist
at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “It should give Spanish bonds a
boost in the short-term.”  Spanish 10-year yields dropped 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 6.38 percent at 5 p.m. London time. The
5.85 percent security due January 2022 rose 1.555, or 15.55
euros per 1,000 euro ($1,255) face amount, to 96.24.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds fell 49 basis points
this week, the biggest drop since the five days through Jan. 27.  ECB Collateral  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s Governing Council
decided two days ago to lower the minimum rating threshold for
mortgage-backed securities to BBB- from A-, an ECB official, who
declined to be identified because the discussions were private,
said yesterday. Spanish banks have been unable to use some
securities as collateral because the rating is too low, the
person said.  Merkel mets today with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and French President
 Francois Hollande . The gathering preceded a euro-area leaders’
summit on June 28-29, which will decide on the setup of the
Spanish rescue package.  Euro-area officials need to come up with a blueprint for a
tighter fiscal and financial union at next week’s summit or
there will “be progressively greater speculative attacks” on
the currency bloc’s “weaker” nations, Monti told newspapers.
The  International Monetary Fund  said nations must make a
“strong commitment” to the euro to stop a plunge in investor
confidence.  The German 10-year  bund yield  rose five basis points to
1.58 percent, after earlier sliding three basis points. Bunds
underperformed most of their euro-region peers, including
France, Belgium and Portugal.  Bond Volatility  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by Ireland, according to measures of 10-
year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year securities and
credit-default swaps.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds advanced for a seventh day, with
the yield falling to less than 10 percent for the first time in
more than a year, after Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said the
nation is “determined” to meet its budget deficit target this
year. The 10-year rate declined 66 basis points to 9.49 percent,
the lowest since May 23, 2011. It has fallen 1.21 percentage
points since June 14.  Similar-maturity Italian debt fell, with the yield rising
five basis points to 5.80 percent.  Greece’s bonds dropped for the third time in four days
after IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the nation’s
bailout memorandum of understanding won’t be renegotiated.  The rate on the nation’s 2 percent bonds due February 2023
rose 30 basis points to 27.21 percent. The price of the
securities slid to 16.385 percent of face value.  German debt returned 2.6 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 5.1
percent, Portuguese bonds gained 27.3 percent and Italian bonds
rose 8.5 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  