-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Drop as Crisis-Fighting Divisions Persist
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-06-22T09:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/german-bunds-advance-a-second-day-before-leaders-summit-in-rome.html
Italian and Spanish bonds fell,
paring weekly gains, as German ChancellorAngela Merkel prepared
for a summit in  Rome  amid concern she will block proposals to
use the euro-area bailout facilities to buy sovereign debt.  German  10-year bunds  rose a second day after a report
showed the nation’s business confidence fell to the lowest level
in more than two-years in June. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said loans to Spain to help fund its banks will
start from  Europe ’s temporary rescue facility before being
transferred to the permanent fund once it’s set up. Merkel meets
today with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and French President  Francois Hollande .  “Over the past couple of days there has been a lot of
optimism, and now investors are taking a more cautious stance,”
said  Michael Leister , a rates strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The southern European countries are supporting the
idea of the rescue fund buying bonds, but there’s a risk that
the northern countries will resist such a plan. Spreads relative
to bunds are widening.”  Spanish 10-year yields climbed seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.68 percent at 9:55 a.m.  London  time,
paring a weekly drop to 20 basis points. The 5.85 percent
security due January 2022 declined 0.465, or 4.65 euros per
1,000 euro ($1,254) face amount, to 94.22.  The  rate  on Italian 10-year bonds jumped nine basis points
to 5.84 percent, increasing the extra yield investors demand to
hold the securities over similar-maturity German bunds, Europe’s
benchmark debt securities, by 11 basis points to 432 basis
points. The bund yield fell one basis point to 1.52 percent.  Rome Summit  The Rome gathering today precedes a euro-area leaders’
summit on June 28-29, which will decide on the setup of the
Spanish rescue package.  Euro-area officials need to come up with a blueprint for a
tighter fiscal and financial union at next week’s summit or
there will “be progressively greater speculative attacks” on the
currency bloc’s “weaker” nations, Monti told newspapers. The
 International Monetary Fund  said nations must make a “strong
commitment” to the euro to stop a plunge in investor
confidence.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped
for a second straight month, to 105.3 from 106.9 in May. That’s
the lowest reading since March 2010. A separate report showed
Italian household confidence fell to a record low this month as
unemployment rose.  Bond Returns  German debt has returned 2.6 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Gains were fueled by investors
seeking a haven within the euro bloc as the more than two-year-
old debt crisis deepened in  Spain  and  Italy . Spanish securities
have lost 5.1 percent this year, even as Italian bonds earned
8.5 percent.  Bunds fell this week, the third straight weekly drop, amid
speculation euro-area leaders will deploy their bailout
facilities to purchase sovereign debt. The Germany yield climbed
to 1.64 percent two days ago, the highest since May 3. The two-
year note yield increased three basis points this week to 0.10
percent, after it tumbled to a minus 0.012 percent on June 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 