-- German June Business Confidence Drops to Two-Year Low
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-22T10:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/german-june-business-confidence-drops-to-two-year-low.html
German business confidence fell to
the lowest in more than two years in June as the worsening
sovereign debt crisis clouded the economic outlook.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped
for a second straight month to 105.3 from 106.9 in May. That’s
the lowest reading since March 2010. Economists predicted a
decline to 105.6, according to the median of 39 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Italian  consumer confidence  fell to a
record low, a separate report showed.  “The euro area is clearly on the downward turn,” said
Stella Wei Wang, an economist at Nomura International Plc in
London. “If there is no quick political response to the crisis,
the confidence shocks we see now in Europe will worsen the
situation.”  Policy makers are struggling to contain a debt crisis that
has now forced  Spain  into seeking aid for its banks. While
exports to countries outside the euro area have helped Germany
to weather the crisis, latest data show growth is weakening as
austerity measures across the region curb demand. A survey of
 purchasing managers  published yesterday shows German
manufacturing is contracting at the fastest pace in three years.  Contraction ‘Possible’  European stocks fell for a second day, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index down 0.7 percent at noon in Frankfurt. The euro
was 0.1 percent higher at $1.2552.  “The German economy is clearly slowing down and a
contraction in the second quarter looks possible,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior European economist at ING Group in Brussels.
While Germany is on a sounder footing than its euro-area peers,
“even the most solid ship can capsize in a rough
thunderstorm,” he said.  Exports, factory orders and industrial production all
dropped in April and investor confidence plunged in June. The
benchmark  DAX share index  has lost 11 percent in the last three
months.  Ifo’s gauge of current economic conditions rose to 113.9
from 113.2, while its measure of executives’ expectations
dropped to 97.3 from 100.8.  In Italy, an index of consumer confidence fell to 85.3 in
June, the lowest since the data series began in 1996, from 86.5
in May, national statistics office Istat said in  Rome  today.
Economists forecast a reading of 86.  EU Summit  European Union leaders will meet at a June 28-29 summit in
Brussels to try to resolve competing visions over how to reshape
the euro economy, with Germany and its fiscally disciplined
neighbors unwilling to foist additional burdens on their
taxpayers.  In preparation for that summit, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  travels to Rome later today for crisis talks with Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
and French President  Francois Hollande .  The crisis is damping global growth. The  Federal Reserve 
this week cut its estimates for the  U.S. economy  and expanded
its stimulus program.  China’s manufacturing shrank for an eighth month in June,
matching the streak during the global financial crisis,
according to a preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics published
yesterday.  Still, Asia is in a “better state of readiness” to face
shocks as policies geared toward strengthening domestic demand
anchor growth prospects, Malaysian central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in a speech in Jakarta today.  German Resilience  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, expanded 0.5 percent
in the first quarter, helping the euro area to avoid recession.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
bolstering domestic spending, while demand from outside the
currency area has helped to prop up exports. The Bundesbank on
June 8 revised up its 2012 growth forecast for Germany to 1
percent from 0.6 percent.  “The German domestic economy is still doing well,” said
Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn.
“We’ve got a pretty stable labor market and that should reflect
in private consumption. The caveat for that scenario is that the
euro crisis doesn’t escalate further.”  Ifo said confidence in manufacturing “dropped sharply.”  “The majority of manufacturers reported defensive
recruitment plans for the first time in months,” Ifo President
Hans-Werner Sinn said in a statement. “However, they expect
further stimulus from exports.”  Global Demand  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
 luxury vehicles , predicts Germany’s car market won’t grow in
2012 as the debt crisis weighs on  consumer spending . The
carmaker has nevertheless set targets of record worldwide
deliveries and pretax profit this year, fueled by demand in
China and the U.S.  The European Commission forecasts the euro-area economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year. At least eight  member states 
are in recession. Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged above 7
percent this month, the level that prompted Greece, Portugal and
Ireland to seek bailouts.  “The big unknown quantity is the psychological effect
related to the euro-zone crisis and financial turmoil,” said
 Andreas Rees , an economist at UniCredit in Munich. “If 
turbulence escalates further and fears in the real economy 
solidify in the next few months, companies may refrain from 
investing further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  