-- Germany Defeats Greece 4-2 in Euro 2012 Soccer Quarterfinal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-22T23:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/germany-defeats-greece-4-2-to-reach-semifinal-game-of-euro-2012.html
Germany  scored three times in a 13-
minute span of the second half to beat  Greece  4-2 and move into
the semifinals of the European soccer championship.  Sami Khedira,  Miroslav Klose  and Marco Reus had the goals
that broke open a 1-1 game last night in Gdansk, Poland. Philipp Lahm also scored for record three-time champion Germany, which
meets England or Italy in the semifinals on June 28.  “We’re very happy,” German midfielder Mesut Ozil said at
a news conference. “For us, it doesn’t really matter whether
it’s England or Italy. We will do everything to play in the
final.”  Germany extended its national-record winning streak in
competitive matches to 15 games. The Germans also remain
unbeaten in nine games against Greece, which got goals from
Georgios Samaras and Dimitris Salpingidis.  “We definitely played against a great team today, we knew
that from the very first moment,” Greece defender Sokratis
Papastathopoulos said on the website of  UEFA , the tournament
organizer. “I believe this team is one of the best teams around
today and one of the best teams of the past five years.”  European and world champion  Spain  faces  France  in today’s
quarterfinal match in Donetsk, Ukraine. The winner plays
 Portugal  in the last four on June 27.  Germany coach Joachim Low made several changes to his
lineup last night with Klose, Reus and Andre Schurrle starting
in attack and  Mario Gomez , tied for the tournament lead with
three goals, among those going to the bench.  “It was important to bring fresh faces,” the manager
said. “I wanted to be unpredictable against Greece and that
worked out very well.”  Early Chances  The changes almost paid off in the fourth minute when Klose
poked in the rebound after Michalis Sifakis fumbled Khedira’s
shot, only for Schurrle to be ruled offside. Reus then shot wide
and also set up Ozil, whose attempt was saved by Sifakis.  Klose missed connecting with a ball at the far post from
Reus. German goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  then stretched out to stop
a shot from Sotiris Ninis as Greece made a rare push forward.  The Germans finally broke through in the 39th minute thanks
to their captain, Lahm. The defender cut into the middle from
the left and fired a swerving shot past Sifakis.  Greece stunned Germany on a counterattack 10 minutes into
the second half to tie the score. Salpingidis ran down a long
pass from Fanis Gekas on the right and sent a cross that a
sliding Samaras knocked in.  “After halftime we made life very difficult for
ourselves,” Khedira said in comments on UEFA’s website. “After
the equalizer, we kept our pace high and deserved this win. It
could have been easier.”  German Response  It took just six minutes for the Germans to regain the lead
as Khedira jumped in the middle of the area to volley in Jerome Boateng’s cross.  Klose, who was born in  Poland , then made it 3-1 in the 68th
minute when he headed in Ozil’s free kick. It was his 64th goal
for Germany, four behind Gerd Muller’s record, and 17th at an
international tournament.  Klose almost increased the lead a minute later with a shot
that Sifakis blocked. Reus netted the fourth goal in the 74th
minute when he volleyed in the rebound after Sifakis stopped
another Klose attempt.  Greece added a consolation goal in the 89th minute as
Salpingidis scored with a penalty kick after a handball against
Boateng.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 