-- Ghost of Nazi Past Haunts Austerity-Gripped Europe: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-06-22T07:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ghost-of-nazi-past-haunts-austerity-gripped-europe-euro-credit.html
The specter of the 1930s financial
crisis that culminated in the rise of  Adolf Hitler ’s Nazi party
and the Second World War is stalking Europe.  In May 1931, Creditanstalt, founded in Vienna by the
Rothschild banking dynasty and the biggest lender in what
remained of the Habsburg Empire, suffered a run. Its collapse
after a merger with an insolvent rival sparked a crisis that
left Germany and central Europe strewn with failed banks, caused
defaults in Europe and Latin America, knocked the pound off the
gold standard, and forced the  New York  Federal Reserve by
October to raise its discount rate by 2 percentage points.  “The biggest economic catastrophe of the last century has
been, of course, the big crisis after 1929,”  Ewald Nowotny ,
governor of the Austrian central bank, said at a conference this
week in Vienna. “I truly can say that when we had the big
crisis of 2007 and 2008, it was in the back of the mind of
everybody, all of us, every central banker, that we must avoid
the mistakes of the 1930s.”  What  Harold James , professor of history and international
affairs at  Princeton University , calls the “vicious cycle” of
contagion between banks and sovereigns is spinning today, just
as it was 80 years ago.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing cost  has
averaged 6.6 percent this month, more than a percentage point
higher than a year ago, after it sought 100 billion euros ($127
billion) to bolster its banks.  Local Taxpayers  The European Union’s accord with  Spain , triggered by the
collapse of Bankia SA, the country’s third-biggest lender, will
leave the nation with debt about equivalent to its annual gross
domestic product. Ireland’s 63 billion-euro bailout of its banks
pushed sovereign debt to 108 percent of GDP last year from 44
percent in 2008.  “The critical thing now and in the 1930s is that you can’t
distinguish between bank and sovereign debt,” said Brian Reading, an economist at Lombard Street Research in London. “As
long as banking systems remain national, it doesn’t much matter
how international the bank is, local taxpayers are on the hook
for it if it collapses.”  Under  Germany ’s austerity policies in the 1930s, taxes
rose, benefits and wages were reduced and unemployment soared,
stoking the popular ire that Hitler harnessed. Extremists are
gaining ground now as unemployment in Greece passes the 20
percent mark after five years of recession. The far-right  Golden
Dawn  won 6.9 percent of the vote and 18 seats in the country’s
most recent elections.  France ’s anti-immigrant, anti-euro
National Front won two seats in parliamentary elections June 17.  Weak Mergers  Creditanstalt in 1931, like Spain’s Bankia now, was created
by mergers with lenders weakened by toxic loans and capital
shortfalls. After Creditanstalt failed, the government stepped
in to prop it up, fatally hurting its own credit. A run on
 Austria ’s bonds and the schilling ensued, according to Michael Bordo, national fellow of the Hoover Institution on campus of
 Stanford University  in Palo Alto,  California .  “Creditanstalt had been forced into a merger with an
insolvent bank, which felled it,” Bordo said. “Really, Austria
had a financial system set up to service an empire which was no
longer there. The bank was too big.”  Austria’s 10-year yield has advanced to 2.34 percent after
dipping below 2 percent to a euro-era record at the start of the
month.  Six months ago, the  European Central Bank  supplied more
than 1 trillion euros to the banking system at an interest rate
of 1 percent, which banks recycled into their local government
debt at higher yields as international investors bailed out.  Capital Flight  “As a bank, if your assets are in trouble in one country,
you call in your loans from the countries that are the next most
vulnerable,” said James at Princeton. “Banks withdrawing
credit are part of the contagion mechanism and that’s part of
the current story, as well.”  In June 1931, as the German financial system teetered on
the brink, the Reichsbank received a $100 million loan --
equivalent to more than $5 billion today -- from the central
banks of France, the U.K. and U.S. The sum turned out to be
insufficient to meet soaring German demand for foreign exchange.
A bigger loan was blocked by France, which was concerned about
plans for a customs union between Germany and Austria.  Germany’s Danatbank collapsed after one of its biggest
borrowers failed. That sent capital fleeing abroad, depleting
reserves, according to a 2009  paper  by Martin Pontzen of the
Bundesbank. By September, German banks, including  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , were under state control.  Solvency Crisis  A bank holiday and capital controls dragged in London’s
merchant banks, which had guaranteed loans to German borrowers,
according to Olivier Accominotti, a lecturer in economic history
at the  London School  of Economics. A run on the pound cost
Britain about 20 percent of its reserves in two weeks and ended
with the nation abandoning the gold standard.  The U.S. was forced to raise  interest rates  to defend its
 gold reserves . In 1933, President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  imposed
a bank holiday and forbade citizens from hoarding gold.  “What started as a liquidity crisis became a solvency
issue,” said Accominotti. “There was a major risk of a
systemic crisis.”  Accidents can become major economic threats, according to
Larry McDonald, a former trader at New York-based Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and one of the authors of “A Colossal
Failure of Common Sense” about the securities firm’s collapse.  “It all comes down to systemic risk,” he said. “The
deadly nature of a banking collapse is that it can cause
everything to unwind. Banks are interconnected globally.
Everything is interconnected.”  Deposit Withdrawals  Greek banks have lost more than 30 percent of their
 deposits  since the end of 2009. In Ireland, the decline through
April was 17 percent since the August 2009 peak, and in Spain
deposits slipped 7 percent over the past 12 months.  “The banks are almost always the transmission mechanism
for contagion,” said Hoover Institution’s Bordo. “Bank runs
are what the authorities fear most. They are the one thing they
can’t control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  