-- Global Warming Seen Lifting California Sea Level a Foot by 2030
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-22T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/global-warming-seen-lifting-california-sea-level-a-foot-by-2030.html
     June 22 (Bloomberg) - Global warming may push sea levels as
much as a foot higher in  California  in the next two decades,
threatening airports, freeways, ports and houses, according to a
report examining risks along the U.S. West Coast.  Increases are forecast to be greatest south of Cape
Mendocino, with levels rising 12 inches (30 centimeters) by 2030
and as much as two feet by 2050, according to a report today by
the  National Research Council . In Oregon and  Washington ,
increases may be more modest, because land also is rising. A
major quake in the active seismic zone would change the
forecast.  In addition,  climate change  may contribute to more frequent
severe storms, the researchers concluded.  “As the average sea level rises, the number and duration
of extreme storm surges and high waves are expected to escalate,
and this increases the risk of flooding, coastal erosion and
wetland loss,” Robert Dalrymple, chairman of the committee that
wrote the report and a  professor  of civil engineering at  Johns
Hopkins University , said in a statement.  The report, which was requested by agencies in the Pacific
Coast states, forecast that sea levels south of Cape Mendocino,
which is about 270 miles (434 kilometers) north of  San
Francisco , might rise more than five feet (167 centimeters) by
the end of the century, the panel said.  Rising sea levels along the California, Oregon and
Washington coasts would confront commercial and residential
developments that abut the  Pacific Ocean , with airports, naval
stations, freeways, stadiums and housing only a few feet above
current high-tide levels, the authors said.  The National Research Council, a nonprofit organization
based in Washington, provides scientific information for
government decision-makers under the auspices of the  National
Academy of Sciences , the National Academy of Engineering and the
 Institute of Medicine . Panel members are volunteers, and their
consensus reports undergo external peer review before
completion.  The study was sponsored by federal agencies and the states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  