-- GM CEO Says Russia Growth Helps Make Up for Europe Losses
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-22T20:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/gm-ceo-says-russia-growth-helps-make-up-for-europe-losses.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , facing continued
losses in Western Europe, is more than doubling capacity at a
factory in St. Petersburg that will make the new Opel Astra
sedan as the Russian auto market rebounds, the company said.  “We’ve got to bring our best game, our best products to
this market,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in a
telephone interview yesterday from St. Petersburg,  Russia . GM is
introducing 12 new vehicles in Russia this year after increasing
combined Chevrolet, Opel and Cadillac sales in the country by 53
percent last year to 244,000.  GM is making the effort as competitors also stake out
claims to the fast-growing market as Western Europe struggles
with a fifth-straight year of declining vehicle sales. Akerson
is trying to fix Opel, which will add five models in Russia,
while expanding GM’s Chevrolet and Cadillac brands globally.  Akerson spoke prior to today’s planned ceremony in Russia
for the groundbreaking of GM’s factory expansion in  St.
Petersburg . The addition, part of a planned $1 billion
investment over the next five years in the country, will more
than double the facility’s annual capacity to 230,000 vehicles
by 2015 and increase GM’s Russian capacity to 350,000.  GM, which didn’t specify its investment at the St.
Petersburg plant, will expand employment there by 60 percent to
4,000, GM said in a statement today. The factory also makes
Chevrolet models.  The Russian auto market reached 2.9 million vehicles in
2008 before falling to 1.5 million in 2009, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Vehicle sales in the country, which
gained 39 percent to 2.65 million last year, will probably
increase to more than 3 million this year or next, Akerson said.  $16.4 Billion  “We’re going to push north of 10 percent share this
year,” Tim Lee, president of GM’s international operations,
which includes Russia, said during an interview in April,
referring to the company’s market share targets in Russia.
“We’re selling 300,000 units” this year. GM held 9 percent of
the market in 2011, according to a filing.  Increasing Opel sales in Russia will be a short-term help
for GM while it works to implement a long-term fix for its
Western European operations, Akerson said.  “Anything we can produce and ship here is going to be an
offset,” he said of Opel. “We’re making money here with
Opel.”  GM shares fell 0.2 percent to $20.60 at the close in  New
York . They have risen 1.6 percent this year.  Opel’s ‘Trajectory’  GM announced last week that it wants to close its Bochum,
 Germany , assembly plant and to delay pay raises to workers as
part of efforts to stem European losses, which have totaled
$16.4 billion since 1999. The company is in talks with labor
unions about the proposed closure.  “We hope we can exit this uncertainty and negative bias in
Western  Europe  over the next couple of years and have a real
good European business,” Akerson said.  Part of the strategy calls for Opel’s “rapid market share
growth” in Russia and increasing annual sales of the brand in
 China  to 20,000 from 5,000.  GM sold about 67,600 Opel vehicles in Russia last year,
down from 98,800 in 2008. That 32 percent decline was less than
the market’s 48 percent plunge.  Opel is “on that kind of trajectory right now” to return
to 2008 sales levels in Russia, Lee said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We should be where we were with Opel
volumes.”  More Competition  While GM doesn’t have “near term” plans to build Cadillac
vehicles in Russia, Akerson said the automaker wants to expand
the brand in the country as part of his goal to increase sales
globally. Growing  Chevrolet  in Russia is GM’s primary push, he
said.  “It’s clear that foreign brands are our primary
competitors,” he said.  GM should be able to capture 10 percent to 15 percent of
the Russian market in upcoming years, Warren Browne, the former
managing head of the company’s Russian operations, said in a
telephone interview.  “It will be one of the highlights of growth for them over
the next two or three years,” Browne, now a vice president for
consultancy AutomotiveCompass LLC, said of Russia. “It will
probably end up being the shining star of profitability for the
region.”  GM faces increasing competition in Russia from other
automakers. While Chevrolet was the best-selling foreign brand
in Russia last year with sales gaining 49 percent to 173,484,
sales have fallen behind Renault this year through May in what’s
turning out to be a close race between the U.S. and French
brands. The two were separated by 932 deliveries, according the
Association of European Business.  Competitors’ Moves  The alliance of  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  announced
plans in May to take majority control of Russia’s largest
automaker,  OAO AvtoVAZ. (AVAZ)  Separately,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  announced deals last year to increase production in Russia
to take advantage of tax incentives for attracting foreign
investment. Automakers may import components with zero or 3
percent duties in return for investment agreements to build at
least 300,000 cars locally a year.  PricewaterhouseCoopers estimates the Russian auto market,
driven by improving economic conditions fueled by the oil and
gas industries, will grow 7 percent this year and reach 3
million units in the near future, Rick Hanna, global auto
leader, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s now the second-largest market in Europe behind
Germany,” he said.  No ‘Pushback’  GM’s investments in Russia have helped mend hard feelings
following the U.S. automaker’s decision in 2009 to kill a deal
to sell a majority stake of Opel to  Magna International Inc. (MG)  and
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender. Akerson, then a new board
member after GM’s U.S. government-backed bankruptcy
reorganization, joined with other directors in opposing the Opel
sale.  “There was a lot of turmoil post-bankruptcy,” Akerson
said. “The decision was made prior to the reconstitution of the
board and we changed directions. Everything I’ve seen and heard
so far, was, ‘OK, that’s past. Past is not prologue.’ They see
us investing in plant and equipment and jobs here in Russia. I
haven’t gotten any pushback.”  The Russian government has set clear tax and regulatory
policies, the CEO said.  “I was at a breakfast this morning with basically their
cabinet and was impressed with the public expression of
civility, continuity and constancy,” said Akerson, who
participated in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
“They talk about taxes. Taxes will be what the taxes are. You
don’t have this uncertainty that you see even in the  United
States .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  