-- GM Recalls 413,418 Chevrolet Cruzes on Engine Fires
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-22T20:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/gm-recalls-413-418-chevrolet-cruzes-in-u-s-on-engine-fires-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is recalling
413,418  Chevrolet  Cruzes, its best-selling car model in the U.S.
last year, two days after GM had its best showing ever in J.D.
Power & Associates’ new-car quality survey.  GM is recalling the compact cars from model years 2011 and
2012 in the U.S. because liquids can be trapped near the engine
and catch fire, the Detroit-based company said today in an e-
mailed statement. The company has received 30 reports of fires,
said  Alan Adler , a GM spokesman.  “The most important thing for our customers to know is
that we are proactively working to assure the Cruze is the safe
and durable car they purchased,” Alicia Boler-Davis, GM vice
president of global quality, said in the statement. “We are
sorry for any inconvenience caused by these actions.”  GM said it doesn’t know of any crashes, injuries or deaths
related to the defect. The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration opened an  investigation  of 2011 Cruzes in March
this year after receiving two reports of “engulfing fires
resulting in total vehicle loss.”  The J.D. Power survey released June 20 had three of GM’s
four brands, including Chevrolet, ranked above the industry
average.  The Cruze was GM’s top-selling car in the U.S. last year
with 231,732 deliveries, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
Through May this year, GM sold 94,901 Cruzes, making it the
second-best selling Chevrolet car after the Malibu, according to
Autodata. The Cruze helped spur GM’s 2.7 percent first-quarter
U.S. sales increase to an industry-leading 608,320.  GM shares fell 0.2 percent to $20.60 at 4:03 p.m. in  New
York .  Oil Changes  GM acted quickly because the Cruze “is such an important
vehicle,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst based in  Santa
Monica , California at auto-researcher Edmunds.com.  “No one wants to be the next Toyota and ignore any
problems in the cars,” she said in an interview. “A lot of
these people are new GM customers, so it’s important to do what
you can to keep them happy and not be negligent of anything that
can go wrong.”  When oil is changed using improper procedures, it can spill
or drip on hot engine or exhaust systems, the company said in
the statement. This may cause the engine shield to ignite and
start a fire that can spread.  The repair modifies the engine shield and will take about
half an hour, GM said. Adler declined to comment on what the
recall will cost the company.  The cars being recalled were made in Lordstown,  Ohio .  Last year GM called back plug-in Chevrolet Volts following
a fire that started three weeks after a National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration crash test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  