-- Goldman Sachs Fails to Get Investors' CDO Suit Dismissed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-06-22T14:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/goldman-sachs-fails-to-get-investors-cdo-suit-dismissed.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  failed to
win the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by shareholders claiming
they were harmed by conflicts of interest related to
collateralized debt obligation transactions.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman
Sachs in April 2010, alleging fraud tied to CDOs that
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Goldman Sachs’s shares dropped about 13 percent
after the lawsuit was filed. The firm paid
$550 million to settle with the SEC, the largest penalty in the
regulator’s history.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in  Manhattan  ruled
yesterday that investors can proceed with a lawsuit alleging
Goldman Sachs’s stock plummeted because the bank failed to
disclose that it had bet against CDOs it sold to customers.
Crotty dismissed arguments that Goldman Sachs made material
misstatements or omissions regarding its receipt of warnings
from the SEC that the company might be sued.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the ruling.  Goldman Sachs created and sold CDOs linked to subprime
mortgages in early 2007, as the U.S. housing market faltered,
without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against one of the vehicles, known
as Abacus, according to an SEC lawsuit.  “Goldman’s allegedly manipulative, deceitful, and
fraudulent conduct in hiding Paulson’s role and investment
position in Abacus transaction, and in hiding its own investment
position in Hudson, Anderson, and Timberwolf I transactions
takes plaintiffs’ claim beyond that of mere mismanagement,”
Crotty said in his ruling.  The case is In re Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Securities
Litigation, 10-3461, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  