-- Google, Jeremy Lin, Anheuser-Busch: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/google-jeremy-lin-anheuser-busch-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
said it made a new offer to settle its patent-infringement
disputes with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over the Xbox gaming system and
smartphones. Microsoft questioned whether the offer was serious.  Motorola Mobility offered to pay 33 cents for every phone
that uses Microsoft’s ActiveSync software to avoid an import ban
by the U.S. International Trade Commission on phones that use
the software, Kirk Dailey, vice president of intellectual
property for Motorola Mobility, said in an interview yesterday.  The Google unit also lowered its demand for royalties on
products that use Microsoft’s Windows operating system, to 50
cents for each unit that uses the industry standard for video
compression. The company maintained its request for 2.25 percent
of the cost of the Xbox gaming system, Dailey said. Microsoft
could be banned from importing the Xbox if it loses an ITC case
brought by Motorola Mobility.  “We’re hopeful they’re going to respond positively,”
Dailey said. “We should have a response in two weeks.”  A settlement would end tit-for-tat cases the companies
brought against each other. Microsoft, which contends all
devices that run on Google’s Android operating system use its
technology, sought royalties from Motorola Mobility.
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility responded by
demanding royalties on the Xbox for use of the company’s Wi-Fi
and video-compression technology.  “While we welcome any good faith settlement effort, it’s
hard to apply that label to a demand that Microsoft pay
royalties to Google far in excess of market rates, that refuses
to license all the Microsoft patents infringed by Motorola,”
 Horacio Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel for
intellectual property, said in a statement.  The Motorola Mobility offer would increase the amount to be
paid on the Xbox because it would extend to controllers as well,
Gutierrez said. Microsoft has asserted other patents in district
court against Motorola Mobility that aren’t related to
ActiveSync.  Motorola Mobility, which Google bought last month, is
facing an order that it must remove the ActiveSync feature from
its Android phones or the phones will be stopped at the border.
The import ban is scheduled to go into effect July 17 unless it
is overturned by President  Barack Obama  on public policy
grounds.  The Motorola Mobility case against Microsoft is In the
Matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles, 337-752 and the
Microsoft case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of
Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof,
337-744, both U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Etagz Says It Settled Patent Litigation With TV Guide  Etagz Inc., the holder of patents related to product
labeling, said it settled an infringement case against TV Guide
Magazine LLC.  The publisher of the television guide paid a “confidential
amount” to resolve issues tied to the patented technology, Salt
Lake City-based Etagz said in a statement yesterday.  Etagz sued TV Guide in federal court in Salt Lake City in
March 2010, accusing the company of infringing patents 6,298,332
and 7,703,686.  According to Bloomberg data, Etagz has filed at least 10
other patent-infringement cases against companies including
Marvel Entertainment LLC and Skins Global Holdings AG.  In Etagz’s statement, Chief Executive Officer Isaac
Jacobson said his company isn’t a “patent troll.”  “We were a productive entity that decided to be more
aggressive as infringement took its toll on our bottom line,”
Jacobson said. The fact that his company actually produced
products covered by its patents “has helped us with the many
settlements we have reached.”  Neither TV Guide News nor its legal counsel responded
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the
settlement.  The case is Etagz v. Flambeau, 10-cv-00240, U.S. District
Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Knicks Guard Lin Said to Retain Williams & Connolly as Agent  New York Knicks guard Jeremy Lin hired agent Jim Tanner of
the Washington law firm Williams & Connolly to represent him in
basketball and marketing matters, two people familiar with the
situation said.  Roger Montgomery , Lin’s current agent, will work with
Tanner on the former Harvard University player’s free agency,
said the people, who yesterday asked not to be identified
because the agreement isn’t complete.  Montgomery didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on the
arrangement. Tanner was traveling and couldn’t be reached.  Tanner’s clients include  San Antonio Spurs  forward  Tim
Duncan ,  Miami Heat  forward  Shane Battier  and  Grant Hill  of the
 Phoenix Suns , whose president of basketball operations, Lon
Babby, was a Williams & Connolly attorney and player agent
before joining the National Basketball Association team.  The move comes at an important time for Lin, whose
emergence this season could lead to increased endorsements. The
23-year-old, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the NBA, is a restricted free agent.  Lin, who went undrafted, was cut by his first two NBA teams
before signing with the Knicks on Dec. 27. He invigorated the
team after joining the starting lineup on Feb. 6, fueling sales
of merchandise and tickets, driving television ratings and
helping the team’s parent company,  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , to
end a seven-week stalemate with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that kept
the provider’s 2.8 million subscribers in the New York area from
seeing the Knicks.  Ticket prices to games at Madison Square Garden tripled as
fans got caught up in “Linsanity,” a phrase coined to
encompass the excitement surrounding the player. Lin has filed a
trademark application for the term with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Coca-Cola Co. added courtside advertisements in Chinese at
the sports venue to capitalize on Lin’s appeal.  Anheuser-Busch Follows Area Code Applications With Airport Codes  Anheuser-Busch/InBev BV (ABI) , maker of Budweiser and Michelob
beers, has filed applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to register 42 different three-letter airport codes as
trademarks, according to the BeerPulse.com news website.  Last year, the brewer filed applications to register 14
telephone area codes as marks, and those marks haven’t yet been
registered, according to BeerPulse.com.  Other pending trademark applications for the brewer that
give a hint of forthcoming sports promotion are “hockey tickets
for life” and “football tickets for life,” BeerPulse.com
reported.  Among the cities whose airport codes Anheuser-Busch is
seeking to trademark are  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  Seattle ,
Denver, Phoenix and New Orleans, according to the beer news
website.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Electronic Frontier Foundation Asks to Enter Wi-Fi Case  The  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a San Francisco-based
digital-rights advocacy group, asked a federal judge for
permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief in a copyright
case brought by a maker of adult films.  In its proposed brief, EFF argues it’s unfair to sue
someone whose Internet connection was used by someone else to
download the film. The foundation asked that the case, filed
March 27 in federal court in  Manhattan , be dismissed.  Liberty Media Holdings LLC, the Las Vegas-based filmmaker,
has said that the defendant was liable because he knew the
roommate was making unauthorized downloads, including Liberty’s
film, “Corbin Fisher’s Down on the Farm.”  EFF says that under this theory, anyone who offers wireless
access such as a cafe, school or library could be held liable.
The foundation released a statement saying if the argument
stands, “public access to the Internet would be sharply reduced
because of liability fears.”  Open wireless access “is a public good we should
support,”  Corynne McSherry , the foundation’s  intellectual
property  director, said in an EFF  statement .  In a June 20 court filing, Liberty Media said that EFF is
improperly expanding the legal issues and as a non-party,
“should not be permitted to insert itself into this litigation
in order to promote its own agenda.”  The case is Liberty Media Holding LLC v. Tabora, 12-
cv-02234, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP-Related Trade Issues  EU’s Ungeheuer Says Singapore FTA Talks to Conclude by End-July  The European Union and Singapore will conclude negotiations
on a free trade agreement by the end of July, said Marc
Ungeheuer, ambassador and head of the EU’s delegation to the
city state.  The discussions are in their “final stages,” with issues
regarding financial services, legal services, intellectual
property rights, investment and rules of origin still to be
resolved, Ungeheuer told reporters in Singapore yesterday.  The European bloc has sought to boost trade and investment
ties with the world’s fastest-growing region as a protracted
sovereign-debt crisis hurts growth at home. The EU will
officially start discussions on trade with Vietnam next week and
is in preparatory talks with Indonesia for a partnership
agreement before negotiations, he said.  “Singapore will be a very important stepping stone,”
Ungeheuer said. “We really want to have a core group of
bilateral FTAs and come finally, when the time is right, to an
EU-Asean FTA.”  Merchandise trade between the European bloc and the 10-
member Association of Southeast Asian Nations amounted to 161.7
billion euros ($205 billion) in 2011, increasing
9.2 percent from the previous year, even as the region’s debt
turmoil hurt confidence, he said in a briefing.  Inward foreign direct investment stock from Asean into the
EU was 71.9 billion euros in 2010, and Singapore accounts for
more than 90 percent of the Southeast Asian FDI stock, according
to the EU-Singapore Trade & Investment 2012 report released
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 