-- Pimco’s Gross Warns of Risk Assets as Aberdeen Avoids Stocks
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-06-22T08:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/gross-warns-of-risk-assets-as-aberdeen-underweight-on-equities.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., warned
against risk assets, as  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  said it’s
underweight on stocks.  Asian shares extended a global rout after manufacturing
gauges for the euro area, China and the Philadelphia region
signaled contraction. The  Federal Reserve  this week refrained
from introducing a third round of so-called quantitative easing
even as the central bank cut its U.S. growth forecast.  Gross, who manages $261 billion for the Pimco  Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , said in a Twitter post that risk markets are vulnerable as
the “monetary bag of tricks empties.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index of shares declined 0.8 percent
as of 8:52 a.m. in  London , while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
lost 1.3 percent, following a 2.2 percent slide in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index in New York yesterday. Treasuries were little
changed with 10-year yields at 1.62 percent. The rate reached a
record-low 1.44 percent on June 1.  “We’re still certainly very comfortable running our
underweight equity positions that we took out in March,” said
Peter Elston, the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific strategy
and  asset allocation  at Aberdeen, which oversees about $270
billion. “Economies will continue to contract. There will be
this realization that the governments are not perhaps as able to
act as they have been in recent years,” he said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today.  Shrinking Manufacturing  An index of euro-area manufacturing fell to a three-year
low of 44.8 in June, London-based Markit Economics said
yesterday in an initial estimate. A purchasing managers’ index
for  China ’s manufacturing was 48.1 this month in a preliminary
reading, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index  fell
to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest since August. Economists
forecast the gauge would improve to zero, the dividing line
between growth and contraction.  “If the numbers continue to be as poor as they are into
July and August, we’ll probably revise” U.S. economic
forecasts, Bob Baur, chief global economist at Principal Global
Investors, which manages about $231 billion, said today in a
separate interview with Bloomberg Television. “Right now we
still think there’ll be some pickup.”  Stock Returns  Global sovereign bonds have returned 1.9 percent since the
end of March, according to an index compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. The MSCI World Index of equities has lost 7.4
percent during the period, including reinvested dividends.  The Fed cut its forecast for the U.S.  economy  on June 20,
saying the lower range of its 2012 growth estimate is 1.9
percent, down from the April forecast of at least 2.4 percent.  The U.S. central bank extended its “Operation Twist” of
selling shorter-term securities and buying the same amount of
longer-term debt to lower borrowing costs. The $400 billion
program, which had been scheduled to end this month, will be
carried out until the year ends.  Shorting Stocks  A challenging economic environment has made Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst Noah Weisberger recommend shorting the  S&P
500 , or betting on further declines. He has a target of 1,285,
or 3.1 percent below yesterday’s close.  “With incremental U.S. monetary policy on hold, the market
will need to confront a deteriorating growth picture near
term,” Weisberger wrote.  Investors should favor debt of nations such as the U.S.,
 Mexico  and Brazil, and emphasize intermediate maturities over
the next few years, Gross said in his investment outlook posted
May 31 on the Newport Beach, California-based company’s website.
Equity investors should seek companies that produce stable  cash
flow  and that are exposed to high growth markets, he advised.  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the Total Return Fund to 35 percent in May, the
first increase since January and up from 31 percent of its asset
holdings in April, Pimco said on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  