-- Gulf of Mexico Storm Threat Sparks Rig Evacuations
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-23T13:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/gulf-of-mexico-storm-threat-sparks-rig-evacuations.html
Gulf of Mexico  energy platforms
began evacuations and shutdowns as a weather system off the
Yucatan Peninsula threatened to turn into a tropical storm over
the weekend.  There’s a 90 percent chance the cluster of thunderstorms,
drifting northward, will become a tropical depression or
Tropical Storm Debby within the next 48 hours, the  National
Hurricane Center  said. Computer forecast models disagree on the
system’s track.  “The center of circulation of the broad area of low
pressure over the Gulf of Mexico appears to be becoming better
defined,” the center said in an advisory before 8 a.m.  New York 
time. “A tropical depression, or more likely a tropical storm,
could form later today or tonight if the development trend
continues.”  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural
gas production, 29 percent of oil output and 40 percent of
refining capacity. Offshore oil and natural gas platforms need
to carry out evacuations well in advance of a storm’s arrival,
so any system in the Gulf can cause production disruptions.  Ferrying Personnel  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  shut the Neptune and Shenzi platforms,
which can together produce 150,000 barrels of oil a day and 100
million cubic feet of gas.  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  began evacuating
non-essential workers in the Gulf yesterday, as did  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) , Marathon Oil Corp.,  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , Enterprise
Products Partners LP and  Hess Corp. (HES) , the companies said in e-
mailed statements or on their websites.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may evacuate some non-essential
workers from central and western Gulf rigs in the next few days,
the company said on its website.  In addition, ERA Helicopters LLC of St. Charles, Louisiana,
reported it’s ferrying personnel from off-shore platforms.
Melanie Landry, a spokeswoman for ERA, declined to comment on
which companies had called for evacuations.  “Given that the U.S. Gulf now has become a significant
exporter of products, it is a bit more difficult to estimate the
net impact of U.S. Gulf tropical storms, as delays in export
shipments due to bad weather can also translate into product
stock builds,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Switzerland-
based energy researcher Petromatrix, said in an e-mailed report.  ‘Squashed Spider’  Computer models can’t give a clear indication of where the
system may go because there isn’t a storm yet,  Dennis Feltgen , a
spokesman for the hurricane center in Miami, said in a telephone
interview.  “They’re all over the place,” he said. “The models are
going to look like a squashed spider, so I wouldn’t put any
stock in it.”  A U.S. Air Force Reserve reconnaissance flight scheduled to
investigate the area yesterday was canceled and rescheduled for
today, Feltgen said.  The system has potential, however.  “That is definitely a system that has to be paid attention
to,” said  Tom Kines , an expert senior meteorologist at
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. “I think the
odds are pretty high that it will be a named storm before the
weekend is over.”  A storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour. Kines said warm water and low wind shear
in the Gulf will allow the system to organize and strengthen.  Weather Patterns  The chance of the storm growing into a hurricane before
going ashore sometime next week are slim at the moment, said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc . in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania. While the waters of the Gulf are warm
enough to spark a system, “the heat content doesn’t favor rapid
intensification,” he said.  Where the storm will go depends on other weather patterns
across the U.S., Rouiller said. In one scenario, a pair of high
pressure systems could steer it into the  Florida panhandle .
Another would take it across the western Gulf of Mexico and into
Texas, he said.  Wherever the storm goes, it will probably make landfall
sometime in the middle of next week, Kines said.  Rouiller said this is the first real threat of the year in
the Gulf of Mexico and with the relatively mild start to summer,
“this will get the traders looking and saying, ‘Hey, we got
something ominous for the Gulf.’”  If Debby forms, it would be the fourth storm of the
 Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. It
will also be the first time since record-keeping began in 1851
that four storms have formed in the Atlantic before July 1,
Feltgen said.  “This is the seventh Atlantic season in recorded history
where three storms have formed before July 1,” Feltgen said.
“We have never gone with four storms before July 1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  