-- Military-Member Mortgages, IOSCO Study, BofA: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-22T12:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/military-member-mortgages-iosco-study-bofa-compliance.html
U.S. regulators released rules for
mortgage servicers that are designed to help members of the
military get information needed to sell their homes or modify
loans when they are forced to relocate.  The guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,  National
Credit Union Administration  and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency affects service members who get “permanent change in
station” orders that can’t be appealed and must be followed on
a short timetable.  The goal of the guidance is to ensure that members of the
military who must move are getting “clear, accurate, and timely
information about available options such as loan modification or
short sale,” the CFPB said in a statement.  A regulator will take “appropriate enforcement action” if
it determines the mortgage servicer has engaged in unfair or
abusive practices, the CFPB said.  Mortgage servicers are responsible for collecting monthly
payments, acting as escrow agent for taxes and insurance, and
handling foreclosures when borrowers are seriously delinquent.
The five largest U.S. servicers --  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- reached a settlement with federal agencies and
49 states over claims of abusive foreclosure practices.  Under the new policy, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac won’t seek
court judgments that force people to pay the difference between
the mortgage balance and a home’s sale price for any property
purchased on or before June 30, according to the Federal Housing
Financial Administration, which oversees the government-owned
finance companies.  Members of the military who get so-called PCS orders will
automatically be eligible for a short sale of their homes, FHFA
said. The rule follows one last year that opened government
foreclosure programs to service members who get the orders.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s Schapiro Says IOSCO Money Market Proposal Was a ‘Screwup’  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Schapiro said the  International Organization of Securities
Commissions  prematurely released a  study  of potential changes to
money-market fund regulation in April.  The study’s release, which drew objections from three of
the SEC’s five commissioners, was a “genuine screw-up,”
Schapiro said at a Senate Banking Committee hearing yesterday in
Washington. IOSCO, based in Madrid, is an international
organization of securities regulators, including the SEC.  Options in the study included changing the money-market
fund industry’s stable net asset value. The two Republican
members of the SEC, Troy Parades and Daniel Gallagher, joined
Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, in issuing a rare
 statement  on May 11 saying IOSCO’s report “does not reflect the
views and input of a majority of the Commission.”  U.S., Switzerland Agree to Pursue FATCA Implementation  The U.S. and Switzerland agreed to work toward implementing
the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. The nations also will
seek to improve international tax compliance based on the
bilateral tax treaty between U.S. and Switzerland, the Treasury
Department said in  statement .  The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act requires foreign
financial institutions to report to the Internal Revenue Service
about financial accounts held by U.S. taxpayers.  U.S. Approves Rule Helping to Add Wind Power to Power Grids  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved a rule
designed to improve the transmission of wind and solar power in
the U.S.  The rule requires generators to share weather and operating
information to help transmission networks manage wind and solar
power, the agency said in a statement yesterday.  Germany Seeks Consensus on EU Transaction Tax for Some Nations  Germany is seeking support to pursue a financial-
transaction tax in a smaller group of European Union countries
now that negotiations among all 27 members have foundered, the
German Finance Ministry said in a letter to EU institutions and
governments.  There is an “urgent need” to coordinate efforts to impose
such a tax because individual countries are moving ahead in the
absence of EU-wide progress, according to the letter. If
countries press ahead with national legislation on their own, it
could create economic and financial distortions, the ministry
said in the letter, which was prepared in advance of today’s
meeting of EU finance ministers in Luxembourg.  “Germany would therefore greatly welcome the formation of
a general consensus on this issue at the session on 22 June,”
according to the letter, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The European Commission last year proposed a broad-based
transaction tax with support from France and Germany. The plan
has been opposed by nations including the U.K., the Netherlands
and Ireland.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has bowed to demands to
speed up efforts to introduce a tax on share and bond
transactions, overcoming a hurdle that has held up German
ratification of the euro area’s new budget rules and sealing the
country’s contribution to a new rescue fund.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Action  Liquidnet Faces SEC Investigation Over Dark-Pool Disclosures  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating Liquidnet Holdings Inc. for shortcomings in how
the dark-pool owner guarded information about firms using its
platform, according to a letter the company sent clients
yesterday.  SEC staff have requested information about Liquidnet’s
equity capital markets business, the operator of two stock
trading venues said in an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News.
Liquidnet said it corrected the issues the SEC identified and no
longer provides “descriptive characteristics” about member
firms to corporations using its services.  Federal regulators have stepped up scrutiny of stock
trading practices that gained dominance in the past decade amid
a shift to automation, Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse
unit in the agency’s enforcement division, said in February.  Liquidnet traded 23 million U.S. shares a day on average
through its two dark pools in April, according to data compiled
by Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Dark pools, broker-operated private venues that don’t
display quotes publicly, rose to prominence as a way for
institutions to buy and sell without moving share prices. More
than 40 such pools now exist to trade U.S. equities.  Melissa Kanter, a Liquidnet spokeswoman, confirmed that
Chief Executive Officer Seth Merrin sent the message to clients
yesterday.  For more, click here.  BofA Fined $2.8 Million for Overbilling 95,000 Customer Accounts  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch wealth-management
unit was fined $2.8 million by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority for overbilling customers by $32.2 million during an
eight-year period.  Merrill Lynch charged the fees to about 95,000 accounts
between April 2003 and December 2011, Finra said in a statement
yesterday. New York-based Merrill Lynch, which was acquired by
Bank of America in 2009, lacked an adequate supervisory system
to ensure that customers were billed in accordance with their
contracts and disclosure documents, the regulator said.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the charges were largely “the
result of improper coding of accounts,” which the firm
discovered on its own.  “We have improved our systems to address these issues and
we have reimbursed affected clients,” he said in a telephone
interview.  EU Plan to Delay Carbon Sales Violates Rules, Law Firm Says  A  European Commission  plan to temporarily delay carbon
permits sales starting next year is in breach of the law, said
 Luther Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH , a German law firm
representing energy-intensive industries.  Stefan Altenschmidt, head of the environment, planning and
regulatory practice group in Dusseldorf, said the emissions-
trading directive “only grants the European Union commission
the right to interfere with the market in case of CO2 prices
that are too high, to reduce the burden on businesses.”  The directive “does not allow the commission to work
towards a price increase in case of CO2 rates that are too
low,” Altenschmidt said.  He made the remarks in a  statement  on the firm’s website.  The opinion was commissioned by lobby groups, including
from the steel, cement, glass and paper industries, as they
attempt to head off higher carbon prices. Permits have jumped 17
percent this month as the European Commission considers
temporarily reducing supply in the market in response to record
low prices.  The commission yesterday declined by e-mail to comment on
Luther’s statement.  Canada’s Flaherty Tightens Mortgage Rules to Avert Bubble  Canadian Finance  Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will tighten
mortgage terms as the Group of Seven country with the soundest
government finances tries to avert a household debt crisis.  The government will shorten the maximum amortization period
on mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years,
and reduce the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Flaherty
said in a  statement  delivered in Ottawa.  Flaherty has been relying on regulatory steps to rein in
mortgage borrowing, as concerns about a deepening debt crisis in
Europe handicaps Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney’s ability
to raise historically low interest rates at home. The government
has already reduced amortization limits twice since 2008,
cutting them from 40 years.  Canada will also cap mortgage debt payments at 39 percent
of income and limit government mortgage insurance to homes worth
less than C$1 million, Flaherty said.  The changes take effect July 9.  Holcim Says Its Indian Units Contest Antitrust Body’s Fines  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  said its units ACC and Ambuja Cements, which
were fined about 194 million francs ($203 million) and 196
million francs respectively by India’s competition commission,
will contest the allegations against them.  The companies will pursue “all available legal steps to
defend their respective position,” Holcim said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Courts  Stanford’s Pendergest Holt Pleads Guilty to Obstructing SEC  Laura Pendergest Holt, the former chief investment officer
for Stanford Financial Group, pleaded guilty to a single count
of obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation.  The plea was made to U.S. District Judge David Hittner
yesterday in federal court in Houston. He told her that while he
finds her guilty, he’s deferring acceptance of her agreement
with prosecutors, which calls for a three-year prison sentence.  Hittner scheduled sentencing for Sept. 13.  Chris Flood, an attorney for Pendergest Holt, declined to
comment on the judge’s deferment after yesterday’s hearing,
citing a court-imposed order not to speak publicly about the
case.  Stanford was convicted in March on 13 charges, including
five counts of mail fraud and four of wire fraud in connection
with the sale of certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd. and sold by Houston-based
Stanford Group Co. He was sentenced to 110 years in prison on
June 14.  Stanford is appealing the verdict and the punishment.  Pendergest Holt, 38, the third-highest-ranking officer in
Stanford’s company, was accused of lying to investors and to the
firm’s financial advisers, claiming she oversaw a stable of
international money managers who invested the bulk of the bank’s
assets in conservative, liquid assets, according to court
filings.  She was scheduled to go on trial in September on 21 counts
similar to those Stanford originally faced.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Failed Bankas Snoras Sues Ex-Owners in U.K. for $621 Million  Bankas Snoras AB, the failed Lithuanian lender that was
seized by the government in November, sued former owners
Vladimir Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas in Britain for
395.5 million pounds ($621.8 million).  Antonov and Baranauskas breached their duties to Snoras and
misappropriated or misused its assets, the bank said in a
lawsuit filed May 18 in London and made public yesterday. The
men were arrested by British police and freed on bail in
November after Lithuania issued a European arrest warrant and
sought their extradition to face a parallel criminal case
alleging fraud and embezzlement. Both men have denied the
claims.  The Lithuanian government took over Snoras, the Baltic
country’s third-biggest lender by deposits, on Nov. 16 after the
central bank said it couldn’t account for some of its reported
assets. Snoras’s missing property may be in Austria, the Cayman
Islands, France and Luxembourg, among other countries, the
central bank has said.  Antonov told a U.K. judge in December the case is a
politically motivated “campaign of revenge.”  Snoras’s lawyer, Greg Reid of Linklaters, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment. Kevin Gold, the former
owner’s lawyer with Mishcon de Reya in London, also didn’t
return a call.  Some of Antonov’s assets have been frozen.  Interviews/Hearings  CFTC’s Gensler Says Swaps Rule May Be Finalized Shortly  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary
Gensler  spoke about Dodd-Frank Act rules on swaps and
derivatives.  He spoke with Bloomberg reporters and editors in
Washington.  For the audio, click here.  Restoy Says Spain’s Banks May Need Up to $78 Billion  Bank of Spain Deputy Governor Fernando Restoy and Spanish
Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre spoke at a news
conference in Madrid about the results of bank-stress tests
carried out by independent consultants.  Oliver Wyman Ltd. estimated banks would need as much as
62 billion euros ($78 billion) in capital to withstand a worst-
case economic scenario.  For the video, click here.  SEC’s Schapiro Faces Bipartisan Criticism on Money Fund Rule  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  faced skeptical lawmakers from both parties yesterday
as she defended her campaign to overhaul the regulation of
money-market funds.  In an appearance before the Senate Banking Committee that
lasted just under an hour, Schapiro told lawmakers that while
most funds are “well and responsibly managed,” they are
susceptible to the types of runs that helped freeze credit
markets in 2008. Schapiro hasn’t been able to persuade a
majority on her five-member commission to support a proposal to
rewrite money-market rules and yesterday’s hearing demonstrated
the difficult task she faces on Capitol Hill as well.  She said her goal is not to “demonize an industry.” She
is proposing that money market funds either allow their net
asset values to float or hold more capital and prevent customers
from withdrawing all their funds at once.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said he was
concerned about the idea of requiring money funds to float their
share prices.  Such a proposal would follow rules the SEC adopted in 2010
that introduced liquidity minimums, average maturity limits and
new disclosure requirements. Schapiro told the Senate panel that
since those rules took effect, three money-market funds have
required their sponsors to step in and support them to avoid
their net asset value falling below $1 a share.  For more, click here.  Levitt Weighs In Against Return to Stock Fractions  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said a push by some in Congress to go back to fractions on
stock quotes would be a “ripoff” of investors.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Pandit Says Citigroup Committed to Resolving Pay Issue  Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit talked
about the bank’s capital plan, his compensation and the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  He spoke with Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote  on the
sidelines of the  St. Petersburg International Economic Forum .  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  AIG’s Courpron Has Pay Cut After Probe in Latest ILFC Setback  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s punishment of its
plane-leasing chief executive officer for a relationship with an
employee is the latest setback for the insurer as it seeks to
take the unit public.  AIG named ex-Boeing Co. executive Laurette Koellner to
oversee International Lease Finance Corp., putting her in charge
of CEO Henri Courpron and cutting his pay after he had a
personal relationship with an employee, AIG said yesterday.  AIG is seeking to prepare Los Angeles-based ILFC for an
initial public offering as the insurer works to raise funds to
repay a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. Courpron,
49, a former Airbus SAS manager, was named to lead ILFC in 2010.  Courpron’s stock salary was cut by $1 million to
$3.43 million after his conduct was found to be “contrary to
AIG’s expectations,” the company said. Courpron and the
employee acknowledged a voluntary relationship that had ended,
according to New York-based AIG.  “I apologize for my mistake,” Courpron said in the
statement. “I am committed to keep moving forward with the ILFC
team and Laurette.”  The Courpron probe followed an anonymous complaint that
also alleged that the relationship involved improper use of
company assets and inappropriate personnel decisions, according
to AIG. Those claims were found to be unsubstantiated after a
review conducted with  outside counsel , the insurer said.  Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment on the
IPO prospects.  For more, click here.  O’Neill Says He Would Consider Replacing BOE’s King If Asked  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said he
would consider replacing  Mervyn King  as governor of the Bank of
England if asked.  “If I was approached, it would be very flattering and
something that I would have to think about,” O’Neill, 55, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Ryan Chilcote today
in St. Petersburg, Russia. “Nobody’s asked me anything yet.
What I think happens is that one has to formally apply when it’s
going to be advertised.”  King is scheduled to leave the bank in June 2013 after
serving the maximum two five-year terms allowed. Speculation in
the press on potential successors has intensified in recent
months to include the former chief of the U.K. civil service,
Gus O’Donnell, and  Mark Carney , head of Canada’s central bank
and a former employee of New York-based Goldman Sachs.  When asked in September 2007 if he would be interested in
the role at a time when the government was considering whether
to reappoint King, O’Neill said he couldn’t imagine that
“anyone would be daft enough to offer it to me.” He added that
he very much enjoyed his then job as head of global economic
research at Goldman Sachs.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said there
will be a “proper process” to appoint a new governor and that
he’ll start the formal search in the autumn.  Goldman Sachs has historically been a breeding ground for
central bank chiefs.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  