-- IMF’s Lipton Urges ‘Pan-European Supervision’ of Banks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2012-06-22T17:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/imf-s-lipton-urges-pan-european-supervision-of-banks.html
David Lipton , the International
Monetary Fund’s No. 2 official, today urged “pan-European”
banking supervision while saying euro-area risk-sharing in the
form of euro bonds is premature.  “It’s one single market, but it is 17 markets as far as
banks are concerned with 17 different regulators,” Lipton said
in an  interview  with Bloomberg Television. “If they move to
this kind of pan-European supervision, at least for the large
systemically important institutions, people would then feel more
comfortable about interventions that help one or another banking
system.”  European Union leaders will meet in Brussels on June 28-29
for a summit that will try to resolve competing visions over how
to reshape the euro-area economy. Proposals that probably will
be discussed include supervision, resolution, recapitalization,
and  deposit insurance  to form what policy makers are calling a
banking union.  Lipton said that broader banking supervision would give the
European Central Bank “visibility into and some control over
the situation in all the national banking systems of the zone.”  When asked about the creation of euro bonds, the IMF
official said the idea would require a fiscal arrangement among
the member states on how the bonds would be serviced.  ‘Euro Bonds’  “You can’t go issue bonds if it’s not clear who’s going to
pay for them,” said Lipton, the IMF’s first deputy managing
director. “I think it’s premature. Certainly euro bonds would
be one way to use fiscal union to share risks.”  The IMF official also said  Europe  could “Europeanize
deposit insurance,” creating a measure of safety and avoiding a
run on the region’s banks.  Group of 20 nations’ leaders this week focused their
response to Europe’s financial crisis on stabilizing banks as
the IMF raised its lending capacity to shield the rest of the
world economy. Emerging countries boosted their pledges to the
IMF’s global firewall, nearly doubling the fund’s resources to
$456 billion, at a G-20 summit in  Mexico  dominated by the global
effort to restore confidence in the euro.  Lipton in the interview at the St. Petersburg International 
Economic Forum said today that austerity and growth are not
competing concepts. He urged Europe and other advanced countries
to provide growth settings that allow issues of fiscal
consolidation and competitiveness to be resolved.  Lipton  took over the position of first deputy managing
director of the IMF on Sept. 1, 2011, according to the fund’s
website. He previously was an adviser to President  Barack Obama 
and a U.S. Treasury official in the Clinton administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  