-- IMF Approves Precautionary Payment to Romania
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-22T19:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/imf-approves-payment-to-romania-under-precautionary-accord-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a new stand-by payment to Romania today after the
Balkan nation met targets set under a precautionary accord amid
a third government change this year.  The Washington-based IMF’s board of directors unanimously
approved Romania’s letter of intent and made the funds
available, the Bucharest-based government said in an e-mailed
statement today. The move came after the country kept the  budget
deficit  at 0.8 percent of gross domestic product at the end of
April and there was an agreement on an increase in the 2012
deficit target to accommodate some public wages increase.  The IMF said in a statement in  Washington  that it was
making an additional amount of approximately $651.3 million
available for disbursement, bringing the total resources that
are currently available to  Romania  under the stand-by
arrangement to about $3.35 billion.  Romanian authorities have indicated that they will continue
to treat the arrangement as precautionary and don’t intend to
draw on it, according to the IMF statement.  “The vote is a solid validation by the IMF for the
government’s policy and sends an important international
signal,” the Romanian government said.  IMF, EU  Romania, which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.3 billion )
loan from the IMF and the European Union last year as a
safeguard against the euro-area debt crisis, changed governments
twice this year and is scheduled to hold general elections in
the coming months.  Protests over public-sector wage cuts and tax increases
prompted former Prime Minister Emil Boc to resign, while his
successor Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu was ousted in a no-confidence
vote in Parliament on April 27.  The Current Prime Minister Victor Ponta, backed by his
Social-Democrats and the Liberals, won a confidence vote in
Parliament on May 7 and pledged to continue the country’s
international accord and meet pledges.  The IMF agreed to let Romania increase its budget-gap
target to 2.2 percent of economic output from 1.9 percent,
needed to support an increase in public wages by 8 percent from
June and the payback of some social-contributions to pensioners.  The measure is aimed at partly restoring a 25 percent wage
cut in 2010 and may be followed by another rise of 7.4 percent
in December, according to Finance Minister Florin Georgescu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  