-- India Bonds Complete First Weekly Drop in 2 Months on Inflation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-22T12:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/india-bonds-complete-first-weekly-drop-in-2-months-on-inflation.html
Indian  bonds  completed their first
weekly drop in two months on concern the local currency’s slump
to a record low will stoke inflation.  The nation’s  inflation  exceeds acceptable levels and
restraining it may require sacrificing economic growth, central
bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on June 19, after the
monetary authority unexpectedly kept  interest rates  unchanged at
a policy review the day before. The  finance ministry  sold 150
billion rupees of debt today, part of its record 5.69 trillion
rupees ($99.5 billion) borrowing program for the fiscal year
ending March 2013.  “Bonds are being pressured by the rupee’s weakness as cost
of imports may rise,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice-
president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  in Mumbai. “Continued debt
supplies resulting from high fiscal deficit is also a concern.”  The yield on the government’s 8.15 percent bonds due June
2022 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week
to 8.09 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate rose three basis points today.  The wholesale-price index climbed 7.55 percent in May from
a year earlier, which is above our tolerance level of 7.5
percent, according to Subbarao.  Fitch Ratings this week joined  Standard & Poor’s  in
signaling that the rating of  Asia ’s third-largest economy is at
risk of being lowered to junk status.  India ’s credit outlook was
lowered to negative from stable by Fitch, which cited the
heightened risk of a deterioration in growth potential and
limited progress on paring the nation’s budget deficit.  The government is aiming to narrow the  shortfall  in its
finances to 5.1 percent of GDP from 5.76 percent in the year
ended March.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose 19 basis
points this week to 7.77 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It fell three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  