-- India’s Rupee Tumbles Most in 9 Months to Record Low
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-22T12:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/india-rupee-tumbles-most-in-9-months-to-record-low-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee plunged the most in
nine months to a record low on concern slower economic growth
will reduce capital inflows.  The currency declined after global funds sold $78 million
more local shares than they bought this week through June 21,
according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  Asia ’s
third-largest  economy  may have to sacrifice growth to contain
inflation,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
in Mumbai on June 19, a day after unexpectedly refraining from
cutting  interest rates  at a policy review.  “Growth is a big concern, and the equity market is also
not performing well,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a currency
trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s
uncharted territory for the rupee right now.”  The rupee depreciated 1.5 percent to 57.1550 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier, the
currency fell as much as 1.8 percent, the most since Sept. 22,
to a record low of 57.3275.  The economy expanded 5.3 percent in the three months
through March, the least in nine years, according to government
data.  The  Reserve Bank of India  has asked oil refiners to take 50
percent of their dollar requirements from a single state-owned
bank, Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi told reporters in  New Delhi 
today.  Rating Woes  Fitch Ratings  this week joined  Standard & Poor’s  in
signaling that the rating of Asia’s third-largest economy is at
risk of demotion to so-called junk status.  India’s sovereign-credit outlook was lowered to negative
from stable by Fitch, which cited the heightened risk of a
deterioration in growth potential and limited progress on paring
the nation’s budget deficit.  Price pressures and weak public finances put “even greater
onus on effective government policies and reforms that would
ensure India can navigate the turbulent global economic and
financial environment and underpin confidence in the long-run
growth potential of the Indian economy,” Art Woo , a Hong Kong-
based director of sovereign ratings at Fitch, said in a
statement on June 18.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  wants to reduce the
fiscal  deficit  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the
financial year that began April 1, from 5.76 percent last year.  “We do not yet see light at the end of the tunnel for the
rupee,” analysts including Hong Kong-based  Paul Mackel  at at
HSBC Holdings Plc wrote in a report today. “This time around
domestic factors -- the uncertainty in the investment
environment and the large fiscal deficit -- are primary concerns
for us.”  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose 35 basis
points, or 0.35 percentage point, today to 12.30 percent.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 58.14 a
dollar, compared with 57.36 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 58.34 from 57.50. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  