-- Invensys Breakup Seen Boosting Value 32% With Siemens-GE
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-22T02:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/invensys-breakup-seen-boosting-value-32-with-siemens-ge.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the two-century-old
company that makes software used to run the London Underground’s
subway trains, stands to reap a gain of at least 32 percent for
shareholders by putting itself up for sale.  Invensys, which has fallen almost  10 times  as much as the
FTSE All-Share Index of U.K.-listed companies since naming Wayne Edmunds its chief executive officer last year, said yesterday it
had been approached by  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  and other potential
bidders. After preliminary talks ended without an agreement and
Invensys said no discussions are “ongoing,” the 1.79 billion
pound ($2.79 billion) company could now attract  Siemens AG (SIE)  or
 General Electric Co. (GE) , according to Huntington Asset Advisors.  While Invensys’s  pension obligations  are a potential
obstacle to any deal, the London-based company is cheaper than
88 percent of its electrical-equipment rivals based on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse Group AG says Invensys
could be worth at least 2.36 billion pounds in an acquisition,
giving the acquirer a company that generates more than a third
of its sales from  emerging markets  and sells technologies for
everything from power generation to railroads and oil refining.  Invensys is a company that “cries out to be part of a
bigger company with better management” as part of a breakup or
a takeover, Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.7 billion at
Huntington Asset in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.
“Someone is going to end up with them. It makes sense that
Emerson or GE or Siemens would look.”  German Heritage  Richard Mountain, a spokesman for Invensys, declined to say
whether the company is considering a sale or breakup. He also
declined to say whether Invensys has been approached by Siemens,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company, or GE, the world’s biggest
maker of diesel locomotives.  Philipp Encz, a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens, and
Deirdre Latour, a spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, declined to say whether their companies are interested in
buying all or part of Invensys.  Mark Polzin, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Emerson,
declined to say whether it is still interested in Invensys. He
said Emerson, which makes power-plant and data-center equipment,
approached Invensys in April about the industrial-automation
unit and signaled its willingness to buy the whole company.
Talks ended in early May, he said.  Emerson is restricted from actively making an offer for
Invensys for six months, according to U.K. takeover rules.  Invensys, founded by a German-born British engineer named
Augustus Siebe in 1819, was known as Siebe Plc before its
acquisition of rival BTR Plc in 1999.  Shareholder Returns  While the deal helped Invensys almost triple in size,
according to Hoovers Inc., the company has since lost almost 12
billion pounds in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since Invensys appointed Edmunds to replace Ulf Henriksson
as the company’s CEO in March 2011, the stock has tumbled 38
percent. The FTSE All-Share Index, the benchmark gauge for
British common equity, declined 4.1 percent over the same span,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In January, Invensys fell by the most in nine years after
saying fiscal full-year earnings would be “significantly”
lower because of 60 million pounds in additional costs to
fulfill contracts. In the year ended in March, Invensys’s  net
income  decreased 44 percent. Its operating profit margin, a
measure of how much earnings a company produces from each dollar
of sales, fell to a  seven-year low , the data show.  On June 20, shares of Invensys surged by the most since
2001 after Bloomberg News first reported Emerson’s approach.  ‘Undermanaged Company’  One day later, Invensys retreated 14 percent to 220 pence
after saying the discussions failed to produce an agreement.  Advisers to Invensys have also spoken to Siemens and GE
about a sale of some or all of its operations since Emerson’s
approach, people familiar with the talks said.  Invensys “is an undermanaged company,” said Ajay Kejriwal, a New York-based analyst at FBR & Co. “For someone
like an Emerson or another well-managed, well-developed company,
they’ll be able to take out costs and improve operations. So, it
should sell at a decent multiple.”  Including net debt, Invensys is  currently valued  at 5.6
times its Ebitda in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 37 percent less than the median
8.9 times for 70 companies in the electrical-equipment industry
with more than $1 billion in value, the data show.  Emerson trades 7.6 times Ebitda, while GE is valued at 18.4
times, or twice the industry median, the data show.  Relative Value  Invensys is an “attractive name from a valuation
standpoint,”  Malcolm Polley , who oversees about $1.1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. “It could be a
decent acquisition candidate.”  Invensys gets  half its revenue  from its so-called
operations-management unit, which sells technology to automate
plants and industrial facilities and helps make them cheaper to
run, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The division, which Emerson was interested in, would also
be appealing to Siemens, according to Tintin Stormont, a London-
based analyst at Singer Capital Markets Ltd. Siemens and GE,
which produces, maintains and repairs locomotives, are potential
bidders for the rail-signaling business, while Invensys’s growth
in  emerging markets  would be attractive to any buyer, she said.  Revenue at Invensys has at least  doubled  in Asia,  South
America , and the  Middle East  and  Africa  in the past five years,
helping to mitigate declines in the U.S., the U.K. and the rest
of Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging Opportunity  Developing countries  accounted for about 35 percent of
Invensys’s sales last fiscal year, the data show.  “In a takeout scenario or in a scenario where the group is
broken up, nobody is really questioning that the group’s
products and the opportunity they’re facing, particularly in
emerging markets, will be very attractive to some of their
competitors,” Stormont said in a telephone interview.  Nick Heymann , an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  New
York , says Invensys’s pension obligations, among the biggest in
the U.K., could still stand in the way of a potential deal.  The company has projected benefit obligations equal to 3.25
times its equity value, higher than 98 percent of companies in
the FTSE All-Share Index with at least $1 billion in market
capitalization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Invensys’s 5.8 billion pounds in obligations at the end of
March exceeded the value of the pension plan’s assets by 392
million pounds, according to its annual report.  Retirement Plan  The company “comes with a lot of baggage,” Heymann said.
The size of the pension liability “keeps people away.”  Even with the obligations, Invensys could still command at
least 290 pence a share in an acquisition based on  projected
earnings ,  Simon Smith , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse,
said in a report to clients dated June 21. That’s 32 percent
higher than Invensys’s price yesterday.  The value of Invensys’s separate businesses could approach
350 pence a share as acquirers bid up the parts they want, based
on a sum-of-the-parts analysis by Singer Capital’s Stormont.  While the price would reflect a 59 percent premium, it
would still be cheaper relative to its  estimated Ebitda  this
fiscal year than the median valuation in the electrical
equipment industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You want to buy assets when they are inexpensive, when
they’ve been undermanaged,”  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about $2
billion as chief investment officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford
Hills , New York, said in a telephone interview. “As a buyer,
you think you could come in and reinvigorate those assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at +49-30-70010-6230 or  bkammel@bloomberg.net . 