-- IPhone Obsession Brings No Relief for Imagined Vibrations
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-06-22T15:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/iphone-obsession-brings-no-relief-for-imagined-vibrations-tech.html
On June 29, 2007, the first iPhone
went on sale. The  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  device benefited from breathless
advance buzz and also had its skeptics: It cost $600 and had no
physical keyboard, limited e-mail options and no copy-and-paste.  In hindsight, it was dumb to bet against Steve Jobs & Co.
Apple has since sold more than 217 million iPhones worldwide and
sparked a commercial, cultural and -- most surprising --
behavioral revolution,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its
June 25 issue.  According to a study of medical workers at the  Baystate
Medical Center  in Springfield,  Massachusetts , 76 percent said
they’ve experienced “phantom vibration,” that insistent buzz
from an imagined text or phone call. Scientists speculate it’s
the result of random nerves firing, biochemical noise that our
brains tuned out until they were reconditioned by the iPhone.  “The iPhone has changed everything about how we relate to
technology, for both good and bad,” said Larry Rosen, a
psychologist and professor who is the author of “IDisorder:
Understanding Our Obsession with Technology and Overcoming Its
Hold on Us” ( Palgrave Macmillan , 2012). According to his
research, almost 30 percent of people born after 1980 feel
anxious if they can’t check  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website every few
minutes. Others repeatedly pat their pockets to make sure their
smartphones are still there.  Obsessive Sign  Indulging those tiny, persistent urges brings us only a
brief respite.  “The relief is not pleasurable,” Rosen said. “That’s the
sign of an obsession.”  Obsessions aren’t all bad for everyone, and this one has
been profoundly good for Apple and its partners. The Cupertino,
California-based company’s  revenue  climbed to $108.2 billion in
fiscal 2011 from $24.6 billion four years earlier. Apple’s stock
price today is more than four times as high as on the day the
first iPhone went on sale. Samsung Electronics Co., Foxconn
Technology Group,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other partners have all enjoyed
some of the windfall.  Apple has paid more than $5 billion to application
developers and created a mobile marketplace that enables a
startup such as Instagram Inc. -- which Facebook has agreed to
buy -- to go to a $1 billion valuation from zero in 18 months.
Even though the pie is growing, some have been squeezed out: In
the quarter the iPhone was introduced,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  earned a collective $2.7 billion on their handsets.
Now RIM is exploring strategic options with bankers, and Nokia
recently announced another round of job cuts.  Design Trend  The  App Store ’s 650,000 offerings help people massage Excel
data on the go, monitor their blood sugar and entertain their
kids. More subtly, the  iPhone ’s tremendous commercial success
has made “user-centered design” a buzz phrase in business.  Before the iPhone, most tech products were designed to
appeal to the engineers who made them and cost-conscious IT
managers.  Think back to July 28, 2007, when most of the people using
smartphones were white-collar fans of Research In Motion’s
“Crackberry:” While the BlackBerry led to phantom vibrations
in some users, it was more complicated and harder to use. The
first iPhone arrived with a “manual” that ran only a few
pages. Its Jobsian focus on beauty and simplicity has influenced
countless products and services, from Jawbone’s minimalist audio
gear to Dropbox Inc.’s easy file-sharing.  Cottage Industry  Until now, the cost side of the iPhone equation hasn’t
received much attention. That’s starting to change. The latest
iPhone-inspired cottage industry has nothing to do with old-
timey photo filters. It’s books that examine the device’s
biological and societal effects.  In addition to Rosen’s “IDisorder,” there’s Gregory
Jantz’s “Hooked: The Pitfalls of Media, Technology & Social
Networking” (Siloam, 2012) and James Steyer’s “Talking Back to
Facebook: The Common Sense Guide to Raising Kids in the Digital
Age” (Scribner, 2012). While much of these authors’ concern
focuses on social media, the smartphone is what lets people stay
constantly connected.  “The great thing about the iPhone is that we carry it with
us all day long,” Rosen said. “The bad part is that we carry
it with us all day long.”  Lab Rats  That makes people lab rats in a real-time psychological
experiment that’s altering behavior at lightning speed.
Centuries after Gutenberg pioneered movable-type printing in
 Europe  in the 1400s, literacy remained a rarity. By 2016,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  expects there to be more mobile devices than
people.  Thanks to the ubiquity of smartphones, many museum-goers
“skip the step of actually looking at the artwork and move
straight to photographing,” said Elizabeth Broun, director of
the Smithsonian American Art Museum in  Washington . Storm-chasers
have been emboldened by mobile weather maps and are a scourge to
rural police departments, who must deal with their arrival
during general evacuations, said  Edward Tenner , a technology
historian.  For every feel-good story about an autistic child lighting
up at the sight of a new app, there’s a story like that of actor
 Alec Baldwin  getting kicked off an American Airlines flight for
refusing to quit his “Words With Friends” game.  ‘Mind Bicycle’  The big question: Is the iPhone a “bicycle for the mind,”
as the late Jobs said about the first Mac, or a crutch that does
too much of our thinking for us and increasingly takes the place
of real human connections? The answer may clarify as the devices
get more powerful and more intrusive.  Future generations of the iPhone “will gently nudge you to
help you do the things you want to do,” said Bob Borchers, a
venture capitalist with Opus Capital, who used to run iPhone
marketing for Apple. “Why couldn’t the phone know that I want
to be more fit, so the next time I have 15 minutes of spare
time, Siri could say, ‘Do you want me to set aside this time for
you to work out?’”  Whether that vision inspires you or creeps you out, there’s
one very big check on the revolution wrought by the iPhone: The
capped data plan. Phone companies have been ditching all-you-
can-eat plans and forcing users to pay for bandwidth as they go.  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said that in this year’s first quarter AT&T wrote bigger checks
for Apple -- $3 billion worth -- than it did for investments on
its own network. In the end, we may not be the ones to decide
the costs of detox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  