-- Hiroshima as Top Ferrari Asia Showroom Stokes Japan Dare
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-06-22T00:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/hiroshima-as-top-ferrari-asia-showroom-stokes-japan-dare.html
Last December,  Japan  was aghast
when a Lamborghini and eight Ferraris out for a Sunday drive
piled up in rural Yamaguchi prefecture, an event global media
called the world’s most expensive car accident.  While the cost of the crash may have shocked -- it
involved 13 vehicles with an estimated value of almost $4
million, according to Sports Nippon -- it was equally
surprising that it happened 800 kilometers from  Tokyo  and that
the Ferraris were all registered in Kyushu, Japan’s southern
main island.  Even after two decades of economic stagnation, Japan
remains a lucrative market for the Italian carmaker and its
rivals. So lucrative, in fact, that these companies are
increasingly looking beyond the capital to tap Japan’s 400
trillion yen ($5 trillion) in personal savings.  “When the economy gets worse, people tend to spend on
things that can bring them extraordinary experiences,” said
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Insurance
Research Institute Inc. “In this situation we can see a rise
in sales of hyper-expensive items, even while people cut
spending on daily necessities.”  Osaka, Hiroshima  McLaren Automotive Ltd. , known for its Formula 1 racing
success, chose Osaka’s tree-lined main boulevard to open the
first  Asia  dealership for its MP4-12C, a sports car that kicks
out 592 horsepower and costs about $350,000. Two blocks away,
Ferrari SpA leased space to display new models such as the
$300,000 California HS convertible. Some 300 km farther west,
in Hiroshima, Ferrari last winter opened its biggest showroom
in Asia.  The  Kansai  region around Osaka has particular potential
for McLaren, said Takanori Mizuno, sales manager of Hakko
Automotive Industries Co., a local partner. Hakko in March
opened the showroom, which features a single MP4-12C in orange
and a vintage McLaren F1 racer emblazoned with the name of the
late Brazilian driver  Ayrton Senna . It has already sold 30
cars, and new customers must wait more than nine months for
one of the coupes, Mizuno said.  “Some of our customers paid in cash, and they thought
the price was so cheap,” said Mizuno. “Others didn’t even
need to see the car before purchasing.”  The British automaker opened a second Japan dealership
this week in Tokyo’s Akasaka district and expects to deliver a
total of 60 cars in the country in 2012. It aims to have eight
locations in  China  by 2014, and also opened showrooms this
year in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore .  Bank Savings  Eight of Japan’s 23 billionaires reside outside of Tokyo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and the country’s
richest man, Tadashi Yanai, bases his  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) 
apparel chain in the southwestern prefecture of Yamaguchi. The
number of Japanese with at least $1 million in financial
assets grew 4.8 percent to 1.82 million in 2011 from a year
earlier, affirming Japan’s position as the country with the
world’s second-largest population of high-net-worth
individuals, after the U.S. The number represents 54 percent
of Asia Pacific’s total, according to a report by Capgemini SA
and RBC Wealth Management.  In its quest for wealthy car buffs, Ferrari has gone to
Hiroshima, an industrial city of 1.2 million that’s home to
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  The showroom it opened in February has 1,173
square meters of space on two floors that includes a three-
dimensional “configurator” that allows potential buyers to
visualize what their customized car might look like.  While Tokyo remains the key market,  Hiroshima  is showing
“very good signs of growth,” Maki Kataoka, a spokeswoman for
Ferrari, wrote in an e-mail.  Driving Fun  Asia is important for Ferrari’s parent,   Fiat SpA (F) , which
is struggling in  Europe . Fiat has postponed the introduction
of new models in Europe, and the company is cutting investment
in the region by 500 million euros ($632 million) on
expectation that the auto market there won’t recover in the
second half, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
last week.  A recovery in Europe “depends on many factors: first
 Greece , then the way in which the Euro currency will continue
and what Europe will do to sustain growth,” Marchionne said
in an interview.  Ferrari says it has sold about 12,000 cars in Japan since
it entered the market 36 years ago, and the country is home to
the largest owners’ club worldwide, with 640 members.  Motoaki Ishikawa, a 45-year-old entrepreneur who runs a
chain of nursing homes in the Kobe area, said he settled on
 Ferrari  after driving other sports cars such as Lamborghinis
because of the company’s close relationship with its customers.  Stable Growth  “The fun of Ferrari is you feel you belong to a
community of Ferrari lovers,” Ishikawa said at an event to
mark the opening of the carmaker’s showroom in  Osaka . “It’s
purely about the fun of driving on the open road. When I’m in
town, I’ve got a driver who takes me around in my Audi.”  Ferrari’s business can continue to grow in Japan, even as
the economy has contracted 11 percent since the late 1990s,
said Herbert Appleroth, the Italian company’s Asia Pacific
chief executive officer. Last year, when Japan was devastated
by the earthquake, tsunami and subsequent nuclear crisis,
orders rose 20 percent and the company delivered its entire
inventory of 386 cars.  While Ferrari’s Japan sales had declined by 10 percent
the year before, according to the website of the Japan
Automobile Importers Association, and China in 2011 overtook
Japan as Ferrari’s No. 1 Asian market, Appleroth is optimistic
about the country’s potential.  “We are happy,” he said, “if we can see at least 10
percent growth for the years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  