-- Jet Fuel Gets Olympic Spur as European Refineries Shut
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-06-22T11:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/jet-fuel-gets-olympic-spur-as-european-refineries-shut.html
European jet fuel purchases are set
to reach the highest levels in more than a year as the London
Olympics and Euro 2012 soccer tournament boost travel during the
summer months just as refineries in the region are shuttered.  Imports from the  Middle East  and  Asia  will increase to
about 1.9 million metric tons this month, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of two traders and
three brokers. That’s the most since at least March 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stockpiles fell to the
lowest since 2008, PJK International data show.  The rising shipments underscore the growing dependence on
imports for European airlines such as British Airways owner
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  after the closing
of six refineries this year. That’s benefiting producers such as
 India ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, and  Kuwait  Petroleum Corp.  “We’ve got the Olympics and we’ve got quite a busy summer
of tourism and sport expected,”  Roy Jordan , an analyst at Facts
Global Energy Inc. in London, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re normally structurally tight on jet fuel in Europe and
the fact that we’ve had so much refinery capacity down is one of
the factors that’s left a gap” in supply, he said.  The region’s debt crisis and higher Brent crude prices
earlier this year sapped fuel demand and eroded processing
profits, pushing Petroplus Holdings AG, once Europe’s largest
independent refiner, to file for insolvency. The company’s
Coryton refinery in the U.K. started to shut down on June 6
after administrators failed to find a buyer.  Trend to Continue  About 1.4 million tons of  jet fuel  have been booked to sail
to Europe so far this month, according to reports from four
shipbrokers including Delhi-based Interocean Shipping. The
cargoes are from India, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,  Saudi
Arabia  and South Korea, the reports showed.  “The trend for increased jet fuel imports will continue,”
Tony Astor, former head of fuel strategy for BAA Airports Plc
and founder of Astor Consulting, said June 19 by phone from
Dorking,  England . “You’ll see more jet fuel imported, partly
because of the two vast oil refineries in India and also because
of global sourcing of  aviation fuel  by  oil companies ,” he said.
Reliance’s twin plants in Jamnagar, India, comprise the world’s
largest refining site.  The European Organization for the Safety of Air Navigation,
or Eurocontrol,  forecasts  flights to, from and within the U.K.
will increase 1 percent to 5,780 a day in August because of the
Olympics. Without the games, air traffic would drop 1 percent.  ‘Short-Term Spike’  ‘It’s a short-term spike in what would otherwise be a weak
summer,”  David Marsh , head of forecasting and traffic analysis
at Eurocontrol, said by phone from Brussels June 7.  The London Olympics will attract more than 320,000 overseas
visitors, according to national tourism agency VisitBritain,
citing a study conducted by Oxford Economics. Brussels,
Amsterdam and Paris are also seeing an increase in travel during
this period, Madrid-based Amadeus and Barcelona-based Forward
Data said in a report in March.  The Euro 2012 is estimated to cause a 12 percent rise in
flights to and from  Poland  in June, while Ukraine journeys will
jump 20 percent versus the previous year, Eurocontrol said.  Airline profits are “anemic” because of high  oil prices ,
 Tony Tyler , the chief executive officer of the  International Air
Transport Association , said in a June 11  speech  in Beijing. The
industry’s fuel bill is forecast to reach $207 billion this
year, accounting for a third of costs, he said.  Single-Biggest Cost  “Fuel is our biggest single cost,” British Airways
spokeswoman Nicola Pearson said by e-mail. “We work with a
number of suppliers to ensure we get the best value for money at
all times.”  European air passenger traffic rose 6.8 percent in the
first four months of 2012, from the same period a year earlier,
according to IATA data on May 30. Europe accounts for 28.3
percent, the second largest share, of global passenger traffic.  “We are optimistic on global jet fuel demand, at least for
the coming year,”  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-based
consultant JBC Energy GmbH, said in a June 15 note. The
consultant forecasts aviation fuel use will grow by almost
100,000 barrels a day in 2013 as economic activity recovers.  Refinery Acquisition  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  broke with industry norms of not
owning fuel assets by announcing the purchase in April of the
185,000 barrel-a-day Trainer oil refinery near Philadelphia from
ConocoPhillips in a bid to curb its reliance on outside
suppliers and better manage price risks.  In Europe, about 1.1 million barrels a day of refining
capacity, or about 7 percent of the region’s total, has been
permanently shut since early 2011 because of declining profits.  Jet fuel demand fell 3.6 percent in April from a year
earlier to 1.16 million barrels a day in European member
countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, the  International Energy Agency  said on June 13.  Stockpiles of jet fuel held in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp oil hub fell to 297,000 tons in the week to yesterday,
the lowest since July 2008, according to PJK International BV, a
researcher based in the Netherlands.  The surge in imports may depress jet fuel  differentials ,
which have dropped 27 percent this month, according to KBC
Energy Economics. Cargoes were yesterday at $46.50 a ton more
than benchmark gasoil on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from a premium of $69.25 on May 31. Gasoil slid $11, or 1.3
percent, to $811 a ton on ICE today.  “Whenever there is more demand, some material starts to
move from Asia, which puts pressure on prices,” Ehsan Ul-Haq,
senior market consultant at KBC, said by phone from Walton-on-
Thames, England. “Jet fuel demand has been relatively strong
because intraregional travel is doing quite fine. Some airlines
might be stockpiling ahead of these events.”  The following table lists the monthly volume of shipments
to Europe since March 2011 based on shipbroker reports and
surveys of traders and brokers:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  