-- JPMorgan Trading Loss Drove Three-Level Standalone Cut
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-06-22T00:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/jpmorgan-trading-loss-drove-three-level-standalone-cut.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
trading loss in its chief investment office was an “important
factor” in Moody’s Investors Service’s decision to cut the
lender’s standalone credit rating by three levels.  JPMorgan was among 15 global banks downgraded yesterday and
one of the three strongest evaluated by Moody’s, the ratings
firm said in a statement. The New York-based bank’s standalone
assessment fell to a3 from aa3 and would have been even lower
without implicit support from the federal government, Moody’s
said.  “It illustrates the challenges of monitoring and  managing
risk  in a complex global organization and highlights the opacity
of such risks,” Moody’s said. JPMorgan’s capital markets
business, which accounted for 26 percent of the firm’s revenue
in 2011, and high levels of wholesale funding also hurt its
standalone rating, according to the statement.  JPMorgan benefited from the assumption that there’s a
“very high likelihood” the U.S. government would back the
bank’s bondholders and creditors if it defaulted on its debt,
according to the statement. Without the implied federal backing,
JPMorgan’s long-term deposit rating would have been three levels
lower and its senior debt would have dropped two more steps,
Moody’s said.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on Moody’s actions.  Unwinding Losses  The lender’s long-term senior debt fell two levels to A2
and its long-term deposit rating was also cut two steps to Aa3,
Moody’s said.  The outlook for JPMorgan’s standalone and operating
subsidiaries grades was stable while ratings for the parent
holding company’s senior and subordinated debt were negative,
Moody’s said.  JPMorgan is seeking to stem at least $2 billion in trading
losses from it U.K. CIO operation, where Bruno Iksil, known as
the London Whale, managed a portfolio of  credit derivatives  so
large it distorted the market. Trading in the index that
contributed to the bank’s losses soared to a record June 19 as
the lender worked to unwind its position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  