-- U.K. Judge Says Brooks Needs Clarity on Possible Hacking Charges
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-22T14:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/judge-says-it-is-premature-to-set-u-k-trial-date-for-brooks-1-.html
A U.K. judge said former  News Corp. (NWSA) 
executive Rebekah Brooks should be told whether she will face
charges in probes of tabloid phone hacking and bribery before he
schedules a trial in a related conspiracy case.  Prosecutors, who say Brooks, 44, and five others conspired
to “pervert the course of justice” in the hacking case, should
tell the group by the end of next month if charges will result
from other police investigations, Judge Adrian Fulford said at a
hearing today in London.  Fulford scheduled a Sept. 26 hearing for the former chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International,
to enter a plea in the pending case. He gave prosecutors
“strong judicial encouragement” to inform the defendants as
soon as possible about any overlapping charges.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , a friend of Brooks,
closed the News of the World in July after it emerged
journalists at the tabloid accessed messages on a murdered
school girl’s mobile phone. Brooks quit as CEO of the unit that
published the newspaper two days before she was arrested.  The defendants, including her husband Charlie Brooks, were
charged last month with seeking to obstruct the phone-hacking
probe by hiding papers and computers from investigators and
removing seven boxes of material from the archive of London-
based News International.  Brooks, who wore a long-sleeved black dress to the hearing,
declined to comment outside court. She has previously denied the
allegations.  Operation Weeting  Brooks doesn’t have enough information about the case from
the  Crown Prosecution Service , including whether the seven boxes
had allegedly been destroyed or if their contents were relevant
to the hacking probe, called Operation Weeting, her lawyer Hugo
Keith said at today’s hearing.  Keith also gave the judge news articles related to Brooks
and the allegations about News Corp. as an example of the extent
of information that could influence a jury before trial.  The conspiracy arrests were made in March. Brooks had
previously been detained in the initial phone-hacking case and a
related probe into bribery at News Corp.’s Sun newspaper, the
best-selling daily title in Britain. Brooks edited the News of
the World and the Sun before taking the CEO job at News
International, which published both tabloids.  Security Guard  Also charged last month were Brooks’s ex-personal
assistant,  Cheryl Carter ; the former head of security at News
International, Mark Hanna; Brooks’s chauffeur,  Paul Edwards ; and
a former security guard for the company, Daryl Jorsling. They’re
accused of conspiring with Brooks.  Jorsling’s lawyer, James Sturman, told the judge
prosecutors should speed up the case against his client because
the former security guard had lost his professional license and
may lose his home if he’s unable to work. He said he would seek
to dismiss the claims.  A media-ethics inquiry triggered by the scandal has
revealed Brooks’s relationship with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and other people in power. That probe is continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  