-- Kazakh Banks’ Reserves Too Small to Cover Losses, Moody’s Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-06-22T12:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/kazakh-banks-reserves-too-small-to-cover-losses-moody-s-says.html
Kazakh banks’ bad-loan provisions
aren’t sufficient to cover the losses they’ll probably face,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  Capital levels at many banks are overstated because
insufficient reserves have been set aside to cover bad debts,
the ratings company said today in an e-mailed statement. With
reserves of 32 percent of gross loans in 2011, banks will
probably have to write off most problem loans, it added.  “Asset quality and capitalization will remain weak over
the outlook period, with problem loans representing around 40
percent of gross loans, the same level as in December 2011,”
Moody’s said. “Reserves are unlikely to grow sufficiently to
cover all expected losses since that would considerably deplete
banks’ capital.”  Central Asia’s biggest energy producer tapped its oil fund
for $10 billion to support banks and companies after credit
markets froze and a property bubble burst in 2008.  BTA Bank (BTAS) , the
biggest lender at the time,  Alliance Bank (ASBN)  and Temirbank agreed
with creditors to discount and extend payments on about $20
billion of debt after they defaulted the following year.  Loans overdue by more than 90 days at  Kazakhstan ’s 38 banks
reached 3.46 trillion tenge ($23.2 billion) as of May 1, or 32.3
percent of the total, led by BTA with 1.6 trillion tenge,
central bank data show. State-owned BTA is seeking its second
debt restructuring in as many years, predicting its capital
shortfall will grow to $6 billion by end-2012.  Credit growth in Kazakhstan will be less than 4 percent in
real terms this year, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  