-- Knicks Can Re-Sign Lin Without Cap Limit, Arbitrator Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-22T19:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/knicks-can-re-sign-lin-without-salary-cap-limit-arbitrator-says.html
Jeremy Lin can re-sign with the New
York Knicks without regard to the National Basketball
Association’s salary cap under an arbitrator’s ruling today that
gives the team freedom to go after other free agents.  Lin and Knicks teammate  Steve Novak , who led the NBA in 3-
point shooting percentage last season, thus can re-sign with New
York without cap limits. The Knicks also won’t need to utilize
their mid-level salary cap exception to retain either player,
allowing them to use it on a free agent like  Steve Nash , a
former NBA Most Valuable Player who has said he’s open to
playing for New York.  The NBA said in a statement that it would appeal the ruling
made by arbitrator Kenneth Dam, who agreed with the National
Basketball Players Association argument that a player taken off
waivers, such as Lin, should be considered the same as one
acquired via trade.  “The arbitrator’s decision was exactly our argument,”
 Jeff Kessler , outside counsel to the union, said in a telephone
interview. “The league conceded that this would have been
covered under prior collective bargaining agreement language.”  The 2005 and 2011 labor contracts say players maintain
their so-called Bird and Early Bird rights if they switch teams
“by trade.” Bird rights are named for former Boston Celtics
Hall of Fame player  Larry Bird , and Early Bird rights are a form
of the rule for players who have been in the league a shorter
time.  Other players affected by the outcome are Chauncey Billups
of the  Los Angeles Clippers  and J.J. Hickson of the Portland
Trail Blazers.  Lin is a Harvard University graduate who went from bench
warmer to the Knicks’ starting point guard in February,
averaging 14.6 points and 6.2 assists per game as the team made
the playoffs. He was signed by the Knicks as free agent in
December after being cut by the  Golden State Warriors  and
 Houston Rockets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  