-- N.J. Senate Panel Clears $31.7 Billion Plan Assembly May Derail
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/n-j-senate-committee-approves-31-7-billion-budget-for-2013-3-.html
New Jersey’s Senate Budget Committee
advanced a $31.7 billion spending plan that includes almost $1.9
billion in one-time revenue measures proposed by Governor  Chris Christie . Lawmakers in the Assembly threatened to derail the
accord, and Christie signaled he may resist as well.  The Democratic-dominated Senate panel approved the bill 8-5
yesterday along party lines; the full chamber is to consider it
June 25. In the lower house, Assemblyman John McKeon said he and
eight other lawmakers signed a letter withholding support unless
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange ,
agrees to delay a plan to merge state universities.  The budget proposed by the Republican governor in February
projected a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the biggest of any U.S.
governor and the most since before the last recession began in
December 2007. Christie’s treasurer has since said revenue
through June 2013 may be $700 million under targets, while the
Legislature’s chief budget analyst has said the gap may be twice
as much.  “The governor is the only one who can set revenue
numbers,” Budget Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-
Ridge, said today. “They are quite optimistic, but at the end
of the day, this governor has made it quite clear those are his
numbers.”  The bill sticks with Christie’s revenue and spending
levels, while replacing his 10 percent income-tax cut with a
property-tax credit later in the year, subject to revenue
growth, Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Vincent Prieto said
yesterday.  Christie’s Response  Christie blasted the Democratic measure as “just more of
the same when it comes to their addiction to raising taxes and
holding tax relief hostage,” in a statement issued by his
office. He called the budget bill “a loud, resounding no to tax
relief for hardworking  New Jerseyans .”  McKeon, a Democrat from  West Orange , said he and others
won’t back the budget unless Oliver delays voting on Christie’s
proposal to merge  Rutgers University ’s Camden campus with Rowan
University in Glassboro and fold the state-run medical school
into Rutgers. The plan should be put off until lawmakers fully
vet it, rather than meeting Christie’s July 1 deadline, he said.  Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a Democrat from Trenton, also
said he wants the vote delayed. Democrats control the Assembly
48-32, and the defection of 10 members may leave them short of
the needed 41 votes.  “This is the most important thing we’ll do in the
Legislature, and it’s going to last a long time after we’re done
serving here,” McKeon said in a telephone interview. “To do
anything on a fast track as we currently are on is just
irresponsible.”  Tax Cuts  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican who faces re-election in
2013, said on June 8 that he would support Senate President
Stephen Sweeney’s plan to give residents a 10 percent credit
against their income taxes. The governor and lawmakers must
approve a balanced budget by July 1.  Christie’s budget is “structurally unbalanced” because it
is built on “optimistic” revenue assumptions,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in February. The plan increases the use of one-time
revenue to $1.6 billion, or 5 percent of the total, from 4
percent in fiscal 2012, S&P said. Christie has promised to wean
the state off such temporary budget fixes, which totaled more
than $3.5 billion in 2010.  In May, he said the state would also seek to close the
revenue gap for the new budget in part by canceling $260 million
in funding for road work and saving $20 million by limiting
raises.  Democrats plan to set aside $183 million for property-tax
credits, and won’t introduce legislation to disburse the money
until they can determine whether there is enough revenue to fund
it, Sarlo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  