-- NATO Improves Tracking of Afghans’ Night-Vision Goggles
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-22T20:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/nato-improves-tracking-of-afghans-night-vision-goggles.html
NATO forces have improved their
record-keeping on night-vision goggles used to hunt the Taliban
in  Afghanistan  to be sure the high-technology equipment doesn’t
fall into enemy hands, a spokesman said.  The military is now using a single database to avoid
confusion in tracking the precision eyewear, Lieutenant Colonel
Tim Stauffer, a spokesman for NATO Training Mission Afghanistan
in Kabul, said today in an e-mail.  The Pentagon’s inspector general found in a report this
week that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces had lost
track of hundreds of the goggles purchased for Afghan forces.
U.S. Defense Department and NATO officials, Afghan security
forces and defense contractors “did not maintain complete
accountability” for 7,157 night-vision goggles and spare parts,
the inspector general said.  The lack of adequate supervision means U.S. and Afghan
soldiers “may be at greater security risk during night missions
in Afghanistan,” according to the report dated June 18.  The report cited hundreds of missing serial numbers, 518
“discrepancies” and 75 goggles that were “unaccounted for
during our physical inventory.”  Stauffer said the 75 goggles have since been tracked and
aren’t missing. He said 28 of them were “purposely destroyed”
because they were broken and the other 47 were accounted for
after a re-inspection.  “To be sure, there were serial-number discrepancies
resulting from the confusion associated with using multiple
accounting systems,” Stauffer said. That has been solved by
consolidating all records into a single database known as the
Security Cooperation Information Portal, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  