-- New York Gasoline Premium Doubles This Week on Supply Tightness
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-06-22T18:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/new-york-gasoline-premium-doubles-this-week-on-supply-tightness.html
New York  gasoline’s premium to
futures more than doubled this week as the shutdown of
refineries supplying the region strained inventories at the peak
of the U.S. demand season.  The fuel made to East Coast specifications gained for a
fourth day to the highest level since Sept. 2. Hovensa LLC’s St.
Croix refinery in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  and the Trainer
refinery in Pennsylvania, now owned by a subsidiary of Delta Air
Lines Inc., both shut before the start of the summer driving
season.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline, or RBOB,
in New York Harbor increased 3 cents to 19.5 cents a gallon
versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:50 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread
was 8.13 cents on June 18. Prompt delivery rose 5.95 cents to
$2.7746 a gallon.  Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates the largest line
linking U.S.  Gulf Coast  oil refiners to East Coast markets,
allocated gasoline shipments on Line 1, its gasoline mainline,
for cycle 37, according to a notice sent to shippers.  Colonial’s pipelines ship fuel in cycles that run back to
back. When a pipeline is full, refiners may have to sell excess
supply into the Gulf Coast market, which may push prices lower.  Gulf Coast RBOB weakened 0.5 cent to a premium of 1.75
cents a gallon versus Nymex.  PetroEcuador, the state-owned  oil company , said in an e-
mailed statement today that its Esmeraldas refinery resumed
output. The refinery, which has an output capacity of 110,000
barrels a day, was knocked offline yesterday by a  power failure .  The premium for ultra-low-sulfur diesel versus Nymex
heating oil futures in the Gulf Coast held at 6.88 cents.  The U.S. exported about 34,000 barrels of distillate a day
to Ecuador in March, according to Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  