-- New York Times Said to Seek Tech-Savvy CEO for Comeback
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/new-york-times-said-to-seek-tech-savvy-ceo-for-comeback.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , seeking a chief
executive officer who can reverse a six-year sales slump, is
looking for a tech-savvy executive to help wring more revenue
from the Internet, according to people familiar with the matter.  Paul Sagan,  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) ’s  CEO (GOOG) ; L. Gordon Crovitz, a former Wall Street Journal publisher who founded an
online startup; and  Mark Thompson , the outgoing director general
of the  BBC , have been discussed by Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. and the board, people with knowledge of the search said.
Sagan and others have dropped out of contention, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  Times Co. has said it wants to accelerate a shift to the
Internet. The New York-based company has added people with a
technology background to its board, naming  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  research director Joichi Ito and venture
capitalist Brian McAndrews as directors yesterday.  Online subscriptions at its flagship newspaper propelled a
73 percent gain in circulation in the six-month period ended in
March, while print readership declined. Still, Web advertising
and subscriber fees haven’t been enough to offset years of
declining sales.  One challenge for the New York Times is persuading a
candidate to take a CEO job with limited autonomy. Sulzberger, a
scion of the New York Times’ longtime owners, serves as chairman
and publisher of the company. His family’s voting power would
make it difficult for a new CEO to overrule decisions.  Sulzberger’s List  Sulzberger, working with the board and search firm Spencer
Stuart, initially put together a list of fewer than a dozen
candidates to lead the company, according to the people familiar
with the matter.  Executives on the list who have been discussed included
aspirational picks such as Google Inc.’s  Eric Schmidt  and Eileen Naughton, the people said. Schmidt’s digital-media credentials
were attractive to Sulzberger, who wants an executive with
significant online experience, according to the people.  Schmidt, 57, stepped down as CEO of  Mountain View ,
California-based Google in April 2011, while remaining chairman
of the company. Naughton, a top sales executive at the Web-
search giant, was president of Time Warner Inc.’s magazine
division before joining Google in 2006.  Sulzberger declined to comment on the CEO search, as did
Google and Akamai. The Google candidates are unlikely to take
the job, one of the people familiar with the situation said.  BBC’s Thompson  Thompson, meanwhile, announced plans in March to step down
from the British Broadcasting Corp. later this year. The London-
based company declined to discuss his plans, beyond issuing an
e-mailed statement: “As you might expect, Mark Thompson has had
a number of approaches. He has taken no decision.”  A number of candidates have been ruled out, either because
they took themselves out of consideration or were scratched from
the list, according to the people.  The publisher hired  Spencer Stuart  earlier this year to
manage the search. The company is seeking a successor to Janet Robinson, who was pushed out in December.  Since then, the absence of a permanent leader has raised
concern among investors that the company is rudderless, weighing
on the stock, said Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore
Partners Inc. in New York.  “No one wants to take a position on the company’s stock
when no one knows who’s going to run the company,” he said.  Share Decline  Shares of Times Co. have dropped 11 percent since Robinson
left at the end of last year. The stock rose less than 1 percent
to $6.89 yesterday in  New York .  Sagan, 53, who has been with Akamai for almost 14 years,
announced he would be leaving the company at the end of next
year. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company helps
businesses deliver data quickly over the Internet.  Sagan, a graduate of the Medill School of Journalism at
 Northwestern University , began his career in broadcast
journalism. He helped to create local cable-news channel NY 1
News in  New York City  as an executive at Time Warner Inc. Sagan
also is a director of ProPublica and is on the advisory board of
the Shorenstein Center on the Press.  Crovitz’s resume includes Internet experience as well. He
co-founded Press+, a startup that creates online-subscription
technology for more than 300 publishing companies, including
MediaNews Group, Tribune Co., GateHouse Media Inc., McClatchy
Co. and Lee Enterprises Inc.  Crovitz started the company with Steven Brill and  Leo Hindery  as Journalism Online, which was sold to RR Donnelley &
Sons Co. last year for $19.6 million. Press+, based in New York,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Website Paywall  The New York Times began charging readers to access its
news stories online last year, spurring a wave of growth for its
Internet-subscription business. The publisher has attracted more
than 454,000 digital subscribers to its New York Times and
International Herald Tribune content since last March.  The so-called paywall is estimated to bring in $90 million
in revenue this year and $125 million next year, according to
Evercore’s Arthur.  Still, the fees are a fraction of the publisher’s total
sales. Analysts project that revenue will decline 11 percent to
$2.07 billion this year, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg . Marketers are relying less on print ads, which
typically generate more money for newspapers than their online
counterparts.  Times Co. also has internal candidates to lead the company,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Chief Advertising Officer Denise Warren and Scott Heekin-Canedy,
president and general manager for the New York Times Media
Group, have been considered, the person said.  The company has been offloading assets, tightening its
focus on the New York Times media brand. It sold its stake in
Fenway Sports Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for a total of
$93 million this year and completed the sale of its regional
newspaper division for $143 million. The publisher still owns
the Boston Globe and Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers, as
well as the About.com website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  