-- News Corp. Searching Executives’ IPhones in Hacking Probe
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-22T15:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/news-corp-searching-executives-iphones-in-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is examining iPhones used
by four unidentified company executives for evidence sought by
victims of phone hacking by the now-defunct News of the World
tabloid, a company lawyer said in court today.  One of the phones examined contained no new material, News
Corp. lawyer  Michael Silverleaf  said at the hearing in  London ,
calling the request they be searched “completely pointless.”  David Sherborne , a lawyer representing some hacking
victims, asked at a June 1 hearing that News Corp. unit News
International be ordered to hand over records for at least two
iPhones used by senior company executives, who he didn’t name.
The existence of the phones was suggested by evidence given to a
U.K. media-ethics inquiry and the devices may contain relevant
e-mails, Sherborne said at the hearing.  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer representing victims of phone
hacking, said outside of court the company had located three
phones.  News Corp. is trying to move on from the scandal after the
inquiry that began last year revealed damaging e-mails and text
messages and a judge handling dozens of related civil cases said
the company destroyed evidence.  James Murdoch , the News Corp.
deputy chief operation officer, testified in April at the ethics
inquiry, where Judge Brian Leveson is reviewing the extent of
illegal phone hacking. The Independent reported the company
issued one of the iPhones to Murdoch.  Mary Kearney, a London spokeswoman for News Corp. declined
to comment on the ongoing litigation.  Church, Law  Dozens of settlements with celebrities including  Charlotte  Church and Jude Law have stalled previous attempts by Judge
Geoffrey Vos to schedule a trial to determine damages in the
civil cases. The next hearing is scheduled for July 13.  Tomlinson said there are 50 victims currently involved in
the hacking case. There have also been 286 requests made to
London’s Metropolitan Police since mid-April for disclosure of
evidence about hacking.  “There are substantial numbers of potential claims,”
Tomlinson said. Around 20 new cases are expected to be filed in
the coming weeks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  