-- Nokia Sales Estimates Cut by Nomura on Microsoft Plans
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-22T10:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/nokia-sales-estimates-cut-by-nomura-on-microsoft-plans.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset revenue
estimates were cut by Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts after
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said the Finnish company’s current Lumia phones
won’t be supported by its upcoming mobile operating system.  Nokia’s revenue from Internet-surfing devices like the
Lumia 900 will be 6 billion euros ($7.5 billion) next year,
compared with an earlier estimate of 10.9 billion euros, Nomura
analysts led by  Stuart Jeffrey  wrote in a note today. The
company will sell 34 million devices running Windows Phone in
2013, 41 percent less than previously estimated, they said.  Microsoft, the largest software maker, said this week its
Windows Phone 8 program will go on sale in the second half of
this year and that phones running previous versions can’t be
upgraded. Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a former
Microsoft executive, has placed Nokia’s bets on Windows Phone
while abandoning its in-house Symbian operating system.  “We had hoped that Q3 would represent the low point in
Nokia’s competitive cycle,” the analysts wrote. “An abandoned
strategy in feature phones combined with an apparent increase in
competitive pressures in Windows Phone lead us to cut revenue
estimates that the recent restructuring announcement does not
fully offset.”  Lumia Owners  People who own a current-generation Lumia will be able to
upgrade to Windows Phone 7.8, featuring a new home screen,  Doug
Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, said by e-mail. Clients will also
receive updates including functions like streaming of media
content, the ability to connect other devices to the Internet
through the handsets and new games from  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Microsoft may also be developing its own Windows Phone
handsets, departing from its current practice of working only
with partners like Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, according to
Nomura analyst  Rick Sherlund . Nomura today cut its share-price
estimate on Nokia to 2 euros from 3.20 euros while maintaining a
neutral recommendation on the shares.  Nokia  fell  1.6 percent to 1.93 euros yesterday in Helsinki,
extending the stock’s drop this year to 49 percent. Finland’s
stock market is closed today for a holiday.  The company cut its earnings forecast last week for the
second time this year and said it will eliminate as many as
10,000 jobs and shut production and research sites as phone
sales continued to slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  