-- O’Neill Says He Would Consider Replacing BOE’s King If Asked
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2012-06-22T10:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/o-neill-says-he-would-consider-replacing-boe-s-king-if-asked-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said he would consider replacing  Mervyn King  as governor of the Bank of England if asked.  “If I was approached, it would be very flattering and
something that I would have to think about,” O’Neill, 55, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote  today
in  St. Petersburg , Russia. “Nobody’s asked me anything yet.
What I think happens is that one has to formally apply when it’s
going to be advertised.”  King is scheduled to leave the bank in June 2013 after
serving the maximum two five-year terms allowed. Speculation in
the press on potential successors has intensified in recent
months to include the former chief of the U.K. civil service,
Gus O’Donnell, and  Mark Carney , head of Canada’s central bank
and a former employee of New York-based Goldman Sachs.  When asked in September 2007 if he would be interested in
the role at a time when the government was considering whether
to reappoint King, O’Neill said he couldn’t imagine that
“anyone would be daft enough to offer it to me.” He added that
he very much enjoyed his then job as head of global economic
research at Goldman Sachs.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said there
will be a “proper process” to appoint a new governor and that
he’ll start the formal search in the autumn.  BOE Powers  The process to replace King comes at a time when the  Bank
of England  is gaining new powers to regulate the financial
system. Asked what he would do differently as governor, O’Neill
said that inflation targeting by central banks may not be enough
to ensure stability on its own.  “I personally believe if you stand back over the past
decade or so, inflation targeting, as great as it’s been for the
U.K., has turned out to be not sufficient,” O’Neill said. “So
I think some additional tools, as difficult as they are, or
indicators, particularly ones that relate to the role of the
financial system,” might be required, he said.  “I would upgrade the importance of monitoring aspects of
credit behavior, and with it parts of bank lending, and what I
would call broadly a financial-conditions indicator as a warning
sign,” O’Neill said.  Goldman Sachs has historically been a breeding ground for
central bank chiefs. Carney, European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
 William Dudley  worked there. Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent was also employed by the bank, reporting to O’Neill.  O’Neill took up his current position in 2010 after a career
at the investment bank covering currencies and economics, during
which time he created the BRICs acronym to describe large
emerging markets. Before joining in 1995, he worked at Swiss
Bank Corp. and Bank of America Corp. In 2010, he led a group of
investors seeking to buy English soccer club Manchester United.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in St. Petersburg,  Russia , via 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  