-- Obama Policy on Young Immigrants Creates 800,000 Dreams
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/obama-policy-on-young-immigrants-creates-800-000-dreams.html
Carolina Canizales worked her way
through college in a series of odd jobs, from dog-walking
to housecleaning, with hopes for a brighter future shadowed by
concern over her status as an undocumented immigrant.  “I got used to being patient in the limbo that I’ve been
living in,” said Canizales, 22, who says her family came
illegally to Texas from Monterrey in northern  Mexico  when she
was 10 years old. “I’ve always tried to be very optimistic.”  Now Canizales, who graduated in May with a communications
degree from the  University of Texas  at  San Antonio , may have
real underpinning for her enthusiasm. She is among at least
800,000 young undocumented immigrants who could benefit from
President  Barack Obama ’s new deportation policy, which allows
those eligible to stay in the U.S. and apply for temporary work
permits. For Canizales, that could mean the ability to get a job
that helps pay for graduate school.  The policy’s economic impact will probably be limited
because the immigrants affected form a small part of the total
workforce, said Heidi Shierholz, an economist with the  Economic
Policy Institute  in  Washington . It won’t produce big changes in
growth or the unemployment rate, and concerns by policy critics
that U.S. citizens will be displaced probably are unfounded,
other labor-market analysts say.  The potential effect on those eligible is another story.  “By far the biggest impact will be on these individuals
themselves,” Shierholz said. “They had very limited work
opportunities but now they’ll be able to be fully integrated
into the  labor force .”  New Policy  The U.S. Department of  Homeland Security   estimates  there
were 11.5 million people in the country illegally in January
2011. Obama’s new policy affects those who were brought to the
U.S. before age 16 and are no older than 30, have been in the
country for at least five years, have no criminal record and are
in school or have a high-school diploma or equivalent, or have
been honorably discharged from the armed forces. It allows
eligible immigrants to apply for a two-year deferral on
deportation and a temporary work permit.  Homeland Security says about 800,000 people could come
under a new set of rules that bypasses Congress and puts in
place some of the goals of the “DREAM Act,” long-stalled
legislation designed to give a pathway to citizenship for some
younger undocumented immigrants.  Some non-government organizations that track immigration
trends say the number who could benefit is larger because a
pipeline of young people will become eligible later. The
nonpartisan  Pew Hispanic Center  in Washington estimates the
number rises to 1.4 million if those younger than high-school
age are included.  Political Punch  Obama’s policy may pack political punch as he seeks re-
election in November. Recent polls show him gaining ground with
Hispanic voters, who made up 9 percent of the 2008 electorate,
as well as independent swing voters.  A June 15-18 Bloomberg News poll found that 64 percent of
likely voters surveyed after Obama’s June 15 announcement said
they agreed with the policy, while 30 percent said they
disagreed. Independents backed the decision by better than a
two-to-one margin. The poll of 734 U.S. adults likely to vote
this fall had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage
points.  At the same time, the impact on the labor market, including
the 8.2 percent  unemployment rate , will be slight, economists
said. That’s because the number of added workers is small
relative to a labor force the government says has reached 155
million.  ‘Marginal Effect’  “It will have a marginal effect on the workforce,” said
Michael Fix, senior vice president at the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonpartisan, nonprofit research organization, in
Washington. “I can’t imagine it will have a big effect on gross
domestic product or unemployment or any of the big metrics of
economic strength.”  Neither is it likely to crowd out Americans looking for
jobs, even though the jobless rate for the affected age group is
higher than the national average.  Unemployment among those age 16 to 29 was 12.9 percent in
May. That’s down from an average 14.1 percent in 2011, though up
from an average 9.8 percent a decade ago, in 2002. As of May,
about 33 million people in this age group were employed and
about 4.9 million were out of work, Labor Department data show.  Many of the undocumented immigrants affected by the new
policy probably are working in some capacity, Shierholz said.
Those who aren’t may ease into the job market over months and
even years.  ‘Few People’  “It is so few people that it is not something that is
going to squeeze someone out of a job,” said Michael Hayes,
owner of Momentum Specialized Staffing, a recruiting and
temporary staffing firm based in Phoenix. “Just because they
come out with that, doesn’t mean they are all of a sudden
legal.”  Still, some critics say the risks of young citizens losing
opportunities to the labor-pool newcomers are real. Roy Beck,
president of NumbersUSA, an organization based in Arlington,
 Virginia , that opposes the deportation policy, said Obama just
“gave a sharp elbow to unemployed Americans.”  “Most of these people that do have jobs probably are not
in payroll jobs,” Beck said. “And now they can compete for
payroll jobs, where they will be competing with more
Americans.”  Undocumented immigrants affected by the policy will see a
host of changes that could push them further up the income
ladder and offer some modest benefits to government due to
increased tax revenue, economists and immigration analysts said.  Young Immigrants  Fix said the benefits for young immigrants range from
eligibility for paid internships to the ability to get a
driver’s license, which allows for better job mobility. Most of
all, he said, more young immigrants simply will see the reason
to graduate from high school and college.  At a rally June 20 in Washington, some undocumented youth,
or “dreamers” as they call themselves, made the case that
Obama’s policy will add to the workforce and spur job growth in
the country.  “A lot of dreamers like myself started their own companies
and their own businesses,” said Cesar Vargas, an undocumented
immigrant from Mexico and managing director of a lobbying firm.
“We actually hired U.S. citizens and are creating jobs.”  Max Ahmed, 23, an undocumented immigrant from  Pakistan ,
said he struggles under current law with the lack of official
U.S. identification papers such as a driver’s license, so he
can’t board an airplane or drive a car. His family moved to  New
York  from  Massachusetts , where he said his illegal status barred
him from going to the  University of Massachusetts  on a
scholarship after he did well on statewide tests.  Obama’s Directive  Obama’s directive could mean “I can stay on board and
work, and this helps me pay for school and plan for a future
here,” said Ahmed, who says he came into the U.S. 12 years ago.  For others, benefits include an end to concerns that their
illegal status will be discovered as they enter college or apply
for their first job.  Yocasta Novas, 18, said she wasn’t aware of the
implications of her illegal status until she was in the 11th
grade at the International Leadership Charter High School in the
Bronx and couldn’t apply to some colleges because she lacked a
Social Security number. The Dominican Republic native, who says
she arrived in the U.S. at age 2, was selected valedictorian of
her class and accepted to Lehman College, part of the  City
University  of New York system, with a full four-year scholarship
for top grades and strong recommendations from a teacher and
school principal.  The Obama decision “filled me with hope,” said Novas, who
plans to thank the teachers and administrators who helped her
get into college when she delivers her speech June 29. “I feel
that I can share my classmates’ excitement at graduation. We all
have our futures ahead of us now. I’m very excited for them and
for myself.”  Temporary Nature  Ultimately, the temporary nature of the Obama
administration’s new approach to young illegals may be its
greatest problem. Beneficiaries get two-year work permits, then
have to reapply.  What’s more, if presumptive Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  wins the White House, he could reverse the policy,
and employers may have to weigh that.  Romney has criticized
Obama’s decision to make the policy change through executive
fiat and not legislation, but hasn’t commented about whether he
would change the policy if he is elected in November.  “Only Congress can give permanent residency and eventual
citizenship to undocumented immigrants and that is what the
DREAM act would do,” said Angela Maria Kelley, vice president
for immigration policy and advocacy at the Center for American
Progress in Washington. “The most Obama can do is say that if
these people come forward, I won’t deport you. It is temporary,
and it is not a permanent solution.”  Canizales, the Texas graduate, says she realizes that the
change “is an executive order that can be undone. It’s just a
first step. I’m not afraid because I trust the Latino voters and
the other voters who can speak for us will support us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  