-- Obama Says Romney Aligned With Immigration Overhaul Foes
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-22T22:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/obama-has-tailwind-as-he-follows-romney-speech-to-latinos.html
President  Barack Obama , making his
case to Hispanic voters in the crucial swing state of Florida,
said  Mitt Romney  has aligned himself with congressional
Republicans who have blocked attempts to fix the nation’s
immigration laws.  Speaking at the venue where the Republican presidential
candidate criticized the administration’s immigration policy,
Obama promised to keep pressing to overhaul the immigration
system. He said his announcement last week that the government
would exempt from deportation younger illegal immigrants who
meet certain requirements was a temporary step.  “The need hasn’t changed,” Obama said in an address today
to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials in Lake Buena Vista. “The only thing that’s changed
is the politics.”  Romney yesterday told the group that Obama takes the
Hispanic vote for granted and didn’t act on an  immigration 
overhaul when he had Democratic majorities in the House and
Senate. The former Massachusetts governor offered few details on
his plan, other than pledging a “long-term solution” to
replace Obama’s temporary measure.  Florida, where the Democratic and Republican presidential
candidates were separated by 5 percentage points or less in the
previous three elections, is viewed as competitive by both
campaigns. Hispanics are a key voting bloc, accounting for 13
percent of registered voters in the state, about the same
proportion as black voters.  Swing States  Hispanic voters have the potential to shift the race in the
swing states of Colorado, Nevada and  Virginia . The four states,
all of which Obama won in 2008, have a total of 57 Electoral
College votes of the 270 needed to win the presidency.  With the economy the dominant issue in the presidential
election, Obama said his policies are focused on middle-income
Americans and “creating ladders of opportunity for all those
who are striving to get into the middle class.”  He accused Romney and the Republicans of pursuing “top-
down economics” that would benefit only the wealthiest.  Obama repeated that theme at a campaign rally later in
Tampa, citing a Washington Post report that Bain Capital LLC,
the Boston-based private equity firm co-founded by Romney,
invested in firms that aided companies relocating U.S. jobs
overseas.  “We don’t need an outsourcing pioneer in the Oval
Office,” Obama said.  ‘Red Tape’  Romney “is dedicated to stopping President Obama’s attack
on free enterprise and removing bureaucratic red tape and
barriers to  job creation  for small businesses,” Hector Barreto,
chairman of the Latino Coalition, which represents Hispanic
business owners, said in a statement issued by the Romney
campaign.  The president spoke to the Hispanic officials one week
after his announcement that the administration won’t try to
deport illegal immigrants under the age of 30 who were brought
to the U.S. before they turned 16 and who have been in the
country for at least five consecutive years. They must have no
criminal history and attend school or have earned a high school
degree or its equivalent, or have served in the military.  “It falls short of where we need to be,” he said today.
“It’s a temporary fix.”  No Advance  Romney, in his remarks yesterday, didn’t say that he would
rescind the policy. “The answer is that I will put in place my
own long-term solution that will replace and supersede the
president’s temporary measure,” he said.  “For two years, this president had huge majorities in the
House and Senate; he was free to pursue any policy he pleased,”
the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said. “But he
did nothing to advance a permanent fix for our broken
immigration system.” He only acted when “facing a tough re-
election and trying to secure your vote.”  Romney received tepid applause, getting some boos when he
mentioned repealing the health-care law Obama championed. Juan Zapata, a Republican and the Latino group’s chairman, called the
largely Democratic audience “polite.”  Obama told the audience Romney can’t be trusted on
immigration issues because of the positions he took during the
Republican primaries.  “He’s promised to veto the Dream Act,” Obama said of
legislation, stalled in Congress, that would give some children
brought to the U.S. illegally a path toward legal status. “We
should take him at his word.”  Rubio’s Address  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a potential
running mate for Romney, told the group earlier today that the
immigration debate won’t be settled until Democrats and
Republicans stop using the issue to incite “panic” among
voters as a way to win elections and raise money.  “There are too many people that have concluded that this
issue unresolved is more powerful,” Rubio said in his address.  The country will neither “round up and deport” nor grant
amnesty to about 11 million undocumented immigrants in the
country, he said. “Somewhere between those two ideas is the
solution,” said Rubio, who received a standing ovation from the
largely Democratic group.  He said Obama hasn’t made immigration a priority until
recently and has only addressed the group in election years.
“What a coincidence,” Rubio said.  Obama Momentum  Obama had momentum heading into today’s speech after his
announcement last week, said Florida Representative Darren Soto,
an Orlando Democrat supporting the president.  “He has a lot of wind at his sails,” Soto said.  Obama’s ability to claim credit for blocking deportations
of young illegal immigrants will help him in the election, said
Ana Maria Rodriguez, a Republican supporting Romney.  “He is going to take a lot of the Latino vote with the
message that he’s conveying,” Rodriquez, a member of the Doral,
Florida, city council, said after Obama’s speech.  While in Tampa, Obama also attended a closed-door
fundraiser with about 25 supporters at the Hillsborough
Community College-Dale Mabry Campus. Tickets cost $20,000, with
the money going to Obama’s re-election effort, the  Democratic
National Committee  and state party organizations, according to
the campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  