-- Obama’s Race for Swing Voters With Romney Tight in Poll
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/obama-s-race-for-swing-voters-with-romney-tight-in-poll.html
In an early indicator of a
potentially tight presidential race, pivotal swing voting groups
are split between President  Barack Obama  and his Republican
rival  Mitt Romney , according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  A majority of suburban independents, Catholics, and
working-class voters earning $75,000 to $99,999, voted for Obama
in 2008 and then switched to Republicans in 2010, exit polls
show. According to the Bloomberg poll, suburban independents now
are roughly split between Romney and Obama, while the president
is favored by the working class and married moms, another voting
bloc being targeted by both campaigns. Catholics are divided, as
the whole group leans Obama even as white Catholics favor
Romney, according to the survey conducted June 15-18.  The results suggest that these groups, who helped determine
the outcome of the last two election cycles, are once again up
for grabs in 2012 general election.  “These are voters who split their tickets,” said J. Ann Selzer, head of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Selzer & Co., which
conducted the poll of 734 likely voters. “They are approaching
the upcoming election with less enthusiasm, and are less likely
to have locked into their candidate than the average voter,”
she said.  Suburban Independents  Forty-five percent of suburban independents in the survey
back Obama compared to 43 percent who support Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, within the margin of error of plus or
minus 3.6 percentage points. At the same time, 49 percent rate
Romney, a former executive at the Boston-based private equity
firm Bain Capital LLC, best to revive the economy compared to 41
percent who name Obama.  Married mothers back Obama in the poll 50 percent to 46
percent. Yet they are even more likely to choose Romney as best
to get the economy moving -- 53 percent say so, compared to 39
percent who say Obama is best.  “Obama, to me, has been ineffective and there are a lot of
things I wish were better,” said Cathy Doss of Hurt,  Virginia ,
a poll respondent who voted for Obama in 2008 and plans to do so
again in November. “But I would almost rather have ineffective
than harmful, and I feel like Romney’s worse. I fear even less
policing of industry, and I just fear that Romney would be
pleasing certain interest groups that would not benefit me where
I’m located on the pay scale -- lower to middle.”  Romney Economy Advantage  Still Doss, 50, a part-time librarian and mother of one who
has been searching unsuccessfully for a full-time job, is
conflicted over her choice, saying Romney might be best to get
the economy going again.  “I feel he could do damage, but I honestly do feel that
maybe because of his business experience, of the two, he’s not
my ideal choice, but I’m kind of to the point of, something’s
got to be done, something positive’s got to be done, so maybe he
should have a shot at doing it,” Doss said.  Her seemingly contradictory views help illuminate the
dilemma facing swing voters, who typically pay less attention to
the presidential race while being heavily courted by both
parties, and decide how they will vote late in the contest.  Obama won many of these voters in 2008, when he had a four-
point advantage over the Republican nominee,  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain , with married moms, a 7-point advantage with
suburban independents and a 9-point edge with Catholics. Working
voters earning $75,000 to $99,999 favored Obama 51 percent to 48
percent over McCain.  Obama, Romney Split  In the Bloomberg poll, those working-class voters are
backing Obama 51 percent to Romney’s 42 percent. Fifty-eight
percent of them rate Romney as more out of touch with average
Americans than Obama, while 39 percent say the president is more
aloof.  Catholics also name Romney as more out of touch, 54 percent
to Obama’s 39 percent. The gap is smaller -- yet still
significant -- among suburban independents. Half of them rate
Romney more out of touch compared to 37 percent for Obama, while
married moms name Romney the more disconnected at 51 percent to
Obama’s 41 percent.  At the same time, both groups say they like the idea of
electing a chief executive officer as president. The experience
is viewed as a positive by 46 percent of married moms and 56
percent of suburban independents.  CEO Experience  “Romney, due to some of his business experience, may have
an easier time negotiating with Congress,” said Tathum Infante,
30, an independent from Aston,  Pennsylvania  who participated in
the poll and plans to back the Republican ticket. “I’m not
thrilled about Romney, I just like him more than Obama because I
don’t feel that Obama has gotten a handle on the spending, and I
don’t think that he’s proven to be a very effective executive.”  Other voters are skeptical of Romney’s ability to translate
his business experience into effective leadership in the White
House  “I think he’s too rich to be the president,” Cathy
Leather, 52, a teacher from  Los Gatos ,  California , who
participated in the poll said of Romney. “He just, from my
point of view, represents the interests of corporate America,
and I think that’s not a direction that is really going to help
right now.”  Doesn’t Blame Obama  Leather, an independent who voted for Obama in 2008, has
been disappointed with the economy during his term yet says she
doesn’t blame the president, nor does she believe he or any
other White House occupant could do better. “I don’t know that
anything either one of them can do is going to make a
difference. I’m just not sure the policies can affect what’s
going on out there -- it’s cyclical,” Leather said in a follow-
up interview.  In another mark of the fluidity among swing voters, many
appear to be planning to split their political allegiances in
November’s elections, voting for a president of one party while
choosing a member of Congress from another. For instance,
married moms give the edge to Obama for the presidency, 50
percent, to 46 percent for Romney, while leaning toward
Republican House candidates over Democrats, 45 percent to 42
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  