-- Obama Seen Ruling on LNG Export This Year, Barclays Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-22T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/obama-seen-ruling-on-lng-export-permits-this-year-barclays-says.html
The Obama administration probably
will decide by year-end whether to let additional terminals
export liquefied natural gas, Barclays Bank Plc said, citing a
meeting with a top White House energy official.  The U.S. suspended issuing permits for exports of gas in
liquid form after some fuel users and Democrats in Congress said
sales abroad might increase domestic prices.  Cheniere Energy
Inc. (LNG)  is the only company so far to win approval to ship gas from
a Louisiana terminal.  Heather Zichal , President  Barack Obama ’s deputy assistant
for energy and climate change, told Barclays yesterday that
while some companies will get clearance, others will be rejected
because of lack of funding or legal problems, according to a
note the company sent to clients today.  “She expects decisions on additional applications before
year-end and, overall, Zichal thinks roughly six terminals might
get funded over the next decade,” Barclays said, citing a
meeting at the White House yesterday.  Barclays didn’t name any companies. The Energy Department
suspended other applications after Cheniere’s permit and
commissioned a study of the impact of exports on domestic energy
use, output and prices before making decisions on permit
requests. A portion of the study was published in January, while
a second part hasn’t been issued.  “Decisions will be made in a timely manner following the
analysis,”  Clark Stevens , a White House spokesman, said today
in an e-mail.  Investors including  Sempra Energy (SRE)  with partners  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  and  Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (8031) , Freeport LNG with  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG) , and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  applied for approvals from the
Energy Department.  The Sierra Club is seeking to block Dominion’s export plan,
because the San Francisco-based environmental group said it
would encourage hydraulic fracturing, a drilling technique that
it said harms natural resources and people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  