-- Obama Lead Varies in 3 Polls With No One Declaring Which Is Best
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2012-06-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/obama-lead-varies-in-3-polls-with-no-one-declaring-which-is-best.html
Within a day, three national polls
asked Americans who they preferred in the contest between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney , and one of
them produced a result that only the White House could love.  A Bloomberg National Poll showed Obama, a Democrat, with a
13-point lead in the presidential race over Romney, while an
Associated Press Poll found that Obama held a 3-point lead and
Pew Research Center had the president up by 4 points.  The variance can be explained by differences in methodology
and by voter opinion that may be highly changeable in an
election that both campaigns have forecast as close.  “Small differences in methods between reputable surveys
can amount to large differences in results of the surveys when
voter commitment is still uncertain,” said  Andrew Kohut ,
president of the Washington-based Pew Research Center, a
nonpartisan group that conducts polling and demographic studies.
“This is a race where many people are still not committed to
their choice.”  While the so-called horse-race number -- who is ahead --
attracts attention, political professionals take greater note of
the answers to underlying questions, particularly five months
before an election.  On questions such as whether the public approves of Obama’s
handling of the economy, all three polls had ratings of below 50
percent, a troubling sign for the incumbent.  Wrong Track  The Bloomberg Poll showed that Romney hasn’t recovered from
the primaries as his favorability rating was 39 percent,
unchanged from when he announced his candidacy a year ago; his
unfavorable rating jumped by 17 percentage points. The AP poll
found registered voters split on whether Obama or Romney would
do a better job improving the economy, an issue that the
Republican has made the centerpiece of his White House run.  Bloomberg’s poll gave Obama a 19-point edge in being in
touch with ordinary Americans compared with a 31-point advantage
in the Pew survey. When asked whether the country was on the
right track or wrong track, Bloomberg’s poll found 62 percent
said the wrong track, while AP’s said 60 percent.  The Bloomberg poll also asked a number of what are known as
evaluative questions before seeking the respondent’s choice
between Romney and Obama. They include whether they had a
favorable or unfavorable opinion of Romney, Obama or former
presidents Bill Clinton and  George W. Bush .  Results Not Skewed  J. Ann Selzer, whose firm conducted the poll for Bloomberg
News, said the questions didn’t skew the result, noting that one
of them showed by 62 percent to 31 percent that the country was
on the “wrong track,” not a positive finding for Obama.  Kohut said the Bloomberg questions before the horse-race
query might have pushed a voter toward Obama because they asked
about Clinton, who was viewed favorably, and Bush, who was
viewed negatively.  “It will get people thinking in a particular way about
their choice, and that may not be the case if they are
unprompted,” he added.  The Bloomberg poll asked the horse race as the eighth
question; a Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll conducted May
16-20, asked it as the 12th question after other evaluative
queries.  Bloomberg’s poll didn’t weight its sample for the
educational level of the respondent, yielding a higher-than-
average number of college-educated respondents that may have
produced a higher level of support for Obama.  Race Closest  Selzer said that while college graduates were represented
in the survey by 6 more percentage points than 2008 exit poll
data, “every education subgroup votes for Obama over Romney.”  “The two groups that deviate most from the 2008 average --
some college and college degree -- are where the race is
closest,” she said. “It is simply not true that the higher
education of our likely voter sample, compared to the 2008
electorate, is the reason for our higher margin for Obama.”  Pew surveys weight for educational level, Kohut said,
“because we know there are imbalances in surveys, that we get
more educated people. You want to make it look like the public
as much as you can based on census statistics.”  While Obama opened a lead over Romney in the Bloomberg
poll, the survey also found the public gives the president low
ratings on his handling of  unemployment  and jobs, which they
cited as the most important issue to them.  The poll also showed that among the most enthusiastic
voters, Romney led Obama 49-48.  Error Margin  Bloomberg’s poll surveyed 1,002 adults, with a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points for the full
sample. Questions asked of the 734 likely voters have a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  The Associated Press-GfK Poll, based on interviews with
1,007 adults nationwide, including 878 registered voters, was
conducted June 14-18 by GfK Roper Public Affairs & Corporate
Communications. The overall survey sample had a margin of error
of plus or minus 4 percentage points, and 4.2 points among
registered voters.  The Pew survey of 2,013 adults, including 1,563 registered
voters, was conducted June 7-17. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points for the total sample and
2.9 percentage points for the  sample  of registered voters.  When a survey says there is a 3.5-percentage-point margin
of error with a 95 percent confidence level that means if the
poll were conducted 100 times, the data would be within 3 points
above or below the reported percentage in 95 of 100 surveys. It
also means that in one survey out of 20, the results may exceed
the margin of error.  Different Results  “The poll is extremely different from other results we
have been seeing lately,” Nate Silver wrote in his
FiveThirtyEight blog for the  New York  Times, referring to the
Bloomberg survey. Silver said he would continue to use the poll
as part of his overall forecasting model for the election.  “In this case, the firm conducting the Bloomberg Poll
(Selzer & Co.) actually has a good track record, and their
previous polls this cycle had not shown especially favorable
results to Mr. Obama. So the model uses the poll, just
carefully.”  “The most likely possibility is that this poll simply
represents a statistical outlier,” Mark Blumenthal, founding
editor of Pollster.com, which was acquired in July 2010 by
HuffingtonPost where he is senior polling editor.  95% Confidence  “Yes, with a 3 percent margin of error, its Obama
advantage of 53 to 40 percent is significantly different than
the low single-digit lead suggested by the polling averages.
However, that margin of error assumes a 95 percent level of
confidence, which in simpler language means that one poll
estimate in 20 will fall outside the margin of error by chance
alone.”  Selzer said, “This is an age of instant analysis, and the
reality is we won’t know whether this poll is or is not an
outlier for a while. What we do know is that using the same
sampling method, same weighting, procedure, same question
working in roughly the same order, Obama has opened a lead over
Romney when we had them tied in March.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  