-- Ohio State Set to Park $483 Million From Lease Deal: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ohio-state-set-to-park-483-million-from-lease-deal-muni-credit.html
Ohio State University , less than a
year after joining elite private schools in selling 100-year
bonds, wants to lease its parking operations for five decades as
its state funding declines.  The board of trustees for the third-largest U.S. campus by
enrollment is to vote today on a plan to accept $483 million in
return for giving up parking revenue and management during the
lease. Ohio State, with about 57,000 students, says the venture
would be a first among public colleges. Schools, including
Indiana University, are interested.  State money fell to 7 percent of the school budget this
year from about 15 percent in 2002 as Ohio cut expenditures.
U.S. universities facing similar challenges may mimic the deal,
said Peter McPherson, president of the Washington-based
Association of Public and Land-grant Universities. The
combination of  interest rates  close to record lows and
predictable returns makes the arrangement attractive, he said.  “An idea like this, maybe 10 years ago, people would have
thought was too much out of the box,” McPherson, a former
banker and Michigan State University president, said by
telephone. “These kinds of transactions, given the needs of
universities, are going to be thought more and more practical.”  Urban Parking  Municipalities, including  Chicago  and Indianapolis, have
leased their parking operations in decades-long agreements.  New
York  City is giving private operators until July 31 to show
interest in running the biggest U.S. municipal parking system.  State support for U.S. public colleges and universities
fell by $900 million, or 13 percent, from 2006 to 2011, while
enrollment rose 17 percent, according to the Washington-based
American Council on Education.  Parking leases make sense for universities because the
service isn’t a core educational function, yet it can be
leveraged, said Leonard Gilroy, a director at the Los Angeles-
based Reason Foundation. The group advocates free markets and
limited government.  Indiana University , with an enrollment of about 43,000, is
“in the early stages” of exploring such a deal, Mark Land, a
spokesman, said by phone from Bloomington.  “All eyes will be on Ohio State,” Kelly Bartling, a
spokeswoman for University of Nebraska-Lincoln, with about
25,000 students, said by phone.  Administration’s Choice  Ohio State trustees are assembling in Columbus to consider
an administration-recommended bid by QIC Global Infrastructure
and partner LAZ Parking in Hartford,  Connecticut , to manage
35,000 spaces. QIC, with staff in Sydney and  Brisbane , has a
portfolio that includes an interest in Brisbane Airport and the
Westlink M7 toll road in Sydney.  The funds from the lease would be paid this year and added
to a $2.3 billion endowment, Geoff Chatas,  Ohio  State’s chief
financial officer, said by telephone from Columbus.  Assuming the university’s average 9 percent annual
endowment growth for the past 30 years, the lease revenue would
produce $3.1 billion in investment earnings over the half-
century deal to pay for needs such as faculty and scholarships,
Chatas said. The university would use separate funds to pay off
about $80 million in debt on the parking facilities, Shelly
Hoffman, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  The lease is part of a plan to strengthen the school’s
finances and enhance academics amid falling taxpayer funding,
President E. Gordon Gee said in a May 2 faculty  address .  ‘Palms Outright’  “Gone are the days when we can hold our palms outright and
hope for the best,” Gee said. “Are we searching for innovative
and unconventional ways to fund our mission? Absolutely.”  To help finance $2 billion in capital projects, Ohio State
also issued $500 million of 100-year taxable debt in October. It
joins institutions such as the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  in issuing such bonds. Unlike Ohio State, most of
those borrowers have been private colleges.  Paul Beck , a political-science professor who opposes the
lease deal, said he’s concerned that the university is
essentially using “forced contributions” from parking fees for
its endowment. He’s also concerned that the operator won’t
generate enough revenue or that the university won’t earn the
needed returns.  “It’s a gamble on both sides,” Beck said in a telephone
interview from Columbus.  7.75 Percent  J. Richard Dietrich, an accounting professor at Ohio
State’s Fisher College of Business, analyzed the proposal with
three colleagues and concluded that the lease would be better
financially than having the university run parking if investment
returns averaged at least 7.75 percent a year.  “I wish we were clairvoyant and could see the next 50
years, but since we can’t, we have to make a decision using the
best judgment available,” Dietrich said.  Even so, Beck pointed to Chicago, where former Mayor
Richard Daley’s 75-year, $1.15 billion lease with a Morgan
Stanley-led partnership for the city’s parking-meter system was
undervalued by almost $1 billion, Chicago’s inspector general
said in 2009.  Ohio State is limiting increases to 5.5 percent annually
for the first decade and by the greater of 4 percent a year or
the five-year average of the  Consumer Price Index  after that,
Chatas said.  Parking deals can benefit both sides, said Thomas Hagerman,
chief operating officer for  Standard Parking Corp., (STAN)  the largest
U.S. parking company and with the  Carlyle Group (CG)  an unsuccessful
bidder on the Ohio State deal.  “Ohio State University did what they needed to do,”
Hagerman said by telephone from Columbus. “It’s something
that’s going to happen more frequently on the university side.”  Following are pending sales:  New York’s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY plans to
issue $1 billion in general-obligation bonds to refund debt,
according to an offering statement. The sale may take place as
soon as next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Added June
22)  LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY plans to issue $500 million of
tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for capital
projects and to refund debt. (Updated June 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  