-- Oil Advances, Gaining With Equities as Bank Shares Rally
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-22T19:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/oil-advances-gaining-with-equities-as-bank-shares-rally.html
Oil climbed from an eight-month low
as U.S. equities rallied after Moody’s Investors Service’s
downgrade of 15 global banks was less severe than threatened.  Crude advanced 2 percent as financial shares gained and the
 European Central Bank  said it will relax some rules on bank
collateral. Prices also gained as  Gulf of Mexico  platforms began
evacuations on the growing threat of a tropical storm. Futures
fell 5.1 percent this week as manufacturing slumped in the U.S.,
 China  and  Europe  and American supplies rose to a 22-year high.  “There seems to be a bit of bargain-hunting here and in
the stock market after the big drop,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “The trading
is rather noncommittal. This isn’t a signal that we’ll get a
stronger rebound next week.”  Oil for August delivery increased $1.56 to settle at $79.76
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched
$77.56, the lowest intraday price since Oct. 5. The price is
down 19 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement gained $1.75, or 2 percent,
to end the session at $90.98 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Earlier the contract touched $88.49,
the lowest price since Dec. 2, 2010.  The August Brent contract traded at a 28-cent discount to
September. It’s the fifth consecutive day that the front-month
contract has been cheaper than the second month, a market
structure known as contango. That typically signals an excess of
supply.  Bank Downgrades  Equities advanced after none of the financial firms was cut
more than Moody’s had forecast. The prospect of downgrades had
weighed on banks since Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing 17
banks with capital-markets operations because of fragile
confidence and tighter regulations that pinched revenue.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.8 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 0.6 percent.  “The oil market is trying to decide whether or not to
price in a global recession,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil
market research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Weak
economic numbers have fed those concerns this week.”  Oil tumbled in intraday trading as the Munich-based Ifo
institute said its  German business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to a two-year low.  Prices dropped 4 percent yesterday after the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic index  showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank in June.
Analysts predicted no change. Factory output also declined in
Europe and China.  ‘Incredible Selloff’  “After the incredible selloff yesterday, it appears that
the market has already priced in the bad news,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “We need more negative headlines to make new lows.”  Energy platforms in the Gulf of Mexico began evacuations as
the weather system off the Yucatan Peninsula threatened to grow
into a tropical storm. The Miami-based National Hurricane Center
said there’s a 70 percent chance the cluster of thunderstorms
will organize into a tropical depression or Tropical Storm Debby
in the next two days.  The Gulf is home to 29 percent of U.S. oil output, 6.4
percent of gas production and 40 percent of refining capacity.  OPEC Basket  OPEC’s  basket of crudes  dropped below $90 a barrel for the
first time in more than 17 months. The basket, a weighted
average price of the main grades produced by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, was at $89.48 a barrel yesterday.  The group decided June 14 to retain its group output target
of 30 million barrels a day. The 12 member nations pumped about
1.6 million barrels a day more than that limit in May, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  has been trying to lower the price of oil to
bolster the global economy as Western nations impose sanctions
on  Iran .  The kingdom  pumped 9.9 million barrels of crude a day
in May, the highest level since at least January 1989, based on
Bloomberg estimates.  “Markets always overshoot,” Wittner said. “Oil, unlike
other commodities, has OPEC and Saudi Arabia in particular,
which can cut back when needed. The Saudis have accomplished
what they aimed to do by reducing prices, increasing inventories
and making up for the Iran sanctions that are almost in place.”  European Union sanctions on oil imports from Iran will
start on July 1 as agreed by the bloc’s governments and will be
implemented without any delay, an EU official said today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 463,273
contracts as of 3:14 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 714,879
contracts yesterday, 28 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  