-- Oilers Face Dilemma Over Offense or Defense With NHL Draft Pick
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/oilers-face-dilemma-over-offense-or-defense-with-nhl-draft-pick.html
The  Edmonton  Oilers have to decide
whether to opt for offense or defense with the first overall
pick at the  National Hockey League  draft tonight.  While most hockey analysts agree that 18-year-old Russian
forward Nail Yakupov is the most talented prospect, there is a
group of defensemen including Canadians Ryan Murray, Morgan
Rielly and Matt Dumba, any of whom Edmonton may choose to help
its blue line.  Last year, the Oilers selected forward Ryan Nugent-Hopkins
with the first overall pick. He was a finalist for the league’s
Rookie of the Year award after recording 52 points in 62 games.
The 19-year-old’s success doesn’t mean the Oilers are satisfied
offensively, said Craig Button, an analyst for Canadian sports
television channel TSN.  “If you think that there’s a defenseman that’s best for
your organization, go ahead,” Button, a former general manager
of the Calgary Flames, said in a telephone interview. “But 18-
year-old kids don’t immediately help you win in the National
Hockey League. This is all about getting the best player for
your team and building for the future.”  The Oilers, who finished last season with 32 wins, third
fewest in the league, haven’t indicated which direction they
might be leaning. Stu MacGregor, the team’s head amateur scout,
told the  Edmonton Journal  that this year’s top pick is wide
open, as opposed to previous years when future All-Stars such as
 Sidney Crosby  and  Steven Stamkos  were obvious top choices.  “It’s a different draft,” MacGregor said. “There hasn’t
been any real significant player that has said ‘I’m the guy.’
That’s made it a little bit more interesting.”  Labor Dispute  The draft, which begins today with the first round and ends
tomorrow, comes as a possible work stoppage looms for the NHL.
The labor accord between owners and players expires on Sept. 15
and the sides have yet to meet to discuss a new agreement.  “For the young players, very few of them, single digits,
will be able to play in the NHL as early as next year, so I
don’t think the labor issue will hang over the draft,” Button
said. “The players, the owners, commissioner Gary Bettman and
Donald Fehr, the (players association) executive director, all
see the game in a good place, and now the question just becomes
how do you negotiate a new agreement that serves everyone’s
needs.”  Yakupov, who scouts say is both an effective shooter and
passer, could become the first Russian in eight years to be
selected in the first five picks of the draft. The 5-foot-10,
189-pound forward this year led  Russia  to a silver medal at the
World Junior Championships, where he had nine assists in seven
games.  Any Team  He told reporters this month that he’d be happy anywhere.  “Every team in the NHL is great,” Yakupov said. “I want
to play in the NHL. It doesn’t matter what team it’s going to
be. I want to be first, so we’ll see what happens.”  The last time a Russian was selected in the first five
spots was 2004. The  Washington Capitals  took Alexander Ovechkin
first overall and the  Pittsburgh Penguins  followed with Evgeni Malkin. Ovechkin and Malkin have combined for eight All-Star
Game appearances and each has won the league’s Most Valuable
Player award, with Malkin receiving the award two days ago.  “While they share a Russian heritage, I don’t see really
similar styles of play,” Button said about possible comparisons
between the three. “Nail is like a drag racer, he goes from 0
to 60 lightning quick. When he gets the puck, you get on the
edge of your seat. He’s that exciting.”  ‘Developing Team’  Murray, a 6-foot-1, 201-pound defenseman, played with
Nugent-Hopkins, Jordan Eberle and Devan Dubnyk of the Oilers
while with Team Canada at the World Championships in April.  “It’s a developing team and that would be what any young
guy wants coming into the league -- an opportunity to play and
prove yourself,” Murray told reporters during a visit to
Edmonton two weeks ago. “It’d be a pleasure to play with some
of the guys on that team for sure.”  The  Columbus Blue Jackets , who had a league-low 29 wins,
will pick second, followed by the  Montreal Canadiens ,  New York
Islanders  and  Toronto Maple Leafs . The New York Rangers pick at
No. 28; the  New Jersey Devils  at No. 29.  Yakupov, who played junior hockey in Sarnia, Ontario, wants
to boost both his income and his love life by joining the NHL.
When asked this month during a visit to the Oilers if he had a
girlfriend, he responded that he had two.  “I have one in Sarnia and one in Russia,” he joked. “I’m
going to try for a third in Edmonton, so we’ll see.”  -- Editors: Dex McLuskey, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  