-- Old Republic Plunges as Insurer Halts Mortgage-Unit Spinoff
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-22T20:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/old-republic-halts-plan-to-spin-off-unit-shares-decline-1-.html
Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) 
plunged the most since 2009 in New York trading after the
insurer withdrew a plan to spin off the mortgage-guaranty
operation that ran short of capital.  The halt is a response to “objections raised by certain
stakeholders that RFIG’s separation from Old Republic would be
disadvantageous to their interests and expectations,” the
Chicago-based insurer said today in a statement, referring to
its Republic Financial Indemnity Group subsidiary. Old Republic
didn’t identify the stakeholders in the statement or return a
call seeking comment.  The insurer fell 12 percent to $9.27 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, erasing its gain for the year.  Old Republic is seeking to focus on products such as title
insurance and commercial-liability coverage and limit losses
from backing home loans. The company announced the spinoff plan
May 21 and said it had sold a 21 percent interest in RFIG to a
group of investors in a partial leveraged buyout. The company
said today the financial effect of that deal had been reversed.  State regulators have been working with insurers who ran
short of capital at units backing home loans or mortgage-related
bonds in an effort to protect policyholders. Old Republic said
in January that its mortgage-guaranty subsidiary had been
ordered into supervision by the North Carolina Department of
Insurance and told to temporarily reduce cash payment on claims
by 50 percent.  The North Carolina regulator had no immediate comment
today. Old Republic reported a $678 million pretax loss in the
mortgage-guaranty unit last year, wider than the 2010 loss of
$261 million, according to the company’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  