-- Money Funds Cut Euro Area Bank Holdings Amid Crisis, Fitch Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-22T16:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/money-funds-cut-euro-area-bank-holdings-amid-crisis-fitch-says.html
U.S. prime money-market funds, which
offer short-term lending to corporations and banks, have reduced
their lending to European banks as the region’s sovereign debt
crisis mounts.  Euro-area banks represent about 12 percent of fund assets
as of the end of May, down from about 30 percent at the same
time last year, according to a report from  Fitch Ratings . An
increase in holdings of U.S. Treasury and agency debt, which
exceeds 20 percent, is close to the levels at the height of the
U.S. credit crisis, pointing to risk aversion according to a
report from analysts led by Robert Grossman, head of Fitch’s
macro credit research team.  The funds’ holdings of  commercial paper issued by European
banks  reeling from the region’s fiscal turmoil are well below
last year’s highs, while the area’s banks are also growing
apprehensive about using this potentially volatile form of
funding, the analysts wrote.  “The market’s perception of risk in the euro zone has
increased dramatically over the last year,” Grossman said in a
telephone interview. It’s unlikely that the amount of lending to
the area will revert to last year’s levels, he said.  The banks have also been wary of using the money funds as a
source of financing because they want to ensure the stability of
the source of funding, Grossman said. Money-market mutual fund
assets have declined in all months this year,  according to data 
from the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  The report analyzed holdings of the top-10 prime money-
market funds, which account for 45 percent of all assets held by
these funds in the U.S., according to Fitch. They also hold 10
percent of their assets in  repurchase agreements  that are
secured by Treasury and agency securities.  “It reflects a level of conservatism or risk aversion
which is a current state of mind among large investors,”
Grossman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  