-- Money-Market Fund Overhaul Said to Get SEC Vote as Soon as July
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/money-market-fund-overhaul-said-to-get-sec-vote-as-soon-as-july.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission members may vote as soon as next month on a proposal
to overhaul regulation of the $2.5 trillion money-market fund
industry, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The SEC’s five commissioners are expected to receive a
formal proposal next week prepared by staff in the agency’s
investment management division, according to the person, who
isn’t authorized to speak publicly about internal planning.
Commissioners typically spend at least a month reviewing staff
proposals before voting on them, the person said.  “It’s premature to talk about next steps before the
Commissioners have had an opportunity to review an actual
proposal and give it some thought,”  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail statement.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has faced opposition from the
fund industry and within the commission as she seeks changes to
restore investor confidence shaken by the 2008 credit crisis.
Schapiro told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday that she
envisions a system in which money funds either allow net asset
values to float or hold capital and restrict withdrawals.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have echoed Schapiro’s view that the
current system leaves money market funds, once seen as among the
safest of investments, vulnerable to runs that could freeze the
broader credit markets.  U.S. money funds held a combined $2.5 trillion in assets on
June 20, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group. The largest funds include  JPMorgan
Prime Money Market Fund (CJPXX) ,  Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX)  and  Vanguard
Prime Money Market Fund. (VMMXX)   Industry Opposition  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has led the fight against the
changes sought by Schapiro, blanketing a Washington subway
station adjoining SEC headquarters with ads questioning the need
for a rules overhaul and releasing a study this week suggesting
that even proposing changes could roil markets.  Republican SEC Commissioners Troy Parades and Daniel Gallagher have joined Democrat  Luis Aguilar  in questioning the
need for some of the provisions Schapiro has described, such as
the floating net asset value.  Schapiro must secure the votes of at least three of the
five commissioners to release a proposal for public comment.  Concern over money funds grew after the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which fueled
a broader run at the height of the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. The run calmed after the Treasury
Department temporarily guaranteed money-fund shareholders
against losses and the Fed began buying fund assets at face
value to help them meet redemptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  