-- Four Years Late, Moody’s Notices That Banks Are Risky
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-22T19:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/moody-s-notices-that-banks-are-risky-four-years-too-late.html
Markets don’t always reflect the
truth, but this time they did.  One day after Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
ratings of 15 major U.S. and European banks, and hours after
front pages around the world proclaimed the downgrades to be Big
News, the markets stopped, sighed, shrugged and moved on. In
fact, they rallied, with stocks and bonds of U.S. banks  jumping
by more than 1 percent . The reaction is reminiscent of the
events of last August, when the  U.S. government’s borrowing
costs  fell after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the country of its
AAA credit rating.  Once upon a time, the proclamations of credit-rating
companies and the resulting market moves tended to go in the
same direction. Back in 2005, downgrades of General Motors and
Ford caused the companies’ bonds to drop and whipped up a
tempest in financial markets.  What gives? First, there’s the obvious. At least in the
U.S., banks have generally been building up their capital and
cash reserves and paring down their holdings of soured loans and
securities. So the downgrades contrast with recent experience.  Second, and more important, ratings are by their nature
backward-looking. They fall only after the problems of a
borrower are obvious and demonstrable. So they should catch
markets by surprise only if investors haven’t been doing their
homework.  Too Late  Consider the  rationale of Moody’s for its latest bank
downgrades , which affected such big institutions as Citigroup
Inc., Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc. The rater’s analysts
noted that the banks, all of which have big trading operations,
“have significant exposure to the volatility and risk of
outsized losses inherent to capital markets activities” --
meaning that a market crash could cause them to lose so much
money they would be unable to pay their creditors.  The observation isn’t wrong. It’s just more than four years
too late. The financial crisis of 2008 was enough to alert
investors to the risk: The cost of default insurance on Goldman
Sachs, for example, more than doubled when Bear Stearns failed
in March 2008, quadrupled when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
went bankrupt in September 2008, and remains more than six times
its pre-crisis level. Moody’s downgraded Goldman by one level in
December 2008, and it took until now to do a second, two-level
downgrade. The situation for all the other downgraded banks is
similar.  If markets are recognizing that credit ratings are old news
-- and possibly even conflicted, given that the raters are paid
by the entities they rate -- the development can only be seen as
desirable. We’ll all be better off if financial regulators (who
allow the ratings to affect measures of bank capital), pension-
fund managers (who use the ratings to define their funds’
investment strategies) and lawmakers do the same.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 