-- Top Romney Donors Visit Park City for Exclusive Weekend
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-23T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/top-romney-donors-visit-park-city-for-exclusive-weekend.html
Mitt Romney  is hosting a weekend
retreat for wealthy donors in Park City, Utah, offering backers
the chance to mingle with campaign aides, Republican officials
and the candidate himself at a series of events.  More than 500 donors are expected to attend the event,
which began yesterday and is open only to individuals who have
given $50,000 or are raising at least $250,000 to benefit his
White House bid.  The mingling began on a flight on a night flight to Salt
Lake City on June 21, where executives, lobbyists, politicians
and campaign staff chatted over lasagna and free drinks.  Donors last night were invited to attend a cookout with the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee at Olympic Park,
site of the 2002 winter games that Romney ran as chief executive
officer.  Having decided not to take public financing for the general
election, Romney has devoted much of his time since locking down
his party’s nomination to flying across the country to woo top
donors.  The retreat’s schedule at the famed Utah ski area includes
closed-door gatherings with the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee,  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , as well as former Florida
Governor Jeb Bush and three officeholders who have been
mentioned in news reports as Romney running-mate prospects:
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan  and Ohio Senator  Rob Portman .  Former Utah Governor Mike Leavitt, tapped to head Romney’s
transition team for a potential presidency, will also attend.  Private Briefings  Fundraisers will also receive private strategy briefings
from campaign and party officials including former White House
adviser  Karl Rove , and lectures on foreign policy, energy and
the financial sector, according to a schedule of events obtained
from attendees. Former secretaries of state Condoleezza Rice and
James A. Baker III will be among those discussing foreign
affairs.  The weekend concludes with a round of golf at Red Ledges,
described as an “elite” private community featuring an award-
winning 18-hole course designed by  Jack Nicklaus .  Romney and the Republican Party outraised Democrats in this
campaign cycle for the first time last month, collecting more
than $76.8 million, nearly $17 million more than President
Barack Obama and his allies.  Obama also has spent much time fundraising, including high-
profile dinners at the homes of celebrities including  George Clooney  and Sarah Jessica Parker.  Naming Bundlers  Obama’s campaign has disclosed the names of its so-called
bundlers -- those who pledge to raise large amounts of funds for
him -- while Romney’s campaign has refused to release a list of
its top fundraisers.  In coming weeks, Romney has fundraising events scheduled in
Aspen, Colorado,  New York  City and Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Top donors to Romney already get access to weekly strategy
calls and updates from campaign officials and other Republicans,
efforts organized by aide  Spencer Zwick . Potential donors have
been invited to Romney’s vacation home on Lake Winnipesaukee in
New Hampshire for lunch and boat rides.  The retreat is being held on familiar turf for Romney. He
owned a seven-bedroom, 9,500 square-foot log cabin in Park City
before selling it as he geared up for his 2012 presidential run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  