-- Orchard Parade to Expand Hotel Business in Southeast Asia
-- B y   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-06-22T10:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/orchard-parade-seeks-to-expand-hotel-business-in-southeast-asia.html
Orchard Parade Holdings Ltd. (OPH) , a unit
of Singapore’s largest closely held developer, plans to expand
its hotel management business in Southeast  Asia  to tap the
region’s tourism growth, Chief Executive Officer Lucas Chow said.
The stock surged to the highest in 4 ½ years.  The company proposed a transaction on June 13 to set up a
hospitality property trust and swap assets with its parent,  Far
East  Organization. The deal will give Orchard Parade a hotel
management company with three hotel brands, Village, Oasia and
Quincy, and contracts to run more than 3,400 hotel rooms and
serviced apartments in the city, giving it a base he calls
“fortress Singapore.”  Orchard Parade is seeking to expand overseas with an
increasing number of tourists traveling to  Southeast Asia , a
region with a population that’s about twice of the U.S.
Singapore, Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur were this week  ranked  among
the top 10 destinations in the world by Mastercard Inc.  “If you want to grow beyond a certain size, and if you
really want to grow your brand, we need to have a presence in
some of the major cities in Asia,” Chow, who’s also an
 executive director  at Far East, said in an interview in
Singapore late yesterday. “We will have to look at other
countries for opportunities of growth.”  The initial focus will be on cities within a three-hour
flight radius, Chow said, which will include Jakarta,  Manila ,
 Kuala Lumpur  and Bangkok.  Europe  may also be a consideration in
the longer term, he said.  Exponential Growth  “The tourism numbers are rising and expected to continue
to skyrocket exponentially” in Southeast Asia, said Nicholas Mak, executive director at SLP International Property
Consultants, a real estate consulting company. “Businessmen
will be going there to look for business opportunities, and
there is a great shortage of business grade, four-to-five star
hotels over there.”  The transaction with Far East will also include a one-time
dividend to shareholders and the distribution of shares held in
a Singapore beverage maker, according to a June 13 statement.  Orchard Parade expects to get S$233 million ($183 million)
in cash from the hospitality trust, which it will use help fund
the expansion overseas. It may also get more management
contracts as Far East builds new properties in the city,
including a hotel where a  temple  built in 1824 will be converted
into its lobby, Chow, 59, said.  Share Performance  The stock surged 2.9 percent to S$1.925 at the close in
Singapore, the highest since October 2007. That extended this
year’s rally to 50 percent, compared with the 6.9 percent
advance in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   The deal with Far East will also include parts of two
medical developments close to the downtown owned by the parent
company, Orchard Parade said last week.  The addition of health care, along with its property
development and hotel businesses, will help broaden its appeal
to  investors , Chow said. The most expensive real estate in
Singapore is in the health-care industry, Chow said, citing a
recent transaction in the country.  “We like to call ourselves the emporium of real estate
because we like to diversify ourselves into different kinds of
properties,” Chow said, adding that health care is less
sensitive to economic cycles compared with the property business.
“If you diversify, you are also diversifying the kinds of
cycles for the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ee Chien Chua in  Singapore  at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  