-- Morgan Stanley Added Derivatives in Bank in First Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-22T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/morgan-stanley-added-derivatives-in-bank-in-first-quarter.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , which was downgraded
two levels to Baa1 yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service,
increased the percentage of the derivatives housed in its
higher-rated bank subsidiary in the first quarter.  The notional amount of derivatives in Morgan Stanley Bank
NA jumped 49 percent to $2.57 trillion, according to a  report 
released today by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
That brought the share of Morgan Stanley’s total derivatives in
the bank, which has a A3 rating after the cut, to 5.1 percent
from  3.3 percent  at the end of 2011.  Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in April that the
firm has been “slowly” moving derivatives into the bank,
starting with new foreign-exchange contracts and following with
interest-rate deals. The movement came as the firm faced
questions about whether counterparties would halt long-dated
business with Morgan Stanley after it was downgraded.  The bank is still waiting for approval from the  Federal
Reserve  in order to transfer existing derivative contracts into
the bank subsidiary, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S.
lender, moved derivatives from its Merrill Lynch unit to its
bank last year after its rating was cut, prompting objections
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  The increase in derivatives held in Morgan Stanley Bank was
driven by a jump in over-the-counter forwards and options, which
both climbed to more than 10 times the level at the end of last
year, according to the OCC report.  Reuters reported the increase earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  