-- Pakistan’s Ruling Coalition Selects Ashraf as Premier
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-06-22T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/pakistan-s-ruling-coalition-selects-ashraf-as-premier.html
Pakistani lawmakers elected Raja Pervez Ashraf, a former minister, as successor to Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani , who was ousted from his position by a
Supreme Court ruling earlier this week.  Ashraf, the candidate nominated by President Asif Ali
Zardari’s ruling alliance, received votes by 211 members of the
National Assembly, the lower house, in Islamabad yesterday,
Fehmida Mirza, speaker of the house, announced in proceedings
telecast by state-run Pakistan Television. He needed 172 votes
to win.  Pakistan’s new leader, who will run the government and
federal cabinet, will face the challenge of improving ties with
the U.S. and tackling a record energy crisis that has caused
social unrest and closed factories. The prime minister may also
have to pursue corruption charges against Zardari or risk
meeting the same fate as Gilani, who this week became the
nation’s first premier to be removed by a court ruling for
failing to open graft cases against the president, who is head
of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces.  “He is a compromised choice amid very tough political
bargaining with the coalition partners,”  Rashid Khan , a
professor of politics and international relations said by phone
from the University of Sargodha in central Pakistan.
“His widespread perception is that he is incapable of dealing
with the massive problems the country is facing. He failed to
resolve the country’s worst energy crisis while he was the
minister.”  Cabinet Ministers  Ashraf was administered an oath by Zardari soon after the
vote and appointed 38 ministers to his cabinet, Pakistan
Television reported. Hina Rabbani Khar and Abdul Hafeez Shaikh,
who were foreign and finance ministers respectively in Gilani’s
cabinet, were reappointed, the broadcaster said, adding
portfolios haven’t yet been assigned.  Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, the main opposition, had
nominated Mehtab Abbasi as its candidate for premier who got 89
votes and Maulana Fazl-ur-Rahman, a religious party leader,
withdrew from the race just before the vote.  “We are standing at a critical juncture and to strengthen
democracy,  Pakistan  needs free, fair and transparent
elections,” Ashraf said in a speech to lawmakers after being
elected. “I appeal to the opposition to join us in making this
a reality.”  A four-year clash between the government and judiciary has
rocked an administration that’s aiming to be the first elected
Pakistani regime to serve a full five-year term. Elections are
due in the year ending June 2013, Syed Khurshid Shah, a senior
official of the ruling party told reporters in Islamabad
yesterday.  Former Posts  Ashraf, 61, a member of the National Assembly from
Rawalpindi, has served as minister of water and power and
information technology since he was elected in 2008. He was the
chairman of Social Action Program initiated by slain  Benazir Bhutto  during her second term as the prime minister.  The Supreme Court in March ruled that the country’s
National Accountability Bureau should initiate corruption probe
against Ashraf and other officials for violating rules while
granting licenses to private electricity companies during his
term as minister for power.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index, which has  climbed  21
percent this year, rose 1 percent to 13,730.82 yesterday.
Pakistan’s rupee, which has dropped 5 percent this year, shed
0.2 percent to 94.54 to the  U.S. dollar .  Pakistan’s low investment is compromising its future growth
potential and energy shortages have economic and social costs,
the central bank said in a report on the economy yesterday.  External Payments  The nation’s external payments position is under strain
from a rising trade deficit and declining capital inflows,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report on June 21. Domestic
political uncertainties add to vulnerabilities, according to the
report.  The government is struggling to revive an economy hurt by
the fastest inflation in  Asia  and a power shortage that has led
to violent street protests across the Punjab province this week.
It’s also seeking to mend ties with the U.S. that are critical
to stabilizing neighboring  Afghanistan .  “For us, Kabul is the most important capital in the world
and until there is peace in Afghanistan, there can be no peace
in Pakistan,” Ashraf said in his speech. “With the U.S. we
will work to establish ties as equals.”  The ruling alliance nominated Makhdoom Shahabuddin
yesterday just before a judge ordered his arrest as part of a
drugs probe, forcing his withdrawal from the race.  Illicit Trade  A judge of the anti-narcotics court ordered Shahabuddin’s n
arrest in a case allegedly involving the illicit trade of
ephedrine, Waseem Qureshi, a special public prosecutor said by
phone from Rawalpindi on June 21. The anti-narcotics force is
investigating whether Shahabuddin authorized an illegal permit
for two pharmaceutical companies to import ephedrine during his
term as health minister in 2011. The case, which also involves
Ali Musa Gilani, the former premier’s son, is being supervised
by senior judges headed by Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.  Pakistan’s most senior judges convicted Gilani, 60, of
contempt of court on April 26 for failing to act on an earlier
order to pursue corruption investigations against Zardari in
Swiss courts. Gilani’s lawyers failed to convince judges that
the constitution grants the president immunity from prosecution
while in office.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  in 2007
decreed an amnesty to halt corruption probes against 8,000
politicians and officials, including Zardari and his wife,
Bhutto.  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and Bhutto, who was assassinated at a political rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  