-- Patchwork U.S. Highway Deals Leave States Hanging
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-22T15:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/patchwork-u-s-highway-deals-leave-states-hanging.html
One consideration above all others
may be pushing the political odd couple of Senator  Barbara Boxer 
and Representative  John Mica  toward a deal on U.S. highway
spending through next year: Failure to reach one may idle
thousands of construction workers.  The Highway Trust Fund, which enables the federal
government to pay for state road and bridge projects, may run
out of money if Congress resorts, as it has nine times already,
to a temporary extension of current law.  States will become cautious about starting or continuing
projects if Congress can’t agree on a funding plan soon,
possibly putting an entire year’s construction on hold, said
 Brian Turmail , spokesman for the Associated General Contractors
of America, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group.  “We’re going to come back and will have a harder
problem,” he said. “There’s no incentive to kick the can
here.”  After weeks of growing doubts within the transportation and
construction industries that a deal was possible before the
current law’s June 30 expiration, congressional negotiators took
steps this week toward working out their differences. Boxer, a
California Democrat, and Mica, a Florida Republican, said
yesterday they’re making progress and will work into next week.  The  Highway Trust Fund  will run out of money sometime in
the next 15 months without a congressional transportation deal,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The fund, which
works as a kind of  credit card  to reimburse states for
construction they’re undertaking, is paid for through taxes on
gasoline, diesel, new-truck purchases and truck tires.  ‘Political Games’  “We need Congress to stop playing political games and take
action,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told
reporters in a conference call today. “I have my fingers and
toes and eyes, and everything I can cross, crossed that we will
get to a bill that will put people back to work.”  Without additional revenue, the trust fund will be drained
by January or February, Jack Basso, a transportation finance
specialist at the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, told reporters after a June 13 rally
with senators and builders on the National Mall in  Washington .  A six-month extension would put the transportation
negotiations into a post-election session of Congress that
probably will be mired in discussions of the national deficit,
whether to extend former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts,
and how to avoid reductions in defense spending. States don’t
want to take that chance, said Basso, a former assistant
secretary for budget at the U.S. Transportation Department.  Missouri Projects  “They will start fewer projects if it’s uncertain through
the fall,” Basso said. “We’re going to miss a major part of
the construction season.”  Missouri, even at current funding levels, is already
struggling to find enough money to rebuild Interstate 70, which
runs between  St. Louis  and  Kansas City , or replace bridges over
the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, said Bob Brendel, a
spokesman for the state transportation department in Jefferson
City.  “We have way more needs than funds to meet them,” Brendel
said. “We’re in virtual maintenance-only mode now.”  The Washington-based American Road and Transportation
Builders Association said June 20 that 28 states and the
 District of Columbia  are spending less on highways and bridges
than they were in 2008, before the latest U.S. recession,
according to data compiled by McGraw-Hill Analytics.  Construction Unemployment  “That’s a major reason why unemployment in the
 construction industry  is over six points higher than the
 national average ,” said Alison Premo Black, the 110-year-old
trade group’s chief economist.  If conferees reduced federal highway program spending to
what the Highway  Trust Fund  is taking in, as some Republican
lawmakers are proposing, it would mean a decrease of about 35
percent in the amount of money states could obligate, Black
said.  “This would definitely have an adverse effect on the
market,” Black said. “State DOTs and local governments could
choose to spend their own money to help make up that gap, but
they are still feeling the impact of the weak economy.”  The Highway Trust Fund collected $36.9 billion in taxes and
interest in 2011, while it sent out $44.3 billion in payments,
according to the CBO. Of the outlays, $36.7 billion went to
highways and $7.6  billion  to mass transit.  Declining Balance  This year’s spending is more in line with receipts,
according to an update on the Federal Highway Administration
website. Through April, which is seven months into fiscal 2012,
the trust fund collected $19.4 billion and spent $20.4 billion.  The balance of the trust fund was expected to be $5.5
billion at the end of fiscal 2012, compared with $14.3 billion
in 2011, according to a March CBO estimate. The government can’t
by law deficit-spend to reimburse states for highway
construction, so the Transportation Department would have to
slow down payments before going into the red.  Businesses that depend on a strong transportation system,
like  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , are willing to pay more, Thomas
Jensen, UPS’s vice president of transportation policy, told a
gathering at Bloomberg Government June 20. Lawmakers aren’t
ready to support higher taxes, and there won’t be a solution
until Congress figures out financing, he said.  “It’s a money problem,” Jensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  