-- Pfizer, Protalix’s Gaucher Drug Rejected by EU Regulator
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-06-22T20:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/pfizer-protalix-s-gaucher-drug-rejected-by-eu-regulator.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  failed to win European Union backing for a medicine
to treat a rare genetic ailment because a competing treatment
from  Shire Plc (SHP)  has exclusive market rights for 10 years.
Protalix fell the most in more than six months.  Taliglucerase alfa shouldn’t be allowed on the market
because it works in the same way as Shire’s Vpriv, the European
Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
Use said in a  statement  today. Medicines for rare diseases,
known as orphan drugs, are expensive to develop and have small
patient populations, so drugmakers are given exclusivity as an
incentive to develop them.  “From a commercial standpoint, this is obviously a setback
that we will need to address,” Protalix Chief Executive Officer
David Aviezer said on a conference call with analysts. “We will
continue to do whatever we can to eventually try to reverse this
refusal.” Pfizer’s legal team is “looking into different
options,” he said.  The decision is a setback for Carmiel, Israel-based
Protalix, which won approval for the product from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration on May 1 under the name Elelyso. The
treatment, Protalix’s first drug on the market, helped patients
with Gaucher disease in clinical trials, and side effects were
similar to those of other enzyme replacement therapies, the
London-based drug agency said today.  Missing Enzyme  Protalix’s  U.S. shares  fell 6.7 percent to $6.16 at 4 p.m.
in  New York . The shares have gained 25 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of $566.1 million. Pfizer rose less
than 1 percent to $22.73.  The drug is a plant-based medicine that replaces an enzyme
missing in people with Gaucher disease, a  genetic ailment  that
affects as many as one in 50,000 people in the U.S., according
to the  National Human Genome Research Institute .  Sanofi (SAN)  also
sells a drug for Gaucher called Cerezyme.  Gaucher disease can cause fat to build up in the liver,
spleen, bone marrow and nervous system. About 1 in 14
individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry carries the mutated
gene that can cause the illness, and as many as 1 in 500 present
a form of the disorder.  ‘Positive Assessment’  “While we are disappointed with the CHMP’s recommendation,
we are encouraged that the committee gave a positive risk-
benefit assessment,” Diem Nguyen, Pfizer’s general manager for
biosimilars, said in a statement. “The recommendation was based
solely on orphan market exclusivity and not the safety and
efficacy profile of taliglucerase alfa. Pfizer will continue to
work with relevant stakeholders to determine appropriate next
steps.”  Pfizer unsuccessfully sought an exemption from the
exclusivity rule based on several factors, the company said.
There was no good evidence that Elelyso was clinically superior
to Vpriv, or that Vpriv was in short supply, both of which are
criteria for exemptions, the agency’s drug-review committee
found.  Short Supply  Drugs for Gaucher and another illness, Fabry disease, have
been in short supply in the past couple of years because of a
2009 virus contamination at a Genzyme Corp. plant in Allston,
 Massachusetts . Sanofi acquired Genzyme, the maker of Cerezyme,
last year, and has said production levels are increasing.
Protalix thought it could win an exemption for Elelyso because
of the shortages, CEO Aviezer said.  The European Commission usually adopts the committee’s
advice. Shire’s Vpriv was approved in  Europe  two years ago.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, paid $60 million for
rights to sell taliglucerase and agreed to pay Protalix an
additional $55 million if the drug passed certain regulatory
hurdles, according to a December 2009 statement. New York-based
Pfizer is entitled to 60 percent of the drug’s revenue under the
agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  