-- Philippine Peso Declines as Moody’s Downgrades Worsen Outlook
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-06-22T08:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/philippine-peso-declines-as-moody-s-downgrades-worsen-outlook.html
The Philippine peso fell for a
second day after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the credit
ratings of 15 global banks, adding to concerns about a global
economic slowdown.  The currency declined this week for the first time in a
month as the central bank reported the  balance of payments 
surplus dropped 73 percent in the first five months of the year
to $1.3 billion. Governor Amando Tetangco predicted it will end
2012 at $2.6 billion, compared with an earlier estimate of $2.8
billion.  “The downgrade of the banks generally weakened investor
sentiment,” said Raul Tan, head of the balance-sheet segment of
 Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB) ’s Treasury Group in  Manila .  The peso fell 0.1 percent to close at 42.45 per dollar in
Manila, according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc. It declined
0.5 percent this week. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 5.95 percent.  The central bank will “respond, as appropriate, to ensure
there is no excessive volatility in domestic markets” caused by
developments in  Europe  and the U.S., Tetangco wrote in an e-mail
yesterday. Authorities will ensure growth is sustained while
inflation targets are met, he added.  The  Federal Reserve  this week cut its 2012 expansion
estimate to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, compared with
an April prediction of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. The U.S. is
the  Philippines ’ biggest source of repatriated funds and its
second-largest export market.  Net foreign direct investments to the Philippines this year
will likely be $1.2 billion from a previous estimate of $2
billion, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said today in Manila.
Net overseas investment in stocks and bonds may reach $4.5
billion instead of a prior prediction of $5.7 billion,
Guinigundo said.  Remittances Support  Cash sent  home by Filipinos living overseas increased 5.3
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with a 5 percent
gain in March, the central bank reported on June 15. Exports
rose 7.6 in April following a 1.2 percent drop the previous
month, official data show. Overseas sales and remittances
account for more than 30 percent of the $200 billion economy.  “We’re still seeing steady flows in remittances as well as
revenue from the outsourcing sector,” Rizal Commercial Bank’s
Tan said. “Philippine assets are supported by strong growth and
stable inflation.”  The yield on 5.75 percent government bonds due November
2021 rose 10 basis points today, or 0.10 percentage point, to
5.5 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
was unchanged for the week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  