-- Pimco’s Kashkari Buys Wal-Mart, Spirit on Volatility
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-06-22T20:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/pimco-s-kashkari-buys-wal-mart-spirit-on-volatility.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Neel Kashkari said he is buying companies that outperform when
markets are volatile, such as  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. and  Spirit
Airlines Inc. (SAVE)   “We are buying equities today but we’re being very
selective,” Kashkari, who heads global equities at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with  Betty Liu .” His firm
manages about $1.77 trillion. Pimco is “buying those names that
we think have very strong fundamentals and more downside
protection against some of the big macro shocks.”  Wal-Mart rallied 13 percent this year through yesterday,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 5.4 percent. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer, the world’s largest, will
continue to advance as Americans “continue to pinch pennies,”
according to Kashkari. He said discount carrier Spirit Airlines
will expand as bigger rivals suffer losses. The Miramar,
Florida-based company that promotes fares as low as $9 jumped 33
percent this year through yesterday.  Spirit added 1.2 percent to $20.72 today, while Wal-Mart
fell 0.6 percent to $67.30.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.6 percent this week as the Federal
Reserve cut growth estimates and disappointing data added to
signs of a global slowdown. The Fed also extended its economic
stimulus program known as Operation Twist.  Bill Gross , Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, warned
against risk assets today, saying in a Twitter post that the
markets are vulnerable as the “monetary bag of tricks
empties.” Kashkari predicted the central bank will adopt a more
aggressive approach by conducting a third round of quantitative
easing, or stimulus action, later this year as U.S.  unemployment 
remains high and Europe’s debt crisis continues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  