-- Pixar’s First Princess Tests Girl-Hero Appeal in ‘Brave’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-22T20:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/pixar-unveils-first-princess-in-brave-to-test-girl-hero-appeal.html
Pixar’s box-office success was built
on movies such as “Toy Story” and “Cars” that feature male
characters in central roles. Now  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s animation
studio will try pulling in crowds with its first female lead.  “Brave,” which opens today, stars a headstrong Scottish
princess who bests her male suitors in archery and rejects her
parents’ plans for a political marriage. U.S. opening-weekend
forecasts range from a low of $58 million at Box Office Guru,
among the least for a Pixar film, to as much as $81 million at
Lazard Capital Markets.  The movie will test whether Pixar, which Disney acquired
for $7.01 billion in 2006, can extend a successful track record
based on films with toys, cars, fish and monsters to a movie
about a rebellious princess in medieval  Scotland . A key factor
will be whether “Brave,” focused on a strained mother-daughter
relationship, can draw both girls and boys.  “‘Brave’ is not about a princess. It’s about a world,”
said Jeff Gomez, chief executive officer of  Starlight Runner
Entertainment , a New York-based company that advises studios on
how to reach young people. “It’s action-packed and that’s
accessible to boys.”  Historically, Disney’s animated female leads have been
joined by strong males, as in “Beauty and the Beast” and
“Lady and the Tramp.” Pixar’s writers decided Merida, the red-
haired princess in “Brave,” didn’t need the help. The company
makes up for that by focusing its marketing on the action and
colorful medieval Scotland.  ‘Conscious Decision’  “It was quite conscious as a decision,”  Katherine
Sarafian , the film’s producer, said in an interview. “It is a
love story, but it is about family love. That allows Merida to
propel the story forward herself and not have it resolved by
some guy coming in and saving her. There are lots of characters
in there for boys to relate to.”  Gomez, whose company advised  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox on “Avatar,” likened Burbank, California-based Disney’s
campaign to  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s marketing of “The
Hunger Games.” That film ranks as the year’s second-biggest,
with $402.2 million in domestic sales, according to researcher
Box Office Mojo.  “The Hunger Games” featured a bow-wielding heroine,
Katniss Everdeen, who resists manipulation by an oppressive
government while dealing with the overtures of two suitors. Ads
for the film focused on the action and the bizarre world of the
Capitol, the ruling city in a dystopian society where teens are
forced to fight to the death on live television, Gomez said.  Theatrical Run  Over its U.S. theatrical run, forecasts for “Brave” range
from a low of $180 million, the estimate of  David Bank , an RBC
Capital Markets analyst, to as much as the $260 million
predicted by  Barton Crockett  at Lazard.  Pixar’s top performer, “Toy Story 3,” collected $415
million in domestic sales while No. 2 “Finding Nemo” brought
in $339.7 million. The studio’s lowest-grossing film at the box
office was the 1998 release “A Bug’s Life,” with $162.8
million, according to Box Office Mojo.  Sarafian declined to say how much “Brave,” which will be
shown in 3-D, cost to make. The average budget for the last five
Pixar films was $181 million, based on Box Office Mojo
estimates.  The film, cable and theme-park company leads the domestic
box office this year with ticket sales of $806.7 million as of
June 17, on the strength of “Marvel’s the Avengers.” The film
started the summer last month with a record $207.4 million in
opening-weekend revenue and has collected $1.42 billion
worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  Disney rose 0.2 percent to $47.47 at the close in  New York ,
near the all-time high of $48 set on June 19. The stock has
gained 26 percent this year, making the company the fourth-best
performer in the 16-member  S&P 500 Media Index. (S5MEDA)   Merchandise Sales  “Brave” doesn’t need to be a huge box-office hit to be
profitable for Disney, said Jim Silver, editor of Time to Play
magazine. The characters are easily channeled into toys and
clothing for the company’s consumer products division, as they
were in “Cars” and “Cars 2.” Toys from those films, ranked
10th and 6th in global ticket sales among Pixar’s 12 movies so
far, may be Disney’s top merchandise sellers of all time, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said on a May 8 conference call.  “We think this will be one of the better ones,” Silver
said.  Cinema operators could use a boost. Summer ticket sales are
up 1 percent over 2011 at $1.58 billion, according to
Hollywood.com Box-Office, held back by disappointments including
“Battleship,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  Box-Office Misses  Last weekend, two new releases, “Rock of Ages” from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “That’s My Boy,”
failed to meet the estimates of box-office forecasters.  “That was a pretty big hit having both of those movies
tank on the same weekend,”  Jeff Bock , box-office analyst at
Exhibitor Relations Co., said in an interview. “The industry
was expecting those films to make $100 million apiece and
they’ll probably get half of that.”  “Brave” will probably be the first in a series of more
consistently successful releases, said  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit. Others include
Sony’s “The Amazing Spider-Man,” set for release on July 3,
and Warner Bros.’ “The Dark Knight Rises” on July 20.  Palace Duties  Princess Merida, voiced by Kelly Macdonald, prefers
archery and horseback riding to more traditional palace
duties. She runs away after her parents try to force her to
choose a husband from among several politically connected
suitors. Her flight from responsibility leads to a crisis that
forces her to reassess her turbulent relationship with her
parents. The mother is voiced by Emma Thompson.  Historically, Disney’s female leads, beginning with “ Snow
White  and the Seven Dwarfs” in 1937, counted on a male hero for
the last-minute rescue.  The lack of a Prince Charming may reflect what matters to
to modern boys and girls, Gomez said. Like Everdeen of “The
Hunger Games,” Merida appeals to both sexes because of her
independence and resistance to authority.  “This is not a feminist development,” Gomez said. “It’s
a generational development. The people seeing these new movies
find values more aspirational than gender.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  