-- Player Disputes Affected France’s Euro Preparation, Coach Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-22T16:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/player-disputes-affected-france-s-euro-preparation-coach-says.html
France  coach Laurent Blanc says
a dressing room dispute between his players has affected
preparations ahead of tomorrow’s quarterfinal in soccer’s
European Championship with titleholder  Spain .  Tempers rose in the locker room inside Kiev’s Olympic
Stadium after a 2-0 defeat to already eliminated  Sweden  on June
19 meant Blanc’s team was runner-up in Group D behind England.
That brought on a match with European and world champion Spain
instead of  Italy .  Blanc said it took a day for the team to get over the
fight, which was widely reported in the French media. Les Bleus
are also playing a day earlier than they would have had they
topped the group. England meets Italy in Kiev in two days.  “It took some time for this to subside -- it held us back
a little bit,” Blanc said at a press conference at the Donbass
Arena in Donetsk, Ukraine. “But there are priorities you have
to deal with and they are more important than even the technical
preparation of the match.”  Blanc said he worries about the effect the row will have 
on the morale of his team. French newspapers L’Equipe and Le 
Parisien reported the argument started when midfielder Alou 
Diarra criticized teammates for leaving him exposed in midfield
and continued with Blanc scolding attacker Hatem  Ben Arfa  for 
being on his mobile phone after the loss that ended a 23-game 
unbeaten run.  Ben Arfa reportedly asked Blanc to send him home if he was
unhappy. The 25-year-old was the first to be substituted and
told Blanc there were other players more worthy of being removed
first, according to the media reports.  Meltdown History  The argument led to comparisons with France’s meltdown at
the 2010  World Cup  when players refused to train for a day at
their base in  South Africa . They ignored pleas from coaches and
training staff in order to support striker  Nicolas Anelka , who
was sent home for insulting former coach  Raymond Domenech .  “There are a lot of people who’ve still got demons,”
Blanc said, two days after the team’s oldest player Florent Malouda, 32, accused teammates of being unprofessional in their
approach to the Sweden game. “Everybody remembers what
happened. With two or three raised voices you worry that you’ll
relive the difficult times.”  Blanc said he’d have made more than the mandatory three
substitutions permitted against the Scandinavians had he been
given the opportunity.  France does have the history books in its favor. It enters
the game unbeaten against the Spanish in competitive matches,
including victory in the final of the 1984 version of the
tournament played on home soil.  “It’s a statistic that’s in our favor,” said Blanc, who
was flanked by the team’s captain, goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris . “
We’re going to take it and accept it because there aren’t many
that are in our favor at the moment. If it can carry on for
another couple of days that would be great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Donetsk, Ukraine, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  