-- Paraguay Swears in Franco After President Lugo Impeached
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-23T15:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/president-lugo-facing-impeachment-vote-over-deadly-land-seizure.html
Leaders from  Latin America 
threatened to isolate Paraguay after the nation’s Congress
ousted President Fernando Lugo in a power grab that’s being
compared to a coup by regional governments.  Lugo, a former Roman Catholic bishop, was removed from
office in a 39-4 vote yesterday by the opposition-controlled
Senate for encouraging land seizures and fomenting violence, 24
hours after the lower house voted to impeach him. Vice President
Federico Franco, a one-time ally turned critic of Lugo, was
sworn in as president as riot police held back thousands of Lugo
supporters gathered outside Congress  Lugo, since ending six decades of Colorado Party rule in
2008, failed to build support for his policies of redistributing
land in the world’s fourth-largest soybean exporter and was
blamed by elites for a rise in territorial disputes. The final
straw came on June 15, when a shootout between landless peasants
and police left 17 dead, including six police.  “What we’re seeing is increasingly the use of democratic
institutions for anti-democratic means,”  Christopher Sabatini ,
senior policy director at the Council of the Americas in  New
York , said in an interview. “This is not a traditional coup.
This was a ramped-up, accelerated process, clearly motivated by
partisan interests.”  Franco, whose Authentic Radical Liberal Party partnered
with its arch-rival the Colorado Party to remove Lugo, said that
he’ll lead a transitional government until elections scheduled
for April 2013 take place.  Still, he faces a backlash from Paraguay’s neighbors, who
 condemned  the haste with which Lugo was removed and are
threatening to expel the land-locked nation from the Mercosur
trade bloc that includes  Brazil  and  Argentina . Ecuador and
 Venezuela , allies of Lugo, called his ousting a coup and said
they won’t recognize the new government.  ‘Wounded’ Democracy  Lugo, 61, had called on the  Supreme Court  to declare the
impeachment process unconstitutional and demanded more time to
prepare his defense against charges of negligence and
incompetence in the shootout deaths. He was also blamed for a
rise in crime, humiliating the country’s once-dominant military
and ceding Paraguay’s energy sovereignty to its neighbors.  Still, he struck a conciliatory tone in his farewell
address to the nation, urging supporters to refrain from violent
protests.  “Today it isn’t Fernando Lugo who took a hit, it’s
Paraguay’s history, her democracy, which has been profoundly
wounded,” said Lugo, who had tried to head off impeachment by
replacing the interior minister and police chief. “As I have
always acted within the law, and although this has been twisted
like a fragile branch in the wind, I submit to Congress’
decision.”  Army Subdued  Regional leaders rushed to Lugo’s defense, fearing that his
removal would mark a reversal for the nation’s fragile
democracy. Since General Alfredo Stroessner’s three-decade
dictatorship ended in 1989,  Paraguay  has been marred by
political turmoil including assassination, a coup attempt and a
previous presidential impeachment. The army, hours before Lugo
was removed, vowed to respect whoever was named his replacement.  Ali Rodriguez, the Venezuelan secretary-general of the
Union of South American Nations, or Unasur, said that a mission
of regional diplomats that he led to Asuncion to try and defuse
the political crisis came up “against an insurmountable wall”
from the opposition.  Prior to Lugo’s removal, the 12-nation group issued a
statement warning that Congress’ action may violate Paraguay’s
democratic commitments under Mercosur and other regional
treaties, leading to its exclusion from regional integration
efforts.  U.S. Reaction  The U.S. State Department said that it was watching the
situation closely.  “We urge all Paraguayans to act peacefully, with calm and
responsibility, in the spirit of Paraguay’s democratic
principles,” said Darla Jordan, a spokeswoman for the State
Department, said in an e-mailed statement after the trial.  While Lugo struggled throughout his presidency to build
alliances, and saw his credibility shaken after he acknowledged
fathering as a priest two of four children named in paternity
suits against him, he oversaw a period of economic prosperity.  Spurred by strong demand for its beef and soy, especially
from  China , gross domestic product expanded 6.4 percent last
year and 15 percent in 2010, the fastest in Latin America,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Strong growth and
better public finances helped the country win two credit rating
upgrades since 2010 by  Standard & Poor’s .  The central bank had taken steps to emulate Brazil and
begin targeting inflation, and the government even considered
selling its first-ever international bond.  “It’s incredible that this is happening to a president who
has achieved economic growth of more than 25 percent in the last
four years,” pro-Lugo Senator Alberto Grillon told Buenos
Aires-based Todo Noticias television channel earlier yesterday.  Economic Challenges  Still, the Germany-sized country remains one of Latin
America’s poorest, with land concentrated in the hands of a
handful of farmers and a large segment of the economy dependent
on the smuggling of imported goods to Brazil and Argentina.
Despite attempts by Lugo to impose a levy on personal income to
fund infrastructure investments, the country’s tax rate remains
one of the lowest in Latin America and more than 20 percent of
the population lives in poverty, according to the IMF.  Franco, a 49-year-old former surgeon, told Congress he’ll
continue with Lugo’s government plan until his successor takes
office in August next year.  “The social problem will be fundamental for this
government,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 