-- Prodi Says German Companies Will Defend Interests, Back Euro
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-22T13:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/prodi-says-german-companies-will-defend-interests-back-euro.html
Former European Commission President
 Romano Prodi  said he’s optimistic about the euro as companies in
Germany, the region’s biggest economy, defend their interests
and back the currency.  “The German business community can only back” the euro,
Prodi, also a former Italian prime minister, said today in a
speech in Rome.  Italian and Spanish Prime Ministers  Mario Monti  and  Mariano Rajoy , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  gathered in Rome today for a four-way summit
as the International Monetary Fund said the region’s governments
need a “strong commitment” to the euro. They’ll join other
European leaders in Brussels on June 28-29 to try to resolve
conflicting visions of the region’s economy.  “Since the crisis began, there have been some 25, 26
summits and interventions have been more and more limited,
always insufficient and always late,” said Prodi, who headed
the Brussels-based Commission between 2001 and 2006. “I have
the impression that the summit on June 28 won’t be decisive.”  Prodi said political divisions among the main European
governments may make resolving the crisis more difficult.  “Germany has a long-term vision, but it doesn’t want to
walk in the direction of that vision,” Prodi said. “The French
don’t want a  long-term vision but are inclined to act.”  He also criticized remarks by former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who earlier this week said the idea of Italy leaving
the euro is “not blasphemy” and that the nation’s companies
may be better off if the single currency were “finished.”  “For the time being, it’s him who’s finished,” Prodi said
of Berlusconi, who succeeded him as prime minister in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  