-- Putin Commissioner Seeks Khodorkovsky Amnesty to Lure Investment
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-22T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/putin-s-business-rights-chief-seeks-amnesty-for-khodorkovsky-1-.html
Russia would send a positive signal
to investors with the release of former Yukos Oil Co. owner
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky  as part of an amnesty for people convicted
of economic crimes, said Boris Titov, appointed by President
Vladimir Putin June 21 as the commissioner for business rights.  Titov will propose to Putin the release of 13,000 people
jailed for economic crimes, including Khodorkovsky, who has been
in jail since 2003 and has a sentence that ends in 2017, he said
yesterday in an interview at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum.  Putin, who was president when Khodorkovsky was charged with
fraud and  tax evasion , returned to the Kremlin last month after
four years as prime minister with a pledge of pushing Russia to
50th from 120th in the  World Bank ’s Doing Business ranking by
2015. The jailed tycoon’s release would provide a signal to
investors, Titov said.  “For the investment climate, this would be good news,”
said Titov, who reports directly to Putin. “This should be just
and the right decision.” Khodorkovsky “has been in prison too
long. He did something, others also did, but nobody else is
serving such a sentence.”  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , who ended his four-year
tenure as the country’s president last month, said in April that
Russia may consider an amnesty for those convicted of economic
crimes, an initiative that must first be discussed with
lawmakers.  Innocent People  Authorities may also review sentencing guidelines, Medvedev
said. The Kremlin’s human rights council called a year ago for
an amnesty for economic crimes that would apply to Khodorkovsky.
Medvedev has said that freeing him wouldn’t be “dangerous” for
the country.  “The injustice that some guilty people will be released is
much less of an injustice than when you have innocent people in
prison,” Titov said. “Better release guilty people than keep
innocent people in prison.”  If the amnesty happens, it will be the biggest in Russian
history, he said.  Titov, whose office works on proposals to improve  Russia ’s
investment climate with plans to overhaul the tax and criminal
codes and to make it easier to register businesses, said he is
ready to cooperate with the human rights council. He’s also
prepared to review the case of Sergei Magnitsky, an anti-
corruption lawyer who died in a Moscow jail.  ‘Won’t Grow’  Titov said he would lobby for lower corporate taxes on
production, which he would compensate by raising levies on
consumption, property, alcohol and tobacco.  “The business climate is one of the instruments to attract
investment,” Titov said. “Without investments, the economy
won’t grow.”  As he tackles the biggest protests of his 12-year rule,
Putin must convince investors Russia won’t repeat a 2009
meltdown that erased almost 8 percent of gross domestic product.
With investors fretting over the pace of state asset sales and a
capital-markets overhaul, as well as  Europe ’s debt crisis,  Bank
of America (BAC)  Corp. warns Russia’s economy may shrink in 2013 with
a worst-case budget gap approaching 2009’s 5.9 percent of GDP.  “The current problems, when an entrepreneur faces the
violation of his or her rights, bureaucratic pressure,
corruption or administrative barriers, need to be resolved today
-- all of those problems,” Putin said Jun 21 when he announced
the appointment of Titov, the head of the Delovaya Rossiya
business lobby group.  ‘Biggest Problem’  The rule of law is Russia’s “biggest problem,” according
to Titov, who said his office must strive to protest businesses.  Financial markets signal sentiment toward Russia has
soured. The ruble-denominated Micex index is down 3.8 percent in
2012, the worst performance among the BRICS group of the world’s
biggest  emerging markets  that also includes  Brazil ,  China ,  India 
and  South Africa . The dollar-based RTS has declined 7.3 percent,
while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is little changed for the
year.  The ruble has lost 3.3 percent this year against the
dollar.  Brent crude , the grade that underpins prices for
Russia’s Urals export blend, has tumbled about 15 percent as
Europe’s debt crisis worsened and the U.S. and Chinese economies
slowed. Energy exports account for about half of budget revenue.  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for a
ninth week, registering a net outflow of $20 million in the week
ended June 20, according to VTB Group, which cited EPFR Global
data. Russia has endured $340 billion in net private capital
outflows since 2007.  “We are in a very fragile situation,” Titov said. “The
economy works as a crude-oil economy, as a resource economy, not
as an industrial economy. It is a very big risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in  St. Petersburg  at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  