-- Railroads Fall on Class Action Ruling in Surcharge Case
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-22T18:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/railroads-fall-on-class-action-ruling-in-surcharge-case.html
Three of the largest U.S. railroad
companies  fell  after a federal court in Washington yesterday
agreed that a lawsuit alleging they made billions of dollars in
illegal profits by fixing prices on fuel surcharges could go
forward as a class action.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. carrier, fell 99
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $114.47 in  New York  trading at
2:01 p.m.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the third largest, declined 60 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $21.50, while the industry’s fourth biggest
carrier,  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , dropped $1.26, or 1.8 percent,
to $69.88.  JPMorgan Chase & Co analyst Thomas Wadewitz said in a
report the class action certification is “negative” for the
railroad companies.  “The further down the path to a  jury trial  that this case
gets, the greater the probability that the railroads seek a
settlement,” Wadewitz wrote in a report today that was also
signed by Michael Weinz and Alexander Johnson. “As a result, we
would expect the railroad stocks to trade down on this news.”  Wadewitz said his analysis “shows little evidence of
overcharging by the railroads.” He said he expects the railroad
companies to appeal the class-certification decision.  The lawsuit, brought in 2007 by Olin Corp. and seven other
companies that ship goods by rail, alleges the railroad
companies colluded at an industry meeting in 2003 to impose a
surcharge tied to overall transportation costs rather than to
actual fuel prices over a 3-1/2-year period.  Consolidated Lawsuits  More than two dozen customers have filed lawsuits, which
were consolidated before U.S. Judge Paul Friedman in Washington.
Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain processor,
filed a separate complaint on March 26, 2008.  Lawyers for Union Pacific, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, a
unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , CSX, and
Norfolk Southern have argued the case should be thrown out for
lack of evidence that the railroads broke any laws in creating a
 price index  to pass on surging fuel costs to customers.  Union Pacific, based in Omaha, Nebraska, and the other
railroads deny they colluded on fuel surcharges.  The case is In re Rail Freight Fuel Surcharge Antitrust
Litigation, 07-cv-489, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). 