-- RBS Systems Failure Unlikely to Be Resolved Until Monday
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-06-22T15:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/rbs-u-k-customers-unable-to-withdraw-cash-for-a-second-day-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
systems failure that left NatWest customers unable to withdraw
cash or transfer money in or out of their accounts is unlikely
to be resolved before Monday.  The technical issue that affected a “large number” of
customers yesterday has been fixed, though it will take a few
days to work through a backlog of transactions, Susan Allen, a
director at RBS’s consumer unit, told  Sky News  today. Customers
will be updated through the weekend, she said.  “It’s quite frightening that this could happen with all
the technology that’s around these days,” said Louise Collins,
40, whose balance has shown as zero for the last 24 hours,
meaning she’s unable to withdraw cash or pay bills. “My wages
were supposed to be paid today and aren’t showing up yet.”  RBS, which received the world’s biggest bank bailout in
2008, faces increased competition for accounts from banks in the
U.K., including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
as increased funding costs squeeze margins. RBS, which is 82
percent taxpayer owned, has about 15 million personal banking
customers across its brands and declined to specify how many
were affected.  ‘Around the Clock’  “We know that a systems outage on Tuesday caused this
backlog,” RBS said in a statement today. “While the system is
working, the backlog itself is now the problem and we are
working around the clock to fix this.”  RBS will open NatWest branches this evening and over the
weekend to help customers affected by the problem. The issue is
“strictly of a technical nature” and there have been no
security breaches, it said.  RBS’s costs “will only be significant if customers have
suffered a financial loss,” said Gary Greenwood, a Liverpool-
based analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  with a hold rating on
RBS. “I don’t think it will make a huge amount of difference to
their reputation because banks’ reputations aren’t particularly
strong anyway.”  RBS said no customers will be left out of pocket. Consumer
Focus, a consumer watchdog part-financed by the government, said
RBS should “look at providing appropriate compensation to
customers who lose out because of this failure.”  Collins, who spoke outside a NatWest branch in Moorgate, in
London’s financial district, said the bank gave her 200 pounds
($312) in cash to tide her over while the computer issues
persist. Bank employees told Collins charges incurred for late
bill payments or overdraft fees would be reimbursed, she said.  Fellow NatWest customer Sol Wallace, 35, said he was unable
to withdraw cash yesterday. “I was so annoyed,” he said. “But
it seems to be working now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 