-- Treasuries Fall Amid Speculation on Progress in Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-22T21:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/treasuries-remain-higher-on-stocks-as-gross-warns-of-risk-assets.html
Treasuries fell, extending a weekly
loss, as speculation European leaders will make progress on
curbing their sovereign-debt crisis damped demand for the
perceived safety of U.S. government securities.  Ten-year notes rose the most in two days after the  European
Central Bank  loosened collateral rules to ease access to its
funds. Leaders of  Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and  Spain  agreed at a
meeting in  Rome  to cooperate on a growth plan for the euro bloc
before a June 28-29 European Union summit.  “There have been hints of positive news out of  Europe , and
that little bit of hope is taking some of the steam out of the
Treasury market,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees
$12 billion in fixed-income assets. “Still, there is a pretty
large safety premium still built in Treasuries, as there are a
lot of questions as far as domestic and global growth is
concerned.”  Ten-year yields climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.68 percent at 4:59 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.75 percent notes
due May 2022 fell 17/2, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 100
21/32. The yield increased 10 basis points on the week.  Thirty-year bond yields added eight basis points today and
on the week to close at 2.76 percent.  The yield difference between 10- and 30-year Treasuries was
108 basis points, compared with 111 basis points a week ago. The
spread was 122 basis points on Feb. 3, the widest this year.  Stocks gained, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising
0.7 percent today.  Less Expensive  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes becoming less
expensive. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the  Federal Reserve , was negative 0.81 percent after reaching
negative 0.94 percent on June 1, the costliest level ever, as
investors sought refuge from Europe’s turmoil. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value. The average over the past decade
is 0.50 percent.  Treasuries extended losses after the ECB said it will relax
some rules on the collateral banks can offer in exchange for
central-bank funds. The Governing Council will lower rating
thresholds and amend eligibility requirements for some asset-
backed securities, the Frankfurt-based central bank said in an
e-mailed statement.  Growth Plan  German, Italian, French and Spanish leaders agreed to
cooperate on a growth plan of as much as 130 billion euros ($163
billion) for the 17-nation currency bloc, about 1 percent of its
economic output. They spoke to reporters after meeting in Rome.
No specifics about the plan or its financing were offered.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said growth and employment
must become the focus of European leaders and called for a
closer political union.  “There are positive signs coming from the  euro zone  that
are weighing on Treasuries, and policy makers are beginning to
make some good steps,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe
Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “Still, there is a lot of uncertainty, and
the Fed’s extension of Operation Twist is helping to cap any
selloff. The market is settling in around these levels, as we
will be here for a while.”  The Fed on June 20 extended through year-end its program to
sell shorter-term securities and buy the same amount of longer-
term debt to lower borrowing costs, an effort traders call
Operation Twist. The $400 billion plan was scheduled to end this
month. The Fed expanded it by $267 billion.  Fed Purchase  The central bank purchased $1.8 billion of Treasuries today
due from February 2036 to May 2042 under the program.  Treasuries rose yesterday as data showed more Americans
than forecast filed claims for jobless benefits, manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region shrank and sales of existing homes
fell. A Chinese output gauge also indicated contraction, and
euro-area manufacturing shrank.  U.S. government debt  returned 3.2 percent from the end of
March through yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index, amid concern Europe’s
financial woes were worsening and U.S. growth was slowing. The
10-year note yield reached a record low of 1.44 percent on June
1 before climbing on bets policy makers and central banks would
act to stem the crisis. The  S&P 500  lost 5.4 percent this
quarter as of yesterday.  Continuing Story  “Europe is an ongoing story, and the markets will find
something good and bad about it every day for the next few
years,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income  capital markets 
at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
wrote in a note to clients. “You will likely see a fair amount
of volatility, but not a lot of price/yield movement from either
Treasuries or equities until the U.S. elections or a major break
up or down in Europe.”  Volatility in the Treasuries market fell to 75.1 basis
points today marking five straight days of declines, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. It reached a 2012
high of 95.4 basis points June 15 as investors speculated the
Fed would extend a stimulus program, and touched a low for the
year at 56.7 on May 7. The index measures price swings based on
options.  Trading volume dropped for a second day. About $181 billion
of Treasuries changed hands through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker, versus $317 billion on June 20. The
average volume over the past year is about $255 billion.  The Treasury will auction $99 billion of notes next week:
$35 billion of two-year debt on June 26, the same amount of
five-year securities the next day and $29 billion of seven-year
notes on June 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  