-- REC Tumbles Most on Record After $712 Million Charge: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-22T08:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/rec-sells-new-shares-to-boost-finances-amid-solar-losses-1-.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , a maker
of solar-energy components in Norway, slumped the most on record
in Oslo trading after it unveiled 4.25 billion kroner ($712
million) of charges and other costs for the second quarter.  REC collapsed by as much as 30 percent, the most since it
began trading on May 9, 2006. The Sandvika-based company also
said in a statement today it would seek to raise 1.3 billion
kroner by selling new shares to help bolster its finances.  “They’re making a quite large provision,” said Haakon Levy, a DNB Markets analyst. “That’s surprisingly large to many
and myself included. The question is how they handle that.”  REC’s fortunes, and those of the solar industry, contrast
with the optimism when it listed six years ago. The company, now
down 98 percent from the initial public offering price, leapt as
much as 24 percent on its first day of trading after selling
shares at the top of a range of 88-95 kroner. The offer was
 Norway ’s biggest since Statoil ASA almost five years earlier.  REC fell 29 percent to 2.06 kroner by 10:12 a.m. in Oslo.  European solar-component makers are pressured from Chinese
rivals that expanded capacity as demand slowed, causing wafer
and cell prices to plummet. Demand shrank as France, Italy and
 Germany  reduced subsidies to cap booming solar installations.  REC, reducing production to cut costs, will book a charge
on the value of its wafer plant in  Singapore  of about 3.5
billion kroner before a further drop in module prices. The
company will also recognize about 750 million kroner in expenses
related to the closing of wafer production in Norway.  Share Proceeds  Remaining costs related to the closure are expected to be
about 966 million kroner, with 403 million kroner booked in the
second half and the remaining 563 million kroner later, it said.  Share sale proceeds will be used to redeem 100 million
euros ($125 million) of convertible bonds, fund investments and
strengthen the balance sheet, REC said. It will refinance bank
debt into a new 2 billion kroner facility maturing May 2015.  “This will allow management to turn focus away from short-
term cash management and shut down of Norwegian operations, to
utilizing and creating further value with its industry leading
position in polysilicon,” Pareto Securities ASA wrote in a
note. It is “an attractive refinancing proposal for CB holders.
The refinancing is also highly supportive for REC’s bonds.”  Chairman Jens Ulltveit-Moe’s Umoe AS company bought 266.7
million new shares in the offer. Canica AS, controlled by board
member Peter Ruzicka, bought 106.7 million shares, REC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo on  at
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  