-- Romania Political Bickering May Delay IMF-Agreed Stake Sales
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-22T15:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/romania-may-delay-sales-of-state-stakes-on-political-conflict.html
Romania  will probably fail to meet
some deadlines for selling stakes in state-owned companies as
political wrangling between nation’s two top political leaders
impedes progress, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said.  The Balkan nation, which pledged to the  International
Monetary Fund  to sell a 15 percent stake in its natural-gas grid
operator  Transgaz SA (TGN)  by the end of June, will probably delay the
sale “by a short time period,” Ponta said during a meeting
with foreign reporters in Bucharest today.  “I want to express my personal bitterness that when we
meet for a government meeting, we allocate 75 percent of our
time discussing about how to protect ourselves from political
attacks,” he said. “We progressed very much with preparing the
Transgaz share sale, but we probably won’t be able to do it by
the end of June.”  Romania, which has changed governments three times this
year, is facing increased political turmoil ahead of general
elections after Ponta was accused of plagiarism over his
doctoral thesis. He blamed President Traian Basescu for
instigating the accusations. The two are also arguing over who
should represent Romania at the next meeting of European Union
leaders.  General elections may be held around Nov. 1 or on Dec. 2,
depending on a political agreement between Ponta’s coalition of
 Social Democrats  and the Liberals and the Democrat-Liberals,
once headed by Basescu and who are now in the opposition.  ‘Strong’ Conflict  Ponta, 39, said he would prefer general elections take
place sooner rather than later for Parliament to have enough
time to debate and approve a budget for next year.  “There’s a strong political conflict between me and the
president because we come from different parties,” Ponta said.
“There’s also a personal one because all weapons are on the
table for the battle.”  The president’s office has no “official position for the
moment” on Ponta’s statements, spokesman Bogdan Oprea said by
phone.  The government seeks to delay sales of minority stakes on
the stock exchange until the end of 2013, Mediafax reported,
citing an Economy Ministry document.  The sale of a majority stake in chemical company  Oltchim SA (OLT) 
remains one of the government’s “top priorities,” Ponta said,
adding that his Cabinet plans to go ahead with the sale, which
is scheduled to happen by the end of September.  The government secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.27 billion)
precautionary accord from the IMF and the EU last year to shield
it from the European sovereign-debt crisis and prevent fiscal
slippage ahead of elections.  State Stakes  It pledged to sell 15 percent stakes in Transgaz, natural-
gas company Romgaz SA, and 10 percent stakes in hydro-power
generator Hidroelectrica SA and nuclear-power operator
Nuclearelectrica SA.  “I am very discontent the president is keeping me occupied
with political scandals, which reduces enormously the time
allocated for governing the country,” he said.  Ponta denied again today plagiarism allegations published
on June 18 in Nature magazine and  Germany ’s Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung over his doctoral thesis and said he won’t
resign. He said he asked a special ethics commission to
investigate the accusations and formulate a response.  Documents provided by an unidentified source to Nature
showed that more than half of Ponta’s 432-page dissertation on
the  International Criminal Court  for the doctorate he received
in 2003 from the University of Bucharest was copied without
proper reference notes.  Ponta’s political ally and head of the Liberal Party Crin Antonescu said his party plans to start the procedures to
impeach the president if he fails to agree on appointing Puiu
Hasotti as the culture minister,  Mediafax  reported today.  Ponta reiterated the government will put shale-gas
exploration and gold-mining projects on hold until after a
general election this year.  The government will attempt to assess environmental
conditions and would look over  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s plan to explore
for shale gas in the country if it wins elections, said Ponta.  A gold-mining project in the town of Rosia Montana,
majority owned by  Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU)  is another source of
conflict with the President, Ponta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  