-- Romania May Reopen 2018 Eurobond to Boost Financing Buffer
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-22T17:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/romania-may-reopen-2018-eurobond-to-boost-financing-buffer-2-.html
Romania may reopen a euro-
denominated bond due in 2018 alongside its existing medium-term
notes program to increase its financing buffer against a
potential spillover from international turmoil.  The Bucharest-based  Finance Ministry  said a new bond on
international markets would have higher borrowing costs than a
reopened existing bond, according to a draft law published on
its website today. The ministry said retapping the 2018 bond
would be preferable to the 2022 dollar-denominated bond, which
already has a “relatively high size” of $2.25 billion.  It’s a “technicality, it’s not a commitment, as the bond
was the only issue not included in the GMTN program and the
government didn’t have the flexibility to issue it quickly any
time,” Deputy Finance Minister Cristian Sporis said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “No decision has been reached on
the reopening. The government now has all the options on the
table in terms of markets, maturities and currencies.”  Romania has borrowed about 36 billion lei ($10 billion)
from the domestic market and an additional $2.25 billion from
the U.S. market this year. It sold less than half of the planned
amount of leu-denominated bills and bonds this month after
yields increased by about 20 basis points during the euro-area
sovereign debt crisis and internal political bickering ahead of
elections.  Romania raised 750 million euros in June 2008 through the
euro-denominated 2018 bond.  Contagion  “The ministry intends to prevent external contagion
through the strengthening of the foreign-currency buffer” to
“avoid future possible pressures on the financing costs,” the
ministry said in the document. “The timing of the bond sale,
the value and the yield will be set depending on the
international market conditions at a specific time.”  The eastern European country plans to borrow as much as 2.5
billion euros ($3.14 billion) on foreign markets in 2012 through
debt sales after it stopped relying on international bailout
funds. The sales will help finance the  budget deficit , which the
government plans to lower to below 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 4.35 percent last year.  The  Finance Ministry  is counting on a 7 billion-euro
medium-term notes program that will run until 2013 to help it
raise funds from international markets.  The country also got a 1 billion-euro precautionary loan
from the  World Bank  on June 12, in addition to a 5 billion-euro
loan signed last year with the  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union. The government hasn’t drawn any money from
current accord so far.  Romania said it plans to use the World Bank loan to
strengthen its financing buffer and cover four-month budget
spending as pledged to the IMF. It will be able to draw on the
money should external conditions or the debt crisis worsen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  