-- Romney Sheds ‘Crocodile Tears’ Over Jobs, O’Malley Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/romney-sheds-crocodile-tears-for-exported-jobs-o-malley-says.html
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley 
accused presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
of shedding “crocodile tears” for factory workers, while
having helped engineer the export of U.S. manufacturing jobs as
head of Bain Capital LLC.  “Mitt Romney stands up in front of factory gates and cries
crocodile tears and falsely claims that the president is sending
jobs to other countries, and yet he made a big profit telling
American companies just how they could move jobs to other
countries,” O’Malley, a Democrat, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend.  The Washington Post  reported  June 21 that Bain, the Boston-
based private-equity firm that Romney helped found in 1984,
invested in multiple firms specializing in relocating U.S. jobs
to low-wage countries such as  China  and  India  during the 15
years that he was involved in running the company.  The former Massachusetts governor’s campaign pushed back
against the Post story, with Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul
calling the report “fundamentally flawed,” because “it does
not differentiate between domestic outsourcing versus off-
shoring,” or address work done overseas to support U.S.
exports.  O’Malley, one of  Barack Obama ’s top surrogates as the
president battles Romney for re-election, called the report “a
legitimate story.”  Deeper Flaw  O’Malley, 49, said the Post story was just a symptom of a
more serious Romney flaw.  “The deeper disqualification of this, beyond his lack of
sincerity and the crocodile tears for factory jobs lost, is that
he has no record as a job creator,” said O’Malley, the head of
the Democratic Governors Association. “The bigger point of the
story I believe is that his work at Bain was about wealth
consolidation, not about job creation in the  United States .”  Romney, in making his business background the central theme
of his White House bid, has said that during his tenure at Bain
the firm created 100,000 jobs.  Neither the private-equity firm nor Romney’s campaign has
documented that figure in response to repeated requests by
Bloomberg News.  Bain Capital  doesn’t track jobs lost or gained
as a result of their investments.  November Prediction  O’Malley, who won a second term as governor in 2010 while
Republicans made historic gains in congressional elections, said
Obama “may well win by a larger margin than any of the pundits
in town are predicting” in November’s election.  “And in the meantime, we have to make sure that we do a
better job as a party of explaining the things that we must do
as a people so our children are more likely to be winners rather
than losers in this big, changing economy,” he said.  O’Malley, a former Baltimore mayor and city council member,
beat former Republican governor Bob Ehrlich by 14 percentage
points to win a second term in 2010. The race was a rematch of
the 2006 election in which O’Malley ousted Ehrlich from the
governor’s office.  Asked whether he contemplates a future presidential run for
himself, O’Malley said, “Only when reporters ask me, and my
mom.”  Bloomberg Poll  Obama leads Romney 53 percent to 40 percent among likely
voters, even as the public gives him low marks on handling the
economy and the deficit, and six in 10 say the nation is headed
down the wrong track, according to a Bloomberg National poll
conducted June 15-18.  The poll found that a plurality of likely voters
disapproves of Obama’s handling of the economy, budget deficits,
 job creation  and trade with China.  O’Malley said the poor marks were part of evolving
conversations both campaigns were having with voters who face a
“stark choice” on Nov. 6.  “Every voter wants to - wants it known that they’re not
happy with the pace of our progress, and none of us really
should be happy with the pace of our progress,” he said. “At
the end of the day though, there will be a choice made between
two alternatives, two individuals. And I believe that the
president will prevail because his message is more optimistic,
it’s more forward looking, and it’s more truthful and
realistic.”  ‘Still Expanding’  O’Malley said Obama’s vision for economic recovery in a
second term is “a vision of a country that’s still expanding,
still growing, creating jobs and expanding opportunity, and a
country that realizes that in order to do that we have to not
only balance our budget, but make critical investments to
educate, innovate and rebuild our country, just as our parents
and grandparents did.”  Democrats have been publicly and privately divided over the
merits of attacking Romney’s record at Bain, which has been
targeted in advertisements by the Obama campaign.  Mayor  Cory Booker  of  Newark ,  New Jersey , on May 20 called
the debate “nauseating to the American public,” and likened it
to proposed Republican attacks tying Obama to his former pastor,
Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., who once urged blacks to sing
“God damn America” instead of “God Bless America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  