-- Rubber Plunges to Two-Year Low on Concern Demand May Weaken
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-06-22T08:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/rubber-plunges-to-two-year-low-on-concern-demand-may-weaken.html
Rubber tumbled to the lowest level
in more than two years on concern that a global economic
slowdown will cut demand.  November-delivery rubber plunged 5.1 percent to end at
231.7 yen a kilogram ($2,883 a metric ton), the lowest
settlement level since Nov. 11, 2009, on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange. Futures have lost 29 percent this quarter, the most
since the global financial crisis in 2008. China’s markets were
closed for a holiday.  Asian stocks fell, with raw-material producers and energy
companies leading losses among the 10 industry groups in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, as manufacturing and jobs reports added
to signs of a U.S. economic slowdown. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials tumbled yesterday into a  bear
market  on concern demand for commodities will weaken.  “The debt crisis in Europe and slowing growth in China are
clouding  market sentiment  and have raised concerns that demand
for rubber may slow,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  Rubber also declined on concern that plans by Bridgestone
Corp., the world’s biggest maker of tires, to cut output in the
second half will damp demand, Chaiwat said.  Bridgestone may extend output cuts as Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s slowdown curb demand, Masaaki Tsuya, chief executive
officer, said in an interview in Tokyo.  September-delivery rubber in  Shanghai  tumbled 3.3 percent
to close at 22,570  yuan  ($3,546) a ton yesterday. Thai rubber on
a  free-on-board basis  dropped 1.9 percent to 104.9 baht ($3.30)
a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research Institute of
 Thailand . Output has improved while overseas demand has weakened,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  