-- Russia May Cut Oil Export Duty to Entice Foreign Investment
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-06-22T10:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/russia-may-cut-oil-export-duty-to-entice-foreign-investment-1-.html
Russia may reduce crude export
duties next year as the government overhauls the tax system to
help President Vladimir Putin lure billions in foreign
investment from oil producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “Clearly taxes for upstream are excessive,” Deputy Energy
Minister Pavel Fedorov said today in an interview. “We’ve
gotten from a decree to draft laws in two months and hope to
wrap it up in the coming weeks. It was basically a tour de force
in lawmaking.”  Exxon,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have pledged to spend
billions of dollars exploring for oil and gas in Russia’s
offshore industry after Putin proposed tax cuts. He called for
incentives for offshore and hard-to-recover resources, with
export tax holidays and lower extraction taxes.  Putin is seeking to maintain oil output stable above 10
million barrels a day for the next decade. The Russian state,
which gained half of its revenue last year from the oil and gas
industry, wants to tap offshore deposits to keep the cash stream
flowing beyond that.  Russia  cut rates on oil export duties, the industry’s most
burdensome tax, in October to spur output. The state at the same
time raised rates for lower-value residual oil products to push
companies to produce higher quality fuels.  Expected Cut  The ministry may seek to cut the crude export tax rate to
55 percent from 60 percent next year, Fedorov said. The decision
next year will depend on monitoring the results of last year’s
tax adjustment.  Russia aims to have a “definitive perspective” on gas
extraction taxes in the next weeks, Fedorov said. The proposals
include an option to vary the rate based on the type of gas
produced and a formula taking into account a planned domestic
gas price increase, he said.  The legislation for unconventional oil and offshore taxes
will be presented to other Russian state ministries for final
approval in the coming weeks, Fedorov said. The final package
should be ready for the heads of government to approve earlier
than an October target, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  