-- Samsung to Probe Complaint of Galaxy S Phone Overheating
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-22T07:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/samsung-to-probe-complaint-of-galaxy-s-phone-overheating.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it is
investigating a complaint that a new Galaxy S III smartphone
overheated, a day after the world’s top mobile-phone maker began
U.S. sales of the latest model in its best-selling series.  A Galaxy S III owner in Ireland posted photos online June
20 showing the phone scorched on the bottom. Samsung’s local
office has obtained the handset and is trying to identify the
cause of the incident,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for
Samsung, said by phone.  Samsung last month unveiled the new phone, powered by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, to widen its lead over  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  U.S. sales started yesterday following a May debut in the
U.K. Shipments in  South Korea  are set to begin next week.  The burned Galaxy S III was mounted in a moving car when a
white flame, sparks and a bang came out of it, the phone owner
said in a  posting  on an online message board. The owner posted
photos of a melted, blackened casing. The message didn’t mention
whether the owner suffered any injuries, though it said a piece
of plastic inside the car was slightly burned.  The customer later received a new phone from Samsung with
an offer for other free products, according to an update of the
original posting.  There have been no known overheating incidents caused by
batteries in the Galaxy S, Chung said.  The South Korean electronics maker introduced the Galaxy S
III after selling more than 50 million units of two previous
models in the past two years.  Samsung  fell  3.7 percent to 1.182 million won, the lowest
level since May 18, in Seoul trading.  Mobile devices can generate excessive heat as they become
equipped with more sophisticated features. Apple’s latest iPad
ran as hot as 116 degrees Fahrenheit (47 degrees Celsius),
 Consumer Reports  said in March after testing the product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  