-- Sandusky Jury Reviews Testimony as Deliberations Resume
-- B y   D r e w   G i n g r i c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-22T13:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/sandusky-jury-reviews-testimony-as-deliberations-resume.html
Jurors in the trial of Jerry Sandusky, the former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant
football coach charged with sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-
year period, started their second day of deliberations reviewing
the testimony of one of his accusers.  The panel asked to re-hear testimony from Michael McQueary,
the former Penn State football graduate assistant who said he
saw Sandusky sexually assault a boy in a shower. Jurors also
asked for the testimony of a defense witness who said McQueary
offered a different account of the incident.  Sandusky, 68, has been on trial since June 11 in state
court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. The former coach, who has
denied the allegations, rested his defense without taking the
witness stand. The jury started deliberating yesterday after
lawyers for each side made their closing arguments.  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity he founded in
1977,  the Second Mile , to recruit victims, “grooming” them
with gifts, trips to football games and money, and luring them
into university athletic shower rooms, hotels and his house.
Some of his accusers took the witness stand to recount what
Sandusky allegedly did to them as children.  “When there’s overwhelming evidence, the defendant does a
number of things: He admits what he must, he denies what he can,
calls everyone a liar, makes counter-charges,” the prosecutor,
Joseph McGettigan, told the jury yesterday. “You always have to
accuse the victims, you always have to allege a conspiracy, and
that’s what you saw here.”  Adopted Son  After deliberations began, lawyers for one of Jerry
Sandusky’s adopted children, Matt Sandusky, said he had been
abused by the former coach and had offered to testify in the
case, the  New York  Times reported. Andrew Shubin and Justine
Andronici, Matt Sandusky’s lawyers, said in a statement that
they arranged a meeting between him and prosecutors and
investigators at their client’s request, according to the Times.
They gave no details and didn’t say why prosecutors didn’t call
Matt Sandusky to testify, the newspaper said.  Matt Sandusky’s lawyers didn’t return calls for further
comment and one of Jerry Sandusky’s attorneys, Karl Rominger,
declined to respond to the statement, the Times said. Matt
Sandusky, 33, had repeatedly denied being abused after the elder
Sandusky’s arrest, the newspaper said.  Sandusky faces more than 45 counts related to the alleged
assaults, including claims that he engaged in involuntary
deviate sexual intercourse with children under 16. Each of those
counts carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  Assistant’s Testimony  On Feb. 9, 2001, McQueary saw in the football building
showers what prosecutors allege was Sandusky having anal sex
with a boy. McQueary initially told a grand jury that the
incident took place in March 2002. Prosecutors amended the date
last month, citing “specific and authenticated findings” from
an investigation. The identity of the boy is still unknown.  During most of a week of defense testimony, the defense
presented witnesses who attested to Sandusky’s good character.
His wife, Dottie, testified June 19 that she never had any
indication of the misconduct attributed to her husband.  “All of these alleged charges only go back to the 1990s.
So out of the blue, after all these years, when Mr. Sandusky is
in his mid-50s, he decides to become a pedophile?” Joseph
Amendola, the lead defense lawyer, asked the jury. “Does that
make sense to anybody?”  Games, Golf  Witnesses testified during the two-week trial that Sandusky
often had young men at his home and brought boys he had met
through the Second Mile to football games and golf outings.  “Jerry Sandusky took these kids everywhere,” Amendola
told jurors yesterday. Pedophiles don’t “parade” their victims
around in public, the lawyer argued.  McGettigan, the senior deputy attorney general representing
the state in the case, said the alleged victims testified that
Sandusky preyed on boys from “fatherless families” who sought
a male role model.  “That’s what you saw: a perfect, serial pedophile,” the
prosecutor said.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, CP-
14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County, Pennsylvania
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, at  dag5225@psu.edu ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  