-- Seven Seeks Approval to Bid for Consolidated, Regulator Says
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-22T09:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/seven-seeks-approval-to-bid-for-consolidated-regulator-says-1-.html
Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW) , the
company controlled by billionaire  Kerry Stokes , is seeking
permission to buy more shares in  Consolidated Media Holdings
Ltd. (CMJ)  or make a bid, Australia’s antitrust regulator said.  Seven, which owns 24 percent of Consolidated Media, is
“actively considering acquiring further shares” and has sought
a review of a proposal to buy the rest, the Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission said on its  website .  News Corp. (NWSA)  said June 20 it offered to buy Consolidated
Media for A$2 billion ($2 billion) to double its stake in
Foxtel, Australia’s biggest pay television operator. The deal
would give the media company controlled by Rupert Murdoch 50
percent of the Foxtel pay television network and full ownership
of the Fox Sports business in Australia with broadcast rights to
the most popular games of Australian Football League and
National Rugby League.  Simon Francis, a spokesman for Seven, declined to comment.  Billionaire  James Packer , who controls Consolidated Media
with a 50 percent stake, has backed Murdoch’s A$3.50 a share bid
in the absence of a higher offer. Seven said June 20 it was
reviewing News Corp.’s proposal.  Stokes owns 67 percent of Seven Group which in turn
controls Seven West Media Group Ltd., owner of Australia’s most
watched free-to-air television network, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Consolidated Media and News Corp. each own 25 percent of
Foxtel, while Telstra Corp., the nation’s biggest phone company,
holds the remaining 50 percent stake.  Consolidated Media shares fell 0.9 percent to A$3.37 at the
close of trading in Sydney today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  