-- Slovenian Bank Bailout Is ‘Last Resort,’ Sustersic Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-22T10:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/slovenian-bank-bailout-is-last-resort-sustersic-says.html
Slovenia is seeking private
investors to boost capital at its banks, including Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., and hopes to avoid turning to
international lenders for a “last resort” bailout, Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said.  “We are working to avoid a bailout for Slovenian banks as
this would be a bad signal at the moment -- it’s a solution of
last resort,” Sustersic told reporters in Luxembourg today on
the side lines of the meeting of euro region finance ministers.
“If possible -- and I think it is possible -- we would get
private investors for that, partially now and the rest by the
end of the year so that such aid won’t be necessary.”  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Slovenia’s biggest financial
services company, needs 500 million euros ($627 million) to
improve its capital ratio by the end of the month and would need
“much more” cash to start lending to companies and support
 economic growth , Sustersic said earlier this month.  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe  and the shrinking
Slovenian economy are affecting business at the country’s banks
which rely on the  European Central Bank  for liquidity because of
limited access to wholesale funding. Lenders in the former
Yugoslav nation borrowed 2 billion euros from the ECB’s long-
term refinancing operation with NLB getting a 1.2 billion-euro
loan.  Capital Increase  NLB investors will discuss the capital increase at a
shareholders meeting June 27 with the proposal to prop up the
bank with the sale of contingent convertible bonds to improve
the core Tier 1 capital ratio. The government wants to cut its
NLB holding to 25 percent plus one share, which may happen by
the end of the year, and is trying to avoid injecting state
funds into the bank, according to Sustersic.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  of  Belgium  is the second largest shareholder
in NLB after the Slovenian government, which holds an indirect
majority.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  invited companies to
carry out due diligence at Slovenia’s second biggest lender by
assets to see how much capital it needs.  Abanka Vipa d.d.  is
seeking to raise 50 million euros in a share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Luxembourg at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  