-- Somali Pirates Battled in London as Banks Curb Dollars
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-22T11:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/somali-pirates-battled-in-london-as-banks-curb-dollars-correct-.html
(Corrects first and 10th paragraphs to remove reference to
London being biggest source of dollars.)  The fight against Somali pirates,
responsible for hijacking about 170 vessels in four years, is
starting to draw in British banks, until now a major source of
the stacks of dollars used to pay ransoms.  The supply of dollars from U.K. banks dwindled since Prime
Minister  David Cameron  created a 14-nation task force in
February to halt payments, said Michele White, the general
counsel to the International Association of Independent Tanker
Owners, the industry’s biggest trade group. Ransoms reached $160
million last year, according to One Earth Future Foundation, a
nonprofit group based in Broomfield,  Colorado .  Governments, which spent almost $1.3 billion in 2011 on
military interventions including naval patrols, are seeking to
restrict the payments because they encourage more hijackings by
pirates in Somalia, the world’s  fifth-poorest  nation. The
banking curbs will make it harder for ship owners and insurers
to get back the 227 seafarers and 12 vessels still held hostage.  “The only way you release a crew is by payment,” said
Cyrus Mody, the assistant director of the International Maritime
Bureau in  London , which tracks piracy. “It’s true that ransoms
are the key fact that keep piracy going, but unless there’s
another option available, then pirates are going to take out
their frustrations on the crew if they aren’t paid.”  Task Force  Payments to pirates operating off Somalia averaged $4.7
million a vessel this year, according to the European Union
naval force patrolling the region. The pirates hijacked more
than 170 ships since 2008 and took about 3,400 seafarers
hostage, according to the IMB.  Cameron held a conference of more than 40 nations in
February to discuss restoring stability to Somalia and announced
the creation of the International Pirate Ransoms Task Force,
which met for the first time May 30. Members include the U.K.,
U.S., and Panama and Liberia, which have the two biggest ship
registries. U.K. banks are concerned they may face penalties in
the future for being involved in such transactions, White said.  “The very existence of the  task force  is making the
payments much more difficult,” she said, citing insurers and
lawyers in London directly involved in ransom negotiations.
“The ransom lawyers are on the very margins of their ability to
raise physical dollars to pay ransoms.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed an Executive Order in
April 2010 barring citizens from financial dealings with
pirates. Since the February conference, the U.S. government has
increased pressure on its allies to curb the transfer of
payments to Somalia, said Michael Frodl, the founder of C-LEVEL
Maritime Risks, a Washington-based company advising banks,
transport companies and insurers.  Executive Order  “The Treasury Department does not determine private
business decisions of foreign banks outside the U.S.,”  John
Sullivan , a spokesman for the Treasury, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There has been no change in Treasury’s
policy regarding the implementation” of the 2010  Executive
Order , he said.  U.K. banks were “a location of choice” for paying cash to
pirates until about six months ago, according to Stephen Askins,
a London-based partner at law firm Ince & Co. and a former Royal
Marine who helps owners and insurers release hostages.  As much as 95 percent of the world’s war-risk insurance is
placed in London, and ship owners will go elsewhere if U.K.
underwriters can no longer arrange payments, Askins said. Ships
need an additional premium for war-risk insurance when passing
through waters deemed to be high-risk piracy areas.  ‘Sensitive Payment’  “The issue is one of intense international debate and
action, and banks will comply with their legal obligations,”
the  British Bankers Association , which represents 200 lenders,
said in an e-mail. “As with processing any sensitive payment, a
range of factors need to be considered by the bank concerned.”  Hostages are being held for an average of eight months,
according to the IMB. An outright ban on ransom payments would
jeopardize crews, said Allan Graveson, the senior national
secretary of Nautilus, the U.K. and Dutch seafarers’ union.  “Banks are worried by the commercial threat, even though
payment of ransoms is legal,” Graveson said. “So these dollars
do not come from U.K. or U.S. banks, who have been frightened
off by talk of a ransom ban.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  