-- Sony in Final Stages of Talks to Invest in Olympus, Nikkei Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-22T00:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/sony-in-final-stages-of-talks-to-invest-in-olympus-nikkei-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, may invest about 50 billion yen ($624
million) to get a stake of about 10 percent in  Olympus Corp. (7733) ,
the Nikkei newspaper said.  The companies aim to reach an agreement by the end of next
month, the Nikkei reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which had also made a tie-up
proposal to Olympus, withdrew the offer, the report said.  Olympus, whose capital declined by more than half after the
Japanese camera maker admitted to a 13-year accounting fraud, is
considering offers from Sony, Panasonic, Terumo Corp. and
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. to raise about 50 billion yen in
capital, Olympus president Hiroyuki Sasa said earlier this week.
Olympus hasn’t narrowed down the number of candidates, he said.  “We’re not the source of information for the report,”
Keizo Masuda, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony, said by phone
today. Olympus hasn’t made any decisions and isn’t the source of
the report, the company said in a statement. Panasonic also
isn’t the source of the information, Atsushi Hinoki, a
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Olympus  rose  as much as 5 percent, the most on an intraday
basis since June 5, to 1,228 yen and traded at 1,201 yen as of
9:22 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Sony gained 2.3 percent
to 1,126 yen.  Olympus restated earnings last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in its total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees
on takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to
conceal past investment losses. Net assets fell to 43.8 billion
yen as of Dec. 31, from 151 billion yen reported in the previous
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo and Sony President Kazuo Hirai have declined to comment on possible tie-ups with Olympus.  Olympus is the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, which
are cameras used by doctors to see inside the body. Sony is
speeding up a move into health equipment by using the edge its
image sensors have over rivals, Hirai said earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  