-- Spain May Submit Bank Aid Request Within Hours, Frieden Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-22T10:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/spain-may-submit-bank-aid-request-within-hours-frieden-says-1-.html
Spain  may submit a formal request
for bank aid from its euro-area partners within the “next
hours,” Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an
interview this morning.  “If I understood correctly, Spain wants to make such a
request within the next hours,” Frieden, said at about 10:30
a.m. today before a meeting of European Union finance ministers
in Luxembourg.  Spain’s banks would need as much as 62 billion euros ($78
billion) in capital to withstand a worst-case economic scenario,
according to two consulting firms hired by the government to
conduct stress tests on the lenders. The Spanish government will
use the results to determine how much money it might need to
draw from the 100 billion euros made available by  Europe  after
it requested funding to clean up banks.  In a meeting of euro finance chiefs yesterday, Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos indicated that the initial
request will be “vague” and may not say “exactly how much
money” Spanish banks need, Frieden said.  “I know that it is difficult for Spain to know which banks
need to be recapitalized and by how much, but we are in a crisis
of confidence and you can only build confidence if you act fast
and decisively,” he said.  Spain hopes to complete a memorandum of understanding in
“two or three weeks” that will include more details of the
financial aid program to banks, according to de Guindos.  Spain has a “roadmap” to solve its banking crisis, de
Guindos said. “We have advanced on the terms and the conditions
regarding the financial assistance for Spain. We therefore have
a plan of action which I believe is fundamental.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in  Luxembourg  at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  