-- Spain Said to Weigh Losses for Junior Bank Bondholders
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-06-22T14:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/spain-said-to-weigh-imposing-losses-on-junior-bank-bondholders.html
Spanish policy makers are
considering forcing investors who hold equity and junior debt in
banks to absorb losses in a restructuring, according to a person
with knowledge of the plan.  Such burden sharing is among conditions being negotiated
with the European Union in a 100 billion-euro ($126 billion)
rescue for  Spain ’s financial industry, said the person, who
asked not to be named as the conversations are private.
Depositors who bought subordinated instruments such as preferred
stock may be partially shielded from losses through a
compensation plan being considered, the person said.  Spain is poised to make a formal request for aid after
asking for the  credit line  on June 9. The country’s lenders,
rocked by the end of a real estate boom, would need as much as
62 billion euros in capital in a worst-case economic scenario,
according to  Roland Berger  and  Oliver Wyman , consulting firms
hired by the government to conduct stress tests.  “Many retail clients have seen the preferred shares as
safe investments comparable to deposits,” said John Barden, a
London-based  fund manager  at Matrix Alternative Asset Management
LLP. “Spain have to finetune exactly what they will do to avoid
hitting investor confidence.”  Sharing costs with investors was a measure Irish policy
makers used in the bailout of their banking industry. Ireland
raised about 15 billion euros, equal to about 10 percent of the
country’s economic output, since 2009 from sharing losses after
the collapse of the real-estate market sank the financial
industry. Ireland introduced emergency laws in 2010 allowing the
state to impose losses on junior holders of bank bonds.  Senior Bonds  The  European Central Bank  rejected Ireland’s bid to burn
senior bondholders, concerned that such a move would undermine
confidence in the banking system.  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said officials
don’t plan to impose losses on debtholders. “There’s nothing
like that,” he told reporters in Luxembourg today after a
meeting of his European counterparts.  No decision has been made on conditions of the Spanish aid
as no formal request has been made on the bailout, said the
person. The bid will happen “within days,” De Guindos said.  “We have advanced on the terms and the conditions
regarding the financial assistance for Spain,” De Guindos said,
without disclosing the conditions being negotiated.  ‘Bail-In Rules’  EU policy makers are discussing so-called bail-in rules
under which regulators will have the power to impose losses on
holders of senior unsecured debt, as well as derivatives
counterparties, once a lender’s capital and subordinated debt
are wiped out.  Amadeu Altafaj, spokesman in Brussels for EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , declined to comment.  Burden-sharing rules typically provide incentives for
investors to participate in buybacks with banks being
restructured.  Deposit-taking institutions in Spain had 241 billion euros
of equity, including 50 billion euros of capital instruments and
an endowment fund, according to  Bank of Spain  data as of end of
April.  The European Commission and Spanish government officials
are negotiating conditions on the rescue for banks that get aid
as well as for the entire financial industry, which may include
rules on liquidity and loan-to-deposit ratios, said the person.  Government Options  The government in  Madrid  is also considering giving more
power to the national regulator to restrict sales of loss-
absorbing securities such as preferred stock to individuals,
said the person. De Guindos has said that preference shares
shouldn’t have been sold to retail investors.  Supervisors “failed” over the sale of preference shares
to retail investors, said De Guindos June 5 in the Senate.  Spanish lenders sold 22.4 billion euros ($28.2 billion) of
preferred stock to individual investors through retail branches.
Banks have offered clients holding most of that amount to swap
the securities into common stock or other subordinated
instruments, according to data compiled by  CNMV , the financial
markets supervisor. In a bail-in, investors in all those
securities would be wiped out before holders of more senior
bonds, which tend to be banks and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  