-- St. Jude Says Durata Lead Damage Different From Riata
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-06-22T21:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/st-jude-says-durata-lead-damage-different-from-riata.html
A single damaged version of  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Durata, a wire used to connect defibrillators to
the heart, didn’t have the same flaw that prompted the recall of
an older device last year, the company said.  St. Jude obtained access to the defective device that was
removed from a patient in April and reported last month to the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , the company said in a
statement. Its analysis showed the damage originated from the
outside of the wire, known as a lead, not from a defect inside
the insulated cable that could have frayed the life-saving wire.  St. Jude stopped selling its older Riata wires in 2010 and
recalled them a year later amid reports the leads could break
through the insulation in a defect known as “inside-out
abrasion.” Durata replaced Riata, and the new product’s
insulation coating was designed to prevent the complication.  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude plunged 6 percent June 12 when
details of a defective wire in a Durata device were posted in
the FDA’s Maude database.  “The damage to the Durata lead is consistent with external
abrasion from contact with a calcified, or hardened,  heart valve 
or possibly from lead-to-lead contact,” St. Jude said in the
statement. “External abrasion is a known cause of failure
across all cardiac leads in the industry, which is different
from the inside-out abrasion seen with externalized conductors
observed in some Riata leads.”  There have been no reports of an inside-out externalized
Durata wire, said Amy Jo Meyer, a St. Jude spokeswoman.  St. Jude  gained  2.9 percent to $39 at 4:47 p.m.  New York 
time in extended trading, after increasing 2.6 percent to $37.90
at the close. The stock fell 22 percent in the past 12 months.  Florida Hospital  St. Jude said it was able to identify a Durata device that
matched the serial number, implant and event dates reported to
the  FDA  and provided to the company. The device was removed from
the patient at a Florida hospital, which allowed St. Jude to
review the patient’s records and X-rays and examine the device.  The patient previously had a different lead to connect a
defibrillator to the heart. The older device had been de-
activated and “capped,” though it remained inside the patient.
The Durata device and the older lead crossed each other at the
same location where the frayed wires were reported in the Maude
database, the company said. A rubbing of the two wires could
have caused the damage, St. Jude said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  