-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Kazakhstan (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-22T19:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-kazakhstan-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Kazakhstan :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with the
Republic of Kazakhstan  On June 18, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation[1] with the Republic
of Kazakhstan.
Background  Real GDP growth reached 7½ percent in 2011. While growth of oil
production slowed, high commodity prices helped spur domestic demand
and activity in transport and communications. Agriculture recovered
from a severe drought, but activity in construction and real estate
remained flat. Official  unemployment rate , at 5¼ percent, continued
to be unaffected by real growth, as was the case at the time of the
slowdown.  Driven by rising global food prices and large increases in public
sector wages, inflation peaked at 9 percent in mid-2011, exceeding
the official objective range of 6-8 percent. More recently, however,
slowing international commodity prices, an exceptionally high harvest,
and the use of administrative measures to limit food and fuel price
increases helped to bring inflation below 5 percent.  Core inflation ,
which excludes energy and food, remains subdued.  The current account surplus rose to 7½ percent of GDP, the highest
level in recent years, as robust exports outpaced the demand-driven
rebound in imports. Assets in the National Fund (NFRK) rose rapidly,
and together with National Bank of Kazakhstan’s (NBK) international
reserves, reached a comfortable level equivalent to 17 months of
imports and 110 percent of broad money.  Fiscal and monetary policies have adapted to the economic recovery.
An expansion of nonoil revenues from improved tax collection combined
with a small decrease in the expenditure-to-GDP ratio resulted in a
decline in the nonoil fiscal deficit. Key monetary indicators continued
to grow at a slower rate than nominal GDP, and as inflation pressures
subsided, the NBK signaled a more accommodative monetary policy stance,
cutting its policy rate by 100 bps in early 2012. The tenge has started
to show more flexibility, with the NBK intervening on both sides of the
market to avoid undue exchange rate volatility in either direction.  The banking sector has still not fully recovered from the severe shock
in 2007. Foreign liabilities have fallen drastically, aggregate liquidity
is ample, and provisioning of overdue loans is still relatively high.
Nevertheless, domestic banks’ burden of nonperforming loans has further
increased, and BTA bank has embarked on a second debt restructuring with
external creditors. So far, economic growth and government ad-hoc support
to distressed borrowers in the construction, real estate and Small and
medium enterprise (SME) sectors have not improved the quality of the
loan portfolio, as activity in construction and real estate, the sectors
subject to highest bank exposure, remains flat.  Executive Board Assessment  Directors commended the authorities’ policies which, together with high
commodity prices, yielded a strong economic recovery and helped rebuild
external buffers. The authorities have appropriately responded to the
upswing in the cycle by gradually tightening fiscal policy, sterilizing
excess bank liquidity, and allowing greater exchange rate flexibility.
Directors noted that the growth outlook is positive, but subject to
downside risks. They called on the authorities to address vulnerabilities
in the banking sector posed by the deterioration of asset quality, and
further strengthen the macroeconomic framework.  Directors appreciated the preparation of plans to deal with a possible
protracted global slowdown and a decline in  oil prices . They stressed
that achieving the nonoil medium-term deficit target remains a priority
and spending plans should not unduly stimulate demand in the absence of
a shock. They encouraged the central bank to closely monitor inflation,
and to stand ready to tighten monetary policy if domestic demand picks
up.  Directors underscored the need to address the continued rise in bank
troubled assets, which presents a public sector contingent liability.
They stressed that restoring banks’ health would support growth and
economic diversification. Envisaged regulatory improvements should be
complemented with strict enforcement to provide an incentive for banks
to clean up their balance sheets. Directors noted that the new mechanism
to manage troubled assets represents only a partial solution. A successful
strategy would require action by the central bank to enforce realistic
asset valuation and loss recognition, ensure adequate provisioning,
replenish bank capital where needed, and close unviable banks.  To mitigate further risks, a quick and definitive solution to the
difficulties of BTA bank is a crucial priority. Directors welcomed the
plan to adopt Basel III standards by yearend.
Directors considered that macroeconomic policymaking would benefit from
improved medium-term frameworks and policy coordination. In the fiscal
area, this would require broadening the tax base and fully integrating
the oil fund and state entities’ accounts into the fiscal framework. In
the monetary sector, strengthening the transmission mechanism by
deepening financial markets would allow the gradual unwinding of
administrative price controls. Greater exchange rate flexibility
would facilitate monetary management and the economy’s response to
external shocks. A well-capitalized and well-regulated financial
system would be important to support these reforms.  Directors welcomed the authorities’ ambitious plans to promote growth
in the non-oil sector. The envisaged job-creating government investments,
partly financed by oil savings, will however need to be complemented by
enhanced private sector participation. Directors therefore called for
sustained efforts to improve the business environment through strengthened
governance and institutions and integrate Kazakhstan into the global
economy.  Along with improvements in the coverage of the social safety net,
these reforms would promote greater social inclusiveness and help
ensure that the oil wealth benefits the population as a whole.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  