-- Steve Martin Serenades Bard in the Park: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/steve-martin-serenades-bard-in-the-park-jeremy-gerard.html
Rifle-toting rangers man the
ramparts of a stockade whose high walls briefly block out
Central Park.  An unobstructed view from all 2,000 seats in the  Delacorte
Theater  has been a hallmark of summer in New York since 1962.  True to form, the walls soon part to reveal the Forest of
Arden, Manhattan-style, in Daniel Sullivan’s bluegrass-suffused
romp through “As You Like It.”  The comedy is Shakespeare’s, the music is courtesy of
comedian-novelist-art collector  Steve Martin , whose gifts
include composing for a Nashville-quality onstage band led by
primo banjoist Tony Trischka.  You’ve probably never heard “Under the Greenwood Tree”
played with such ingratiating hillbilly verve.  This is a quintessentially American “As You Like It,” set
by John Lee Beatty on the frontier and dressed (by the great
Jane Greenwood) country-western style.  It’s rough-hewn (in contrast to the  Royal Shakespeare
Company ’s stark, sensual version seen last summer at the Park
Avenue Armory).  Lily Rabe (Portia in Sullivan’s excellent “Merchant of
 Venice ” two years ago) plays Rosalind, daughter of a deposed
duke and pursued from bower to glen by the seriously lovestruck
 Orlando  (David Furr). His mash notes compete with leaves to
shade the Arden turf.  Comically Complicated  Rabe is “not for all markets,” as Rosalind herself warns
the rustic Phoebe. She is better suited to the no-nonsense
Portia than the comically complicated Rosalind (who, like
Portia, spends part of the play in male drag). She and Furr
attack Shakespeare’s lyrical prose with clarity but not enough
passion.  Sullivan has cast familiar actors in unfamiliar roles,
happily in several cases: Fleshy  Oliver Platt  underplays the
jester Touchstone with louche sincerity. Stephen Spinella is
wonderfully dry as the buzzkill philosopher Jaques. Renee Elise
Goldsberry is winning, after a slow start, as Rosalind’s
faithful cousin Celia.  The most seriously miscast is Andre Braugher, gruffly
stolid in two roles, as the usurping and usurped dukes.  A balmy summer evening under a canopy of stars erases a lot
of quibbles. This “As You Like It,” like so many before it,
reminds us of the promise made good 50 years ago, after two
pugilistic Shakespeare lovers -- Public Theater founder Joseph
Papp and parks commissioner Robert Moses -- did battle over the
right to offer free theater in Central Park.  Papp triumphed; we won.  Through June 30 at the  Delacorte Theater ; enter Central
Park at E.79th St. or W. 81st St. Information: +1-212-539-8750;
 http://www.shakespeareinthepark.org . Rating: ****  ‘Bad, Better’  The Amoralists  push the envelope with plays about
contemporary issues -- urban squatters, sexual identity -- and
performances that are naked (in every sense) and in your face.
But the group’s latest, Derek Ahonen’s “The Bad and the
Better” is quite a slog.  As the name suggests, it’s a noir-style melodrama set
downtown and on  Long Island .  Cops are on the take, politicians are liars, loyalty is a
fluid concept and nothing is clear until it’s all explained in
the last few minutes.  Sort of like “ The Maltese Falcon ,” only a lot longer and
minus  Humphrey Bogart  and  Mary Astor .  It’s almost worth seeing for Alfred Schatz’s rambling set,
which squeezes an East Village bar, an apartment and various
locales onto a handkerchief-size stage, and Natalie Robin’s
equally deft, moody lighting.  Through July 21 at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 W. 42nd
St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com 
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on movies and  Zinta
Lundborg  on weekend.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 