-- Subbarao Copying Bernanke Excites Demand for Bonds
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-22T05:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/subbarao-copying-bernanke-excites-demand-for-bonds.html
Demand for  India ’s sovereign  bonds 
has climbed to a two-year high as central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao prepares to mirror Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  in buying bonds to revive economic growth.  The monetary authority plans to purchase 120 billion rupees
($2.1 billion) of notes from the market today, while the
government will issue 150 billion rupees at a weekly sale.
Benchmark 10-year securities attracted bids that on average were
2.44 times the amount offered at auctions this quarter, the most
since Bloomberg calculations going back to April 2010. The
similar bid-cover ratio was 1.7 times in  China . The yield on
rupee-denominated bonds due 2022 has fallen 50 basis points this
quarter to 8.04 percent.  Subbarao is acting two days after Bernanke extended buying
of longer-dated debt to lower the cost of business investment
and home buying. Investors in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy are
seeking the safest assets as the BSE India Sensitive Index of
shares is headed for a quarterly drop after gross domestic
product increased the least in nine years in the three months
through March.  “The RBI is killing a lot of birds with one stone by
buying bonds,”  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in an interview yesterday. “The liquidity
injection is helping support growth as well as the government’s
debt-sale program.”  Operation Twist  The Fed will extend its Operation Twist that was to have
expired this month through to the end of 2012, Bernanke said
this week after two days of deliberations among policy makers.
Under the program, the monetary authority is selling $400
billion of short-term government debt and replacing it with the
same amount of longer-term Treasuries to reduce borrowing costs
and spur the world’s largest economy.  The Reserve Bank has bought 433 billion rupees of bonds
from the market in the first quarter of the year that began
April 1 to inject cash into the economy, about 33 percent of the
amount it bought in the prior 12 months. The central bank will
purchase 1.3 trillion rupees more of bonds in the remainder of
the fiscal year, according to Nomura, while Barclays Plc
predicts the amount will be 1 trillion rupees.  Subbarao also cut the benchmark  repurchase  rate by 50 basis
points in April, the first reduction in three years. Gross
domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the first quarter, compared
with 6.1 percent in the previous three months, a government
report said May 31. The monetary authority has lowered the
amount  of cash  that banks need to set aside by 125 basis points
in 2012 to free up funds for lending.  Debt Sales  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration plans to
increase debt sales by 12 percent to a record 5.69 trillion
rupees this fiscal year to bridge its  budget deficit . The
government is aiming to narrow the shortfall in its finances to
5.1 percent of GDP from 5.76 percent in the year ended March.  The yield on the nation’s 10-year bonds, which rose 13
basis points in April after the  finance ministry  announced its
borrowing plan, fell in May as the central bank started its
open-market operations. It decreased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 8.04 percent today, taking the drop for
June to 46 basis points. The benchmark yield is just two basis
points below that on one-year debt.  Today’s sale of bonds by the finance ministry will be
longer-dated securities due in 2020, 2024, 2027 and 2041,
according to a central bank statement on June 18, giving the
government more time to repay debt.  Bond Performance  “The  Reserve Bank ’s purchases will support sentiment in
the  bond market ,” Kumar Rachapudi, a Singapore-based interest-
rate strategist at Barclays, said in an interview on June 20.
“The 10-year yield will drop to 7.5 percent in three months.”  The slide in yields is boosting investor returns, with
rupee-denominated notes earning 4.58 percent this year, the best
performance among 10 Asian markets monitored by HSBC Holdings
Plc.  The Sensex fell 0.5 percent to 16,951 today. It has dropped
2.6 percent this quarter. The stock gauge has fallen in four of
the past five quarters.  While the Reserve Bank is making sure that companies have
sufficient funds for expansion, the government needs to play its
part to ensure  economic  growth, according to Mumbai-based  Yes
Bank Ltd. (YES)   “Investors will wait for cues from the government before
making fresh commitments as the RBI’s actions alone can’t drive
growth higher,” Shubhada Rao, the Mumbai-based chief economist
at Yes Bank, said in an interview yesterday. “You need
complementary actions between the monetary and fiscal sides.”  Bond Risk  The $1.7 trillion economy will grow 6.5 percent this fiscal
year with “downside risks,” according to Rao.  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN) 
against default is climbing. Five-year credit-default swaps on
the state-owned lender cost 372 basis points yesterday, having
increased 32 basis points this quarter, according to CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted in
privately negotiated markets. Some investors consider the
lender, the nation’s largest, a proxy for the sovereign. The
swaps pay face value if a company fails to adhere to debt terms.  Other central banks around the world are also considering
steps to spur their economies.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and three other policy makers were overruled this month as
they pushed to expand their bank’s bond-purchase program,
meeting minutes showed this week. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  left the door open for a rate cut at a
June 6 press conference.  Call Rate  Bond purchases from the market have “substantially eased”
the availability of cash, the central bank said this week after
a monetary-policy review. The call-money  rate , at which banks
borrow from one another overnight, has slumped 75 basis points
from this quarter’s high of 8.95 percent reached on April 7.  India’s economy  will recover in the coming quarters, with
GDP expanding between 6.3 percent and 6.5 percent this fiscal
year, according to Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc.  “Given the current sluggish growth conditions, open-market
operations may prove helpful for growth as it boosts  money
supply ,”  Gaurav Kapur , a Mumbai-based senior economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland, said in an interview yesterday. “This also
helps keep a lid on bond yields as the government has a record
borrowing program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  