-- Suu Kyi Calls on U.K. to Help Myanmar Work Toward Democracy
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-06-22T03:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/suu-kyi-calls-on-u-k-to-help-myanmar-build-democracy-correct-.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi called on Britain and other western powers to help her
country build democracy after half a century of military rule.  “My country today stands at the start of a journey
towards, I hope, a better future,” she told lawmakers from both
houses of the U.K. Parliament in London yesterday. “So many
hills remain to be climbed, chasms to be bridged. The support of
the people of Britain and the people around the world can get us
so much further.”  Suu Kyi was elected to parliament last month after spending
15 years under house arrest, prompting the U.S. and European
Union to ease sanctions as the country transitions to democracy.
The invitation to address both houses of Britain’s legislature
is an honor normally reserved for heads of state or government,
such as U.S. President  Barack Obama  in May 2011. The only other
woman to have done so is  Queen Elizabeth II .  For years Suu Kyi, 67, refused to travel, even in 1999 when
her husband Michael Aris was dying in  England , fearing that if
she left Myanmar she wouldn’t be allowed to return. It was her
first visit to Britain since 1988.  “If we do not get things right this time around, it may be
several decades more before a similar opportunity arises
again,” she said.  Suu Kyi spoke in the 11th-century Westminster Hall, the
oldest part of the Parliament complex. Earlier, she met the heir
to the British throne, Prince Charles, and his wife, Camilla,
the Duchess of Cornwall, at the couple’s  London  residence.  Standing Ovation  Wearing a striped purple longyi, the traditional Burmese
sarong, with a white rose tied in her dark hair, she received a
standing ovation from lawmakers following her speech.  In 1990, Suu Kyi’s  National League for Democracy  party won
a landslide victory in a vote for an assembly to draft a new
constitution. The military ignored the results, a move that drew
the condemnation of Western nations and, along with subsequent
human rights abuses, triggered economic sanctions.  Myanmar, strategically sandwiched between the world’s two
emerging giants, China and  India , is rich in natural resources.
These include proven reserves of natural gas, mines that are
potentially the world’s greatest source of high-quality rubies
and jadeite jade.  Suu Kyi, who refers to her country as  Burma , says that
while Myanmar may one day be open for business, investment
should also benefit its people. Short-term gains shouldn’t be
allowed to take precedence over “democracy-friendly
investment,” she said.  U.K. Pledge  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday the U.K. will
invest 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) in peace-building work to
address continuing violence in Burma, and increase support for
education, health care, business and the rule of law.  Cameron visited Suu Kyi in April and announced moves to
lift sanctions on the Southeast Asian nation. The U.K. premier
has proposed that aid to the country should be linked to
democratic development and that a commission should establish
guidelines for investing there, according to his office.  “What we want to achieve is that path to democracy,”
Cameron told reporters at a joint press conference in London
with Suu Kyi yesterday. “That means encouraging them on the
road to reform.”  Cameron has invited Myanmar President Thein Sein to visit
the U.K. later this year. Suu Kyi said she supported this move.
“We don’t want to be shackled by the past,” she said at a news
conference ahead of her speech.  Opportunity for Investment  Myanmar’s political opening over the past year has put the
nation back on the map for investors. In addition to the EU’s
suspension of sanctions, the U.S. said it will lift economic and
financial restrictions on certain sectors of Myanmar’s economy
and  Japan  forgave about $3.7 billion of debt.  Two days ago, Suu Kyi received an honorary doctorate from
Oxford University in advanced civil law. She had lived in
England in the 1980s with her husband, Tibetan scholar Michael
and two sons, returning to Myanmar in 1988 when her mother fell
ill. She became involved in uprisings against the authorities
and was placed under house arrest the following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  