-- U.K.’s Miliband Pledges Immigration Curbs After Labour Mistakes
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-06-22T12:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/u-k-s-miliband-pledges-immigration-curbs-after-labour-mistakes.html
Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.’s
main opposition  Labour Party , said the Labour governments of
 Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown  made mistakes on immigration by
focusing too much on economic growth.  It was wrong to allow unchecked immigration from new
European Union states in 2004, he said, adding that the
governments, in which he was a senior advisor and a cabinet
minister, underestimated the effect of immigration on housing,
schools and community cohesion.  “We were too dazzled by globalization and too sanguine
about its price,” Miliband said in a speech in London today.
“By focusing too much on globalization and migration’s impact
on growth, we lost sight of who was benefiting from that growth
and the people who were being squeezed. To those who lost out,
Labour was too quick to say ‘like it or lump it’.”  A future Labour government would limit the number of people
from new EU nations allowed to work in the U.K. for seven years,
increase fines for employers paying less than the minimum wage
and ban recruitment agencies from taking on only foreign
workers.  “I’m not going to promise ‘British jobs for British
workers,’ but we need an economy which offers working people a
fair crack of the whip,’’ Miliband said in reference to comments
by Brown in a 2007 speech. “The idea that in industries like
construction or agriculture you can get recruitment agencies who
boast all their workers are Polish or denigrate the talents of
those who are living locally isn’t right.”  The shift by Labour means the U.K.’s two largest parties
favor tougher immigration policy. The Conservative Home
Secretary, Theresa May, told businesses on June 20 to stop
complaining about the difficulties bringing staff into the
country.  Lawyers have fielded a flood of questions from
international firms following a shakeup of visa rules by the
coalition government. Changes include a five-year cap on how
long employees who moved to the U.K. under the Intra Company
Transfer system can stay and the removal of their right to
settle permanently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  