-- U.S. Stocks Rise as Banks Rally After Moody’s Downgrades
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-22T21:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/u-s-stock-futures-climb-indicating-s-p-500-will-rebound.html
U.S. stocks advanced, following
yesterday’s global selloff, as bank downgrades from Moody’s
Investors Service were no worse than the firm had warned.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  climbed 1.3 percent as the ratings firm cut
the bank by two levels rather than a threatened three grades.
Bank of America Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which were lowered to
within two levels of junk, increased at least 0.5 percent. Merck
& Co. jumped 1.9 percent after being added to the U.S. Focus
list at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  rallied 3.8
percent as Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended buying the shares.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7 percent to
1,335.02 at 4 p.m. New York time. The gauge trimmed this week’s
decline to 0.6 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
advanced 67.21 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,640.78 today.  “The bad news is out and it was not as bad as expected,”
said  Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James
& Associates in  St. Petersburg , Florida. His firm oversees $350
billion. “They had been telegraphing the bank downgrades for a
long time. Why does anybody pay any attention to those rating
companies? They missed it during the financial crisis.”  Banks rose the most among 24 S&P 500 groups today, rallying
1.5 percent. The prospect of downgrades had weighed on the
financial industry since Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing
17 banks with capital-markets operations because of fragile
confidence and tighter regulations that pinched revenue.  The reductions by Moody’s are “a mea culpa from 2007 and
2008,” said James Leonard, a credit analyst at Morningstar Inc.
“The banks have gotten so much better in the last few years in
terms of capital, yet their ratings keep going down. What does
that tell you? That the ratings were so wrong before.”  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley added 1.3 percent to $14.14. Its long-term
senior unsecured debt rating was reduced two grades to Baa1.
Bank of America gained 1.5 percent to $7.94, while Citigroup
rose 0.6 percent to $27.99. The downgrades left the two lenders
as the lowest-rated banks among the 15 at Baa2.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  gained 1.4 percent to $35.99.  Moody’s downgrade could present a “buying opportunity”
for stocks, said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets.
The downgrades should have happened earlier, Miller, a former
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Russell Investments’ annual rebalancing of stocks in its
indexes was scheduled to occur after the market close today,
spurring one of the busiest trading days of the year. Volume for
exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 9.7 billion shares,
or 42 percent above the three-month average.  Bear Market  Equities tumbled yesterday, while commodities entered a
bear market, after signals of a global slowdown in manufacturing
added to disappointing housing and labor market data at the
world’s largest economy. The reports came out a day after the
 Federal Reserve  lowered its growth and employment estimates
while signaling it may add to its record stimulus.  Investors also watched news out of Europe. The euro
strengthened against the dollar after the  European Central Bank 
eased terms for collateral, boosting speculation the central
bank will announce a third set of long-term loans. Spanish
policy makers are considering forcing investors who hold equity
and junior debt in banks to absorb losses in a restructuring,
according to a person with knowledge of the plan.  “Time is running out,” said Brad Sorensen, director of
market and sector analysis at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab
Corp. His firm has $1.76 trillion in client assets. “These tiny
things may buy them a little time. They’re just very small
measures compared to the problems that they have over there.”  Merck Rallies  All 10 groups in the  S&P 500  rose today as technology,
health-care and financial shares had the biggest gains. Merck
jumped 1.9 percent to $40.18.  Facebook added 3.8 percent to $33.05. The company was rated
buy in new coverage at Nomura. The firm has a share-price
estimate of $40.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  increased 9.2 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $15.88. The  largest maker  of thin-film solar panels
received permission to continue construction on a $1.36 billion
power project in Los Angeles County.  Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR)  surged 87 percent to $9.12.
It agreed to sell its 32 percent stake in Petrodelta SA, a joint
venture with Petroleos de Venezuela SA, to Indonesia’s state-
owned oil company PT Pertamina for $725 million in cash.  The Dow Jones Transportation Average slid 0.8 percent.
 Ryder System Inc. (R) , a U.S. truck leasing company, fell 13 percent
to $35.44 after cutting its full-year earnings forecast because
of lower demand for commercial rentals.  Yield Outlook  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  dropped 2.7 percent to $33.66. The largest
cruise operator posted a 93 percent drop in second-quarter
profit and lowered the yield outlook for the year, a development
that Telsey Advisory Group said may signal softening prices.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  slid 0.7 percent to $50.04. Fourth-
quarter revenue trailed analysts’ estimates because of an
unexpected decline in sales at the company’s older restaurants.  BNP Paribas Investment Partners bought equities across
Europe, the U.S. and  emerging markets  this week as evidence
mounts that central banks are more willing to support economies.  The firm’s Global Business Solutions unit, which manages
about 35 billion euros ($44 billion) in assets, raised its
holding in equities to neutral, meaning it now owns an equal
amount of equities as is represented in indexes.  “Markets have stabilized; we think a lot of the slowdown
in growth has been discounted,” Joost van Leenders, a
strategist at BNP in Amsterdam said in a telephone interview.
“Looking at the markets in the last few days, we may have been
a bit premature, but we have been underweight since March, which
was pretty good timing then.”  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  has risen 4.7 percent from this year’s
low on June 4, as China and Australia cut  interest rates , the
European Central Bank said it’s ready to add more stimulus if
required and the Federal Reserve extended its Operation Twist
program in a bid to reduce borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  