-- U.S. Warns Russia Not to Retaliate Over Human-Rights Sanctions
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-22T14:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/u-s-warns-russia-not-to-retaliate-over-human-rights-sanctions.html
The U.S. urged Russia not to
retaliate over legislation targeting Russian officials who
violate human rights after a senior lawmaker in Moscow said
American firms could face reprisals.  “I’ve heard from several Russian counterparts their
concern about the Magnitsky legislation,” Miriam Sapiro, Deputy
U.S. Trade Representative, said in an interview today in  St.
Petersburg . “I certainly hope that if Magnitsky were to pass,
that there would not be such measures.”  The Russian government could adopt a harsher stance toward
U.S. investment projects, the Moscow-based newspaper Kommersant
reported June 16, citing Alexei Pushkov, foreign-affairs
committee head in the lower house of parliament. Russia’s
Foreign Ministry has warned of unspecified retaliation if the
so-called Magnitsky bill becomes law.  The House Foreign Affairs Committee on June 7 approved
legislation that would impose U.S. travel and financial curbs on
any official abusing human rights in Russia, including 60 people
suspected of involvement in the death of anti-corruption lawyer
Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail in 2009. Congress will vote on
the measure at a later date.  Repealing Restrictions  The U.S. administration will no longer seek to prevent
Congress from passing the bill, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said June 7 in Moscow.  The Obama administration is seeking to repeal trade
restrictions with Russia to prevent U.S. companies from
forfeiting tariff reductions once Russian membership of the
 World Trade Organization  takes effect later this year. A
bipartisan group of senators has made a repeal of the 1974
Jackson-Vanik amendment conditional on imposing sanctions on
Russian officials for human-rights violations.  Sapiro, who met Russian First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  while attending the St. Petersburg international
economic forum today, said it’s urgent that the Jackson-Vanik
amendment is removed.  “Otherwise, when Russia is set to join the World Trade
Organization in just a few weeks, U.S. companies and workers
will be at a significant disadvantage compared to their
competitors in  Asia ,  Europe ,  Latin America  and elsewhere,” she
said.  Russia barred 11 serving and former U.S. administration
officials for human rights abuses at facilities including
Guantanamo Bay and the Abu Ghraib prison in  Iraq  in retaliation
for the American move to bar an identical number of Russian
officials last year over the Magnitsky case. The Kremlin said
earlier this month that any additional U.S. visa bans would meet
with a symmetrical response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  