-- UBS Sued by Pension Plan Over $2.3 Billion Trading Loss
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-22T22:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/ubs-sued-by-pension-plan-over-2-3-billion-trading-loss.html
UBS AG was sued in a  New York  by a
pension plan over a $2.3 billion trading loss reported last year
that the bank blamed on an alleged rogue trader.  The lawsuit is based on the Swiss bank’s disclosure that a
former trader, Kweku Adoboli, engaged in unauthorized trades on
behalf of UBS resulting in that loss. Shares fell more than 10
percent on Sept. 15 after that disclosure.  “The rogue trader that caused the losses had been
conducting unauthorized trades for almost three years,”
according to the complaint filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan . During that time, UBS paid a fine of 8 million pounds
($12.48 million) to the British Financial Services Authority
because another rogue trader had made unauthorized client-fund
investments, the  pension plan  said.  UBS knew or recklessly disregarded evidence that its
internal controls were insufficient, the pension plans alleged.
They’re seeking group status on behalf of those who traded UBS
securities on a U.S. exchange from March 15, 2011, to Sept. 15,
2011, plus an award of unspecified money damages.  Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman for the Zurich-based bank,
declined to comment on the lawsuit allegations.  Adoboli, 32, was released from a London prison on June 13
after meeting bail. Facing fraud and false accounting charges,
he had been in custody since his Sept. 15 arrest and has entered
a plea of not guilty.  A trial is scheduled for September of this year.  The case is C.D.T.S. No. 1 and A.T.U. Local 1321 Pension
Plan v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 12-cv-04924, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  