-- UN Reaps Sustainability Pledges Worth $513 Billion in Rio
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-23T14:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/un-gets-sustainability-pledges-worth-513-billion-in-rio.html
The  United Nations  obtained pledges
worth $513 billion from governments and companies for projects
aimed at reducing the strain on the planet’s resources, the
biggest accomplishment at a meeting that world leaders and
environmentalists assailed for not setting strong enough goals.  The 692 individual  commitments  from governments are for
projects that cut fossil fuel use, boost renewable energy,
conserve water and alleviate poverty, Sha Zukang, secretary-
general of the  UN Conference on Sustainable Development , said
yesterday in  Rio de Janeiro .  UN officials said the voluntary pledges will be the central
legacy of the Rio+20 meeting marking two decades since the first
Earth Summit. They may accomplish more than the official accord
from the meeting, 49 pages of recommendations that disappointed
leaders, including French President  Francois Hollande .  “These huge numbers give a sense of the scale and growth
of investment going into  sustainable development ,” UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, said at the conference late
yesterday. “They are part of a growing global movement for
change. Our job now is to create a critical mass, an
irresistible momentum.”  The summit in Rio in 1992 led to treaties on global
warming, deserts and biodiversity. This year’s gathering, the
UN’s biggest ever, had 45,300 delegates from more than 180
nations. It produced a non-binding document, with nations
agreeing to keep talking about still-undefined “sustainable
development goals.”  Summit ‘Hijacked’  Much of the work detailed by the UN yesterday already has
begun, including projects backed by  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and billionaire
Richard Branson’s Carbon War Room, and $2 billion in support
from the U.S.  Environmental groups such as Friends of the Earth
International said the summit was “hijacked” by business
interests. Delegates said governments need the help of
companies.  “Without the private sector it’s not going to work,”
Jose-Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation & Development, said in an interview.
“While governments put up the seed money, the big numbers come
from the private sector. The private sector is looking at green
growth with great interest, seeing it as an opportunity, as
jobs, as investment.”  Many of the pledges were made public before the conference
in Rio this past week. This is the first time the UN has given a
comprehensive estimate of their value.  Sustainability Studies  The promises include at least 243 programs related to
higher education projects such as studies of sustainability
issues at universities in Sydney, Beijing, Paris and  New York .  About $280 billion was invested in renewable energy
worldwide last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
The London research group has counted more than $1 trillion of
funds for projects in wind, solar, biofuels and geothermal
energy since its records began in 2004.  “There’s no doubt that Rio+20 fell short,” said Manish Bapna, acting president of the World Resources Institute, a
Washington-based environmental research group. “But it’s a
mistake to conflate what happened here with what’s happening on
the ground. You just need to look beyond the walls of the
conference to find real-world examples of action.”  ‘Rallying Cry’  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , a New York-based
environmental advocate following a smaller group of commitments
with specific targets, counts 209 separate commitments worth at
least $500 million on its  website .  “Rio can’t be about the text,” said Jake Schmidt, NRDC’s
director of climate policy. “It’s got to be about the
commitments and the rallying cry that’s coming from the
public.”  The record of governments delivering on promises like the
ones they’ve made this week is “very poor,” said Bjorn Lomborg, a professor at Copenhagen Business School and author of
“The Skeptical Environmentalist.” He said the pledges reflect
efforts of companies to take advantage of government incentives
they expect to flow due to the recommendations set out in Rio.  “The reason lots and lots of businesses are in Rio is
they’re rent-seeking,” Lomborg said in an interview. “They’re
looking for huge potential subsidies for everything they
produce.”  The UN pledges also cover a Dutch cycling campaign,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s $50 billion plan to stimulate lending for
sustainability and the UN’s $50 billion program to bring cleaner
forms of energy to the world’s poorest nations.  Half Done  “I don’t see business people demanding a stronger UN
text,”  Bank of America  Chairman Chad Holliday said in an
interview in Rio. “We won’t save the world alone, but we’ll get
half of it done, and we’ll get some momentum.”  Among the voluntary efforts unveiled this week in Rio is a
$20 million grant from the U.S. to spur clean energy in  Africa ,
which will unlock greater financing from the Overseas Private
Investment Corp. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
sustainability won’t happen without business investment.  “Governments alone cannot solve all the problems we face,
from  climate change  to persistent poverty to chronic energy
shortages,” Clinton said at an event announcing the funding in
Rio. “That’s why we are so strongly in favor of partnerships.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Reed Landberg in Rio de Janeiro at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Rio de Janeiro at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  