-- UN Reaps Pledges Worth Billions for Sustainability Drive
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-22T12:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/un-reaps-pledges-worth-billions-for-sustainability-drive.html
United Nations officials will detail
today pledges worth billions of dollars to curb the use of
fossil fuels, conserve water and encourage wider use of
renewable energy, part of a global effort to promote economic
growth that doesn’t strain the planet’s resources.  The pledges include at least $2 billion from the U.S. and
projects from  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and billionaire Richard Branson’s
Carbon War Room group. The  UN counts  at least 517 commitments
from companies, organizations and nations, and will put a value
on them at a briefing today in Rio de Janeiro, according to
Pragati Pascale, a spokeswoman for the UN Conference on
 Sustainable Development .  With UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and world leaders
including French President  Francois Hollande  disappointed that
the 49-page official, non-binding agreement produced at the
Rio+20 summit doesn’t do more to protect the Earth, the
voluntary pledges indicate that individual commitments may go
further toward achieving sustainable development.  “I don’t see business people demanding a stronger UN
text,”  Bank of America  Corp. Chairman Chad Holliday said in an
interview in Rio. “We won’t save the world alone, but we’ll get
half of it done, and we’ll get some momentum.”  Rio’s Legacy  Ban expects the voluntary pledges to be the legacy of the
Rio+20 meeting, which ends today. The event marks two decades
since the first Earth Summit in Rio led to treaties on global
warming, deserts and biodiversity.  This year’s gathering produced a non-binding document with
more than 180 nations agreeing to keep talking about still-
undefined “sustainable development goals.” Environmental
groups including Greenpeace International said the agreement is
weak and will have little tangible impact.  “We need all the commitments we can get and have all
investments aligned in the same direction, both private and
public,” European Union Environment Commissioner Janez Potocnik
said in an interview. “We should not lose sight of the size and
the dimension of the transformation we are facing.”  Just what the UN will include in its figures isn’t clear.
The  Natural Resources Defense Council , a Washington-based
researcher following a smaller group of commitments, counts 155
separate commitments worth at least $263 million on its  website .
The group counts promises as diverse as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s plan
to make itself “carbon neutral” to an expansion of the Dutch
Cycling Agency.  ‘Real Action’  “A document doesn’t save the planet; what saves the planet
is real action,” said Jake Schmidt, NRDC’s director of climate
policy, a research group tracking the commitments. “Rio can’t
be about the text. It’s got to be about the commitments and the
rallying cry that’s coming from the public.”  Bank of America’s Holliday said he supports  Ghana , which
has a program to boost renewable energy use by 2020, and the
UN’s Sustainable Energy for All program. That program has
attracted $50 billion in commitments from businesses including
 Norway ’s state oil company  Statoil ASA (STL) , to pursue objectives
such as curtailing natural gas flaring in  Africa .  “The role of companies is all the more important for the
world because so little has come out of governments,” U.K.
billionaire  Richard Branson , the chairman and founder of Virgin
Group Ltd., said in an interview in Rio. “Companies have really
got to step in and do the best they can without the proper
ground rules set by governments.”  U.S. Contribution  Among the voluntary efforts unveiled this week in Rio is a
new financing mechanism to spur clean energy in Africa from the
U.S. government and the Overseas Private Investment Corp.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to provide
details today at a press conference.  Costa Rica President Laura Chinchilla said that monitoring
the growth of individual pledges is more important than the
summit’s official agreement, and that countries that are willing
to do more should push forward in smaller alliances on issues
like reducing deforestation.  “It would be very serious if we stopped the pace of
progress just because others aren’t doing things well,”
Chinchilla said in an interview. “We have a world public who
will end up defining the pace at which we advance.”  Bolivian President  Evo Morales  joined environmental groups
condemning the involvement of business, saying the UN’s link
with corporations has diluted its traditional mandate of
fighting for the poor.  ‘Hijacked’ Positions  “Governmental positions have been hijacked by corporate
interests linked to polluting industries,” said Nnimmo Bassey,
chairman of Friends of the Earth International.  The UN decided years ago it had to involve business to
deliver on its goals, said Kandeh Yumkella, the group’s official
in charge of the Sustainable Energy for All program.  “Twenty years ago, we made commitments, but there was no
mechanism to take any action,” said Yumkella, the UN Industrial
Development Organization chief. “We didn’t develop a charity
model. These are real projects.”  More than 100 developing nations are involved in the
commitments. Mohamed Waheed, president of the Maldives, pledged
in Rio to convert his entire nation, a string of islands in the
 Indian Ocean , into a protected area to conserve coral reefs,
fish, turtles and sharks.  “The Maldives will become a marine reserve country,”
Waheed said in an interview. “We have created our first
biosphere reserve in one atoll and we will continue the program
throughout the country.”  Other Pledges  Other pledges announced by countries, companies and
organizations include:  - The U.K. set aside 150 million pounds ($234 million) to
help 6 million farmers in sub-Saharan Africa adapt farming
practices to a changing climate. The government also said all
companies listed on the main market of the  London Stock Exchange (LSE) 
will be required to detail greenhouse gas emissions in their
annual reports next year.  - More than 50 countries and 86 corporations, including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Unilever NV (UNA) , signed a declaration
supporting natural capital accounting, a measure of wealth that
goes beyond GDP by including the value of natural assets such as
soils, watersheds and fisheries.  - Eight multilateral development banks said they will
invest more than $175 billion over the next decade to promote
more sustainable public transportation and cycling.  - The  World Bank (NKWGRAU)  said it will double the leveraging of its
energy lending to $16 billion a year, focusing on initiatives
such as renewable energy and clean cookstoves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Reed Landberg in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Rio de Janeiro at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  