-- UN’s Annan Says Iran Should Help to End Conflict in Syria
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-22T17:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/un-s-annan-says-iran-should-help-to-end-conflict-in-syria.html
United Nations  Syria  envoy  Kofi Annan  said  Iran  should play some role in ending the conflict in
Syria.  “I have made it quite clear that I believe Iran should be
part of the solution,” Annan told reporters at a televised news
conference today in Geneva.  Talks are under way about a conference on Syria that may be
held in Geneva on June 30, and on the formation of a contact
group for the event, Annan said. He said he hoped that in
addition to the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- China, France, Russia, the U.K., and the U.S. -- such
a group will include “governments and countries with influence
on one or the other parties coming together and deciding that
they will cooperate and work together.”  “Today, honestly speaking,” he said, “that is not
happening.”  While the U.S. agrees with “the general point that Iran
should be part of the solution,” it opposes Iran joining  talks
while it is “playing a destructive role” by supporting the
regime of President Bashar al-Assad, State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters today in Washington.  No Invitation  She said she didn’t interpret Annan’s comment as indicating
Iran should be invited to participate in talks.  An official of Britain’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office
made the same point in an e-mail today, saying: “Annan’s line
hasn’t changed. Nor has ours.”  Bernard Valero , a spokesman for
the French Foreign Ministry, said he couldn’t comment “until we
see exactly what sort of role is envisaged for Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  