-- Thunderstorms May Wash Humidity Out of Air for East Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-22T13:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/thunderstorms-may-wash-humidity-out-of-air-for-east-coast.html
A line of thunderstorms is expected
to sweep over the cities along Interstate 95 from Washington to
 New York , breaking the high humidity that made this week’s heat
wave so uncomfortable.  Heat advisories and excessive-heat warnings that dominated
the Northeast for the past two days are still in effect today
from New York to Maryland. Temperatures are expected to pass 90
degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) for a third day, according to
the  National Weather Service .  The thunderstorms will arrive in Philadelphia after 1 p.m.
and New York after 3 p.m., the agency said.  “The thunderstorms will probably be on the strong side,
maybe getting into the severe level,” said  Tom Kines , expert
senior meteorologist for  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. “It’s the I-95 corridor that’s at the most risk -
- Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, New York, maybe not quite up
to Boston.”  Heat from  Quebec  to Virginia pushed electricity prices
higher on the  spot market  as more people turned to air
conditioning to get relief. The hot, humid air made temperatures
feel like they were in the 100- to 105-degree range.  Temperatures will still be in the mid-80s to 90s after the
thunderstorms pass, Kines said. Today’s high in New York is
expected to reach 94, matching yesterday’s peak, which was 3
degrees below the record for the date, according to the Weather
Service.  Boston  may reach 93; Philadelphia, 95; Baltimore, 92;
and Washington, 93.  In  Montreal , which also suffered under high temperatures
and humidity, the high is expected to be 82, the same as in
Toronto, according to  Environment Canada .  Improvement Tomorrow  Kines said the weather should improve tomorrow across the
Northeast.  “For the most part, tomorrow isn’t a bad day in the
East,” he said. “It’s a cooler day, not necessarily
dramatically cooler, but the big thing will be the lower
humidity.”  Next week will start with more rain and possibly with
temperatures falling below normal across much of the East Coast,
Kines said.  Temperatures along the eastern U.S. and Canada are expected
to remain seasonal from June 27 to July 6, according 6- to 10-
day and 11- to 15-day forecasts from  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  The central U.S. may be hotter than normal for this time of
year, he said. Rogers predicted temperatures from  South Dakota 
to Oklahoma may be about 8 degrees above normal from June 27 to
July 1.  From July 2 to July 6, an area from western Washington and
Oregon to Montana may be 8 degrees above normal, while other
pockets of hot air set up over lower Mississippi and Ohio river
valleys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  