-- Turkey Yields Drop Most This Week in Emerging Markets on Rates
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-22T12:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/turkey-yields-drop-most-this-week-in-emerging-markets-on-rates.html
Turkey bond yields  fell, extending
the drop this week to the most among emerging-market peers,
after the central bank lent at its lowest funding rate for the
14th day, signaling it is comfortable with  inflation .  Two-year benchmark debt yields declined 1 basis points,
0.11 percentage point, to 8.83 percent at 3:01 p.m. in Istanbul.
The drop in yields this week widened to 28 basis points, the
biggest slide among 14 emerging-market similar maturity bonds
tracked by Bloomberg. Yields are headed for a fourth week of
declines, the longest streak on a closing basis since Feb. 3.  The central bank lent 5 billion liras in its one-week repo
auction at the lowest 5.75 percent rate today. The widest
stretch of liquidity injection at this minimum policy rate since
March has sent the  weighted average cost  of central bank funding
down to 9.27 percent this month, compared with 9.74 percent in
May. The bank kept both ends of its interest corridor - the
upper end being 11.5 percent - unchanged at its monetary policy
committee meeting yesterday.  “The Central Bank of  Turkey  replaced the sentence that
current tight monetary stance will be maintained with cautious
stance on pricing behavior, softening the tone of the tight
monetary policy,” Asli Savranoglu, an economist at EFG Istanbul
Equities, said in a report yesterday. “The bank now envisages
more favorable inflation outlook than provided in the last
inflation Report in April, driven by lower global oil and
unprocessed food prices.”  Funding Cost  The central bank may drive the effective cost of funding
down toward 8.5 percent, Istanbul-based brokerage BGC Partners
said in an e-mailed report to clients today. Investors increased
bets that Basci will find ways to continue to lower rates, with
the cost of a two-year interest rate swap falling 13 basis
points today to 9.32 percent, the lowest since March 13.  Inflation slowed to 8.3 percent in May from 11.1 percent in
April, the highest level in more than three years. Turkey
announced May 31 its trade deficit for April narrowed more than
expected, contracting for a sixth month and beating analyst
estimates. Its current-account deficit retreated in April for a
sixth month, the central bank said June 11.  Moody’s Investors Service increased Turkey’s credit rating
to one level below investment grade on June 20. The upgrade to
Ba1 had “two main drivers: the significant improvement that
we’ve observed in Turkey’s public finances and our observation
that the government has improved its shock absorption
capacity,” Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said in a telephone
interview from  London  after the ratings action.  The lira was little changed at 1.8077 per dollar. Ten-year
lira bonds rose one basis point to 8.73 percent, after falling
to the lowest since January 2011 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  