-- Turkey Says Syria Downed Plane in International Airspace
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-06-24T12:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/turkish-warplane-lost-over-sea-near-syrian-coastline-1-.html
A Turkish warplane shot down by
Syrian forces was in international airspace when it was struck,
and  Turkey  is still weighing a response to the attack, Turkish
Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu said.  The unarmed plane briefly entered Syrian airspace minutes
before it was hit on June 22, and then plunged into Syrian
waters about 8 miles (13 kilometers) offshore, Davutoglu said on
state television today. It was on a test flight related to
Turkey’s radar system, and was not spying on  Syria , he said. The
plane was clearly identifiable as Turkish, and Syria made no
attempt to issue a warning after the earlier infringement,
Davutoglu said. Turkish rescue teams are still searching for the
F4 Phantom jet’s two crew members, he said.  “No one should doubt Turkey’s determination to do what is
necessary” in response to the incident, Davutoglu said. He said
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will consult opposition
parties over Turkey’s response in the next two days, and will
probably make a statement on the issue on June 26. Erdogan met
main opposition leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  in Ankara today and
was scheduled to hold talks with nationalist and Kurdish parties.  The downing of the plane has heightened tensions that have
arisen in the past year between the former allies over Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown on anti-government
protesters, which has left more than 10,000 people dead. Syria
has criticized Turkey for hosting meetings of Syrian opposition
groups, while Turkey has called for a change of regime in its
southern neighbor.  NATO Meeting  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization will meet on June 26
at Turkey’s request to discuss the incident, and the country
will make a presentation about it, NATO spokeswoman Oana
Lungescu said today in a text message. Davutoglu said that
Turkey will give detailed information about the shooting down of
the aircraft to its fellow alliance members. NATO rules require
members to consult whenever one of them views its territorial
integrity, independence or security as being under threat.  The wreckage of the aircraft has been found in Syrian
waters at a depth of about 1,000 meters, Milliyet newspaper
reported today.  The Turkish plane was hit in Syrian airspace and it should
be thought of as “an accident, certainly not an attack,”
Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi told the
Turkish news channel A Haber yesterday. He said Syria has no
hostility toward the Turkish government or people.  Syria’s ‘Disinformation’  The state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said on June 22 that
the plane was inside Syrian airspace when it was shot down.  Davutoglu described that allegation as “disinformation.”
He said Turkish rescue teams are still searching for the pilots,
and Syria has also deployed personnel for the search, though
they are not working together.  Erdogan, previously an Assad ally, has repeatedly called in
recent months for the Syrian leader to step down and end the
bloodshed. Several thousand Syrians have sought refuge in Turkey.
In April, two people seeking to flee into Turkey were wounded by
gunfire across the border from Syrian forces, prompting reports
in Milliyet and other Turkish newspapers that Turkey’s army was
considering establishing a buffer zone inside Syria.  U.S. intelligence officers based in southern Turkey are
working to determine which Syrian opposition groups should
receive arms across the border, and Turkey is helping to pay for
the weapons along with  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, the  New York 
Times reported June 21, citing U.S. and Arab officials.  UN Chief  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed
hopes that Turkey and Syria will show restraint and resolve the
issue through diplomatic channels, the Turkish news service
Anatolia said, citing his spokesman,  Martin Nesirky .  UN Syria envoy  Kofi Annan , speaking on June 22 before the
Turkish plane was reported missing, said that talks are under
way for a conference on Syria to be held in Geneva on June 30,
to which all potential contributors to a solution would be
invited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  