-- Vanguard Names Buckley Investment Chief as Sauter Retires
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-06-22T18:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/vanguard-names-buckley-investment-chief-as-sauter-retires.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest
U.S. mutual-fund company, said Mortimer J. Buckley will become
chief investment officer after George U. Sauter retires at the
end of the year.  Buckley, 43, has been a member of Vanguard’s senior staff
since 2001 and has run its retail investor group since 2006, the
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based company said today in a
statement. Buckley, known as Tim, joined Vanguard in 1991 as
assistant to founder  John Bogle .  Sauter, 57, chief investment officer since 2003, oversees
the company’s investment-management groups. He has been with
Vanguard since 1987. He was named Vanguard’s first investment
chief in 2003, assuming oversight of all in-house stock and
fixed-income management.  “I have been here 25 years and I have done about as much
as I can do,” Sauter said in a telephone interview. Sauter said
he has no immediate plans, although he might teach at the
university level or go back to school for a master’s degree in
mathematics. He has a bachelor’s degree in economics from
 Dartmouth College  and an MBA from the  University of Chicago .  Vanguard has $1.8 trillion in U.S. mutual-fund assets and
$2.1 trillion in global assets. The firm, which is best known
for its  index funds , attracted $52 billion in mutual-fund
deposits in the first five months of 2012, about three times
more than any of its rivals, data from Chicago-based  Morningstar 
Inc. show.  CIO Position  The chief investment officer job at Vanguard doesn’t
involve many of the traditional duties the position entails at
other firms, said  John Woerth , a spokesman for the company. “He
doesn’t make market calls or predict the direction of  interest
rates ,” Woerth said in a telephone interview.  The CIO oversees Vanguard’s index funds, which account for
about 58 percent of the firm’s mutual-fund assets, and about
$600 billion in fixed income that is largely managed internally,
Woerth said. Vanguard’s actively managed stock funds are run by
30 outside firms.  Daniel Culloton, a Morningstar analyst, said it wasn’t
surprising that Vanguard would pick someone like Buckley as
chief investment officer, even though he comes from a managerial
background.  “A lot of Vanguard’s top people are managers, rather than
investors,” Culloton said in a telephone interview. “It
doesn’t seem to have hurt them.”  Buckley has been a member of Vanguard’s investment
oversight committee for the past eight years, Woerth said.  Seeking Consistency  “We aren’t looking for aggressive portfolio managers who
will take additional risk to post impressive short-term
results,” Buckley said in an interview posted today on
Vanguard’s website. “Rather, we reward teams for consistent
strong performance over the long term.”  Buckley, in the same interview, called the U.S. federal
debt his biggest market concern.  “Until we have a clear plan for addressing this debt, we
won’t have clarity into other issues, such as economic growth,
the job market, inflation and taxes,” he said.  Sauter played a key role in building Vanguard’s business in
index funds and exchange-traded funds, according to Daniel Wiener, editor of the New York-based newsletter Independent
Adviser for Vanguard Investors.  Dumb Idea  “Jack Bogle came up with the ideas, but Sauter was the guy
who executed them,” Wiener said in a telephone interview.  Sauter, in an April interview at Vanguard headquarters,
recalled the day when he first suggested to then-Chief Executive
Officer  John Brennan  that the firm should sell ETFs. “He told
me it was the dumbest idea I had ever had,” Sauter said. “The
next day after he had read my memo he said, ‘It may not be the
dumbest idea you’ve ever had.’ ”  Vanguard, which created its first ETF in 2001, had $200
billion in U.S. ETF assets as of May 31, data from Boston-based
 State Street Corp. (STT)  show. Vanguard attracted $28 billion to its
ETFs this year, more than any other firm.  ETFs typically mimic indexes, while trading throughout the
day like stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  