-- Vestas Scraps U.K. Wind-Turbine Plant as Industry Seeks Clarity
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-22T12:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/vestas-scraps-u-k-wind-turbine-plant-as-industry-seeks-clarity.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  shelved
plans to build one of  Europe ’s largest offshore-turbine
factories in southeast  England  as the wind industry calls for
clarity on subsidy programs.  Vestas and the Port of Sheerness announced the decision to
scrap plans for the facility in Kent today in a website
 statement . The Aarhus, Denmark-based company had intended to
develop its biggest offshore turbine, a 7-megawatt machine, at
the plant, creating 2,000 jobs.  The announcement is a blow to U.K. efforts to attract the
largest turbine makers as it seeks to build 18 gigawatts of
offshore turbines by 2020. Britain, overhauling its energy
market to spur clean-power investment, proposed an Electricity
Market Reform bill in May that includes replacing an offshore-
wind subsidy with “contracts for difference,” which set long-
term prices for power and are so far only in outline form.  The lack of detail on the new contracts fuels uncertainty
for wind investors, Gordon Edge, policy director at industry
group RenewableUK, told a committee of lawmakers this week.  Doosan Power Systems Ltd. said in April it abandoned a 170
million-pound ($265 million) plan to develop offshore  wind
turbines  in  Scotland , citing economic difficulties in Europe.  Even with output costs that exceed onshore wind, gas-fired
power and coal-fed generation, offshore wind is of “strategic
national importance” as the government works to meet demand,
curb emissions and add jobs, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said last
week.  Strong Commitment  “Vestas’s strong commitment to the development of both the
offshore and onshore wind industries is not affected by this
decision,” said Chief Sales Officer Juan Araluce. The company
said more than a year ago that construction at Sheerness, a port
southeast of London, was dependent on regulatory certainty and
sufficient orders for its V164-7.0 model.  “The problem with the draft EMR legislation is not that
it’s half-baked,” RenewableUK’s Edge said June 19. “It’s the
fact that it’s only going into the oven now, so the cooking time
is very short. The risk is that we’ll end up with something
that’s burnt on the outside and soggy in the middle.”  Vestas didn’t specify a reason for its decision and said it
couldn’t comment further because of “legal obligations.”
Kasper Ibsen Beck, a spokesman, said by e-mail that Vestas is
looking at options for making the 7-megawatt model. It will
build parts of it at a test facility on the Isle of Wight and
install a prototype in 2014, the company said.  Foreign Investment  Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said June 13 the “lion’s
share” of early investment in offshore wind would come from
foreign companies locating production bases in the U.K. Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA, Samsung Heavy Industries Co. and
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  have all announced U.K.
offshore wind plans.  While Britain remains attractive for wind-industry
manufacturers, “delivery on green jobs needs certainty and
confidence in the market,” Maria McCaffery, chief executive
officer of RenewableUK, said in an e-mailed statement.  Vestas’s plant, which would have covered 70 hectares (173
acres) of land, was to be one of the largest of its type in
Europe, according to company documents posted on the website of
the local administration. Vestas received local approval from
the Swale Borough Council on May 24.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  