-- Wal-Mart Beats Amazon Prices Including ‘Glee’ DVD Set
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/wal-mart-beats-amazon-prices-including-glee-dvd-set.html
In an era of serial comparison
shopping,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  has seemed unassailable. Yet for many
kinds of merchandise -- the first-season DVDs of “Glee,” say -
- shoppers can get a better deal at Wal-Mart Stores Inc., both
online or at a superstore.  A study conducted by Kantar Retail, a London-based research
firm, compared prices on a wide range of 36 items and found that
on average they’re 20 percent more expensive at Amazon than at
Wal-Mart. The “Glee” DVDs? At $38.99, they were about $14
pricier at Amazon than Wal-Mart when the study was conducted in
April. On goods such as food, Amazon’s prices were almost 60
percent more, though some items are cheaper, the study said.  Consumers “trust Amazon will have a low price,” said Anne
Zybowski, a Kantar analyst who co-wrote the study. “On many
items, they do have competitive prices. That’s how Amazon has
won millions of customers one shopper at a time.”  Still, when it comes to controlling prices, Amazon is
playing catch-up with  Wal-Mart (WMT) , which has been building its
supply base, wringing costs from its vendors and amassing buying
power for 50 years. Amazon is working on bringing in new vendors
and lowering costs in its supply chain, Zybowski said.  Last year, the Seattle-based company’s  sales  grew 41
percent to $48.1 billion. Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart,
the world’s largest retailer, increased U.S.  sales  at its
namesake stores 1.5 percent to $264.2 billion. Wal-Mart shares
have climbed 27 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a
14 percent gain for Amazon.  Price Advantage  Sally Fouts, an Amazon spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
several requests for comment.  Wal-Mart has never tried to advertise its price advantage
against Amazon or other dot-com players,  David Tovar , a
spokesman, said in an interview. The retailer has advertised its
price advantage on certain goods against local retailers in
select U.S. metro areas, he said.  “We’ll leave it to Kantar to talk about prices,” he said.  Kantar did the study for the first time after watching Wal-
Mart’s core shoppers moving to the Web at a faster clip, said
Robin Sherk, who co-authored the study. Five years ago, only
about a quarter of Wal-Mart’s customers shopped at Amazon,
according to another Kantar survey. Now half say they do.  Kantar pulled together a basket of 36 goods across four
categories -- including edible grocery, non-edible grocery,
health and beauty aids and general merchandise. They looked at
Walmart.com and visited a Supercenter in a New Hampshire suburb
that Kantar declined to identify, chosen because it’s not in the
middle of nowhere and it’s not in a city and therefore was
deemed representative of a typical Wal-Mart store.  Special Deals  The prices don’t include shipping because both companies
offer a variety of options that can significantly vary in cost.
Amazon will adjust prices if it discovers Wal-Mart or  Target
Corp. (TGT)  are running special deals.  Many consumers are drawn to Amazon’s convenience, free
shipping and customer service. One frequent customer is David
Washburn, who rarely compares the online retailer’s prices with
Wal-Mart or other stores.  “I’m not going to shop around just to save a dollar or
two,” said Washburn, 41, who works for a logistics company in
Atlanta. “You don’t have to leave your home. Wal-Mart has too
much of a warehouse flavor.”  Of course,  Wal-Mart  has its own online store, where prices
on average are 7 percent cheaper than Amazon’s, according to
Kantar. Yet Walmart.com generates less than 2 percent of the
company’s U.S. sales.  Steal Buyers  By selling items on special, Wal-Mart is trying to steal
back buyers in core Amazon categories such as entertainment.
That’s where its “Glee” DVDs come in.  Meanwhile, Amazon is offering an increasingly broad range
of merchandise. For that, it relies on third-party suppliers to
sell items at its Amazon Marketplace, which pushes up the
prices, Kantar says.  In some cases, those third-party suppliers bought items
like the “Glee” DVDs on sale at a big-box retailer, waited
until the sale ended and then sold it on Amazon at a profit,
according to Zybowski. This tactic, called “front-door
diversion,” drives up the prices on Amazon.  There is one mitigating factor, according to Sherk. Amazon
shoppers who join its Subscribe and Save program and buy goods
in bulk can get close to Wal-Mart’s prices. For example, a $6
jar of Skippy peanut butter falls to $2.78 a jar if the member
buys a six-pack of them. That’s just a penny more than Wal-Mart
charges for a single jar, the study said.  Built Trust  Consumers will still buy from Amazon because the company
has built up trust, especially in its core categories such as
books, electronics and music. Amazon wins on some items,
including LMFAO’s new CD, which at $9.16 undercut Wal-Mart by
84 cents.  In general merchandise, which includes movies and
entertainment, Amazon had lower prices than the Wal-Mart
Supercenter and Walmart.com on three of 10 items that Kantar
compared. The 10 items cost $176.76 on Amazon, which was $25.68
more than Wal-Mart’s Supercenter and $31.02 more than
Walmart.com was charging at the time.  Wal-Mart has a bigger advantage when it comes to food,
where Amazon has started competing more recently. For example, a
box of Bisquick pancake mix cost $14.52 on Amazon and $6.12 at a
Wal-Mart Supercenter, the study said.  Grocery continues to be a stronghold for Wal-Mart,
especially at its stores. Amazon still is working on building up
its assortment and developing its  supply chain  to drive down
costs, Zybowski said.  Keeping Customers  As Amazon improves in those categories, Wal-Mart and Target
will have a tougher time keeping customers, Zybowski said.
Amazon had all of its items in stock at the time of the study.
At Wal-Mart, 3 percent of its items were out of stock at the
Supercenter and 14 percent of the items that were compared were
out of stock at Walmart.com.  As shoppers head online, Amazon also has a brand advantage,
she said.  “The challenge Wal-Mart has is, when you ask shoppers
which physical store they go to for low prices, it’s Wal-Mart,”
she said. “When you ask about online, it’s Amazon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  