-- Warren Seeks to Move Past Cherokee Roots in Senate Race
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/warren-seeks-to-move-past-cherokee-roots-in-senate-race.html
There are topics  Massachusetts 
Senate candidate Elizabeth Warren says she wants to talk about
in her campaign, including Wall Street and Big Oil. And there
are those she’d sooner avoid, such as her Native American roots.  The Democrat’s opponent, Republican Senator  Scott Brown ,
and his allies have tried to force her to confront the latter
subject, demanding more disclosure on her claim to be part
Cherokee and whether it boosted her employment prospects at
 Harvard Law School  and the  University of Pennsylvania .  While the Massachusetts race was billed as a tilt between
clashing ideologies and as a chance for Democrats to retake the
seat the late  Ted Kennedy  held, it has been roiled by the debate
over Warren’s ethnicity. The law professor, who turns 63 today,
has said she has some Cherokee blood, without providing
documentation, and that her claimed heritage didn’t help her win
teaching jobs at the two Ivy League schools. Critics want proof.  The question now is how long the issue will linger and
whether it will matter to voters come November.  “It has damaged her,” said Jeffrey Berry, who teaches
politics at  Tufts University  in Medford, Massachusetts, citing
her handling of media inquiries on the topic.  “For a lot of voters, their first impression of Professor
Warren is of someone who is unsure of herself, bumbling and
maybe even a bit silly,” Berry said.  Networking Bid  Last month Warren told reporters she listed herself as
Native American in law school directories hoping to network over
lunch with others like her.  “Nothing like that ever happened,” she said. “So I
stopped checking it off.”  The Massachusetts Senate race is shaping up to be the most
expensive in the U.S., according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group. Through March 31,
Senate candidates, including those who had dropped out, had
raised $33.1 million, more than in any other Senate contest.
Warren had brought in $16 million and Brown $12 million.  Recent voter surveys show Warren has closed a gap as wide
as 9 percentage points in February.  “Voters express little interest in Warren’s Native-
American heritage and increasing support for Warren,” Mindy
Myers, the Democrat’s campaign manager, said in a statement.  Damage Signs  Yet the numbers in a Suffolk University telephone survey of
600 likely voters last month carry hints of the damage Berry
cites. While 48 percent supported Brown to 47 percent for Warren
in the poll -- a virtual tie, given the survey’s margin of error
of plus or minus 4 percentage points -- it also showed the
Democrat’s negative rating had risen by 5 percentage points from
February.  “The only negative thing that happened between February
and today is this Native American issue,” said David Paleologos, the poll’s Boston-based director. “What else could
it be?”  A Western New England University telephone survey of 504
registered voters May 29-31  showed  Warren’s unfavorable rating
rose 10 percentage points, even as she led Brown, 45 percent to
43 percent. In a May 25-31 University of  New Hampshire  poll of
651 likely Massachusetts voters, conducted for the  Boston  Globe,
31 percent of independents -- the state’s largest bloc -- said
the heritage issue made them less likely to back Warren.  In trying to become the first woman elected to the Senate
from Massachusetts, Warren’s party provides a potential
advantage: Just 11 percent of the state’s 4.1 million registered
voters are Republican while 36 percent are Democrats.  ‘Solid Core’  That means “she has a solid core who will vote for anybody
whose name isn’t Brown,” Berry said. Warren may also benefit
from President  Barack Obama ’s re-election bid, he said. A
television advertisement that aired last month showed Obama
praising her humble roots as a janitor’s daughter.  Brown, 52, must hold onto his two-to-one advantage with
independents, the state’s largest voting bloc, to hold onto his
seat, Paleologos said. In the Suffolk poll, 60 percent of
independents backed Brown to 35 percent for Warren.  Brown’s campaign continues to call on Warren to release
personnel records regarding her hiring at Harvard and Penn.  “Cherokees Demand Truth from Elizabeth Warren,” a self-
described group of 150 members of the tribe, also wants a fuller
accounting, as do a group of black ministers in Boston. The
religious leaders supported Brown in a January 2010 special
election, when he defeated state Attorney General  Martha Coakley , a Democrat, and became the state’s first Republican in
the Senate in more than 30 years. Kennedy had died in office six
months earlier.  Unending Story  “The story definitely has that trickle-forever quality to
it,” said Joe Trippi, a Democratic strategist who managed
Howard Dean’s 2004 presidential campaign. Warren’s aides may
have believed the issue unworthy of close attention, “and then
you wake up one day and realize that was a mistake,” Trippi
said.  Warren declined a Bloomberg News interview request for this
story. Alethea Harney, a spokeswoman, supplied a statement that
Warren is “hitting the ground running and she’s focused on the
issues that are important to the families of Massachusetts, such
as holding  Wall Street  accountable, ending subsidies for Big
Oil, and creating good jobs.”  Brown also declined a request for comment on the subject,
according to Colin Reed, a spokesman. Brown’s campaign manager,
Jim Barnett, called the ethnicity issue a “festering wound that
will heal only” when Warren opens up her personnel records.  Initial Reports  The Boston Herald set off the furor with an April report
that said Harvard had listed Warren as a minority professor for
six years. The Globe then reported that a historical document
existed showing Warren to be 1/32 Cherokee. The Globe corrected
its story, saying the document’s “existence has not been
proven.”  Warren, who had maintained she didn’t know about Harvard’s
designation of her as a Native American, changed her story when
she told the Globe on May 30 that she had informed law school
officials at both Harvard and Penn of her bloodline after she
was hired. “Warren finally confessed that she was the source
for information that led Harvard and the University of
Pennsylvania to falsely list her as a minority,” Barnett said
June 1 in fundraising  pitch  for Brown.  The Herald in another report said Warren had contributed
recipes to a late cousin for a 1984 Native American cookbook
entitled, “Pow Wow Chow.” Under each of the recipes she
contributed -- including one for a crab omelet and another for
barbecued beans -- it says, “-  Elizabeth Warren , Cherokee.”  Parents Eloped  Arriving by train at her party’s June 1 convention in
Springfield, Massachusetts, Warren told reporters an impassioned
story of how her mother and father eloped because his parents
were against a marriage to a woman with Cherokee blood.  Brown, who has largely avoided direct comment on the
subject, at one point told reporters, “My mom and dad have told
me a lot of things too, but they’re not always true.”  Warren’s main campaign strategy is to tie Brown to the ills
of Wall Street and big banks, telling voters that they have made
life more difficult for middle-income Americans.  At the convention that formally nominated her, Warren
hammered Brown for voting against three parts of Obama’s plan to
create employment opportunities in Massachusetts and elsewhere.
The failed bills included $175 billion for highways, $60 billion
for other transportation infrastructure and $35 billion for
teachers, police officers and firefighters, the latter two both
financed by a tax on millionaires, according to Harney, Warren’s
spokeswoman.  Jobs Bills  Brown voted against the spending bills as part of his long-
standing effort to keep taxes down, said Reed, his spokesman.
Reed also said Brown initiated two jobs bills that did pass: One
to provide incentives to businesses that hire veterans and
another to repeal a 3 percent withholding tax on companies that
have contracts with government agencies.  By 55 percent to 33 percent, voters in the May Suffolk poll
dismissed Warren’s attempts to portray Brown as beholden to the
financial industry.  “People aren’t buying that he’s a tool of Wall Street,”
Paleologos said.  Warren has also said Brown voted against repeal of the Big
Oil Tax Subsidies Act, which would have closed $24 billion in
tax loopholes for the  petroleum industry . The senator opposed
the measure because it would have done nothing to reduce fuel
prices at the pump, Reed said.  Both candidates have said they would participate in
broadcast debates during the next several months.  While political debates often don’t sway voters, “these
have the potential to be significant,” Berry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 