-- Washington’s Acts of Congress Sells for $9.8 Million
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-06-22T18:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/washington-s-acts-of-congress-sells-for-9-8-million.html
George Washington ’s copy of a book
containing the Constitution with his annotations and legislative
actions taken by the new  U.S. Congress  sold for $9.8 million at
Christie’s today.  The sale set a record for a Washington document, far
exceeding the presale top estimate of $3 million.  Ann Bookout, regent of the board of the  Mount Vernon 
Ladies’ Association, which owns and operates Washington’s
historic home, placed the winning bid, beating about half a
dozen hopefuls in the room and on the phone.  “We are thrilled to bring this extraordinary book that
belonged to George Washington back to Mount Vernon where it
belongs,” Bookout said in a press conference following the
sale.  The book will be the centerpiece of  Washington ’s new
presidential library, Bookout said, adding that it will open in
2013.  Washington received the 106-page volume in 1789, his first
year in office as U.S. president. It recorded the momentous
first session of Congress, March 4 to Sept. 29 that year, and
includes the ratified Constitution, the draft Bill of Rights and
acts establishing the executive, state, judiciary and treasury
departments.  “There was an enormous number of acts passed,” said Ron Chernow, author of “Washington: A Life,” in a telephone
interview. “The Constitution is a short document and very
vague. The first Congress was busy putting flesh on the bones.”  Coat of Arms  The title page has Washington’s large signature and on
another page is a bookplate bearing his motto, “Exitus acta
probat” (“the end justifies the deed”), and his family coat
of arms.  Washington put brackets around key passages concerning the
president’s responsibilities and wrote the words “President”
and “powers” in the margin.  “He was trying to figure out what was his power, what was
the Congress’s power,” Chernow said. “Washington knew that as
the first president, he would be the first person to be
implementing the Constitution. He was so eager to get it right
and so anxious not to get it wrong.”  The book comes from the estate of H. Richard Dietrich Jr.,
a collector of Americana, who bought it at auction for $27,000
in 1964. It had previously belonged to Washington’s nephew
Bushrod Washington and William Randolph Hearst.  The previous record for a Washington document was his 1787
letter to his nephew on the ratification of the Constitution,
which sold for $3.2 million in 2009.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  and  Warwick Thompson 
on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 