-- Wen Visits Argentina as China Seeks Corn-Bargaining Clout
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-06-22T14:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/wen-visits-argentina-as-china-seeks-corn-bargaining-clout.html
The first visit by a Chinese premier
in 27 years signals the final step for  Argentina  to start
selling corn to China as the second-biggest consumer of the crop
seeks to reduce its reliance on U.S. imports.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  will spend three days in
Argentina from tomorrow as part of a Latin American tour that
will reap several agriculture deals, Vice Foreign Minister Xie
Hangsheng said June 18, without elaborating.  For Argentine producers, which include George Soros-backed
 Adecoagro SA (AGRO) , Wen’s visit is evidence that initial approvals to
export genetically-modified corn will be ratified, said Martin Fraguio, head of growers’ association Maizar. Argentina, the
second-largest exporter, would give China an alternative to the
U.S. as the Asian nation imports a record 7 million metric tons
that at today’s price would be worth about $1.5 billion.  “They will have more clout in negotiating purchases with
the U.S.,” Fraguio said by telephone. “It’s not the same
negotiating with just one seller than having three or four.”  China became a net corn importer in 2009 as its domestic
crop failed to keep up with growth in livestock feed demand and
a corn-processing industry that makes everything from starch
used in aspirins to high fructose corn syrup used to sweeten
Coca Cola. Slowing economic growth probably won’t curb corn
imports as rising incomes boost demand for beef and pork.  Record Imports  China ’s corn imports in the 2012-2013 marketing year will
rise 40 percent from 5 million metric tons the previous year,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The most-active
contract yesterday settled at $5.50 a bushel on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade.  Argentina and  Laos  were listed as approved corn suppliers
to China, the Beijing-based quality watchdog General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
said on April 28. China also set corn import standards for the
Brazilian government,  Brazil ’s agriculture ministry said in a
June 5 e-mailed statement.  Argentina still needs approval of a traceability system
through which importers such as Cargill Inc. and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  can
prove corn comes from seeds permitted by Chinese authorities.  Argentine Vice President  Amado Boudou  plans to meet Wen on
June 25, a press official at his office said. An official at the
Chinese Embassy in Buenos Aires said Wen’s agenda can’t be
unveiled before his arrival in the country. Argentina’s Foreign
Ministry doesn’t have an agenda for Wen’s visit.  The South American country will send 16 million tons
overseas in 2012-2013, up 23 percent from the previous year,
while Ukraine will ship 14 million tons, USDA data show. In
2007, Ukraine exported 1.03 million tons.  Growing Demand  China’s economy  probably will expand 8.2 percent this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , compared with 9.2
percent in 2009, when the global GDP contracted.  “Seven or 8 percent growth is still great so people are
going to eat higher-quality foods, higher caloric intake, more
meat,” Steve Kahler, who helps manage $79 million in assets as
chief operating officer at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Teucrium
Trading LLC, said in an interview in Chicago. “From the world
perspective, you have growing production capabilities but we
also have a growing demand base.”  China probably will produce 195 million tons in the 2012-
2013 marketing year from 192.8 million tons in the previous
year, the USDA said. That’s up from 166 million tons in 2008-
2009.  Disaster Risk  China aims to be self-sufficient in grains to shield itself
from the risk of natural disasters in other growing regions,
Agriculture Minister Han Changfu wrote in a May 26 article
published on the website of the People’s Daily. Han will
accompany Wen on the  Buenos Aires  trip.  South America  is one of the few regions of the world that
can boost supplies to China, Fraguio said. The so-called  Black
Sea region  that includes Russia and Ukraine is another region
where production and exports may rise, he said.  Wen will be eager to mend differences over a trade row
between Argentina and China in 2010 when the Asian nation banned
Argentine soybean imports, said Matt Ferchen, resident scholar
at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing.  “There is concern among some in China that Argentina in
particular, but also other countries in South America, are and
will increasingly turn to protectionist policies,” Ferchen
wrote in an e-mailed response.  Corn exports from the U.S. in the marketing year that ends
on Aug. 31 will account for the lowest amount of global trade in
41 years, USDA data show. The U.S. will ship 42 million tons of
the grain to overseas buyers, accounting for 43 percent of
global exports, the least since 1971, according to the USDA.  “The market will rely upon more marginal production
regions where yields tend to be more volatile and increases in
prices we are likely to see,” said Nick Higgins, an analyst at
Rabobank International in  London . “The U.S. will likely
recapture some market share next year however the days of 50
percent-plus of the world’s corn exports from the U.S. are
over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  