-- Williams & Connolly, Madoff, ConAgra: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/williams-connolly-madoff-conagra-business-of-law.html
New York  Knicks guard Jeremy Lin
hired agent Jim Tanner of the Washington law firm Williams &
Connolly LLP to represent him in basketball and marketing
matters, two people familiar with the situation said.  As Bloomberg’s Scott Soshnick reports,  Roger Montgomery ,
Lin’s current agent, will work with Tanner on the former Harvard
University player’s free agency.  Montgomery didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.
Tanner was traveling and couldn’t be reached.  Tanner’s clients include  San Antonio Spurs  forward  Tim Duncan ,  Miami Heat  forward  Shane Battier  and  Grant Hill  of the
 Phoenix Suns , whose president of basketball operations, Lon
Babby, was a Williams & Connolly attorney and player agent
before joining the National Basketball Association team.  The move comes at an important time for Lin, whose
emergence this season may lead to increased endorsements. The
23-year-old, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the NBA, is a restricted free agent.  Two NBA teams cut Lin before he signed with the Knicks on
Dec. 27. He invigorated the team after joining the starting
lineup on Feb. 6, fueling sales of merchandise and tickets,
driving television ratings and helping the team’s parent
company,  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , end a seven-week stalemate
with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that kept the provider’s
2.8 million subscribers in the New York area from seeing the
Knicks.  Ticket prices to games at Madison Square Garden tripled as
fans got caught up in “Linsanity,” a phrase coined to
encompass the excitement surrounding the player.  New Suits  Madoff Class-Action Lawsuit Is Blocked by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  A U.S. bankruptcy judge barred a class-action lawsuit filed
in  Florida  against the estate of a former Bernard L. Madoff
investor, Jeffry Picower.  The Madoff brokerage trustee,  Irving Picard , settled a
lawsuit against the Picower estate for $7.2 billion in 2010,
after alleging Picower knew of and profited from Madoff’s fraud.
Pamela Goldman and a related partnership asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan to let their suit go forward,
even after similar actions had been barred by Lifland and other
judges on appeal, the judge said June 20 in an order filed in
court.  “This court has sole jurisdiction over the administration
and distribution of estate assets to customers,” he said.  The judge’s ruling on the Florida class action may help
Picard, who has been fighting to preserve his sole right to sue
to recover money for the con man’s customers. Customers who have
little prospect of being paid by Picard, and other parties, say
he is interfering with their rights.  Joshua Angel, a lawyer for Goldman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  This month, Picard accused California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  of breaking the law by suing to recoup
$270 million in illegal profits from  Stanley Chais ’s estate.
Harris has said her suit isn’t barred under bankruptcy law,
because she is exercising her policing power under state law.  Most of the $9 billion that Picard says he has raised from
settlements is tied up in court challenges and unavailable for
distribution to customers who lost money.  Madoff, 74, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008. Picard and his law
firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about
$273 million for liquidating the estate, while returning just
$330 million to customers.  The Lifland ruling is on the docket of the main case:
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  ConAgra Hires Minneapolis Firm for Hebrew National Suit  A group of 11 consumers filed a lawsuit claiming that
Hebrew National products are not, contrary to their label,
kosher.  The consumers allege that  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , which owns
Hebrew National, purchases its meats from food-processing plants
which “fail to adhere to the kosher standards.”  The suit, which seeks class-action status, doesn’t seek
“to have the court create or define what the applicable
standard for kosher meat is,” according to the complaint.
Instead, the consumers seek to hold the company “to the
standard established by its own representations to the public.”  The consumers also claim that purchasers paid premium
prices for kosher foods when they allege the food wasn’t kosher.  ConAgra, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , denied the claims.  “Hebrew National’s kosher status is certified by a well-
recognized and authorized third-party,” the company said in a
statement. “There is close rabbinical supervision of the food
preparation process and packaging equipment.”  The group that certifies Hebrew National as kosher,
Triangle K Inc., said in a statement that the allegations are
“outrageously false and defamatory” and Hebrew National
products are “100 percent strictly kosher.”  ConAgra is represented by Blackwell Burke PA. The
Minneapolis law firm asked to have the case, originally filed in
Minnesota state court, moved to federal court. Corey Gordon, a
partner at Blackwell Burke, declined to comment on the
litigation.  The plaintiffs’ firms include Zimmerman Reed PLLP and
Kuhlman Law PLLC of Minneapolis and Long Beach, California’s
Ridout & Lyon LLP.  The case is Wallace v. ConAgra Foods Inc., 0:12-cv-01354,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  Law Firm Moves  Two Lawyers Join Holland & Knight’s Abu Dhabi Office  Marc Sukkar joined Holland & Knight LLP as a partner in its
Abu Dhabi office. In addition, Nijoe Joseph is returning to that
location as an associate.  Sukkar focuses on construction law, energy and dispute
resolution, the firm said in a statement. Most recently, he was
senior counsel for Msheireb Properties, a Qatar Foundation unit.  Holland & Knight’s Abu Dhabi office opened in 2008. The
firm has more than 1,000 lawyers worldwide.  Partner Rejoins Allen Matkins in San Francisco Office  Mark Mengelberg returned to Allen Matkins Leck Gamble
Mallory & Natsis LLP as a real estate partner in the firm’s  San
Francisco  office. Mengelberg was a partner at Seyfarth Shaw LLP
for the past six years, with an emphasis on real estate
transactions and finance. He worked at Allen Matkins as an
associate from 2004 through 2006, the firm said in a statement.  Allen Matkins is a California-based law firm with about 220
attorneys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 