-- Woody Allen’s Rome; Lincoln Vamps; Powerful ‘War’: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/woody-italian-style-abe-lincoln-vamps-powerful-war-movies.html
A lot of people wish that  Woody Allen  would return to the loopy, surreal comedy of his early
years. Now he has, sort of, and at a level of accomplishment
that befits a man who’s written and directed more than 40
movies.  “ To Rome With Love ” intertwines four stories involving at
least 15 major characters, yet you never wonder who’s who or
who’s where:  Story 1. An opera director (Allen) discovers a major talent
(Fabio Armiliato) who can only sing in the shower.  Story 2. Young newlyweds (Alessandra Mastronardi and
Alessandro Tiberi) are separated and seduced, she by a film star
(Antonio Albanese), he by a whore (Penelope Cruz).  Story 3. A nonentity (Roberto Benigni) wakes up one morning
to find himself famous, for no reason at all.  Story 4. An architect ( Alec Baldwin ) watches a younger
version of himself ( Jesse Eisenberg ) betray his girlfriend
(Greta Gerwig) with her best friend (Ellen Page).  At least half the movie is in Italian (there are
subtitles), and it’s the better half, perhaps because the
Italians are able to transform Allen’s shtick into something of
their own.  Benigni is the biggest delight, as a clerk who’s bewildered
to the point of outrage when suddenly all of  Italy  wants to know
what kind of underwear he wears and what he has for breakfast.
His story is so obviously a comment on the silliness of
celebrity culture that it feels insulting when Allen insists on
spelling out the message.  Worldly, Loony  Elsewhere the tone varies from worldly (the newlyweds’
story is like a contemporary “Cosi Fan Tutte”) to sour (the
segment with Eisenberg standing in for Allen), to loony, in the
tale about the tenor in the shower.  That joke expands to such insane dimensions of cultural
parody that you can’t help smiling at the effort even if it
doesn’t double you over. In fact, except for the scenes with
Benigni and a formidably slutty Cruz, “To Rome With Love”
isn’t really very funny.  No matter how much we wish it, Allen can’t go back to being
the comic he was. His humor once defined modern and hip, but
comedy has changed in the decades since “ Bananas ” and
“ Sleeper .” Now his jokes have the glow of nostalgia: You smile
because you remember how funny he used to be.  “To Rome With Love,” from Sony Picture Classics, is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *** (Seligman)  Abe Lincoln  The old rail splitter puts his ax to entirely different
purposes in “ Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter ,” director Timur
Bekmambetov’s better-than-it-should-be adaptation of the popular
mash-up novel.  Benjamin Walker (Broadway’s “Bloody, Bloody  Andrew
Jackson ”) plays the president with a secret life: He slaughters
vampires. His hatred for the undead goes back to childhood, when
he witnessed his mother being bitten by a bloodsucker.  Adapted by Seth Grahame-Smith from his 2010 bestseller,
this Tim Burton coproduction in 3-D is more visually elaborate
(and blessedly less campy) than Burton’s “ Dark Shadows .”  The winks (“We’re gonna be late for the theater,” says
Mrs. L) are few and far between. Some might even find this nutty
film humorless, but Bekmambetov (“ Wanted ”) lets the absurd
premise speak for itself.  His Lincoln dispatches truly scary vampires (no
“Twilight” wimps here) with the ballets of violence
popularized in the “Matrix” films.  Wooing Mary  Grahame-Smith’s plotting follows the traditional arc, with
Lincoln evolving from Springfield lawyer to Great Emancipator,
stopping along the way to debate Stephen Douglas (Alan Tudyk),
woo Mary Todd (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) and fret over the soul
of a nation.  But he’s also mentored by a renegade vampire (Dominic
Cooper) who uses Lincoln to do his dirty work (vampires can’t
kill their own). In this satirical telling, the South is a
hotbed of undead action, with slavery providing endless supplies
of blood.  The film isn’t particularly interested in pointed
commentary, though, and it’s just as well. The appeal lies in
its rich Southen Gothic look and spectacularly realized action
set pieces. Lincoln fights one vampire atop a stampede of
horses, and the graphically rendered battle of Gettysburg is a
spooky showdown between good and evil.  Walker, in his major-screen debut, has a likeable deadpan
goofiness that suits Honest Abe. Rufus Sewell, as the baddest
vampire, makes a nasty villain, and Cooper is a scene-stealer as
Lincoln’s louche protector.  “ Abraham Lincoln : Vampire Hunter,” from 20th Century Fox,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Invisible War’  Kori Cioca was raped and battered by her commanding officer
in the U.S. Coast Guard, and since the 2010 attack has been able
to eat nothing harder than Jell-O.  The senior officer who raped Ariana Klay when she was a
Marine officer was court-martialed for adultery. The man who
raped Jessica Hinves of the U.S.  Air Force  was named Airman of
the Year.  The stories in Kirby Dick’s searing documentary “The
Invisible War” expose what the filmmaker calls an epidemic of
rape in the U.S. military. The film is unforgettable.  Statistics cited in the film -- all gleaned from government
reports -- are mind-boggling. Officially, fewer than 3,200
sexual assaults were reported in 2011, but the  Department of
Defense  estimates the actual number to be more than 19,000.  So: 20 percent of all active-duty female soldiers were
sexually assaulted last year. The likelihood of being raped by a
fellow soldier dwarfs the chances of being killed in combat.  As horrific as the assaults are -- the women (and a male
Vietnam veteran) who share their stories offer heartbreaking,
graphic testimony -- the typical response by military commanders
is as infuriating. A scandalously few 191 victimizers were
convicted at courts-martial in 2011.  Writer/director Dick (“ This Film is Not Yet Rated ”)
balances the subject’s inherent emotionalism with a clear-headed
persuasiveness. A coda informs us that Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  screened “The Invisible War” in April, and ordered
that all sexual assault investigations be taken from the purview
of commanding officers and handled by higher-ranking colonels.  It’s a start.  “The Invisible War,” from Cinedigm and Docurama Films, is
playing in New York, Los Angeles, Washington D.C.,  San Francisco 
and  Boston . Rating: **** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 