-- Wynn Wins Ruling Sending Okada Suit to State Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/wynn-wins-ruling-sending-okada-suit-to-state-court.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  persuaded a U.S.
judge to send its breach of fiduciary duty lawsuit against Kazuo Okada, the company’s former vice chairman whom it’s trying to
remove from its board of directors, back to state court.  U.S. District Judge Larry Hicks at a hearing yesterday in
Las Vegas granted Wynn Resorts’ request to remand the case to
Nevada state court, where it was filed in February. In March,
Okada had the case moved to federal court, arguing that the
underlying issue was whether he had violated U.S. law by
allegedly making improper payments to foreign officials.  “The judge’s ruling today addresses only the question of
where the case should be heard, not the merits of the case,”
Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Okada’s holding company Aruze USA
Inc., said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “While we respectfully disagree with the court’s decision,
we’re quite confident that a jury, no matter where it is seated,
will agree that Wynn Resorts CEO  Steve Wynn  and his dutiful
Board of Directors unlawfully stripped Aruze USA of its
leadership stake in the company without any legitimate
justification and to silence a vocal critic,” Getzug said.  The lawsuit is part of the battle between Steve Wynn, the
Las Vegas-based company’s founder and chairman, and Okada, the
Japanese billionaire who helped bankroll the casino operator 12
years ago. Wynn Resorts in February forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20
percent stake in the company, saying he made improper payments
to gaming officials in the  Philippines .  ‘Personal Fiefdom’  Okada has denied the allegations. He filed counterclaims in
the lawsuit accusing Steve Wynn of running the company like his
“personal fiefdom.”  Wynn Resorts filed its complaint against Okada Feb. 19,
alleging he is developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila 
and seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China  in
direct competition with Wynn Resorts’ casino in  Macau .  Hicks rejected Okada’s argument that the case belongs in
federal court because Wynn Resorts’ redemption of his shares was
based on allegations that he violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  “The mere presence of a federal question does not require
federal jurisdiction,” Hicks said.  Mike Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn Resorts, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company was pleased that the judge
agreed that Nevada state court is the proper forum for the case.  In a separate case, Okada has petitioned a Nevada state
court judge to give him access to Wynn Resorts’ books and
records regarding the company’s HK$1 billion ($129 million)
pledge in July 2011 to the University of Macau Development
Foundation. Okada said he objected to the donation.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Kazuo Okada, 12-00400, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 