-- ‘Hunger Games’ Turns Ex-Icahn Prey Lions Gate Into Predator
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-20T20:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/-hunger-games-transforms-ex-icahn-prey-lions-gate-into-predator.html
Until “The Hunger Games,” the
biggest movie for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  was
“Fahrenheit 9/11,” the Michael Moore war commentary that took
in almost $120 million in U.S. theaters.  That record will fall with the March 23 release of “The
Hunger Games,” based on author  Suzanne Collins ’ trilogy about
teens who fight to the death on live TV. The dystopian drama
should produce three-day sales of as much as $115 million and
$270 million over its run in U.S. theaters, according to
researcher  Boxoffice.com .  It will also transform Lions Gate, an independent filmmaker
known for horror movies, Tyler Perry comedies and a long
takeover fight with  Carl Icahn . With “The Hunger Games,”
“Twilight” and two more projects with sequel potential,
Vancouver-based Lions Gate has a chance to compete with
Hollywood’s biggest studios.  “I think they will continue to make acquisitions, not be
acquired themselves,” said  Gordon Crawford , senior vice
president of Capital Research Global Investors, the studio’s
third-largest shareholder with a 10 percent  stake . “I think
they’re going to be a major some day.”  Lions Gate gained 7.2 percent to a record close of $15.28
in New York  trading . The shares have surged 84 percent this year
as investors weigh prospects for “The Hunger Games” and the
$412.5 million January acquisition of  Summit Entertainment ,
owner of the “Twilight” vampire films and rights to a series
of science-fiction novels dubbed “Ender’s Game.”  Original Plan  “The Hunger Games” has sold out almost 2,000 showtimes on
the Fandango ticket service and is on pace to become one of that
company’s top five advance sellers, according to a statement
today.  Jon Feltheimer, Lions Gate’s co-chairman and chief
executive officer, and Vice Chairman  Michael Burns , always
intended to build the studio through acquisitions. Since taking
over in 2000, they have made a half-dozen  purchases , including
Trimark Holdings, Artisan Entertainment and Mandate Pictures,
amassing 13,000 film and TV titles.  “Our plan was always to be a large content owner and
distributor with the biggest library and the smallest overhead -
- two good things,” Burns said.  Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , has
struggled to stay profitable. The acquisition drive built up
debt of $1.1 billion, and the company posted losses the past
four fiscal years. The company is seeking a buyer for its stake
in the TV Guide cable channel, a person with knowledge of the
situation said in January.  Post-Icahn Era  Feltheimer and Burns spent much of 2009-2011 fending off
Icahn, who sold almost 41 million  Lions Gate  shares back to the
company and other investors for $7 each starting in August last
year, missing out on a gain of almost $300 million. Icahn, who
said he roughly broke even, continues to own 3.4 million shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The January purchase of Summit marked a turning point. The
deal gave Lions Gate the “Twilight” teen vampire series,
including the last theatrical release, and rights to “Ender’s
Game,” a teen-oriented sci-fi series by Orson Scott Card about
youngsters pressed into military training.  Summit co-founders Rob Friedman and  Patrick Wachsberger 
were named to lead the Lions Gate film unit, where they will
oversee the push into tentpole film production. Joe Drake, Lion
Gate’s chief operating officer, stepped down yesterday.  “The biggest difference with Lions Gate today from that
original strategy is that they’ve ended up hiring and retaining
great people and they’ve developed a very good creative team in
film and television,” Crawford said in an interview. “It’s not
just a library roll-up strategy anymore.”  Future Franchises  In addition to “Twilight,” Lions Gate has three projects
with potential to become multifilm hits.  “The Hunger Games,” made for $80 million, according to
Feltheimer, is set in a post-apocalyptic  North America , where an
oppressive government forces teens to fight on TV, as
entertainment and as a political tool. More than 23 million
copies of the books are in print in the U.S., according to Kyle Good, a spokesman for publisher  Scholastic Corp. (SCHL)   The film features Oscar nominee  Jennifer Lawrence  as
Katniss Everdeen, a girl from an impoverished region who
volunteers to take her younger sister’s place in the
competition.  Lions Gate toned down the book’s violence to secure a PG-13
rating, according to the studio. While he avoids showing blood
and gore, director Gary Ross leaves no doubt about the outcome
of the teens’ combat.  Twilight for ‘Twilight’  Nina Jacobson, former president of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Buena
Vista Motion Pictures Group, brought “The Hunger Games” to
Lions Gate in 2008, before the books reached bestseller lists.  Jacobson, who formed her own production company after
overseeing films including “The Sixth Sense” and “Pirates of
the Caribbean” while at Disney, signed on as a producer, giving
the studio expertise in shepherding big-budget films.  In November, Lions Gate will release the last of five
“Twilight” movies. The first installment collected almost $400
million worldwide, while three sequels have tallied about $700
million each, according to Box Office Mojo.  In March 2013, the studio is scheduled to release “Ender’s
Game,” according to the Internet Movie Database. A third
potential series, based on the “Chaos Walking” books by
Patrick Ness about teens trapped in warlike circumstances, is in
development.  “We wanted, as we grew, to have the capacity to launch a
tentpole,” Burns said in an interview. “If you can ever get to
the place of having sustainable franchises, it puts you in the
position of showing consistency and stability on a year-in,
year-out cash flow basis.”  ‘Anger Management’  Lions Gate, also producer of cable television’s “Mad Men”
series, got about 22 percent of fiscal 2011 revenue from TV
production. The company is making “Anger Management,” starring
 Charlie Sheen , for News Corp.’s FX cable network.  If the first 10 episodes hit ratings benchmarks, FX is
committed to another 90, said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities in Denver who recommends buying the stock.  The studio also owns a 31 percent stake in the Epix cable
channel, a joint venture with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures
and  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. (MGM)   “They’re kind of de-risked over the next two years,”
Harrigan said. “It’s hard to see what goes wrong over the next
24 months. The risk-reward is pretty rational.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  