-- ‘Mad Men’ Returns With Pop Flowers, Free Love: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/-mad-men-returns-with-pop-flowers-free-love-review.html
Spoiler alert: “Mad Men” is
looking brighter this year.  The dark wood browns and banquette burgundies that gave the
series its steakhouse ambience have been traded in for mod white
carpets and candy-apple red chairs.  Matthew Weiner , the “Mad Men” creator, producer, chief
writer and guardian of secrets, has asked critics not to reveal
even basic information about Sunday’s terrific two-hour season
premiere.  Weiner would prefer you not know the year in which Season 5
is set, for starters. If that’s your idea of a spoiler too,
consider yourself warned.  The year is 1966, and judging by the size of Don Draper’s
sleek new apartment, the ad man ( Jon Hamm , who also directed
this episode) and his agency have avoided the financial disaster
that loomed at the close of Season 4.  Draper’s new pad is not of the bachelor variety: The
ladies’ man has made good on his marriage proposal to secretary
Megan (Jessica Pare).  But it’s not just the Pop Art decor and Megan’s orange
sherbet mini-dresses that lighten the “Revolver”-era “Mad
Men.” When Don drops off the kids outside the suburban home of
ex-wife Betty and her husband, he cracks, “Give Morticia and
Lurch my love.”  What a Joke  That’s right: Don Draper tells a joke, and those usually
brooding children actually seem (spoiler alert!) happy. The
Summer of Love might be a year off, but good vibrations are
loosening up the Draper clan.  Or maybe Don’s just glad to be rid of Betty, and who could
blame him? The glum character and  January Jones ’s flat-lining
portrayal were the weak spots in the last two otherwise
exemplary seasons. Her absence in the two-hour premiere is a
relief.  Megan is Betty’s opposite. Chic, brunette, sexually
provocative and at least somewhat independent-minded (she’s
learning the advertising ropes from Elisabeth Moss’s
increasingly assertive Peggy), Megan is blowing away the ‘50s
dust from Don’s life --- and from “Mad Men.” Both seem
invigorated by her.  I don’t mean to present too rosy a picture. This is still
the drama about people who can’t see the difference between
truth and lies, or simply don’t care. Backstabbing, sexism and
ambition haven’t gone out of style at Sterling Cooper Draper
Pryce, and the Civil Rights protestors outside are little more
than fodder for office jokes (until they’re not).  Warhol Regrets  As smitten with the free-spirited Megan as Don seems, he
isn’t quite prepared for the changin’ times: A surprise party,
complete with a few guests who might have wandered over from the
Warhol Factory, leaves the birthday boy seriously unamused.  “What is wrong with you people?” Megan snaps at Peggy.
“You’re all so cynical. You don’t smile, you smirk.”  Old ways die hard, even for a survivor like Joan (Christina
Hendricks), the bombshell secretary and new mom who wants to get
back to work as soon as possible.  When her disapproving, lonely-hearts mother suggests that a
woman’s place is beside her man, Joan’s response probably says
as much as we can expect to know of this season’s new-era “Mad
Men.”  “And how did that work out for you?”  “Mad Men” premieres Sunday on AMC at 9 p.m.  New York  time
(10 p.m beginning April 1). Rating: ****  
( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 