-- A Sad Final Verdict in the Case of Ted Stevens
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/a-sad-final-verdict-in-the-case-of-ted-stevens.html
By my count, two powerful people
are dead in the wake of a profoundly unjust use of government
power.  A  long-awaited report  on the 2008 case of Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska confirmed that his case was an ill-conceived
prosecution “permeated by the systematic concealment of
significant exculpatory evidence which would have independently
corroborated Senator Stevens’s defense and his testimony, and
seriously damaged the testimony and credibility of the
government’s key witness.”  The findings in this report, released March 15, aren’t new.
The charges carry no penalty. Punishment is left to the  Justice
Department ’s  Office of Professional Responsibility , which is
expected to act any day now. Neither Stevens nor a prosecutor
who helped to investigate him will be here to receive it.  Stevens’s power was legendary. A prosecutor also has vast
power: Unlike defense attorneys, prosecutors are supposed --
required -- to care about more than just winning. According to
the American Bar Association’s  Standards for Criminal Justice ,
“The duty of the prosecutor is to seek justice, not merely to
convict.”  This report comes too late for Stevens. The unjust verdict
set off a chain of events that saw him lose his Senate seat and
-- if you believe fate turns on random decisions like jumping in
the car instead of taking the train -- perhaps his life.  Quick Trial  Stevens was so convinced of his innocence when he was
charged with not reporting gifts, primarily renovations to his
modest house, that he asked for a quick trial to remove the
cloud over his head before Election Day 2008, when he hoped to
win a seventh complete term.  At the heart of the case was a note from Stevens to Bill
Allen, the government’s star witness and the man who oversaw the
renovations, asking for a bill. Stevens wanted to make sure he
didn’t run into a problem similar to the one that had felled his
Senate colleague, Robert Torricelli of  New Jersey , who withdrew
from his re-election campaign in 2002 after the Senate ethics
committee sanctioned him for receiving improper gifts from a
contributor.  Stevens paid various contractors $160,000 over the course
of the work -- far more than it was worth, according to the bank
appraiser (who valued it at $124,000) the tax assessor
($104,000) and Allen himself ($80,000).  As many times as prosecutors asked -- in more than 50 pre-
trial interviews -- Allen could not explain away the note or
payments made, which tended to exonerate Stevens. Finally, eight
days before trial, Allen came up with an explanation. A friend
of Stevens, he said, had told him to ignore the note, that
Stevens was just “ covering his ass .”  Juries don’t like recent recollections, and on the stand
prosecutors never questioned Allen about when he told them this
new information. When asked on cross-examination, Allen denied
that he’d only just come up with it. Prosecutors knew he was
testifying falsely but did nothing about it.  Days before the election, a guilty verdict was returned.
One of the most popular politicians in Alaska, who had helped
turn a territory into a state and had easily won every previous
election, lost by about 1 percent of the vote.  The verdict -- which was dismissed when new prosecutors
were assigned and turned over the exculpatory notes on which
last week’s report relies -- defined Stevens. The trial is
mentioned within the first few sentences of almost every
 obituary  of Stevens, who was killed in a crash of a private
plane heading to an Alaskan fishing lodge in August 2010.  Another Casualty  Ironically, had he still been in the Senate, it’s almost
certain Stevens would not have been on that trip. First, he
might not have been able to go fishing that day. More important,
Senate ethics rules would have prohibited him from getting on
aircraft owned by a telecommunications company. He never wanted
to be “torched,” the phrase used to describe what happened to
Torricelli.  Stevens wasn’t the only casualty. Nicholas Marsh was a
young prosecutor who worked on the Stevens case and took the
reversal hard. Once you indict a sitting senator, you must
convict him, or your career path is decidedly downward. In the
wake of the dismissal, Marsh was transferred from the elite
office of public integrity.  The investigation weighed heavily on him. Newly married and
with season tickets to the  Washington Wizards , he was
nonetheless depressed enough to hang himself at home on Sept.
26, 2010. His attorney, Bob Luskin, said the investigation was
just  too much for him to bear . “This is the process and it’s
immeasurably cruel and most people can stand up to it, but some
can’t.”  Stevens wasn’t the most beloved of senators. But he was the
grittiest. He won a Distinguished Flying Cross for piloting
transport planes behind enemy lines in World War II. Yet the 84-
year-old Stevens found it difficult to listen to the lies at the
his trial. His attorney,  Brendan Sullivan , sometimes wondered
“if he’d come back in the morning or just die in his sleep.”  The longest-serving Republican senator, Stevens was
president pro tempore and a top appropriator, wearing his
Incredible Hulk tie and his “King of Pork” title proudly. When
the notorious “Bridge to Nowhere” was challenged after becoming
the epitome of wasteful spending, he said from the Senate floor
he would be “ taken out of here on a stretcher ” before letting
the action stand. He stayed upright and  Alaska   got its money .  There might have been a happy ending to this sad tale of
good guys thinking it’s OK to become bad guys in the name of
justice. Senator Mark Begich would not have won in 2008 had it
not been for the Stevens verdict. When the case was dismissed,
Begich could have resigned in recognition of the changed
circumstances. In a special election, Stevens would have won in
a landslide.  Begich would have gone down in history as a bigger man than
being a senator could ever make him. Stevens would have
continued being a senator, which meant more to him than almost
anything else. And the woman whom Nicholas Marsh married might
still be his wife, instead of his widow.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  