-- Abbott, Andy Warhol, Glaxo, Clif Bar: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-20T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/abbott-andy-warhol-glaxo-clif-bar-pi-intellectual-property.html
Abbott Laboratories sued  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  in Wilmington,  Delaware , federal court for
allegedly infringing two patents for its Niaspan cholesterol
drug.  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , contends
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson is planning to market
generic versions of the medicine before the patents expire,
according to a complaint filed March 16. In dispute are patents
6,080,428 and 6,469,035.  Watson’s effort to sell the generic product “has led to
foreseeable harm and injury to Abbott,” according to the
lawsuit, which seeks a ruling of infringement and an order to
stop Watson’s premature sale of the drug.  Abbott logged about $1.2 billion in U.S. sales of  Niaspan 
in the 12 months ended Jan. 31, Watson said in a statement
citing IMS Health data. Watson confirmed in the statement that
it has filed an application with the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  for approval to sell its version of the extended-
release tablets.  The case is  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  v. Watson Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 12-CV-324, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Canon Resolves Patent Dispute With Atman Over Printer Elements  Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera maker, settled
patent-infringement disputes with Atman Inc., a California
seller of printers and other peripherals for desktop computers.  Tokyo-based Canon sued Atman in federal court in  Manhattan 
on Jan. 23, alleging the San Diego company infringed patents
5,903,803, and 6,128,454. Both patents are related to imaging
forming apparatus and photosensitive drums used for laser beam
printers.  Canon also filed a complaint against Atman with the U.S.
International Trade Commission, a body that has the authority to
exclude imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  According to a March 12 court filing, Atman, which does
business as  pcRUSH.com , may not make, import and sell a range of
infringing products. In a company statement, Canon said the
dispute filed with the trade commission is settled under the
same terms.  Atman didn’t contest the validity or enforceability of
either patent.  The case is  Canon Inc. (7751)  v. Atman Inc., 1:12-cv-00556-RWS,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Warhol Group Seeks Dismissal of Velvet Underground Lawsuit  The  Andy Warhol  Foundation for the Visual Arts called for
the dismissal of a lawsuit filed by the  Velvet Underground  rock
band that claimed the foundation violated the band’s trademark
for the banana design Warhol created for its first album.  The foundation, which licenses merchandise based on the
late artist’s designs, asked U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan
to throw out the trademark infringement suit. The request was
made in a filing yesterday in New York federal court that was an
answer to the complaint by the band and its founders Lou Reed
and John Cale.  Warhol’s foundation said that the band can’t claim
trademark infringement because it hasn’t identified any uses for
the design. The foundation also said it had agreed to not bring
legal action against the band over the copyright for the design.  “Because plaintiff no longer faces an imminent live threat
of suit for copyright infringement, the declaratory relief
sought by plaintiff no longer presents the court with a
justiciable controversy,” lawyers for the New York-based
foundation said in court papers.  The Velvet Underground sued the  Warhol Foundation  in
January claiming that it has trademark rights to the banana
design, which has become a “symbol, truly an icon” of the
group. The band also said the foundation can’t claim a copyright
for the design because the album appeared without a copyright
notice and no one registered it.  The case is Velvet Underground v. The Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts, 1:12-cv-00201, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Shiqi Cosmetics Says It’s Appealing Adverse GSK Trademark Ruling  Guangzhou Shiqi Cosmetics Co. has appealed a ruling that it
infringed a trademark  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Smith Kline & French
Laboratories uses for toothpaste,  China  Daily  reported .  In August, Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court found
that Shiqi’s “SMShike” trademark infringed a Smith Kline &
French mark which has the same Chinese characters and
pronunciation, according to  China Daily .  The court ordered Shiqi to halt its use of the mark and to
pay damages to the GlaxoSmithKline unit, China Daily reported.  A lawyer for Shiqi Cosmetics told China Daily the trademark
should be allowed because they are used for different categories
of goods.  Clif Bar Settles Trademark Suit, Luna Fitness Can Keep Its Name.  Clif Bar & Co., the Berkeley, California-based fitness
company, has settled a trademark dispute with an Arizona gym,
according to a March 14 court filing.  The  California  company sued  Luna Fitness of Tempe LLC  for
trademark infringement in April 2011. Clif objected to the gym’s
name, claiming it infringed the name used for Clif’s Luna Bar
energy snacks.  Clif had sought damages and a court order requiring the gym
to change its name.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed beyond a
statement in the court filing that each party was to pay its own
litigation costs and attorney fees.  In a March 15  blog posting , Luna Fitness said it would be
keeping its “name logo and brand intact.”  The case is Clif Bar & Co. v.  Luna Fitness of Tempe LLC,
2:11-cv-00660-GMS, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Pi Symphony’ Not Infringed by Sounds of Pi, Judge Says  A federal judge in  Portland ,  Oregon , chose “Pi Day” to
issue a copyright opinion related to musical compositions based
on the mathematical constant pi.  Pi Day,  an unofficial holiday invented  at the San Francisco
Exploratorium in 1988, occurs on March 14, when the digits for
the month and date comprise the three first numbers in  pi :
3.14159265. Pi is the constant that is the ratio of a circle’s
circumference to its diameter and is an irrational number that
can be carried out an infinite number of digits.  Lars Erickson of Omaha,  Nebraska , composed his “ Pi
Symphony ” in 1992. The symphony, inspired by Pi, is based on
musical notes played in the order of the digits in pi.  Michael John Blake of Portland created a video of his
musical work and posted it on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-
sharing site. Like Erickson he assigned a number to each note of
the musical scale and then constructed a melody by playing the
notes in the order of the digits of pi.  Erickson objected, claiming Blake’s work infringed on his.
He filed a copyright-infringement suit in federal court in
Omaha, Nebraska, in April, and, according to a  video  posted on
YouTube by Blake, he also filed a take-down request under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act.  The case was transferred to Oregon in September, and on
March 14, U.S. District Judge Michael H. Simon dismissed the
case. In his ruling he said the primary similarities between the
two works is the musical pattern crated by transposing the
digits of pi to musical notes. That pattern isn’t protectable
under copyright law because it’s a fact, he said.  Although Erickson’s copyright on his work is and remains
valid, Simon said he may not use the copyright to stop others
from using that same pattern of musical notes. Other elements in
his work can be protected, he said, such as “the choice of
scale, rhythm, harmony and embellishments or variation.”  If the similarities in the two works based on the non-
protectable sequence of pi were to be set aside, Simon said
“very few -- if any -- similarities remain.  Erickson was unrepresented by counsel. Blake was
represented by  Stephen J. Joncus  of Portland, Oregon-based
 Klarquist Sparkman LLP (933774L) .  The case is Erickson v. Blake, 3:11-cv-01129-SI, U.S.
District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Foley Hires Andrew Baluch, Ex-White House IP Enforcement Head  Foley & Lardner LLP (1125L)  hired Andrew S. Baluch for its IP
practice, the Milwaukee-based firm said in an e-mailed
statement.  Baluch  was previously the director of international IP
enforcement for the office of the IP Enforcement Coordinator at
the White House. Before his White House appointment, Baluch was
expert legal adviser to the undersecretary and director of the
U.S. Patent & Trademark Office.  He has also served as a judicial clerk to Judge Richard
Linn of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent cases.
Before he was appointed to the bench in 1999, Linn was himself a
partner at Foley, where Baluch practiced as an associate before
he became a judicial clerk.  Baluch has an undergraduate degree in materials science
engineering from  Northwestern University  and a law degree from
 Boston University (43751MF) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 