-- Abercrombie Seen Inviting LBO as Bullish Options Surge
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-20T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/abercrombie-seen-inviting-lbo-as-bullish-options-surge-real-m-a.html
For private-equity shoppers, no
teen-clothing retailer in America is offering a bigger bang for
the buck than  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)   Abercrombie, which lost about half its value as markdowns
depressed profit in the past two quarters, rallied twice as much
as its  competitors  this month as takeover speculation emerged.
The company still trades at 4.4 times the average analyst
estimate for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization through 2015, less than any of its closest
comparable retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Chief Executive Officer Michael Jeffries predicting
last month a rebound in international sales that could help
Abercrombie double free  cash flow  to a half-billion dollars in
three years, Morningstar Inc. and Cowen & Co. say it is an
attractive target for a leveraged buyout. Options traders are
also  bullish  on Abercrombie, with calls exceeding puts by the
most in 19 months. The retailer could get at least $70 a share
in a takeover, Cowen estimates, or a 34 percent premium.  “It’s got all the characteristics you like to see” for an
LBO, R.J. Hottovy, director of consumer research at Chicago-
based Morningstar, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
relatively debt free, has a strong cash-generation profile, and
ultimately a business that can be monetized. These teen apparel
guys make a lot of sense for private equity buyers.”  Eric Cerny, a spokesman for  New Albany , Ohio-based
Abercrombie, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Teddy and Hemingway  Today, Abercrombie rose 1.5 percent to $52.89 in New York.  Abercrombie & Fitch was founded in 1892 as a purveyor of
guns, fishing rods and camping gear to adventure seekers and the
rich, with customers that included  Theodore Roosevelt  and Ernest Hemingway, according to Hoover’s Inc.  Now, the retailer’s 294 namesake stores target 18- to 22-
year-olds with jeans,  polos  and T-shirts recognizable by their
moose logo. The company also owns the abercrombie children’s
chain, the Southern California-style Hollister apparel outlets
and the Gilly Hicks lingerie shops.  After approaching a more than three-year high at the end of
October, Abercrombie  tumbled  47 percent in the following three
months as  earnings (ANR)  disappointed investors.  On Nov. 3, Abercrombie plunged after saying sales at its
European flagship stores dropped and revenue in Japan and  Canada 
continued to decline. Earnings in the third quarter also fell
short of analysts’ projections as higher costs for commodities
such as cotton and too many promotions eroded profit.  “We left dollars on the table and we really gave some
margin away,” Jeffries said on a Nov. 16 conference call.  Holiday Markdown  Its fourth-quarter results on Feb. 2 trailed analysts’
estimates again as a “more aggressive promotional environment”
during the holiday season led to an increase in discounts, which
reduced the amount it earned on each dollar of  sales .  Abercrombie has rebounded 14 percent this month, helped by
speculation that private equity firms may be looking at the
company as a candidate for a buyout. The advance was almost
twice as large as the 7.8 percent gain in Bloomberg Industries’
11-stock Specialty Apparel Teen, Tween & Young Adult Clothing
Stores Index in the same period.  Abercrombie ended at $52.13 a share yesterday, giving it
$4.5 billion in market value. With almost $600 million in cash
and  little debt , it has a so-called  enterprise value  of 4.4
times its average annual estimated Ebitda of $876 million in its
fiscal years from 2013 to 2015, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Its closest competitors, which include Pittsburgh-based
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  and Aeropostale Inc. of New York,
command almost 30 percent more on average, the data show.  Global Franchise  Abercrombie may attract interest from private equity firms
as it cuts costs and expands overseas, which will increase the
retailer’s ability to generate cash to fund a leveraged buyout,
according to John Kernan, an analyst at Cowen in New York.  The company plans to open flagship locations this year in
 Hong Kong , Amsterdam, Dublin, Hamburg,  London  and Munich, as
well as 40 Hollister-brand stores outside the U.S. It also
intends to close 180 underperforming stores by 2015.  International sales  growth, along with its investments in
the online business, will help boost profit in the fiscal year
that began in February, Abercrombie’s Jeffries said last month.  “It’s one of those global franchises,”  Dan Veru , who
oversees $3.4 billion including Abercrombie shares as chief
investment officer of  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
not a niche, it’s a global franchise, in our opinion. While they
maybe were a little bit too bullish with too much inventory
going into the holiday season, it wasn’t catastrophic.”  LBO Model  After deducting capital expenses, analysts project that
Abercrombie’s  cash from operations  will reach $224 million this
fiscal year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. By 2015, its free
cash flow will more than double to $475 million, the data show.  Neither American Eagle nor  Aeropostale (ARO)  will increase their
free cash by more than 10 percent in the same span, analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Abercrombie would probably generate the most attractive
economics for a private equity sponsor,” Kernan said in a
telephone interview. “The balance sheet and cash flows can
support a lot of debt.”  In a leveraged buyout, private equity firms can pay $70 a
share and still generate a so-called internal rate of return of
22 percent, he wrote in a report dated March 15.  TPG Capital, run by  David Bonderman , and  Leonard Green  &
Partners LP, are among the private equity firms that would
likely be interested in Abercrombie because of their history of
LBOs in the retail industry, Morningstar’s Hottovy said.  J. Crew Redux  “Those are the kind of guys that typically play in the
retail space,” he said.  TPG and Leonard Green joined to buy J. Crew Group Inc. for
$2.6 billion in March 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based
TPG, declined to comment on whether it is considering an
acquisition of Abercrombie. Michael Gennaro, chief operating
officer of Los Angeles-based Leonard Green, didn’t immediately
return a telephone message or e-mail requesting comment.  Abercrombie’s management and board may resist any buyout
offers because as an independently run company, the shares rose
last July to within 10 percent of a record before collapsing,
according to Betty Chen, a San Francisco-based analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc.  The stock is currently worth about a third less than its
peak of $77.14 a share in July and the board would probably hold
out for a proposal of at least that much, she said.  Options Bulls  “I’d imagine that they would like to see some improvements
in either the domestic business or positive reads from  Asia 
before they would even consider selling the company at these
levels,” Chen said in a telephone interview. “The board would
be more likely to allow the existing team to execute the
turnaround plan that they have.”  That hasn’t stopped traders in the options market from
getting  more bullish  on the possibility that Abercrombie will
become a takeover target, according to Steve Sosnick, equity
risk manager at Timber Hill LLC, the market-making unit of
Interactive Brokers Group Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The number of outstanding  call contracts  to buy Abercrombie
stock exceeded puts to sell by 20 percent last week, the most
since August 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On Feb. 2,
when shares of Abercrombie slumped to its low of the year, the
number of puts surpassed calls by 43 percent.  The cost of calls to buy 30-day options relative to those
to sell comparable puts, or the relationship known as  skew , also
increased to an 11-month high last week, the data show.  “The chatter seemed to dry up a bit after the successive
guidance and earnings disappointments, and now as the market
started to move higher and the stock started to inch up higher,
we’re starting to hear it again,” Sosnick said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 