-- ABN Amro Ends Bullish U.S. Stocks Bet After S&P 500 Rally
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/abn-amro-ends-bullish-u-s-stocks-bet-after-s-p-500-rally.html
ABN Amro  Private Banking ended its
bullish bet on U.S. stocks because valuations now favor European
shares and Asian corporate bonds, according to its chief
investment officer Didier Duret.  ABN Amro has cut an overweight position that it had on U.S.
stocks since July, meaning that it no longer holds more of these
shares than are represented in global benchmarks. The price-
earnings ratio on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose to 13.5
times estimated earnings on March 16, a 32 percent premium to
the 10.2 multiple on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Duret said that the global economy will return to an “old
normal” of trend growth rates.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., has used
the term “new normal” to describe a world of below average
economic growth. ABN Amro manages 164 billion euros ($217
billion) for clients.  “We are exiting out of the crisis with a long rally
propelled by liquidity,” Geneva-based Duret said in a phone
interview yesterday. “We are going back to the old normal. This
year will be a very strong turning point in a multi-year
process.”  The euro area’s finance ministers approved a second bailout
for  Greece  on March 12, releasing funds that the Mediterranean
nation needed to avoid a disorderly default. Stocks around the
world have rallied in 2012 as the  European Central Bank 
disbursed 1 trillion euros of loans to the euro area’s banks.  U.S. Equity Position  The wealth manager lowered U.S. equities to neutral from
overweight. ABN Amro reduced its position in cash to 18 percent
from 30 percent during the first quarter. The  S&P 500  closed
above 1,400 on March 15 for the first time since 2008.  “Investor confidence is progressively returning as a
result of improving economic momentum, lower market volatility
and abating systemic risk,” Duret said. “Last quarter’s
spectacular relief rally has not exhausted the upside for
equities. Valuations are historically low and many investors
remain under invested. For equities to move higher, they need to
demonstrate the inner driving forces of earnings generation and
sales growth.”  Credit Suisse Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. changed
their forecasts last week, with both banks predicting that
earnings in  Europe  will grow this year. They previously
projected that earnings would contract as much as 5 percent in
2012. ABN Amro increased its allocation to European shares to
neutral from underweight.  “Europe represents more value in this environment,” Duret
said. “There’s still a lot of risk of a correction and this is
why we don’t go directly overweight.”  The wealth manager has an overweight stance on Asian
corporate bonds and equities in  China ,  Indonesia  and Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  