-- Afghan Night Raids May Need Warrants Under U.S. Offer to Karzai
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-20T05:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/afghan-night-raids-may-need-warrants-under-u-s-offer-to-karzai.html
Night raids involving U.S.-led
forces in  Afghanistan  might require court warrants under a
compromise being considered to remove a hurdle to partnership
with the Afghan government after most American troops withdraw,
a U.S. defense official said.  The option is being discussed as a way to address the long-
held objections of Afghans to nighttime operations, the defense
official said on condition of anonymity because negotiations are
private.  President  Hamid Karzai  often has railed against such raids,
most recently after U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales on
March 11 allegedly killed at least 16 Afghan civilians in a
nighttime shooting rampage through villages near his base. While
the incident wasn’t connected with any official operation and
the U.S. military has said Bales acted alone, the killings fed
lingering outrage over night operations.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the U.S. is
offering to cede some control over nighttime missions into
Afghan villages, with one option being the requirement for
warrants from Afghan authorities.  Obama administration officials are pressing to complete a
delayed strategic framework agreement with Karzai’s government
by the time North Atlantic Treaty Organization heads of state
meet in  Chicago  in May. The U.S. expects such an agreement to
clear the way for continued advising of Afghan forces and for
counter-terrorism missions after the NATO coalition withdraws
most of its forces at the end of 2014.  ‘Weak and Compromised’  The U.S. earlier this month resolved another major
objection by Karzai to a larger accord by agreeing to transfer
its main prison to his government within six months. U.S.
officials retained a veto over the release of any of the
approximately 3,000 prisoners at the facility.  Requirements for a warrant in a country where the judicial
system is among the least developed institutions risks
curtailing operations that the U.S. military sees as essential
for continuing inroads against the Taliban. Coalition efforts to
establish and improve local courts have largely fallen behind
the more intensive efforts to develop security institutions such
as the army and police and their related ministries.  “Afghanistan’s justice system remains weak and
compromised,” said  Human Rights Watch , a New York-based
advocacy group, in a January report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  