-- Afghan War’s Top General Cites Progress in Face of Violence
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-20T17:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/afghan-war-s-top-general-cites-progress-in-face-of-violence.html
Marine General John Allen, the top
U.S. and NATO commander in  Afghanistan , said coalition forces
are making progress even in the face of “heart-wrenching”
events including “what appears to be the murder of 16 innocent
Afghan civilians at the hands of a U.S. service member.”  “There is much hard and deadly work that remains to be
done,” Allen said in testimony today before the House Armed
Services Committee. “But the progress is real, and importantly,
that progress is sustainable.”  Allen made the case for sticking with plans to keep combat
forces in Afghanistan through 2014. Violence between Americans
and Afghans, fed by the burning of Korans in a trash dump at the
biggest U.S. military base, cast doubts on the strategy of
working closely with Afghans to prepare them for securing their
country on their own.  “We’re going to have combat forces in Afghanistan to the
end of our deployment, to the end of 2014,” Allen told the
committee.  Forces led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and
their Afghan counterparts have “seriously degraded” the
Taliban’s ability to mount a new offensive as the weather warms,
Allen said. The transition of parts of the country to Afghan
leadership for security responsibility probably will extend to
two-thirds or more of the population later this year, Allen
said.  ‘Criminal Act’  Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California
Republican, called the March 11 killings in two villages in
southern Afghanistan an isolated incident, “a criminal act that
should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.” Tensions
over such events shouldn’t affect plans to work side-by-side
with the Afghan army and police to upgrade their skills, he
said.  “Partnering is valuable and necessary,” McKeon said.
“There are steps that can be taken to minimize such
incidents.”  The coalition has lost 60 troops in action since the
beginning of the year, 13 of them apparently killed at the hands
of Afghan security forces, Allen said. Across the porous border
with  Pakistan , militants still operate “with impunity,” he
said.  While the coalition will move into a support role in 2013,
primarily advising and training Afghan forces, they will remain
capable of combat operations as needed, he said.  Further Cuts  Allen said he won’t be ready until later this year to make
a recommendation for further troop cuts after the first 33,000
exit by the end of September. In response to questions, Allen
said he didn’t feel pressured to cut a certain number of troops
to be withdrawn before 2014.  “I’ve been given no indications that there is a number
that will ultimately be given to me,” he said.  The coalition will focus this year on trying to consolidate
its hold on the most populated areas of southern Afghanistan
“to prevent the re-entry by the Taliban,” Allen said. The
commander said he hasn’t made a decision on whether or how to
redirect additional troops to the country’s mountainous east.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  