-- Agencies Told to Weigh Effects of Business Rules in U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-03-20T18:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/agencies-told-to-weigh-effects-of-business-rules-in-u-s-.html
U.S. agencies should weigh the
cumulative regulatory burden on small businesses and startups
when crafting rules, said President  Barack Obama ’s top
regulator.  “The President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness has
emphasized the need for a smart and efficient regulatory system
and has drawn particular attention to the cumulative effects of
regulation,” Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said in a  memo 
today. “Cumulative burdens can create special challenges for
small businesses and startups.”  Obama issued an executive order in January 2011 directing
U.S. agencies to promote “coordination, simplification and
harmonization” and calling for the issuing of rules only when
benefits justify costs.  Sunstein emphasized the need for early consultation “with
advance notice to, and close engagement with, affected
stakeholders” and said that “consideration of cumulative
effects and of opportunities to reduce burdens and to increase
net benefits should be part of the assessment of costs and
benefits.”  The top regulatory official at the Washington-based U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business-lobbying
group, said Sunstein’s office hasn’t listened to the group’s
complaints about redundant rules.  ‘Haven’t Done It’  “It would be very surprising, based on our contacts with
OIRA, if they would actually implement this kind of effort,”
said William Kovacs, senior vice president of regulatory affairs
for the Chamber. “They’ve had multiple opportunities in the
past and they haven’t done it.”  The head of the National Small Business Association, which
represents companies with fewer than 500 employees, said the
memo’s guidance to engage stakeholders early in the rulemaking
process “seems like pretty good news to me.”  “It moves us from tone to action,” Todd McCracken,
president of the 65,000-member trade group based in  Washington ,
said.  Sunstein’s effectiveness at prodding agencies remains to be
seen, he said.  Costs, Benefits  “That’s one of the great challenges,” McCracken said.
“OIRA is a small office and the federal bureaucracy is
enormous.”  The Coalition for Sensible Safeguards, representing
consumer, labor, environmental and other advocacy groups,  said 
the memo is too focused on business concerns.  “If agencies are distracted from their core missions of
protecting the public because they have to endlessly analyze the
cumulative effects of regulation, everyone loses,” said
coalition co-chairman Katherine McFate, who also is president of
OMB Watch, a Washington-based nonprofit that works for more
government accountability and transparency.  Republicans have criticized Obama for issuing rules they
said are too costly and have made his approach to regulation a
campaign issue.  Rules approved in the first 32 months of Obama’s presidency
cost $19.9 billion with net benefits of more than $91 billion,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget.
The cost and benefit of rules exceed the totals of predecessors
 Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush  for comparable periods, the data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  