-- Ahmadinejad Says Atomic Weapons Immoral, Belong to Last Century
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-20T11:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ahmadinejad-calls-holocaust-lie-in-german-television-interview.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said that atomic weapons are immoral and “belong to
the last century,” while pledging in an interview with German
television that his country would respond to an attack.  Iran is against pursuing a nuclear bomb as a matter of
“principle,” Ahmadinejad told German public broadcaster ZDF in
a  40-minute interview . He called atomic weaponry an anachronism
whose time ended with World War II. Asked whether Iran would
retaliate if it were attacked, the president equated his
country’s response in such a scenario to that of the U.S.  “What does a country do if it’s attacked? What would the
Americans do?” Ahmadinejad said, according to translated
comments posted late yesterday on  ZDF’s website . “They would
defend themselves, clearly. That’s what we would do.”  The U.S. and its European allies accuse  Iran  of pursuing a
nuclear weapon, with the Israeli government warning it may mount
a military strike to forestall any further development.
International sanctions on Iran have tightened as the country
refuses to heed demands by the  United Nations  to suspend  uranium
enrichment  and allow wider access to inspectors.  Iran says that its nuclear program is for peaceful
purposes. Ahmadinejad said that even if the country were to seek
a nuclear capability, it wouldn’t hesitate to declare it.  “We would never build an atomic bomb -- but if we did
build one, we wouldn’t be afraid to,” the president told ZDF.
“If Ahmadinejad were to build a bomb, he would announce it --
and he would not be afraid of anybody.”  IAEA Cooperation  The president said Iran was “cooperating at maximum” with
the  International Atomic Energy Agency , though he blamed the UN
watchdog for succumbing to pressure from the “great powers” to
cajole his country into going beyond IAEA rules.  Nuclear powers said this month that Iran must provide
nuclear inspectors access to a secret military installation in
Parchin southwest of Tehran, where Iranian officials have so far
blocked entry. IAEA inspectors have said they have “credible”
evidence of nuclear-military work there.  “The IAEA tells us that we must prove that we’re clean,
that we’re correct,” Ahmadinejad said. “How can you prove
that? How can you prove that you’re not sick?”  The five permanent members of the UN Security Council --
the U.S, U.K., France, Russia and  China  -- as well as  Germany 
said this month that Iran must enter negotiations “without
preconditions.” The group committed to resume talks over Iran’s
nuclear work after the last round fell through in January 2011.  Reducing Tensions  “We’ve always been in favor of reducing or removing
tensions,” Ahmadinejad said in the interview. “Iran’s nuclear
question will not be solved through pressure.”  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  called today
for increased domestic economic production to combat the effects
of the international sanctions. Ahmadinejad also denounced the
sanctions, saying that such measures “set the wrong tone.”  “It’s not the right way to handle a great nation, a nation
that uses logic and cooperation,” the president told ZDF.  Ahmadinejad also said Israel uses the Holocaust as a means
to suppress Palestinians.  Israeli statehood “was a colonialist plan that resulted
from a lie,” Ahmadinejad said. “They never were rulers of this
land. They made a story named Holocaust and the Palestinians
have to pay the price for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  