-- Airlines Probably Will Get Global CO2 Market, ICAO’s Kobeh Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-20T15:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/airlines-probably-will-get-global-co2-market-icao-s-kobeh-says.html
The global  airline industry  will
probably need some form of carbon market beyond 2015 to help
protect the climate, said the president of the  United Nations ’
 International Civil Aviation Organization .  It’s too early to foretell the outcome of a three-year
process ending in September next year that is considering
greenhouse-gas trading for the industry, Roberto Kobeh,
president of the organization since 2006, said yesterday in an
phone interview from  Montreal . “My personal opinion and a
realistic opinion is that we have to include market-based
measures sometime but I cannot say when.”  The regulator’s experts had last week whittled options to
four from 20, he said. Those are “global mandatory offsetting,
global mandatory offsetting complemented by a revenue-raising
mechanism, a global emissions trading cap-and-trade and a global
emissions-trading baseline and credit system,” he said,
declining to be specific.  The organization is seeking to finalize a plan after the
European Union from January for the first time included airlines
in its carbon market, the world’s biggest by traded volume. ICAO
will probably overcome concerns from some nations that they are
being asked to trade emission permits too early, Kobeh said.
Some countries worry that exemptions for the world’s poor may
create unfair competition in the industry, another issue the
regulator is seeking to overcome.  ‘Fully Committed’  The EU this year expanded its market to include flights
into, out of and within its borders. It can replace its carbon
curbs on aviation with a global measure as long as the broader
program is as ambitious as the EU plan,  Connie Hedegaard , the
bloc’s climate chief, said Feb. 17. Meanwhile, the U.S. House of
Representatives last year backed a bill to bar American carriers
from participating in the EU’s cap-and-trade market.  “All parties must now be fully committed to push things
forward,” Hedegaard said March 16. “The EU is working hard to
achieve a global agreement. The sooner the better. And it is
really encouraging how strongly the ICAO Secretariat tries to
move things forward.”  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , the nation’s largest
carrier, said earlier today the EU market may raise its costs by
as much as 300 million baht ($9.8 million) next year.  The 27-nation bloc won’t abandon the expansion in the face
of opposition from nations outside the region, Hedegaard has
said. The move has drawn fire from countries including the U.S.,
China,  Russia  and  Japan , which said the measure was inconsistent
with international aviation law.  Common, Differentiated  Under the European program, regulators have set a carbon
cap for factories and power stations in 2020 that is 20 percent
below 1990 levels. Emitters can buy a limited portion of offsets
from projects in poor nations such as wind farms, as a cheaper
compliance alternative. Airlines will get 181 million tons of
carbon dioxide allowances free of charge this year, falling to
171 million in 2013 through 2020.  The 1997  Kyoto Protocol  and 2009’s Copenhagen Accord say
that global  greenhouse gases  should be reduced under “common
but differentiated responsibilities,” suggesting that the rich
nations that produced most of the greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere should cut first and fastest. That language was
played down at climate talks in December in Durban,  South
Africa .  Three unspecified countries expressed concern at a meeting
of ICAO’s 36-member council last week about being included so
soon in global carbon trading, Kobeh said. They were smaller
developing nations, not  China  or  India , he said.  EU Wrangling  The organization’s preliminary plan published in October
2010 says nations with less than 1 percent of international
aviation activity, as measured by revenue-ton kilometers, should
be exempted from any market.  “The main concern is not to have any distortion of the
market,” such as airlines with carbon constraints competing
against those that don’t, Kobeh said. “The market measures are
part of a basket of measures” that also include technology and
efficiency improvements, he said.  ICAO is not involved in brokering an interim solution
between the EU and other nations. “We are not in the middle of
the storm in these discussions,” said the official, who was
director general of the Air Navigation Services of  Mexico  for 19
years through 1997. “We consider that this is a bilateral
issue.”  ICAO experts reviewing the four options have been asked to
“propose something for a decision of the council in the next
session that will be in June,” Kobeh said. That decision may
still include more than one option, which will require further
analysis and consultation, he said. “This is a very complicated
issue.”  A meeting of ICAO’s 190 members may make a final decision
on the market solution at a meeting in September or October next
year, Kobeh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  