-- Talanx Said to Add Banks for IPO as Early as First Half
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-21T09:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/talanx-said-to-add-banks-for-ipo-as-early-as-first-half.html
Talanx AG, Germany’s third-biggest
insurer, has retained  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as
managers for its initial public offering, which may happen as
early as the first half, said people with knowledge of the
plans.  The IPO could raise about 750 million euros ($992 million),
said two of the people, who declined to be identified as the
plans are private. The banks will join  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , with
Rothschild advising Talanx on the IPO. While the amount and
timing of the sale will depend on market conditions, it could
take place as soon as the second quarter, the people said.  Talanx is moving ahead with IPO plans after the Dutch cable
company Ziggo NV and  Switzerland ’s DKSH Holding Ltd. completed
share sales that combined raised $2 billion this week. European
companies are tapping  capital markets  again as the region’s
stocks rebound, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gaining about 10
percent this year.  Talanx, based in Hanover, has been talking about selling
shares in an IPO for more than a decade to help fund the
international expansion of its retail business.  Spokesmen at Talanx, Citigroup and JPMorgan declined to
comment on the IPO plans.  Talanx’s IPO would be Germany’s largest since the port
operator  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG (HHFA) ’s stock sale in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2010, Talanx sold a 300 million-euro bond to  Japan ’s
Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., which will be converted into
shares in the event of an IPO. The German insurer is fully owned
by the mutual insurer HDI Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen
Industrie VaG.  Talanx said in December that it would buy a controlling
stake in the Polish insurer Europa SA from  Getin Holding SA (GTN) ,
while Meiji Yasuda will also buy a stake in Europa. In January,
Talanx also bought Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta
SA from KBC Group NV for 770 million euros, further expanding
its exposure to eastern Europe’s largest insurance market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  