-- Peyton Manning Joins Broncos in Search of Second Super Bowl Win
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/manning-signs-5-year-96-million-broncos-deal-espn-says-1-.html
Peyton Manning goes to Denver
trying to match the two Super Bowl titles of  John Elway , the man
who recruited him to the Broncos.  Manning, a four-time National Football League Most Valuable
Player, will try to end his career in Denver by adding another
championship to the one he won in Indianapolis after the 2006
season.  “I can tell this organization is committed to winning,”
Manning said yesterday at a Denver news conference announcing
the quarterback’s free-agent signing. “In the end, I felt the
Broncos were just a great fit.”  White Broncos jerseys with Manning’s name and familiar No.
18 already were on sale last night at the  NFL’s website , two
weeks after the 14-year veteran was cut by the Colts.  Manning, 35, who missed the 2011 season following neck-
fusion surgery, signed a five-year deal with the Broncos. He was
personally recruited by Elway, the team’s vice president of
football operations.  “He’s a guy that raises all boats,” Elway said at the
televised news conference. “My goal is to make  Peyton Manning 
the best quarterback to ever play the game, and he’s got that
ability with the football that he’s got left.”  $96 Million  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. ESPN reported the
contract is worth $96 million, citing an unidentified person in
the league. The Broncos didn’t say if the contract included
provisions to protect them financially should Manning’s neck
injury persist.  Manning was released March 7 by the Colts. Team owner  Jim Irsay  said the Colts are rebuilding after a 2-14 season and it
was better for Manning to move to a franchise ready to win.  The Colts have the top pick in April’s NFL draft and have
said they plan to select Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck . Manning was drafted with the No. 1 pick in 1998.  Elway was among the first to contact Manning once the
release was final, and Manning said he found out that Elway
hasn’t changed since the Hall of Fame quarterback retired as a
Super Bowl champion after the 1998 season.  “Now I’m seeing him as a leader of a franchise and I just
really liked what he had to say,” Manning said. “Everybody
knows what kind of a competitor he was as a player, but I can
tell he’s just as competitive in this new role, and that got me
excited.”  Tebow on the Move?  Elway said the team probably will try to trade  Tim Tebow ,
who took over as the starting quarterback in Denver halfway
through last season and led the team to the playoffs.  The second-year player created a national phenomenon known
as “Tebowmania” while raising questions about his low pass-
completion percentage and reliance on running in a league built
around strong-armed quarterbacks.  “The toughest thing about this whole thing is Tim Tebow,
because of what I think of him,” Elway said.  Tebow was gracious when Elway and coach John Fox called to
break the news, Elway said.  “He said, ‘Well, we’re talking about Peyton Manning and I
understand what you’re doing,’” Elway said of Tebow’s reaction.  Manning will wear No. 18, his jersey number with the Colts.
It had been retired by the Broncos to honor Frank Tripucka, now
84, one of the team’s first quarterbacks in the 1960s, who gave
his blessing to have it returned to active status.  Suitors  At least 12 of the NFL’s 32 teams had expressed interest in
Manning, who chose the Broncos over the  San Francisco 49ers  and
 Tennessee Titans  in the final chase. The Miami Dolphins and
 Arizona Cardinals  were eliminated late last week.  Wherever he went during the search for a new employer,
Manning attracted reporters and camera crews, some in
helicopters and at least one lens peering through a slit in a
fence to catch him throwing on a practice field at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  “I hated that it took time and other teams maybe got put
in tough positions; I hated that about it, but it’s the only way
I knew to do the process,” Manning said.  Manning, who had at least three neck operations in the past
two years, was cut by the Colts a day before the team had to
commit to pay him a $28 million bonus and a $7.4 million salary
in 2012. He said he could play next Sunday if there were a game,
though he wasn’t sure whether he’d play well.  “I have work to do,” he said. “I’m not where I want to
be.”  Career Stats  Manning led the Colts to a  Super Bowl  title in February
2007 and was named league MVP in 2003, 2004, 2008 and 2009. His
54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399 touchdowns are
third on the NFL career list, trailing  Brett Favre  and  Dan Marino  in each category.  The Broncos went 8-8 last season following a 1-4 start,
then beat the Pittsburgh Steelers in overtime in the first round
of the American Football Conference playoffs.  News of the contract talks with Manning sent the odds of
Denver winning the 2013 Super Bowl to 10-1 at the Las Vegas
Hotel & Casino’s sports book,  Jeff Sherman , the book’s assistant
manager, said in an e-mail. The Broncos’ Super Bowl odds were
60-1 less than a month ago.  Denver, winner of the AFC’s West Division title last season,
now has the fourth-best odds of winning the Super Bowl behind
the  Green Bay Packers ,  New England Patriots  and  New Orleans
Saints , according to the LVH’s sportsbook.  Denver and Indianapolis don’t play each other during the
2012 NFL regular season, a campaign that will include increased
expectations for the Broncos.  “The work’s just beginning,” Elway said. “The
expectation level is going to go up, but that’s where we want
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 