-- Manning’s Move Boosts Broncos’ Ticket, Super Bowl Chances
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-20T14:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/manning-s-move-boosts-broncos-ticket-prices-super-bowl-chances.html
Peyton Manning ’s expected arrival
in Denver drove up Broncos ticket prices and improved their odds
of winning the Super Bowl as one Mile High sports craze
supplanted another.  Manning, the record four-time National Football League Most
Valuable Player who left the  Indianapolis Colts  two weeks ago,
began negotiations yesterday to continue his career in Denver,
according to  ESPN.com . He’d take over at quarterback from  Tim Tebow , who spawned a fad known as “Tebowing” and became one of
the most popular athletes in the U.S. by helping the Broncos win
a playoff game last season after a 1-4 start.  The Broncos may be even more popular now as Manning, 35,
prepares to sign with the team whose vice president of football
operations is  John Elway , the Hall of Fame quarterback of
Denver’s last two Super Bowl-winning teams after the 1997 and
1998 seasons.  The team has scheduled a news conference at its training
facility for 1 p.m. Denver time today. It didn’t list a subject
for the session in an e-mailed statement.  “Manning immediately becomes the biggest athlete and
sports celebrity in Denver since John Elway, and will be a
transcendent personality in Denver,” Steve Herz, the president
and founder of New York-based sports and media talent agency IF
Management, said in an e-mail.  News of the contract talks sent the odds of Denver winning
the 2013 Super Bowl tumbling to 10-1 from 50-1 at the Las Vegas
Hotel and Casino’s sports book,  Jeff Sherman , the book’s
assistant manager, said in an e-mail.  ‘Similar Offense’  “That’s a pretty darn good defense and with Peyton Manning
making first downs and controlling the clock a little bit, that
defense will be even better,” said former 49ers and Detroit
Lions coach Steve Mariucci, who’s now an analyst for the NFL
Network. “I think we’re going to see a similar offense to what
we saw in Indy for 14 seasons.”  An hour after word emerged yesterday of Manning’s plan to
reject pitches by the  San Francisco 49ers  and  Tennessee Titans ,
the prices for season tickets at the Mile High city’s  Sports
Authority (TSA)  Field jumped about 25 percent at online ticket
reseller StubHub.com, according to spokeswoman Joellen Ferrer.  Within 15 minutes, a person from  Pennsylvania  bought four
Broncos season tickets for $750 apiece, Ferrer said in an e-
mail. An hour later the cheapest on the site were going for more
than $1,000 and at least 50 had been purchased.  Super Bowl Odds  Denver, which won the American Football Conference’s West
Division title with an 8-8 record last season, now has the
fourth-best odds of winning the  Super Bowl  behind the  Green Bay
Packers ,  New England Patriots  and  New Orleans Saints , according
to the LVH’s sportsbook. The Broncos’ Super Bowl odds were 60-1
less than a month ago.  Denver also has 5-1 odds of winning the conference
championship after opening at 25-1 following last season.  Manning, who missed all of his 14th season in Indianapolis
after neck-fusion surgery, was cut by the Colts a day before the
team had to commit to pay him a $28 million bonus and a $7.4
million salary in 2012.  He met with the  Arizona Cardinals ,  Miami Dolphins , 49ers,
Titans and Broncos before reportedly deciding on Denver, which
last season won seven of its last 11 regular-season games and
upset the Pittsburgh Steelers in the playoffs for its first
postseason win in seven years.  Titans ‘Disappointed’  Titans owner  Bud Adams  said in a statement yesterday he was
disappointed when Manning called with his decision. While Adams
didn’t say in the statement that Manning specifically mentioned
the Broncos, the owner told the Tennessean newspaper that “he
called me himself and told me he wasn’t coming, and he made up
his mind to go to Denver.”  Tom Condon, Manning’s agent, didn’t return a telephone
message seeking comment. Patrick Smyth, a spokesman for the
Broncos, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “The other teams that he was looking at, the 49ers and
 Tennessee , by record and on paper were better teams,” Mariucci
said on the NFL Network. “So I think John Elway and coach John Fox did one heck of a recruiting job on Peyton Manning to say
this is the best place for you, your career and your future with
a great chance of winning.”  Denver will try to trade Tebow after Manning is signed,
ESPN said, citing unidentified people.  Tebow, a 24-year-old second-year player, was named
America’s favorite active pro athlete in an ESPN fan-based poll
in January, taking three percent of the vote. Manning was fourth
with 1.8 percent.  Sales of Tebow’s jersey from April 2011 through February
were second only to Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers . Manning
was 18th, falling from fourth the previous year.  Manning’s Jersey  The move may boost sales of Manning jerseys.  Brett Favre ’s
shirt was the No. 1 seller from April 2008 to March 2009 after
he moved to the  New York Jets  from the Packers. He ranked third
the previous year.  Manning led the Colts to a Super Bowl title in February
2007 and was named league MVP in 2003, 2004, 2008 and 2009. His
54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399 touchdowns are
third on the NFL career list, trailing Favre and  Dan Marino  in
each category.  Tebow’s 46.5 completion percentage last season was the
lowest among NFL starting quarterbacks. He was second on the
team with 660 rushing yards for a Broncos offense that led the
NFL with an average of 164.4 yards rushing a game.  “They’re going to have to change their mentality,” said
Warren Sapp, a seven-time Pro Bowl defensive tackle who’s now an
NFL Network analyst. “That’s the challenge. They’re going from
a ball control, running game-oriented offense to a Peyton
Manning running the show in the thin air of Denver offense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  