-- Apax Is Said to Hold First Close for $11.9 Billion Buyout Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-20T21:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/apax-is-said-to-hold-first-close-for-11-9-billion-buyout-fund.html
Apax Partners LLP held the first
close of its latest buyout fund with 4.3 billion euros ($5.7
billion) after 10 months of fundraising, a person familiar with
the matter said.  The British private-equity firm, headed by Martin Halusa,
is seeking 9 billion euros ($11.9 billion) for the fund, people
with knowledge of the plan said in December. The European debt
crisis complicated fundraising and prevented London-based Apax
from holding the first close in January, which it had initially
expected, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private.  The firm will charge investors 1.5 percent of the size of
the fund in management fees, and it will keep 20 percent of
profit after generating a minimum annual return of 8 percent,
according to documents used to market the pool to investors.
Apax employees will invest 400 million euros in the latest fund,
called Apax VIII, the documents show.  A spokesman for Apax declined to comment on the
fundraising. The first close was reported earlier by the
Financial Times.  Started three decades ago as a venture capital firm, Apax
joins competitors including BC Partners Ltd.,  Sweden ’s EQT
Partners AB and Cinven Ltd. in trying to raise money as
investors cut back commitments to European leveraged buyouts.
One in five investors, or limited partners, intends to reduce
their holdings in European funds because of the sovereign-debt
crisis, according to a Dec. 12 survey by Coller Capital Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  