-- Apple’s New IPad ‘Significantly Hotter,’ Consumer Reports Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/apple-ipad-being-tested-by-consumer-reports-amid-heating-reports.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad runs
“significantly hotter” than the earlier model when handling
processor-intensive tasks such as playing graphics-heavy games,
according to Consumer Reports, which tested the device.  The newest version of the market-leading tablet computer
ran as hot as 116 degrees Fahrenheit (47 degrees Celsius), the
magazine said yesterday on its  website . Consumer Reports,
published by the consumer-watchdog group  Consumers Union , used a
thermal-imaging camera to record the temperature while playing
the action game “Infinity Blade II.”  Paul Reynolds , electronics editor for the magazine,
downplayed the results.  “We don’t think this is a cause for any serious concern,”
Reynolds said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. At its
hottest, the iPad “felt very warm but not especially
uncomfortable if held for a brief period,”  Consumer Reports 
found.  The magazine wasn’t the only reviewer to note the increase
in heat. Websites such as  Engadget  have cited a study by Dutch
site  Tweakers.net , which found the tablet runs hotter by 10
degrees Fahrenheit. Some consumers in  online discussions  have
cited high temperatures with the iPad.  The new device operates “well within our thermal
specifications,”  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, said in a statement. “If customers have
any concerns, they should contact AppleCare.”  ‘Best Tablet’  Consumer Reports didn’t notice the higher temperature in
its initial examination of the new iPad, a process that included
testing with games such as “Infinity Blade II.” In the March
16 review, the magazine praised the device, saying it was
“shaping up to be the best tablet we’ve ever tested.”  Many customers didn’t wait for the reviews before snapping
up the new tablet. Apple sold more than 3 million iPads during
the product’s debut weekend.  Consumer Reports didn’t say whether the heating concerns
would affect whether it would recommend the device. When Apple
released the iPhone 4, the magazine declined to recommend it,
saying it dropped calls when gripped a certain way. After
initially playing down the matter, which became known as
“Antennagate,” Apple gave out free cases and issued a software
update aimed at addressing the glitch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  