-- Apple Rises as Risk Trails Schlumberger: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/apple-rises-as-risk-trails-schlumberger-chart-of-the-day.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  didn’t need the biggest
price swings to post the best gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index over the last decade.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the iPad maker’s top return of
4,738 percent since 2002 is double the index’s next-highest gain
after adjusting for volatility, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Daily changes in Apple ranked 216th out of the 500
equities in the benchmark measure for U.S. equities, surpassed
by companies such as grocery store operator Whole Foods Market
Inc. and oil services provider Schlumberger Ltd., the data show.  Shares of the Cupertino, California-based technology
provider climbed to a record yesterday after it disclosed plans
to pay a dividend and buy back $10 billion of stock. Investors
had urged Apple to return money to shareholders as the company’s
cash pile swelled amid surging demand for its products.  “Bears have continued to ask, ‘What’s next for Apple?’ and
have significantly underestimated the growth and consistent
execution,” said  David Dillon , a San Francisco-based portfolio
manager at HighMark Capital Management Inc., which oversees
about $17 billion. “The dividend announcement could bring in a
whole new class of income-oriented investors.”  Apple is trading at 17.1 times earnings in the last 12
months and 13.7 times profit in the next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio based on earnings in the last
year is 6.2 percent higher than the multiple for technology
companies in the  S&P 500  and 57 percent below the company’s 10-
year average valuation of 40.  “You can say it’s an over-loved stock, but the low
valuation says otherwise,” Dillon said.  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp., which gained 2,162
percent for the fifth highest return in the index on an absolute
basis, had the second-biggest gain after subtracting volatility.
Intuitive Surgical Inc. was third and Southwestern Energy Co.
was fourth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  