-- Apple Fails to Wrest Android Data From Motorola Mobility
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-20T21:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/apple-fails-to-wrest-android-data-from-motorola-mobility-1-.html
Apple Inc. lost a bid to force
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  to turn over data about  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s development of its Android mobile-phone operating system
and planned acquisition of the mobile-phone manufacturer.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner, who in June will
preside over back-to-back patent trials pitting Apple against
Motorola, denied the production request in a single-paragraph
order issued yesterday.  “The motion is vague and overbroad and Motorola’s
objections are persuasive,” Posner wrote. The mobile-phone
maker’s opposition to Apple’s March 16 demand was filed under
seal.  Google last month received U.S. and European Union approval
for its planned $12.5 billion acquisition of Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, which already makes phones
reliant upon the Android system.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , would also
acquire about 17,000 patents. In a regulatory filing yesterday,
Motorola said it expects to complete the sale in the first half
of this year, while adding that it can provide no assurances the
transaction will be approved by  China .  Apple IPhone  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, makes the rival
iPhone, which runs on the company’s own proprietary software.  Motorola Mobility (MMI) , which spun off from Motorola Inc. last
year, has been warring with Apple over patent rights in U.S. and
European courts.  Posner on March 5 ordered Motorola to produce the
information sought by Apple on its pending acquisition and the
Android development data. In its March 16 filing, Apple told the
court Motorola hadn’t yet complied.  Appended to that filing was a copy of a March 16 e-mailed
message from Motorola attorney Amanda Williamson to Apple
counsel Robert Vlasis objecting to the scope of some of Apple’s
information requests.  “If Apple desires a further court order compelling
production of data within the scope of the March 5 order,”
Posner said in his order today, “it will have to narrow its
request to a manageable and particularized set of documents.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Posner’s decision.  Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola
Mobility spokeswoman, didn’t reply to telephone and e-mail
messages seeking comment.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  