-- Arcapita, WorldSpreads, Elpida, Humpuss Sea: Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-03-20T13:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/arcapita-worldspreads-elpida-humpuss-sea-bankruptcy.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, a manager of
Islamic-compliant investments with $7 billion under management,
filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. after failing to reach an
agreement with creditors.  Arcapita, formerly known as First Islamic Investment Bank,
and five affiliates sought Chapter 11 protection in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , listing assets of $3.06 billion
and liabilities of $2.55 billion.  “This global recession has hampered the Arcapita Group’s
ability to obtain liquidity from the  capital markets , and has
also resulted in a reduction in asset values,” lawyers for the
company wrote. Arcapita’s board approved the process “to
protect their business and assets and implement a comprehensive
restructuring,” the Manama, Bahrain-based private-equity firm
said in an e-mailed statement.  Founded in 1996, the company manages Shari’ah-compliant, or
Islamic compliant investments and operates as an investment
bank, according to the filing. It has 268 employees and along
with its affiliates, has $7 billion in assets under management,
according to the filing. It owns Irish power utility Viridian
Group Ltd., and helped that company refinance its debt earlier
this month with equity.  Arcapita failed to reach an agreement with creditors on a
$1.1 billion syndicated shari’ah complaint loan due this month.  The bankruptcy filing is a “logical step by the company to
protect its foreign investments and from individual creditors
going after the company’s assets in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia ,”
Serge Lioutyi, a London-based distressed debt trader at
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. said in an e-mail. It “will help
the company focus on reaching a consensual agreement with
creditors rather than worrying about individual claims.”  Arcapita is among companies in Bahrain that have sought
protection to restructure liabilities after the global credit
crisis cut their access to the  debt market  and as asset prices
declined. Awal Bank BSC, a Bahrain-based wholesale bank, filed
for Chapter 11 in October 2010, while Gulf Finance House BSC
reached an agreement with a group of banks led by WestLB AG on a
new two-year $100 million Islamic loan.  WorldSpreads Has 13 Million-Pound Shortfall in Client Money  WorldSpreads Group Plc (WSPR) , a U.K. brokerage and spread betting
company, said it has a shortfall of 13 million pounds ($21
million) of client money as it appointed  KPMG  LLP as an
administrator to manage the business.  WorldSpreads owes clients 29.7 million pounds and has about
16.6 million in cash, the London-based company said in a
statement. The firm’s stock was suspended on March 16 after it
discovered a hole in its accounts.  “Due to the accounting irregularities that have been
discovered, it is likely that there will be a shortfall to
clients,” KPMG said in a separate statement. “One of the
immediate priorities of the special administrators will be to
investigate and attempt to reconcile all client positions in
order to establish the extent of the shortfall.”  WorldSpreads’s founder, chief executive officer and largest
individual shareholder, Conor Foley, resigned March 14. Roger Hynes, a former managing director at CMC Markets Plc, replaced
him as interim CEO. Niall O’Kelly resigned as chief financial
officer in February as WorldSpreads said it would post a full-
year loss after an “unusual pattern of client trading.”  Clients’ accounts were frozen on the afternoon of March 16,
preventing them from withdrawing money or adding to their funds,
according to Sorrelle Cooper, a spokeswoman for KPMG in  London .
Any open positions were also closed, she said.  WorldSpreads clients facing losses may have access to the
Financial Services Compensation Scheme, which covers as much as
50,000 pounds per claimaint, the Financial Services Authority
said in a separate  statement .  The firm has about 15,000 client accounts and 66 employees,
who will be initially retained “to support the orderly wind
down of the business,” KPMG said. Redundancies are nonetheless
probable, it said.  Elpida Seeks U.S. Protection During Japanese Bankruptcy  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the last Japanese maker of computer-
memory chips, sought protection from creditors in the U.S. as it
pursues a bankruptcy case in  Japan .  The Tokyo-based chipmaker filed court papers in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware , listing more than $1
billion in assets and debt. It asked the court to recognize the
Japanese case as the main bankruptcy proceeding.  Chapter 15 of the  bankruptcy code  allows foreign companies
reorganizing abroad to protect their assets from creditors and
lawsuits in the U.S.  Elpida last month filed the biggest Japanese bankruptcy in
more than two years, after semiconductor prices fell and it
failed to obtain a second government bailout. The company, which
makes dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips, listed debt
of about 448 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in a Feb. 27 filing with
Japan’s finance ministry.  “This Chapter 15 case is being filed in an effort to
maximize recoveries to, and provide for an equitable
distribution of the value among, all creditors,” the company
said in court papers.  The chipmaker seeks to protect the stock of its Elpida
Memory USA Inc. unit, accounts receivables held at the unit
totaling 5.8 billion yen ($69.5 million), as well as patents
registered in the U.S.  “The enjoining of certain ongoing litigation to which
Elpida is a party and the protection of Elpida’s U.S. assets in
conjunction with the protections afforded by the Japan
proceeding is essential to this effort,” the company said.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of NEC Corp.’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Elpida employed 5,898
people as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Humpuss Sea Transport Files for Chapter 15 Bankruptcy  Humpuss Sea Transport Pte Ltd., a Singapore-based unit of
an Indonesian shipping company, filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy
protection in the U.S.  The unit of Jakarta-based PT  Humpuss Intermoda Transportasi (HITS) 
is already under the control of liquidators in  Singapore , where
it was incorporated in 1996, according to the filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Debt and assets were listed at
more than $100 million.  “Following the global financial crisis in 2008, shipping
rates (HST’s primary source of revenue) sharply decreased,”
Jason Aleksander Kardachi, a liquidator for the company in
Singapore, said in court papers.  Proceedings against Humpuss Sea to make required payments
under charter agreements led to judgments totaling as much as
$100 million, according to court papers. Company records from
2009 indicate assets of $182 million, Kardachi said.  Under Chapter 15 of the bankruptcy code, foreign companies
can block U.S. lawsuits and organize U.S. creditors to assist
their reorganization in a foreign court. Humpuss Sea is a
defendant in a lawsuit in  New York  and liquidators in Singapore
may need help from U.S. parties to recover assets, lawyers for
the company wrote.  Shipping companies that have filed for bankruptcy in recent
years include General Maritime Corp.,  Korea Line Corp. (005880) ,
Britannia Bulk Plc, Armada (Singapore) Pte Ltd. and Transfield
ER Cape.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges at   Jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 