-- Marchionne Sees ’Painful’ Restructuring for EU Carmakers
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-03-20T13:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/marchionne-sees-painful-restructuring-for-eu-carmakers.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said a ‘painful’
restructuring is needed for European carmakers, including plant
closures and job cuts, to end losses in the region.  “It has to be painful, when you are talking about
reductions, it’s going to have initially a negative impact on
employment,” Marchionne told reporters today in Bruges,
 Belgium . “I need a European response” on the issue because
“if you leave it to the national countries, it won’t happen.
You have to distribute” the closure of plants across countries
and producers, he said.  Marchionne, who aims to merge Fiat with Chrysler to boost
revenue to more than 100 billion euros ($131.8 billion) in 2014,
is counting on the American carmaker to propel growth in  Europe ,
where the group lost about 500 million euros in the volume-car
business last year and had a “weak” first quarter. Fiat owns
58.5 percent of Chrysler.  Fiat froze new European investments and postponed the
release of new models in Europe as Marchionne doesn’t expect a
recovery before at least next year. Fiat, which closed its
Sicilian plant at the end of 2011, aims to end losses in Europe
by 2014. It may take European carmakers about two years to
restructure their operations in the region, he said.  Labor Rules  Marchionne said Fiat wouldn’t have “easily” implemented a
plan to revamp production at its Mirafiori plant in Turin if it
weren’t for the policies of the government of Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , who is working to approve more flexible labor rules
in the country. “I can say honestly, if it weren’t that Monti
was there as prime minister, the investment in Mirafiori would
not have gone ahead very easily,” he said today.  Fiat sales in Europe fell 16 percent to about 162,000 in
the first two months of 2012 as deliveries at  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ,
Europe biggest carmaker, were little changed at about 463,000,
according to the European Automobile Manufacturers Association
in Brussels. Marchionne sees sales in  Italy  hitting the lowest
since 1985 this year.  Marchionne said last month that European carmakers must
reduce production capacity by about 20 percent. The European
Commission should look at its regulatory stance to encourage the
cutbacks, he said. Marchionne, who is also chairman of the
European Automobile Manufacturers Association, is working on a
common proposal among carmakers to address the issue.  Marchionne also called on the European Union to change the
direction of trade negotiations and to help strengthen domestic
producers.  Marchionne, who opposed the free trade agreement between
Europe and  South Korea , said South Korea’s automotive industry
exports to Europe rose by 45 percent, or 150,000 cars, in 2011
while Europe carmakers boosted sales in the country by just
15,000 units, after the free trade deal was signed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Bruges via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  