-- Asian Stocks Fall on Concerns for China, U.S. Economies
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-03-20T10:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/asian-exporters-advance-on-u-s-homebuilder-confidence.html
Asian  stocks  fell after  China 
raised fuel prices, sparking concern growth in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy may slow, and a Federal Reserve
official said the U.S. rebound still faces risks.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd., China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, dropped 5.4 percent.  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16)  fell 2.4 percent after a director of the world’s
No. 1 developer was arrested as part of a bribery investigation.
 Transurban Group (TCL) , an Australian operator of toll roads, dropped
2.6 percent after its largest shareholder sold a 7.9 percent
stake at a discount.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slipped 1
percent to 440.9 as of 6:50 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge climbed
12 percent this year as positive economic reports from the U.S.
boosted confidence in the outlook for the region’s exporters.
China’s Premier Wen Jiabao earlier this month announced the
country had reduced its target for economic growth to 7.5
percent this year.  “Higher energy costs and falling profits may worry
investors that the economy is slowing even further,” said Dai
Ming, a  fund manager  at  Shanghai  Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. in Shanghai.  Optimism in the U.S. recovery may wane after Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York  President  William Dudley  said yesterday
signs that the  U.S. economy  is improving don’t dispel risks to
growth. “It is far too soon to conclude that we are out of the
woods,” Dudley said in a speech.  South Korea’s Kospi Index lost 0.2 percent, while
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 1.1 percent, and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index declined 1.4 percent. Japanese markets are
closed for a public holiday.  Biggest Drop  China, the world’s largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second time in less
than six weeks after crude gained last month the most in a year.
Refiners will charge 7 percent more for gasoline and 7.8 percent
more for diesel, the biggest price increases in more than two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s biggest operator of
dry-bulk ships, fell 5.6 percent to HK$4.57, the most on the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index.  China Shipping Container
Lines Co. (2866) , the nation’s second-biggest box-cargo carrier,
dropped 1.2 percent HK$2.50. Morgan Stanley  yesterday cut the
transportation industry to “underweight” due to rising oil
prices.  Chinese retailers also declined. Gome Electrical decreased
5.4 percent to HK$2.10.  Belle International Holdings Ltd. (1880) ,
China’s biggest shoe retailer, slid 0.7 percent to HK$13.54.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.6 percent
today. The gauge gained 0.4 percent yesterday in New York to its
highest level since May 2008 after Apple Inc. announced plans to
pay a dividend and buy back $10 billion of its stock.  Corruption Investigation  Sun Hung Kai dropped 2.4 percent to HK$113. Thomas Chan
Kui-Yuen, an executive director responsible for land
acquisitions and project planning at the company, was arrested
by the Independent Commission Against Corruption as part of an
investigation into an alleged bribery.  “We believe this event will not affect the daily
operations of the company,” John Chan, an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc, wrote in a report today. “While the news will
likely be negative for stock sentiment, we don’t see much
concern unless the allegations were to extend to the company and
other senior management.”  Commodity producers fell as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said China’s steel production is slowing
and as copper prices declined amid concern that high inventories
in Shanghai won’t be absorbed any time soon.  BHP reversed an early gain, falling 0.1 percent to A$35.31
in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group retreated 0.4 percent to A$65.61 as
its manager of iron-ore expansion David Joyce said China’s near-
term growth is slowing.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s biggest
producer of the metal, slipped 2.4 percent to HK$18.24.  ‘Not Spectacular’  Transurban Group declined 2.6 percent to A$5.54 in Sydney,
the most in three months. CP2 Ltd., the company’s biggest
shareholder, sold 114.6 million shares at A$5.51 each, a 3.2
percent discount to yesterday’s closing price, in a transaction
underwritten by UBS AG, according a term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The rally in equities has boosted the value of stocks on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index to 12 times
 estimated earnings  on average, compared with 13.5 times for the
S&P 500 and 11.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  “The market is going through a period of consolidation
following recent gains,” said  Pauline Dan , who helps oversee
$480 million as chief investment officer at Samsung Asset
Management in  Hong Kong . “We’re not seeing spectacular recovery
in the U.S.,  Europe  or China. Earnings growth won’t be very
exciting.”  China Telecom Corp., the country’s biggest fixed-line
carrier, dropped 3.1 percent to HK$4.36 in Hong Kong after
posting fourth-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates
because of costs to add mobile subscribers.  Of the 279 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding
Japan Index that reported annual earnings since Jan. 9, 59
percent have missed analysts’ estimates,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  