-- Stocks, Commodities Retreat on China as Treasuries Halt Slump
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-03-20T20:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/asian-stocks-fall-after-china-raises-fuel-prices-oil-retreats.html
Stocks fell, pulling the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index down from an almost four-year high, and
commodities slid amid concern growth will slow in  China .
Treasuries rebounded following the longest drop since 2006.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.3 percent to 1,405.52 at 4 p.m. in
New York and the MSCI All-Country World Index fell 0.7 percent,
snapping a three-day rally. The S&P GSCI Index declined 1.5
percent as lead, silver and corn led losses among 21 of 24
commodities.  Ten-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  yields slipped two basis points
to 2.36 percent after increasing for nine straight days. The
dollar rose versus 15 of 16 major peers.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer and steelmaker,
is raising fuel prices for the second time in less than six
weeks and BHP Billiton Ltd. said the nation’s steel production
is slowing. Vehicle sales may miss industry forecasts this year
as economic growth slows, an official from the China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers said. U.S. housing starts fell from
a three-year high, Commerce Department data showed.  “There will be some sort of slowdown coming out of China
and the Asian economies,” said  Tim Price , who helps oversee
more than $1.5 billion of assets at PFP Group LLP in  London .
“It can definitely take the heat out of the  commodities
markets .”  Rally Halted  The S&P 500 had rallied for  three straight days  before
today, extending its 2012 advance to 12 percent. The index is
poised for its best first quarter since 1998 as a decline in the
 unemployment rate  to a three-year low and growth in
manufacturing bolstered optimism in the economy.  The benchmark gauge of American equities closed at the
highest level since May 2008 yesterday, while the S&P SmallCap
600 Index reached a record and the Nasdaq Composite Index
rallied to an 11-year high. Today’s decline was the biggest for
the  S&P 500  in two weeks.  “With this improving economy and rising confidence, its
very hard for a correction read to take hold here in a big
way,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee about $394 billion as
chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York, told
Bloomberg Television. “So we’ll have small corrections, but I
don’t think a big one right now.”  Industrial and commodity companies led losses among five of
the 10 main industries in the S&P 500 today. Alcoa Inc.,
Caterpillar Inc. and United Technologies Corp. fell at least 1.5
percent for the biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average .  Housing Starts  Toll Brothers Inc. and D.R. Horton Inc. paced declines in
an S&P homebuilders index. U.S. builders broke ground on 698,000
homes at an annual rate, in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and down 1.1 percent from
a January pace that was stronger than previously reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today.  The 10-year Treasury yield jumped 44 basis points in the
previous nine days. Two-year Treasury yields rose two basis
points to 0.40 percent and 30-year rates lost three basis points
to 3.45 percent, retreating from the highest level since
October.  U.S. stocks posted the best returns when 10-year Treasury
yields rose to close to 4 percent, according to a study by S&P
that tracked market performance since 1953.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.7 percent a month on average during
periods when 10-year yields climbed to a range of 3 percent to 4
percent, according to data compiled by New York-based S&P.
That’s the best performance among six categories of rising
yields studied by the firm. Stocks began to fall when yields
exceeded 6 percent, the study found.  Stocks, Yields  While rising yields tend to boost borrowing costs for
companies and act as “a depressant in intrinsic value
calculations,” they can also suggest a strengthening economy
and prompt investors to switch to equities, according to  Sam
Stovall , S&P’s chief equity strategist.  Oil fell the most in more than three months in  New York ,
retreating 2.3 percent to $105.61 a barrel, as  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s biggest crude-exporting country, said it can boost
output immediately to stave off shortages. Silver futures
dropped 3.4 percent to $31.83 an ounce and gold slid 1.2 percent
to $1,647 an ounce.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 1.1 percent as Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG slid more than 4 percent,
leading a gauge of automakers down 4 percent for the biggest
drop in two weeks. Mercedes dealers are offering record
markdowns of 25 percent on high-end models such as the S300
sedan, according to data stretching back to 2009 at cheshi.com,
which tracks prices at more than 3,000 Chinese dealerships.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced this month an economic
growth target of 7.5 percent for 2012, down from an annual 8
percent over the past seven years. China’s steel production is
slowing as the economy focuses more on consumers than large
infrastructure projects, according to Ian Ashby, president of
 iron ore  at BHP, the world’s third-largest exporter.  David Joyce , managing director of expansion projects at  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-biggest iron-ore exporter, said at a
conference in Perth,  Australia , that the company is seeing a
slowdown in China, its biggest customer.  Credit default swaps linked to China rose 10 basis points
to 107 basis points, climbing from the lowest level in almost a
year, according to CMA in London.  The yield on the 10-year German bund slipped two basis
points to 2.04 percent, falling for the first time in six days.  Currencies  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, climbed 0.2 percent. The
Australian dollar tumbled 1.2 percent against the dollar and
dropped 0.8 percent versus the yen, falling for the first time
in four days against the two currencies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.1 percent, a fourth
consecutive decline, its longest losing streak of the year and
paring its 2012 gain to 15 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 1.5 percent to close at the lowest level
since Jan. 16.  OAO Gazprom fell 2.6 percent in Moscow as the  Micex Index (MICEX) 
slid 1.7 percent. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  dropped 1
percent in  South Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  