-- Atlanta’s Water War Is First in a Gathering Flood
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/atlanta-s-water-war-is-first-in-a-gathering-flood.html
Atlanta has always prided itself on
its forward-looking perspective. As one business leader  put it 
in the late 1980s, “Atlanta is a city of the future, not the
past.” Today, however, Atlanta’s past is ensnaring it in a nasty
conflict over water -- a kind of fight that’s likely to be more
common in the future.  Atlanta developed as a railroad hub. Since railroads tended
to be built on ridges, the city wound up at a place where
several ridges intersected, “on the drainage divide between the
Atlantic Ocean and the  Gulf of Mexico ,” according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey . As a result, it is the largest city in the
U.S. that is not near a major body of water.  Forty miles northeast, however, lies Lake Lanier, created
in the 1950s when the  Army Corps  of Engineers built the  Buford
Dam . As chronicled in “ The Big Thirst ,” by  Charles Fishman ,
Atlanta refused to finance the dam -- partly because, at the
time, it wasn’t clear the city would ever need water from Lake
Lanier. As Atlanta grew, its need for water from the lake became
increasingly obvious.  In 1989, the Corps of Engineers recommended that 20 percent
of the water used for hydropower be diverted to Atlanta’s water
supply. And therein began a war known as the  tri-state water
dispute .  Southern Water War  Alabama and  Florida  filed suit against  Georgia  and the
Corps in 1990, arguing that diverting water to Atlanta was
environmentally harmful and economically problematic, and that
in any case it required congressional approval. As Alyssa
Lathrop chronicles in an  article  in the Florida State University
Law Review, the three states tried throughout the 1990s to reach
an agreement, but their efforts finally collapsed in 2003.  In 2009, a U.S. district judge ruled in favor of Alabama
and Florida. He gave Atlanta a three-year grace period during
which it could continue to draw water from Lake Lanier -- but
ordered that by July of this year, it could no longer do so
unless Georgia reached an agreement with the other two states.
Atlanta currently obtains about three-quarters of its water from
Lanier and has no plausible alternative source, so the judge’s
order set the clock for a crisis.  Before we could see how that would play out, however, the
11th Circuit District Court of Appeals reversed the lower
court’s decision -- thus lifting the deadline for Atlanta.
Alabama and Florida are  appealing  to the U.S.  Supreme Court , but
it’s not certain that the court will accept their appeal. So,
crisis averted, at least for now -- and in this case.  This type of dispute is likely to become more common,
though, as local water shortages multiply around the country.
Once again, Atlanta is living up to its reputation as a city of
the future.  As Deane Dray and other colleagues of mine at Citigroup
Inc. have written, “There is an alarming global supply-demand
imbalance, worsened by pollution and draining of underground
aquifers reducing the available fresh water supply.” The massive
Ogallala aquifer under the Great Plains, for example, is
projected to run dry in two to three decades given recent
withdrawal rates. Similarly, in the past two decades,
groundwater resources in Great Lakes communities like Chicago
and  Milwaukee  have fallen by 1,000 feet.  Old Water Pipes  Our aging water pipes are another challenge. The U.S. has
roughly 700,000 miles of these pipes, and most are more than 60
years old. Substantial investment is needed to fix or replace
them. Keep in mind that pipes account for about 70 percent of
the cost of a water system.  So what can we do to preserve our access to fresh drinking
water? One major need, as I have written about  previously , is to
address the pricing problem. The typical American uses  100
gallons  of water per day, but in most places, prices aren’t
adequately adjusted to usage. Prices that reflected usage would
not only raise more money for addressing emerging water issues
but also help raise everyone’s awareness of them.  Today’s low interest rates offer an ideal situation in
which to finance investment in new or replacement pipes. We also
need to invest in new technology -- from desalination to
strategies for water reuse. In future columns, I will explore
ways to better price water -- and also discuss the global
dimensions of water problems.  There’s no reason to wait passively for the next water
battle. Even before hearing from the Supreme Court, let’s look
at the Lake Lanier story as a spur to aggressive action on our
water problems.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  