-- Mauritian Rupee Advances to 2-Week High Against Tide of Rate Cut
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-03-20T12:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/mauritian-rupee-advances-to-2-week-high-against-tide-of-rate-cut.html
Mauritius’s rupee appreciated to
its highest level in more than two weeks as investors speculated
a benchmark rate cut yesterday is insufficient to weaken the
currency.  The currency of the Indian Ocean island nation strengthened
as much as 0.9 percent, its biggest jump since October, to
28.95, the highest level since March 2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It traded 0.3 percent stronger at 29.1
per dollar by 3:10 p.m. in Port Louis, the capital. Against the
euro, currency of its main trading partner, the rupee rose as
much as 1.1 percent before paring its gain to 0.6 percent at
38.4206.  The Bank of Mauritius cut its repo rate yesterday by 50
basis points to 4.9 percent, a one-year low, to spur economic
growth.  “A 50 basis-point cut is not enough to reverse the trend”
of a strong rupee, said Nitish Benimadhu, a senior  fund manager 
at  Anglo-Mauritius Financial Services Ltd. , which oversees
assets of about 25 billion rupees ($497 million), in a phone
interview from the city. “A 100 basis points reduction is
required to give a strong signal and stock to the monetary base
of the economy.”  The rupee has gained 0.9 percent this year against the
dollar, extending its rally since end of 2010 to 5.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Against the euro, the
currency of its main trading partner, the rupee has appreciated
6.4 percent from 2011 to date.  “The magnitude of governmental liabilities is
fundamentally in foreign currency which is favoring a strong
rupee despite the cut in the repo rate,” said Benimadhu.
“Government should borrow more from domestic markets for its
capital expenditure.”  Mauritius’s total external public sector debt rose 24
percent to 38.5 billion rupees in December compared with a year
earlier, according to data available on the Ministry of
Finance’s  website . It accounted for 20.7 percent of total public
sector debt.  “The rupee is much less volatile than it was before,”
Bank of Mauritius Governor Rundheersing Bheenick told reporters
in the city today. “Do you want to pay more” for your fuel
imports, he asked. Finance minister Xavier Luc Duval said last
week there is “relative overvaluation of the rupee”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  