-- Australia, Asia Credit-Default Swap Indexes Roll to New Series
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-03-20T01:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/australia-asia-credit-default-swap-indexes-roll-to-new-series.html
The latest series of Markit Group
Ltd.’s indexes measuring the cost of insuring Asia-Pacific debt
with credit-default swaps started trading today.  The Series 17 Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 130.5
basis points as of 11:31 a.m. in Sydney, according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. That compares with a closing price of 128 basis
points for the previous series yesterday, according to data
provider CMA.  The latest version of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan was at 146.5 basis
points as of 8.31 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Deutsche Bank prices show.
The previous series closed at 132.5 yesterday, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  New series of the benchmarks are created every six months
when companies are added or dropped depending on their ratings,
cost of protection and ease of trading. The maturity date of the
new indexes is June 2017, compared with December 2016 on the
Series 16 versions.  Default swaps on Chorus Ltd. were added to Markit iTraxx
Australia Series 17 index, with Telecom Corporation of New
Zealand Ltd. removed, according to information on Markit’s
 website . There were no changes to the Asia gauge.  Markets in  Japan  are closed today for a public holiday. The
Series 16 version of the Markit iTraxx Japan index closed
yesterday at 136 basis points, its lowest since August, CMA
prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  