-- Australian State Says Uranium Prospects Attracting China, India
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-03-20T05:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/australian-state-says-uranium-prospects-attracting-china-india.html
Chinese and Indian companies are
eager to invest in potential uranium resources in New South
Wales as the Asian nations add nuclear  power plants , said the
energy minister of  Australia ’s most populous state.  “The Chinese are very keen, as are the Indians,” Chris Hartcher, the New South Wales state resources minister, said
today in an interview in Sydney. “They want access to the
resource. We think there’s huge potential.”  The New South Wales government announced plans last month
to overturn a ban on uranium exploration, saying it wants to
join the mining boom that’s spurring the economies of Western
Australia, Queensland and  South Australia  states. The
exploration ban hasn’t allowed New South Wales to evaluate the
size of the potential uranium resource, Hartcher said today.  Olympic Dam,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s uranium, copper and gold
mine in South Australia, “is just over the border” with New
South Wales, Hartcher said. “That’s the largest uranium deposit
in the world, and we’ve got the same geological structure.
Uranium doesn’t stop at the border.”  Australia’s governing  Labor Party  in December lifted a ban
on exports to  India  to tap energy demand in the country.
Australia, holder of the world’s biggest uranium reserves, will
begin talks this year to export the nuclear fuel to India,
opening a new market for producers such as BHP, the nation’s
Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said in December.  Safety Review  China halted new nuclear projects after an earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  in March last year caused the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. Approval of the projects is
“very likely” to resume this year as the government completes a
safety review, Sun Qin, president of China National Nuclear
Corp., said this month.  India, whose nuclear plants comprise about 3 percent of its
electricity capacity, is adding safeguards to its atomic program
after the Japan accident knocked out power equipment and cooling
systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
India plans to increase its nuclear-generation capacity 13-fold
to 60 gigawatts by 2030, according to the Planning Commission.  Uranium exploration and mining is allowed in South
Australia, the  Northern Territory  and  Western Australia ,
according to the Australian Uranium Association’s  website . While
companies can explore in Queensland, uranium mining is
prohibited.  Since exploration hasn’t been permitted in New South Wales
or Victoria states, “the extent of resources there is not
known,” the uranium industry group says on its website.  Coal-Seam Gas Permits  The New South Wales government plans to begin a process of
granting and renewing coal-seam gas exploration licenses in June
after keeping them on hold to review the environmental and
safety impact of the industry, Hartcher said today.  Some environmental groups and politicians are concerned the
projects will damage aquifers, contaminate and deplete water
supplies, and diminish the capacity of food-producing land,
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report this month.  “The problem with water is if you contaminate it, it’s
almost impossible to fix,” the energy minister said. “We have
to make sure the process is going to protect underground water,
and that’s why a cautious approach is justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  