-- Bales Doesn’t Recall Details of Alleged Attacks, Lawyer Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-20T22:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bales-doesn-t-recall-details-of-alleged-attacks-lawyer-says-2-.html
Robert Bales, the U.S. Army staff
sergeant suspected of killing at least 16 Afghan civilians, is
“confused” and doesn’t recall some details of the alleged
assault, the soldier’s attorney said.  “He doesn’t remember everything about the events in
question,” John Henry Browne, a  Seattle  lawyer, told reporters
after meeting Bales yesterday at the Fort Leavenworth, Kansas,
prison where he is being held. “That doesn’t mean he has
amnesia.”  Women and children were among the victims in the March 11
shootings that exacerbated tensions between the U.S. and
Afghanistan and threaten to undermine support for President
Barack Obama’s plans to keep troops there until 2014.  U.S. forces in Afghanistan will conduct an administrative
investigation of events preceding the killings, including the
suspect’s situation, according to General John Allen, the
commander in Afghanistan for the U.S. and the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.  The review will “look at the entire command-and-control
process, how he was assigned, why he was assigned,” Allen told
the House Armed Services Committee in  Washington  today.  Browne questioned how much evidence the government has in
the killings.  “There are no eyewitnesses, as far as we know, that the
government has at the scene of the incident,” Browne told
reporters today. “There is no forensic evidence. If I was the
prosecutor, I’d be concerned about how we prove anything.”  He scoffed at a report in the Los Angeles Times, which
cited an unidentified U.S. official as saying Bales initially
told friends at a combat outpost that he had shot several Afghan
men without mentioning women or children.  “Don’t you think I would have seen that in the reports
I’ve received?” Browne said. “They are just upset with what I
have been saying.”  ‘War on Trial’  Browne, who met with Bales, 38, at the prison yesterday and
today before returning to Seattle, said the Army is likely to
file charges on March 22 against Bales for the killings in two
villages.  Browne, 65, who has defended clients in multiple-homicide
cases, said in an interview yesterday that he opposed the war
and asked, “How would you like to be the mother or father of
the last soldier killed in  Afghanistan ?”  “People ask if we are going to put the war on trial,”
Browne said. “The war is on trial. I don’t know why we are in
Afghanistan.”  While the Army is providing Browne extensive access to
Bales, the attorney said, “I know the military is not happy
with having a private lawyer involved.”  Navy Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, declined
yesterday to comment on Browne’s remarks about the timing of
charges in the case except to say “look to Kabul for release of
the charges,” a reference to the U.S. Army’s operations there.
Kirby said Bales also has been assigned military counsel.  ‘Heartbreaking Tragedy’  Karilyn Bales, wife of the accused soldier, said in a
statement yesterday that what happened in the Afghan villages
“was a terrible and heartbreaking tragedy.”  “What has been reported is completely out of character of
the man I know and admire,” she said in a statement issued by a
family spokesman. “Please respect me when I say I cannot shed
any light on what happened that night, so please do not ask. I
too want to know what happened.”  The family “is in shock,” Browne said. He said the
government has arranged a phone call between Bales and his
relatives.  The stress of a fourth combat deployment, a troubled
marriage and alcohol use may have combined to provoke the
killings, a U.S. official briefed on the investigation of Bales
has said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Browne disputed
that account.  Last Tour  “Everyone has had issues in their lives,” he said in the
interview yesterday. “Some people do six or seven tours, but
the question is whether the last tour was too much for someone
with a concussive brain injury.”  Bales had a brain injury and lost part of a foot during
three tours of duty in  Iraq  before being sent to Afghanistan in
December. Bales told Browne he had only a few sips of liquor,
the lawyer said.  Browne, the former chief trial lawyer in the King County
Office of the Public Defender, has represented clients including
serial killer Ted Bundy and mass murderer Benjamin Ng.  Browne said Bales’s situation most closely compares with
Ng, who was convicted in the killing of 13 people in Seattle in
1983. Ng was spared a death sentence.  “I’m still surprised by that case,” Browne said.  Medium-Security Prison  Bales was being held in a medium-security facility in his
own cell. He spent the weekend in the military prison under the
same routine as other pretrial detainees -- usually about a
dozen -- at the medium-security prison, Fort Leavenworth
spokeswoman Rebecca Steed said yesterday in an interview.  Lights are turned on at 5 a.m. and prisoners are escorted
to a dining hall for meals at 5:15 a.m., 11:20 a.m. and 3:51
p.m., according to a fact sheet provided by the prison. Outdoor
activity, including soccer, basketball and track is restricted
to 2 p.m. to 3 p.m., according to the report. Lights-out is at
10:05 p.m.  Bales is off that schedule until midweek as he meets with
his lawyers, she said.  “For personnel inside the facility, it’s business as
usual,” she said.  Prisoners can provide a list of requested visitors, who are
then vetted by authorities, Steed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  