-- Bales Fought Losing War on Home Front as Mortgage Debt Mounted
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bales-fought-losing-war-on-home-front-as-mortgage-debt-mounted.html
Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales
took his first step toward financial ruin while on a second tour
of duty in Iraq. The man now accused of killing at least 16
Afghan civilians agreed to repay more than $500,000 in mortgages
on two properties he owned in  Washington  state.  It was 2006, when many Americans thought the rise in  home
prices  would never end. Bales’s wife, Karilyn, was working as a
project manager at Washington Mutual, whose later collapse would
be the biggest U.S. bank failure in history. The Bales family
found  subprime lenders  who financed their two homes on terms
that included balloon payments and floating interest rates
starting at 8 percent.  Six years later, the houses are worth $148,000 less than
the initial loan amounts. The couple defaulted on one mortgage
in 2009 and recently attempted to sell the second property for
less than they owe on it. For Bales, 38, it was a double
nightmare of being ensnared both in unpopular wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and a housing-market meltdown at home.  “It’s not an unfamiliar story, but it’s sad,” said
Richard Eastern, a co-founder of Bellevue, Washington-based
Washington Property Solutions, which negotiates short sales.
“We’re going to send you off to war but we’re going to
foreclose on your home.” He said many lenders offered loans
they knew borrowers couldn’t repay. “And it’s not just
soldiers, it’s everybody. We set them up.”  The scenario is especially common in an area of  Washington (BEESWA) 
where almost half of property sales are either short sales or
foreclosures, according to Washington Property Solutions.  Fraud Charges  Bales’s money problems went beyond mortgage debt, to the
time when he worked in the financial-services industry, records
show.  He owed an  Ohio  couple about $1.3 million in damages, plus
interest, for defrauding them in 2000 when he served as their
 investment adviser , according to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, which oversees the industry.  An  arbitrator found  that Bales “engaged in fraud, breach
of fiduciary duty, churning, unauthorized trading, and
unsuitable investments,” according to a 2003 report on the
FINRA web site. Bales, who grew up in Ohio, worked in the
industry there from 1996 to 2000, according to FINRA records.  Bales never paid the money and the couple could never find
him, one of the victims, Gary Liebschner told WCPO TV, the ABC
affiliate in Cincinnati.  Emma Scanlan, an associate of John Henry Browne, who is
defending Bales against the military’s current accusations,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Heartbreaking Tragedy’  By the time the judgment was rendered, Bales had already
joined the U.S. Army, having signed up less than two months
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He served a total of three
tours in  Iraq  and one in Afghanistan.  After the March 11 killings in southern Afghanistan, he was
flown to a U.S. military prison in Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas . The
Army will probably file charges against him on March 22, Browne
said in an interview yesterday.  Karilyn Bales said in a statement yesterday that what
happened “was a terrible and heartbreaking tragedy.”  Browne has suggested the incident may be connected to a
brain injury Bales suffered. The military has suggested Bales
snapped under marital stress and the influence of alcohol, an
account Browne disputes.  Whatever led to the killings, it’s clear from court records
that the Bales family was facing mounting money troubles.  No Help  A  federal law , the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act,
provides some protection against debt collectors and foreclosure
for military personnel. Those protections were no help to Bales,
because they only apply to debt incurred before active service.  “The whole concept of the SCRA vaporizes when you’re on
active duty,” said John S. Odom Jr., a retired Air Force judge
advocate and partner in the Jones, Odom & Politz LLP law firm in
Shreveport,  Louisiana . “You are expected to know the debt you
can and cannot service.”  In King County, where one of the Bales’ properties is
located,  home prices  have dropped 20 percent since 2006,
according to the Northwest Multiple Listing Service. In Pierce
County, where the Bales family now lives, property values are
down almost 30 percent.  County records show Robert and Karilyn Bales refinanced
their properties several times as the housing market took off,
but slid into a  debt spiral  they couldn’t escape as soon as home
prices began to drop.  Falling Behind  Karilyn Bales -- then Karilyn Primeau -- bought her first
house in Auburn, Washington, in 1999, taking out a traditional
loan insured by the  Federal Housing Administration . The agency
promotes home ownership among low- and middle-income borrowers,
often with modest down payments. County documents show she took
out a loan for $99,308, almost the full amount of the $99,950
purchase price.  According to the documents, she fell behind on the payments
by about $5,600 in 2003, but managed to avert a scheduled
trustee’s sale.  She refinanced the property in 2004 for $99,400.  Whether Karilyn Bales’ position at Washington Mutual gave
her any special access to lenders is unclear. The couple was
paying relatively high adjustable interest rates as they
continued to take out mortgages.  After they married in 2005, they refinanced the Auburn
house again, this time for $166,000 and a floating  interest rate 
of almost 8 percent.  Second Home  The Bales family rented out the first property and bought
their second home at the end of 2005 with two different loans.
The first was a mortgage with an adjustable interest rate of
6.75 percent that could go as high as 13.45 percent, according
to county records. The second was a standalone loan for $56,000.
County records don’t show the interest rate.  Prepayment on the first loan carried a penalty equal to six
months of interest payments, the documents state.  Nonetheless, in 2006, as Bales was in Iraq, his wife used
her power of attorney to refinance both houses, into new
adjustable rate loans. They soon found they couldn’t support the
debt.  In August 2009, the lender on the couple’s rental home
sought to auction the property. The Bales family owed $15,644.19
on the house plus $1,333.46 in trustee’s fees, according to the
auction notice.  The auction subsequently was canceled without explanation.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Bank of America Corp. , the
servicer of the loan, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Today, the couple’s two houses have a combined assessed
value of $358,100, 29 percent below the initial loan amounts,
county records in Washington state show.  “The tale used to be: We would speak to a family and it
seemed like a predatory lending environment,” Eastern said.
“But it’s the American dream, right? Go buy a house and we’ll
give you the opportunity to do so. And they did.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  