-- Bales Defrauded Ohio Couple Who Say He Owes $1.3 Million
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-20T18:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bales-defrauded-ohio-couple-who-say-he-owes-them-1-3-million.html
Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales
swindled an  Ohio  couple of more than $600,000 when he served as
their stock broker in 2000, according to  records  of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  An arbitrator in 2003 ordered Bales to pay more than $1.3
million in damages to Gary Liebschner of Carroll, Ohio, and his
wife. By then, Bales was already in the Army, having enlisted in
November 2001, less than two months after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, according to an Army statement.  Bales, 38, is suspected of killing at least 16 civilians in
 Afghanistan  on March 11. He may face formal charges in U.S.
military court as soon as this week, his lawyer, John Henry
Browne, said in an interview yesterday.  Bales sold Liebschner’s  AT&T Inc. (T)  shares without his
knowledge or authorization and purchased other securities,
according to Earle R. Frost Jr., a Columbus attorney for
Liebschner. Bales collected as much as $16,000 in commissions in
a single day, Frost said in an interview.  Liebschner told WCPO TV, the ABC affiliate in Cincinnati,
that Bales pocketed their money after they asked him to sell
shares to cover medical bills. Bales never paid the money and
the couple could never find him, Liebschner said.  A telephone message left with Liebschner wasn’t immediately
returned, and there was no answer at his door today.  Fraud and Churning  Bales worked in financial services in Ohio from 1996 to
2000, according to Finra records. An arbitrator found that Bales
“engaged in fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, churning,
unauthorized trading and unsuitable investments,” according to
a report on the Finra website.  Bales and the other respondents in the case didn’t appear
for the hearing, said W. Sean Kelleher, a suburban Columbus
attorney. Kelleher said in a telephone interview that he
represented the firm’s compliance officer, who is now dead.  There was another complaint of unauthorized trading of
bonds filed by an Ohio woman on June 9, 2000, according to a
report provided by the state Commerce Department. The record
shows Bales denied wrongdoing, Lyn Tolan, a department
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  In Bales’s response, he said the principal of the Columbus
firm where he worked executed the trades after he had resigned
and blamed the troubles on him, telling “the elderly client
they were my responsibility,” according to the state report.  Browne declined to speak with reporters at his hotel today
after meetings with Bales. An e-mail to his associate Emma
Scanlan wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  