-- Bandits Prance, Nuns Rise From Graves in Paris Exhibit
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bandits-prance-nuns-rise-from-graves-in-paris-exhibit-review.html
If you love “Children of
Paradise,” here’s an exhibition for you.  Marcel Carne’s 1945 movie, regularly shortlisted as one of
the best of all time, tells the story of Garance (Arletty), a
fun-loving girl torn between two admirers, the actor Frederick
Lemaitre (Pierre Brasseur) and the mime Baptiste Deburau (Jean-
Louis Barrault).  Although Garance is an invention of the screenwriter
Jacques Prevert, the two rivals were historical figures. They
both appear in “Romantic Theaters in Paris,” a delightful show
at the  Musee de la Vie Romantique .  Deburau (1796-1846), who came from a family of acrobats and
fairground performers in Bohemia, was the star of the Theatre
des Funambules on Boulevard du Temple, also known as Boulevard
du Crime because of the gory crowd-pleasers that dominated the
repertoire.  He and his son Charles, who took over his roles after his
death, turned Pierrot, the pale-faced, white-clad stock
character of traditional Italian comedy, into a human being.  Lemaitre (1800-1876) was the most flamboyant French actor
of the 19th century. A color print shows him as the legendary
bandit Robert Macaire in the melodrama “L’Auberge des Adrets.”
Played for laughs and with an outfit picked up at the flea
market, it became his signature role.  Napoleon’s Favorite  Other portraits immortalize Talma, Napoleon’s favorite
actor, and Rachel, the daughter of a Jewish junk dealer who
couldn’t even speak proper French when she started her career:
She became the most acclaimed tragedienne of her time.  The exhibition isn’t limited to spoken theater. Opera fans
will appreciate the sketches and maquettes for the world
premieres of Gounod ‘s “Faust,” Meyerbeer’s “Les Huguenots”
and Victor Hugo’s “Le Roi s’Amuse,” the source of Verdi’s
“Rigoletto.”  Maria Malibran, the prima donna who has inspired Cecilia Bartoli, and Gilbert Duprez, the first tenor to sing the high C
note -- in Rossini’s “Guillaume Tell” -- from the chest, not
from the head, appear in two forgotten operas by Fromental
Halevy, Bizet’s father-in-law.  Rossini wasn’t amused by the chest C. He compared it to
“the squawk of a capon with its throat cut.”  After Rossini’s early retirement, the German-born
Meyerbeer, with his librettist Eugene Scribe, dominated the
Paris Opera for more than 30 years. A lithograph in the show
depicts the most sensational scene -- the ballet of dead nuns
who rise from their graves -- in “Robert le Diable,” their
first hit.  Dancing Fever  Another section of the show pays homage to the great
dancers of the Romantic age -- Carlotta Grisi, the first
Giselle; Maria Taglioni, the first Sylphide; and Fanny Elssler,
whose Cachucha, a Spanish dance, spread “Cachucha Fever”
throughout Paris.  The ballerina Lola Montez, whose portrait is also in the
exhibition, made her name less with her legs than with other
parts of her body that proved irresistible to King Ludwig I of
Bavaria. His affair with the “Bavarian Pompadour,” as she was
dubbed, cost him his throne.  The exhibition is by no means complete. You look in vain
for the great theater scandals of the period -- the premiere of
Hugo’s “Hernani” (1830) and the first performance of Wagner’s
“Tannhauser” in Paris (1861). Both ended in riots.  Never mind. This is a must for theater buffs.  “Romantic Theaters in Paris” is at the Musee de la Vie
Romantique through July 15. Information:
 http://www.vie-romantique.paris.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 