-- Banks Suing N.Y. Over MBIA Restructuring Won’t Seek Jury
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-20T17:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/banks-suing-n-y-over-mbia-restructuring-won-t-seek-jury.html
Banks suing a  New York  state
regulator over the decision to approve the 2009 restructuring of
bond insurer  MBIA Inc.’s (MBI)  insurance business won’t seek a jury
trial in the case, according to court documents.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, was sued by financial
institutions after the 2009 split of its main bond-insurance
unit into two businesses. The banks claim the restructuring was
intended to defraud policyholders and rendered MBIA Insurance
Corp. insolvent. Former state Insurance Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was sued separately under a law that allows court review
of administrative decisions.  The banks won’t demand a jury in the case against the
regulator and agreed to have it tried by Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of state  Supreme Court , Robert Giuffra, a lawyer for the
petitioners, said yesterday in a letter to the judge. A trial is
to begin between May 2 and 14, according to Giuffra’s letter.  UBS AG will withdraw from the MBIA litigation, a person
familiar with the matter said March 15. Switzerland’s biggest
lender is one of four remaining banks in the lawsuit that bought
default protection from MBIA against losses on mortgage-linked
debt.  Fourteen other firms dropped out of the suits, including
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc, after settlements that
terminated their hedges with MBIA.  The cases are ABN AMRO BANK NV l v. Dinallo, 601846-2009,
and ABN AMRO BANK NV v. MBIA, 601475-2009, and, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  