-- Beijing Calm as Cost of Insuring Chinese Government Debt Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T15:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/beijing-calm-as-cost-of-insuring-chinese-government-debt-rises.html
Beijing was calm today, with no
evidence of increased police presence or interruption to
government business, after a report of unrest published in a
U.S.-based paper linked with a banned Chinese spiritual group.  Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan   greeted  U.S. guests at the
Zhongnanhai leadership compound in central Beijing today,
including former Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, according
to a report on the government’s website.  Zhongnanhai was supposedly the site of a coup attempt
earlier today, according to the Epoch Times, a New York-based
newspaper  distributed  in the U.S. by members Falun Gong
spiritual group, which has been banned in  China  since 1999 and
whose supporters print messages on Chinese currency calling for
heaven to “destroy the Communist Party.”  Qin Gang, head spokesman at China’s Foreign Ministry, said
in a telephone interview about the Epoch Times report that he
“hadn’t heard anything about that.”  “You should be very wary of this newspaper report,” Qin
said.  The Epoch Times cited a “mainland Chinese reader” that it
didn’t identify as saying a coup had taken place.  After publication of the report, entitled “Coup in
Beijing, Says Chinese Internet Rumor Mill,” the cost of
insuring Chinese government debt using credit-default swaps
jumped 10 basis points to 107, set for the biggest daily gain in
basis points since Nov. 9, according to data provider CMA.  Government agencies continued to hold meetings today, and
police presence throughout the capital appeared normal, with the
exception of the area around Worker’s Stadium, where extra
officers were deployed this evening for crowd control during a
soccer game.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  