-- Fed Board Nominees Back Exit Strategy Ensuring Price Stability
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-20T21:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bernanke-stands-to-gain-financial-market-experts-with-nominees.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominees
to the Federal Reserve Board told a Senate panel they would help
the Fed withdraw stimulus when necessary in a way that keeps
prices stable and doesn’t jar financial markets.  Jerome Powell, a former private equity manager and Treasury
undersecretary under President George H.W. Bush, told the Senate
Banking Committee today he sees “tremendous risk in the exit,”
including inflation and asset price bubbles.  Jeremy Stein , a
Harvard University economist and former adviser to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , told the panel the central bank
must avoid a “disruptive impact on markets.”  Powell and Stein, both with financial market expertise,
said they would pursue in a balanced way the Fed’s dual mandate
to ensure full employment and price stability. They were
nominated by Obama in January to fill vacant Fed board seats. If
confirmed, they would fill a void left by  Kevin Warsh , a former
Morgan Stanley banker and confidante of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
during the financial crisis, said Antulio Bomfim, a former Fed
economist. Warsh resigned from the board in April.  “I don’t think there’s been anybody with either strong
experience or academic credentials in financial markets” since
Warsh left, said Bomfim, now a senior managing director with
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington. “Together they bring
both.”  Powell and Stein need to overcome partisan wrangling in the
Senate, which has delayed action on nominations for financial
regulatory posts and earlier rejected a Nobel laureate
economist,  Peter Diamond , for a seat on the Fed.  Regulatory Overhaul  During testimony the nominees described how they would
implement the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul and help the Fed
unwind its $2.9 trillion balance sheet. They said the central
bank needs to eventually communicate how it will raise  interest
rates  from the near zero level that the Fed said it expects
through at least late 2014.  Scaling back the balance sheet “will be one of the most
important tasks,” Stein said in response to a lawmakers’
comments. The central bank’s mandates on prices and employment
are “on an equal footing,” he said.  “There’s tremendous risk in the exit, and that’s well
understood,” Powell said in response to questioning on the
balance sheet. “You don’t want to do it too early and snuff out
a recovery that’s still weak and you don’t want to do it too
late and cause inflation,” he said.  Powell, 59, said he can’t specify the timing of the
withdrawal of stimulus.  “It’s not a date you can pick here today, it’s going to
depend on the future path of the economy,” he said. “It has to
be weighed under the dual mandate in which both aspects are
equal.”  Recess Appointment  Nominees for positions at the Fed, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Comptroller of the Currency have been in
limbo since Obama in January used a recess appointment to
install Richard Cordray as the first director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau without formal Senate approval.  The president made the appointment of Cordray after
Republicans blocked his confirmation in December. While the
Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-member chamber, Senate
leaders needed at least 60 senators to advance the nomination.  “There’s still certainly some bitterness about Cordray”
among Republicans, said Mark Calabria, an economist and the
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
and a former senior aide for Republicans on the Senate Banking
Committee.  “It’s not clear whether Republicans will oppose them,”
Calabria said of the Fed nominees. “At minimum there will be a
party-line vote that gets them out of the committee,” he said.  Committee Approval  Gaining committee approval wouldn’t ensure that Powell and
Stein later win appointment in a vote by the full Senate.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
of Kentucky, said the Republican leader hasn’t indicated yet
whether he backs either of the Fed nominees.  The committee is also considering the nominations of
Jeremiah Norton to the board of directors of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.;  Richard Berner  as director of the Treasury
Department’s Office of Financial Research; and Christy Romero as
special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,405.52 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note dropped two basis points to 2.36 percent.  The Fed’s board currently consists of Bernanke and Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , both economists;  Daniel Tarullo , a former
professor at the  Georgetown University Law Center ;  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a former top bank regulator for Maryland; and  Elizabeth Duke , who had been a community banker.  ‘Private Economy’  “I’d like to see some folks on the board who have some
more understanding of the private economy,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Both Fed nominees underscored their experience with  capital
markets , with Powell highlighting his work as an investor and
investment banker and Stein discussing his research on the 1987
stock-market crash and the impact of monetary policy on the
banking system, according the text of their remarks.  Stein, 51, said that studying the crisis made him “humble
and honest about the limitations of our understanding” as
economists.  “Too often in economics, theories have been used in a
rigid fashion, making us less, not more, open to learning from
what happens in the real world,” he said. “This is when things
have gone badly off the rails for economists, and for those who
rely on us for policy advice.”  Obama Adviser  Stein served in the Obama administration from February to
July 2009 as a senior adviser to the Treasury secretary and on
the staff of the National Economic Council, according to
Harvard’s website. He was also a senior staff economist on the
Council of Economic Advisers from September 1989 to June 1990,
leaving just before Powell was nominated to a Treasury post.  Stein rejoined Harvard as an economics professor in 2000
and has served on the New York Fed’s Financial Advisory
Roundtable since 2006. He has focused his research on topics
including debt markets, corporate investment and stock market
efficiency.  Powell is a visiting scholar at the Bipartisan Policy
Center in  Washington . He was a partner at the private equity
firm the Carlyle Group LP from 1997 through 2005, where he led
the industrial group within the U.S. buyout fund, according to a
biography from the Bipartisan Policy Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  