-- Bernanke Says Europe Must Aid Banks Even as Strains Ease
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-21T15:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bernanke-says-financial-stresses-in-europe-have-lessened-1-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said  Europe  must further strengthen its banks and that
its financial and economic situation “remains difficult” even
as stresses have lessened, according to testimony today to U.S.
lawmakers.  “Full resolution of the crisis will require a further
strengthening of the European banking system,” Bernanke said in  
testimony  to the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform. The region’s leaders also must “increase economic
growth and competitiveness and to reduce external imbalances in
the troubled countries,” he said.  Bernanke said reduced stress is a “welcome development”
for the U.S., which echoed the Federal Open Market Committee’s
statement last week that “strains in global financial markets
have eased, though they continue to pose significant downside
risks to the economic outlook.”  U.S. banks “have limited exposure to peripheral European
countries” such as Greece and  Portugal . Their exposure “to the
larger, ‘core’ countries of Europe are more material,” Bernanke
said.  “Moreover, European holdings represented 35 percent of the
assets of prime U.S. money market funds in February, and these
funds remain structurally vulnerable despite some constructive
steps,” he said.  ‘Not Considering’  The Fed is “not considering” purchasing any of Europe’s
sovereign debt as the purpose of the central bank’s authority to
buy such debt is only to maintain foreign exchange reserves,
Bernanke said in response to questions from lawmakers.  He also said the Fed has reviewed the credit-default swaps,
contracts that U.S. banks have used to insure against defaults
in Europe, and that they are “widely dispersed.” The central
bank does not expect a repeat of 2008, when American
International Group Inc., a large counterparty on swaps,
collapsed, Bernanke said.  AIG is “an example of what we don’t see now,” he said.  Recent economic reports have shown strength in the  U.S.
economy  as the threat from Europe has eased. The Commerce
Department reported yesterday that builders broke ground on
 698,000 homes  at an annual rate in February, close to a three-
year high. Building permits, a proxy for future construction,
rose to the highest level since October 2008.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , which has risen 12 percent
this year, declined 0.2 percent to 1,402.92 at 10:56 a.m. in  New
York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.32
percent from 2.36 percent yesterday.  Facing Challenges  New York Fed President William C. Dudley, who is also vice-
chairman of the FOMC, said this week the world’s largest economy
still faces challenges.  “The incoming data on the U.S. economy has been a bit more
upbeat of late, suggesting that the recovery may be getting
better established,” Dudley said in a March 19 speech. “But,
while these developments are certainly encouraging, it is far
too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods in terms of
generating a strong, sustainable recovery.”  European markets have stabilized on speculation that
government leaders are containing the region’s debt crisis. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index has rallied 25 percent since Sept. 22,
when it closed at a two-year low. The rate that London-based
banks say they pay for three-month loans in dollars was 0.474
percent yesterday.  Libor (US0003M) , a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
is down from a 30-month high of 0.583 on Jan 3.  Crisis Easing  Bernanke said that the calming of Europe’s crisis has led
to “an improved tone of financial markets around the world.”  The 58-year-old Fed chairman said that most of the largest
U.S. banks could maintain adequate capital in the event of a
sharp downturn in Europe and a new recession in the U.S.,
referring to a round of so-called stress tests completed last
week.  Fifteen of 19 banks would be able to maintain capital
levels above a regulatory minimum in an “extremely adverse”
economic scenario, even while continuing to pay dividends and
repurchasing stock, the Fed said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  