-- Bernanke Returns to Academic Roots to Defend Fed’s Existence
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-20T20:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bernanke-returns-to-academic-roots-to-justify-fed-s-existence.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  returned to his roots as a university professor today,
seeking to explain and justify the existence of the central bank
ahead of the 100th anniversary of its founding next year.  Bernanke told 30 students at George Washington University
that central banks play a key role in the modern monetary system
as guardians of economic and financial stability.  His hour-long lecture, followed by questions from the
students, is the first of four planned talks on the history of
the Fed and is part of what public relations specialist Richard Dukas called a “P.R. offensive” to buff the central bank’s
tarnished image. The Fed is being attacked from both the left
and the right, with liberals criticizing it for not doing enough
to bring down unemployment, and conservatives blaming it for
doing too much and risking faster inflation.  Bernanke’s return to the milieu where he spent more than
two decades will give the Fed’s top policy maker an opportunity
to “set the narrative” on the central bank’s role during and
after the financial meltdown, said Princeton University
professor and former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder . “The
question of who gets to write the history is an important one.”  If Americans lose faith in the Fed’s ability to manage the
economy and contain inflation, that will rob monetary policy of
some of its potency, according to Dana Saporta, director of U.S.
economics research for Credit Suisse Securities in New York.
Policy has “less effect the less confidence the public has in
the Fed,” she said.  ‘Main Takeaway’  Daniel Lippman, a 21-year-old senior taking the class, said
that a “main takeaway” from Bernanke’s lecture was that prior
to the Fed’s creation, the government did not have much
influence on the economy and that ”created a lot of turbulence.  “One of the main purposes of the class and his
participation is to reach out to the public and lay out his case
for why the Fed is important today and shouldn’t be ended as
some politicians say,” Lippman, a political science major,
said. “I really liked the presentation and learned a lot about
the history of central banking,” he said.  “Bernanke is getting beaten up and the Fed is getting
beaten up,” said Dukas, who heads Dukas Public Relations in  New
York  and has 25 years of P.R. experience. “It’s smart on his
part to try to clearly communicate to the public the role of the
Fed during the crisis and what it’s been able to do to stabilize
the situation.”  Education and Outreach  In anticipation of the centennial next year of the 1913
legislation founding the central bank, the Fed has set up an
advisory council to discuss ways to mark the occasion with
“public education and outreach,” said Lisa Oliva, vice
president of corporate communications at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond. The panel is headed by former Fed chairmen
 Paul Volcker  and  Alan Greenspan  and includes representatives of
academia, business, labor and the public.  Bernanke got a head start on the commemoration as he
delivered his lecture just blocks away from the Fed’s
headquarters on Constitution Avenue in  Washington . The first
talk by the former Princeton professor’s covered the  origins  and
mission of the Fed. It will be followed on March 22 with a
discussion about the central bank after World War II. The final
two presentations, on March 27 and 29, will focus on the recent
financial crisis and its aftermath.  Live Streamed Lectures  The lecture series -- the brainchild of the Fed and the
first by a sitting chairman -- will be streamed live through the
central-bank’s  website  on ustream.tv. Afterwards, it will be
posted on the Fed’s  YouTube page . The central bank said
transcripts also will be available.  “I understand he’s excited about coming back and being in
the classroom,” said Tim Fort, the professor in charge of the
half-semester class.  Bernanke began preparing in December for the lectures,
organizing his thoughts and putting together slides and
PowerPoint presentations. Unlike his speeches and Congressional
testimonies, he won’t be reading from a prepared text.  His return to the classroom comes amid signs that the job
market is strengthening. Unemployment has fallen to  8.3 percent ,
the lowest in three years, while payroll gains during the last
six months have been the strongest since 2006.  Good Venue  The venue is a good one for Bernanke, said Dukas, whose
firm represents  GAMCO Investors Inc. (GBL) , founded by  Mario Gabelli ,
 Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  and other financial-service, asset-
management and technology companies but isn’t involved in the
Fed centennial.  “It has a neutral, authoritative type of feel and doesn’t
come across as too promotional,” he said. It is also a good
choice because “a lot of  Ron Paul ’s followers are younger.”  Paul, a Texas Representative and Republican presidential
candidate, has vowed to abolish the Fed and reinstate the gold
standard, under which the dollar would be backed by the metal.  The Fed chief told the students today that a return to the
gold standard ”wouldn’t be feasible for both practical and
policy reasons.”  For one thing, he said in response to a student’s question,
there isn’t enough gold available in the world. More
importantly, though, such a system would tie the Fed’s hands in
combating unemployment, he added.  Bernanke isn’t a “flashy” teacher, Blinder said of his
former colleague at Princeton, in  New Jersey . “Some people get
up there and are sort of performers,” he said. “Ben does not.
He’s much more straight-laced. You just hear what’s coming out
of an incredibly well-ordered mind.”  Former students who were interviewed agreed.  ‘Vision Built Up’  “He had this whole vision that he built up over the
semester, and at the end you felt you really knew something,”
said Bryan Caplan, who earned his doctorate in economics at
Princeton in 1997 and is now a professor at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  “His door was always open, and students could just pop up
to chat with him,” Ilian Mihov, another former student who is
now deputy dean in  Singapore  at the Insead business school, said
in an e-mail. “Outside of the classroom and the school, he was
also accessible; every Thanksgiving, we would be generously
invited to their place.”  Bernanke is “the kind of guy who can check his ego at the
door,” added Jeffrey Rosensweig, who studied under Bernanke
when the Fed chief was a visiting professor at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in Cambridge.  Abstract with Practical  Rosensweig, who is now an associate professor of finance at
Emory University’s Goizueta Business School in Atlanta,  Georgia ,
also praised Bernanke for his ability to marry verbal and
pictorial class presentations and the abstract with the
practical.  The lectures are the latest effort by the Fed to explain
its actions to the public. During the last three years, Bernanke
has given television interviews and appeared at town hall-style
meetings. He toured a Philadelphia shipyard and a Tasty Baking
Co. cupcake factory in 2010 and last year traveled to El Paso,
 Texas , to speak to soldiers at the military’s  Fort Bliss . He
also began holding press conferences in 2011, after each of the
Fed’s four two-day policy meetings.  So far, his efforts have had limited success. Twenty-seven
percent of Americans viewed Bernanke favorably in a Bloomberg
National Poll this month, down from 34 percent a year ago and
below Paul’s 38 percent rating.  ‘Long Road’  “Middle America may not be a beneficiary of this campaign
yet,” said  Gerry Corbett , head of Redphlag LLC, a San Bruno,
California-based communications company, and chairman and chief
executive officer of the Public Relations Society of America.
“It’s a very, very, very long road.”  Most of the criticism has been that the Fed is too
aggressive in loosening monetary policy, Blinder said. “He’s
getting a much bigger volume and higher level of vociferousness
on that side,” and it’s “clear which flank he has to
protect.”  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican who was also in the
presidential race until Jan. 19, said last year it would be
“treasonous” if Bernanke eased policy further.  The Fed has cut short-term  interest rates  effectively to
 zero  and has suggested it will keep them “exceptionally low”
at least through late 2014. It also has undertaken two rounds of
bond buying, boosting its balance sheet to  $2.9 trillion .  That big portfolio is a “sword of Damocles” hanging over
the economy, said  Allan Meltzer , a Carnegie Mellon University
professor who has written a two-volume history of the Fed. He
charged that Bernanke doesn’t have a plan for dealing with it,
so inflation is headed higher.  Bernanke Policy  “What is the Bernanke policy doing in practice?” Meltzer
asked. “It’s providing capital to American banks.”  Bernanke has defended his record as an inflation fighter by
noting that price increases during his six-year tenure as Fed
chairman have been below those of his predecessors.  Consumer prices have risen by an average annual 2.4 percent
since he took over as chairman in February 2006. That compares
with 3.1 percent under Greenspan, chairman from August 1987
through January 2006, and 6.2 percent under Volcker, who headed
the central bank in the eight years starting August 1979.  Bernanke has acknowledged the rebound from the deepest
recession since the Great Depression has been disappointingly
slow, while arguing there are limits to how much the Fed can
help. Even though unemployment has fallen from as high as 10
percent in October 2009, it has stalled  above 8 percent  for 37
months. Gross domestic product rose 1.7 percent last year after
a 3 percent increase in 2010.  Fed’s Image  As long the recovery is lackluster and the jobless rate
high, there’s just so much Bernanke can do to change the Fed’s
image, said Eric Dezenhall, co-founder of communications
consultant Dezenhall Resources in Washington.  “It’s not like if Bernanke did a really good PowerPoint
presentation and wore a terrific tie any of this would change,”
Dezenhall said. “He is not going to accomplish miracles with
his fireside chat equivalents. His goal is damage control, not
damage elimination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  