-- Blackburn Beats Sunderland 2-0 to Pull Clear of Relegation Zone
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-21T01:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/blackburn-beats-sunderland-2-0-in-english-premier-league-soccer.html
Blackburn Rovers  beat Sunderland 2-
0 to log consecutive wins in English soccer’s Premier League for
the first time this season and move six points clear of the
relegation zone.  Second-half goals by Junior Hoilett and Ayegbeni Yakubu at
Ewood Park last night secured the home victory that lifted
Blackburn to 28 points. Queens Park Rangers, Wigan and
 Wolverhampton Wanderers , who occupy the bottom three places, all
have 22 points, with Bolton on 23 points in 17th place.  “There is still a lot of football to be played,”
Blackburn manager  Steve Kean  told reporters. “We looked at this
month as an opportunity to put points on the board and possibly
put a little bit of gap between the teams around us.”  Having picked up its first shutout of the season against
Wolves on March 10, Blackburn kept consecutive clean sheets in
the league for the first time since April 2010. It was also the
first time since November that year that Blackburn won
consecutive league games.  Last night’s other scheduled Premier League match between
 Aston Villa  and Bolton was postponed following the March 17
heart attack suffered by Bolton midfielder Fabrice Muamba, who
is being treated in intensive care at a London hospital.  Blackburn and Sunderland players wore T-shirts saying
“Pray for Muamba” before the match. Yakubu revealed a similar
shirt after scoring his 14th league goal of the season.  Second-place  Manchester City , which trails leader
Manchester United by four points, hosts fifth-place Chelsea in
one of today’s four matches. Liverpool visits QPR, Tottenham
hosts Stoke and Arsenal travels to Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  