-- Blackstone Said to Buy Most of Parc 55 in San Francisco
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-03-20T23:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/blackstone-said-to-buy-control-of-san-francisco-hotel-parc-55.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  invested about
$70 million for a controlling stake in San Francisco’s Parc 55,
giving the firm its third hotel in the best-performing U.S.
lodging market, said two people with knowledge of the deal.  Blackstone, the New York-based private-equity firm that
owns the Hilton Worldwide chain, will hold 75 percent of  Parc
55 , and Boston-based  Rockpoint Group LLC , which already held a
stake in the hotel, will own most of the rest after investing
$10 million of new equity, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Archon Group LP, a unit of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
provided $152 million of debt financing to the new owners,
according to one of the people.  Blackstone is betting on future growth in one of the U.S.’s
strongest travel markets.  San Francisco  ranked first nationwide
in increases in hotel occupancy and room rates among the
country’s 25 largest hotel markets, excluding  Las Vegas , in the
week ended March 10, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  In San Francisco, “there’s just not that much in the
construction pipeline, and that’s a really good thing for
existing hotels,” Bobby Bowers, senior vice president of
operations at Smith Travel Research, said in a telephone
interview. “If the demand stays good and the supply’s flat to
down, occupancy’s going to go way up.”  Occupancies Increase  Hotel occupancy was 79 percent in San Francisco and nearby
San Mateo during the week ended March 10, up from 69 percent a
year earlier, according to the hotel data company. That compares
with 62 percent across the U.S. The average daily room rate
climbed 21 percent to $166.39 in the San Francisco area, more
than the 3.6 percent gain to $104.65 nationwide.  The  2013 America’s Cup  sailboat race finals are scheduled
to be held in  San Francisco Bay , providing a boost to tourism.
Parc 55, with more than 1,000 rooms, is a luxury hotel located
at 55 Cyril Magnin St. near Union Square. Blackstone owns two
other hotels in San Francisco, the Sheraton Fisherman’s Wharf
and the Hilton San Francisco Union Square, through its Hilton
Worldwide unit.  Rockpoint and Highgate Holdings Inc. defaulted on about
$211 million of debt on Parc 55 that came due early last month,
said the people with knowledge of the transaction. The partners
had bought the hotel, then known as the Renaissance Parc 55, for
about $220 million in 2006, near the height of the commercial
 property market , and invested more money to renovate it. The
financing for the purchase included a securitized mortgage.  Highgate Remains Manager  Highgate, based in Irving,  Texas , will continue to manage
the property, and retain a stake of about 2 percent, the people
said. Lynne Messina, Highgate’s general counsel, said the firm
will keep a “minority” stake in Parc 55. She declined to
comment further. The property will remain a Wyndham hotel,
according to one of the people with knowledge of the deal.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone;  Owen Blicksilver , a
spokesman for Rockpoint; and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs, all declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  