-- BMO Says M&I Addition ‘Game Changer’ for More U.S. Takeovers
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-20T17:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bmo-says-m-i-addition-game-changer-for-more-u-s-takeovers.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s takeover of
 Wisconsin  lender Marshall & Ilsley is a “game changer” that
allows Canada’s fourth-largest lender to expand in the U.S.
Midwest with further takeovers, according to Chief Executive
Officer William Downe.  The Toronto-based bank will pursue more acquisitions after
it finishes integrating the C$4.1 billion ($4.13 billion)
purchase of M&I by the end of the year, Downe said today in an
interview after the bank’s annual meeting in Halifax,  Nova
Scotia .  Bank of Montreal expanded its  U.S. banking  business in July
by buying M&I in its biggest acquisition, adding to its BMO
Harris Bank platform in Chicago. The takeover doubled the number
of U.S. branches and deposits for the Canadian lender, giving
Bank of Montreal more branches in  Chicago  than Toronto and
opportunity for further growth within the U.S. Midwest.  “The in-fill opportunities are very significant,” Downe,
59, said. “Now, the territory allows us to make acquisitions
within the footprint. That’s a game changer.”  Bank of Montreal has a No. 1 market position in Wisconsin,
and a No. 2 deposit share in Chicago and the third-largest
market share overall in the Midwest states it operates in, Downe
said earlier at the investors meeting. Further growth will come
from the same regions, Downe said.  The integration of M&I, which will “largely be done” by
the end of the year, “really clears the way” for further
acquisitions, Downe said. “We haven’t and won’t do anything
until the integration is complete,” Downe said.  Third of Profit  Bank of Montreal had about 33 percent of its profit, or
C$362 million, from the U.S. in the first quarter, according to
company filings. Of that, C$137 million came from U.S. consumer
lending. The bank set a goal last year of getting annual profit
of C$1 billion from the U.S. in the “medium term.” Downe said
today the goal is “within reach.”  Bank of Montreal is also considering more opportunities to
expand its private-client business, which accounted for about 18
percent of profit in the fiscal year ended Oct. 31. “If you
look at our track record for acquisitions,  wealth management  has
actually been a major part,” Downe said. “The capability that
we’ve built up in wealth management in  London  and  Hong Kong  is
going to drive a more international business in wealth
management for BMO, and the  Middle East  as well.”  In February, Bank of Montreal agreed to buy a 20 percent
stake in COFCO Trust Co., a Chinese firm with assets of $5.7
billion, to expand in wealth management in the Asian nation.  Bank of Montreal is considering such areas for growth amid
an expected slowdown in Canadian banking.  “Retail banking is going to be influenced by a plateauing
in the Canadian housing market,” Downe said. “There, the
growth is going to come from taking market share.”  Within  Canada , Downe said, the bank is focusing on
commercial banking to gain business.  “The areas where the biggest opportunities for us rest are
in commercial banking, and particularly in the operating
services, cash management and commercial deposit area,” Downe
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  