-- Bo Ouster Means State Capitalism in China Will Fade, Zhang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T04:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bo-ouster-means-state-capitalism-in-china-will-fade-zhang-says.html
Bo Xilai’s ouster last week as head
of Chongqing is a signal that China will increase the role of
private businesses in the economy and scale back state
capitalism, said Zhang Xin, Chief Executive Officer of  Soho
China Ltd. (410)   Zhang, whose company is the biggest property developer in
Beijing’s central business district, said yesterday on the
Charlie Rose show that Bo’s ouster and comments made last week
by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  about continuing economic opening
are signals that the model focusing on state-directed bank
lending and state-owned companies will fade.  “I think that was quite a worry for a number of years but
by now it seems to be cleared,” Zhang said, according to a
transcript of the interview.  In Chongqing, where Bo served as the top official until his
removal was announced on March 15, he emphasized state-led
projects and lending by state-owned banks to help spur economic
development and reduce the wealth gap between rich and poor.
Chongqing led the other three municipalities directly under the
central government -- Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin -- in per-
capita economic output after Bo took the helm in 2007.  Bo, 62, is the son of one of the founders of the People’s
Republic of  China  and a member of the Communist Party’s ruling
Politburo. Bo’s chances of getting on the Politburo Standing
Committee, the nine-man body that exercises supreme authority in
China, declined after his police chief spent the night in a U.S.
consulate last month, prompting speculation that he was there to
seek asylum.  Police Chief Investigated  Wen, speaking to reporters on March 14 in Beijing at the
close of the country’s annual legislative session, said
authorities had made progress in investigating the case of the
former police chief, Wang Lijun, who was in custody.  The New York Times, citing a Chinese official document,
reported yesterday that Wang was removed by Bo as police chief
to impede a corruption investigation involving Bo’s family. The
document said Wang had sought asylum at the consulate after he
fled Chongqing, fearing for his safety.  Wang’s removal as police chief was done without permission
from central police officials, the New York Times reported,
citing the report which it said it verified with two people
familiar with its contents.  A document that contains the content described in the New
York Times article was posted on the  website  of canyu.org, a
group advocating press freedom in China.  Bo still retains his spot on the Politburo after being
replaced in Chongqing by Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang. Searches
today for Bo’s name on  Sina Corp. (SINA)  (SINA)’s Weibo microblogging service
produced a notification saying that “based on relevant laws,
regulations and policies, ’Bo Xilai’ search results cannot be
displayed.”  ‘Red’ Songs  Bo’s profile in Chongqing was burnished by his crackdown on
organized crime, led by Wang. Bo also reintroduced patriotic
“red” songs and slogans from the era of Chairman  Mao Zedong .  “For a while, it felt like maybe we’re going back to the
Maoist time,” Zhang said.  During Bo’s time in office, the municipality of about 30
million people also obtained lines of credit of at least 95
billion yuan ($15 billion) from state policy lender  China
Development Bank (SDBZ)  to help build infrastructure projects such as
roads and water works, according to bond prospectuses. State-
owned companies including  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. (200625) , the
Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co., are among the biggest
enterprises in Chongqing.  Much of that money came after 2009, when China responded to
the global financial crisis by funneling trillions of yuan
through state banks to infrastructure projects across the
country.  “So, from 2009 to now, state-owned companies became so
much more powerful,” Zhang said. “State capitalism became so
much more powerful and the private sector has been really
suppressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  