-- Boeing Taps D.C. Lobbyist in Export-Import Bank Renewal Push
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   B e n n e t t   R o t h
-- 2012-03-20T23:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/boeing-taps-top-d-c-lobbyist-in-export-import-bank-renewal-push.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  tapped two of
Washington’s highest-paid lobbying firms to help overcome
opposition from carriers such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Tea
Party lawmakers in its push to reauthorize and expand the
 Export-Import Bank (EIBZ) .  Boeing, the biggest U.S. plane manufacturer, retained  Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld (1117L)  and the Podesta Group, according to
Senate disclosure filings. They were the second- and third-
highest-earning lobbying firms in Washington last year,
according to nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics.  The campaign to renew the bank, whose charter expires May
31, has united the Obama administration with opponents on other
issues such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Republican
Senators Lindsey Graham and  Richard Shelby , who say it plays an
important role in boosting exports. They’re opposed by U.S.
airlines that say they’re hurt when the government helps foreign
rivals buy planes, and by the Club for Growth and Heritage
Foundation, which say the bank meddles in private enterprise.  “We see eye-to-eye with those groups on a lot of issues,
but there are times when we don’t,”  Christopher Wenk , senior
director for international policy at the Washington-based
Chamber, the largest U.S. business lobbying group, said in an
interview. “There is strong bipartisan support on the Hill for
the Export-Import Bank, including Republicans and conservative
Republicans. The urgency is the here and now to get this done.”  Democratic Bill Fails  Democratic efforts to reauthorize the bank stalled today in
the Senate, as lawmakers failed to advance a proposal by
Democratic Senators Tim Johnson of  South Dakota  and  Maria Cantwell  of Washington. Graham and Shelby, who joined Democrats
to co-sponsor the measure, voted in opposition at the urging of
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  The senators proposed amending a bill rolling back
Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Their measure would
reauthorize the bank for four years and increase its lending
limit by 40 percent to $140 billion, from $100 billion that it’s
projected to reach as soon as this month. The lender provides
loans, loan guarantees and insurance to foreign companies to buy
U.S.-made products.  “Not reauthorizing the bank places American companies at a
serious disadvantage against their foreign competitors,” bank
President  Fred Hochberg  said. “We are already hearing that some
customers of U.S. exporters are considering switching their
purchases to foreign companies due to the uncertain availability
of future Ex-Im Bank financing.”   ‘Stay Competitive’  Renewing the bank “will help thousands of American
businesses and achieve everyone’s goal here of ensuring American
businesses can stay competitive,”  Amy Brundage , a spokeswoman
for the Obama administration, said in a March 14 e-mail.  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican and founder
of the Senate Tea Party caucus, has said the lender gives
foreign airlines an edge over American carriers in buying new
aircraft.  “Government subsidies promote neither U.S. exports nor
effective economic development,” DeMint said yesterday in a
posting on  his blog . “When the government shifts labor and
capital from the economy through taxation and then gives it to
specific private companies in the form of export or foreign
direct investment subsidies, it does so at the expense of the
economy as a whole.”  Paxon, Podesta  Akin Gump earned $37.9 million lobbying last year, behind
only the combined  Patton Boggs LLP (1211L)  and Breaux Lott Leadership
Group, which grossed $48.3 million, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. Akin Gump’s Boeing team includes Bill Paxon, a former Republican congressman from  New York . The
Podesta Group was third with $27.1 million, according to the
center. Podesta’s Boeing team included Chairman Tony Podesta, a
top Democratic fundraiser.  Boeing’s ties to the Obama administration include Commerce
Secretary  John Bryson  and former White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, who have both served as Boeing directors.  Delta and Airlines for America, the Washington-based trade
association for the largest U.S. airlines, have both tapped
Elmendorf Ryan, one of whose principals is Jimmy Ryan, a former
adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , to lobby,
according to Senate records. Delta is pushing for greater
transparency in the bank’s decisions and a stricter analysis of
impact in its decisions, which DeMint said is also a priority
for him.  ‘Treated Fairly’  “In reauthorizing it, we would like to see some of those
reforms,” Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Delta, said in an
interview. “Our main concern is that our employees be treated
fairly in this process.”  Banstetter declined to discuss Delta’s lobbying
relationships, citing company policy. Tim Neale, a Boeing
spokesman, also wouldn’t comment on Boeing’s lobbying.  “This isn’t an issue for a handful of companies, this is
from across the business community,” Neale said. “It’s a very
important competitive issue for all of us.”  The Club for Growth has urged Congress not to reauthorize
the bank, calling its actions “market-distorting subsidies that
pick winners and losers in the private sector.”  ‘Shut It Down’  “Market forces should dictate trade flows, not bureaucrats
and politicians,” Andrew Roth, vice president for government
affairs at the Washington-based Club for Growth, said in a March
14 e-mail. “Not only should members of Congress reject this
expansion of authority, but they should reject the bank’s
charter and shut it down for good.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
wants the bank to be reauthorized on its own, without being an
amendment to the SEC bill, and is working on preparing that
legislation for a vote by the end of the month, Laena Fallon, a
spokeswoman, said in a March 14 e-mail.  The Export-Import Bank in November was sued by the  Air
Transport Association  of America Inc., now called Airlines for
America, which sought to halt the bank’s deal for $3.4 billion
in loan guarantees for aircraft financing to  Air India .  The trade association filed the lawsuit in federal court in
 Washington , saying the bank didn’t seek public comments or
consider the impact on the U.S. airline industry before
approving $1.3 billion in loan guarantees and $2.1 billion in
preliminary commitments to support the sale of 30 Boeing planes
to Air India.  Financing Aircraft  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in January rejected a
request by the association to temporarily block the guarantees
from proceeding while their legal challenge is being considered.  According to the lawsuit, the bank’s loan portfolio is
“overwhelmingly devoted” to financing the purchase of
airplanes for export. In fiscal year 2010, air transportation
loans accounted for 47 percent of the bank’s $75.2 billion in
total outstanding loans, according to the lawsuit.  “As is the case with any subsidy, taxpayer-backed loans
result in market distortion and crony capitalism,” Heritage
Action for America, a nonprofit lobbying affiliate of the
 Heritage Foundation , which says it promotes conservative
political policies, said in a March 12  website posting .  The amendment is No. 1836. The business capital bill is
H.R. 3606.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Bennett Roth in Washington at 
 broth14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  