-- BofA’s McNiff Said to Resign From Mortgage-Trading Unit
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-03-20T20:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bofa-s-mcniff-said-to-resign-from-mortgage-trading-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s John McNiff, a managing director who served as co-head of trading in
commercial mortgage securities, resigned yesterday amid the
latest staff cuts, said two people with knowledge of the move.  Managing directors Seth Jackier in mortgage sales and John Eck in asset-based trading also are leaving the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company, said the people, who asked for anonymity
because the departures are private. Michael Case, a director in
commercial mortgage security banking, and salesmen John
Livingstone and Michael L. Miller also departed this week, one
of the people said.  Bank of America told employees yesterday about cuts in
global banking and markets as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  adjusts to lower revenue. While most reductions were in
equities, the company also culled personnel in fixed income, one
person said. Departures included Steven Milunovich, the veteran
stock analyst, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  “Areas like this that didn’t come back as expected are the
ones that companies are now evaluating,” said  Jeanne
Branthover , managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search
Ltd. in  New York . “This isn’t necessarily bad news” for people
who may have been considering moving to other firms, she said.  Some employees volunteered to resign in exchange for a so-
called garden leave, a period of about 90 days in which they
receive full salary and benefits while staying at home, as well
as severance packages, the people said.  Canadian Cuts  The bank also is cutting outside the U.S., dismissing
almost  a dozen workers  at its Canadian capital markets business
as part of a global staff reduction, one person said. The move
leaves the bank with almost 500 people at offices in Toronto,
 Montreal ,  Vancouver  and Calgary, the person said.  Michael Guy resigned as co-head of Bank of America’s
distressed sales and trading for  Europe , the Middle East and
 Africa , the executive said in a telephone interview.  McNiff, Eck and Livingstone said they couldn’t comment.
Jackier, Case and Miller didn’t respond to phone messages.  Wall Street firms are firing staff and reducing pay as
 revenue wanes  from trading and underwriting. More cuts are
coming at Bank of America as part of Moynihan’s efficiency plan,
which may target as much as $8 billion in total annual savings.
Moynihan, 52, already announced as many as 30,000 job cuts in
retail banking and technology.  Bank of America lost market share last year to rivals
including New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in the trading of
equities, bonds, currencies and commodities, Matthew O’Connor,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Jan. 19 research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  