-- Bombardier Agrees to Share CSeries Cockpit With China’s C919
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T20:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/bombardier-cseries-may-share-cockpit-with-china-s-c919-on-costs.html
Bombardier Inc. (BB/D) ’s planned CSeries
aircraft will have the same cockpit as  China ’s first passenger
jet, helping the planemaker pare research costs and challenge
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin signed an agreement
today with  Commercial Aircraft Corp. (CACOFZ)  of China to collaborate on
cockpit-crew interfaces, electrical systems and technical
publications, the companies said in a statement.  A shared cockpit may aid sales of the CSeries and Comac’s
C919 by cutting airlines’ training and operating expenses.
Today’s accord solidifies a tentative March 2011 agreement
between Montreal-based Bombardier and Comac as they work to take
on Boeing and Airbus with their own single-aisle models.  “We sense that Bombardier brings more to the table in this
first step than Comac does,” Fadi Chamoun, a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in Toronto, said in a note to clients. “We
believe this is ultimately in exchange for greater access to the
Chinese market, which is positive.”  Bombardier rose 3.2 percent, the most since Jan. 31, to
C$4.18 at the close in Toronto. Chamoun recommends  buying  the
stock, whose gain today pushed the year-to-date advance to 3
percent.  The planemaker expects to win CSeries orders “shortly”
from Chinese carriers with the approach of the first deliveries
next year, Beaudoin said. Airbus and Boeing are revamping their
narrow-body models to blunt competition in a segment that
accounts for about 60 percent of the global fleet.  ‘Getting Close’  “I feel very confident that we are getting close” to the
first Chinese CSeries purchase, Beaudoin said. Worldwide orders
totaled 133 at the end of 2011, led by 40 from Indianapolis-
based  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)   The  CSeries  will seat 100 to 149 passengers, while the C919
will carry as many as 168. Boeing’s entry in that seating
category is the 737, the world’s most widely flown airliner,
while Airbus offers the A320 family of jets.  Beaudoin reiterated that Bombardier expects to have the
first CSeries ready for a test flight this year. The C919 is due
to make its first flight in 2014, with deliveries starting two
years later.  Today’s deal is a first step toward allowing airlines that
use both aircraft to take advantage of cost savings in such
areas as using common parts for repair. The two companies said
they will consider further collaboration including in aircraft
programs, procurement and  customer service .  “If we have common customers and there is a common
cockpit, it makes it easier for everybody,” Beaudoin said in a
Bloomberg Television yesterday in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  