-- Brazil Real Holds Near Two-Month Low on Currency Measures, China
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-20T19:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/brazil-real-declines-on-china-growth-concern-currency-measures.html
Brazil ’s real traded near a two-
month low as policy makers said they will take further steps to
weaken the currency and as signs of a slowdown in  China  spurred
concern global growth will falter.  The real was little changed at 1.8216 per  U.S. dollar  at
4:10 p.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier falling as much as 0.8
percent to 1.8357, its weakest level since Jan. 9. The central
bank said it bought dollars in the  spot market  today at 1.8210
reais each, part of its effort to contain the currency’s gains.  Emerging-market currencies sank today after China raised
gasoline prices, the nation’s automobile association said sales
may miss targets this year and BHP Billiton Ltd. said steel
output is slowing, fueling concern slower growth may damp demand
for exports. Brazil may repay as much as $15 billion of its
foreign debt ahead of schedule to contain gains in the real, the
 Finance Ministry  said.  The possibility of “new measures from the government is
making the market hesitant to sell dollars,”  Francisco Carvalho , the currency director at Liquidez DTVM, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “The biggest problem that could come from China
is a slowdown in global growth.”  Brazil has expanded taxes on foreign loans and bonds issued
abroad as part of measures to shield the real from what
President  Dilma Rousseff  called a “monetary tsunami” from
developed nations seeking to weaken their currencies and foster
export growth.  Dollar Purchases  Policy makers stepped up dollar purchases this month after
the real touched 1.6890 per U.S. dollar on Feb. 29, the
strongest level since Oct. 31.  Commodity-based currencies fell after China, the world’s
biggest energy consumer and steelmaker, said it’s raising fuel
prices for the second time in less than six weeks. Vehicle sales
may miss industry forecasts this year as economic growth slows,
an official from the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said.  “These fears about China are affecting commodity prices,”
Carlos Kawall, chief economist with Banco J. Safra SA, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo . “The Australian dollar is suffering on
these fears and the real as well.”  The Australian dollar lost 1.2 percent against the U.S.
currency to $1.0478.  Commodity exports including  iron ore , sugar, soybeans and
coffee made up 11 percent of Brazil’s gross domestic product in
2010, according to the national statistics agency.  Futures Yields  Interest-rate futures yields fell for the first day in four
as traders bet that slower growth in China will allow the
central bank to continue lowering borrowing costs,  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.97
percent.  Central bankers said they see a “high probability” of
 interest rates  declining to levels just above the record low of
8.75 percent as inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
remains under control, according to minutes of their March 6-7
meeting released March 15.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark Selic rate 75 basis points to 9.75
percent on March 7, more than the median forecast for a 50
basis-point cut. They have lowered the rate 275 basis points
since August.  Annual inflation slowed in February to 5.85 percent from
6.22 percent a month earlier, the national statistics agency
said March 9. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  