-- Buffett Rule Tax Bill Would Raise $47 Billion Over 10 Years
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-21T01:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/buffett-rule-tax-bill-would-raise-31-billion-over-10-years.html
Implementing a “Buffett rule” to
require a minimum 30 percent tax rate for the highest U.S.
earners would raise $47 billion over the next decade, according
to a government projection.  The estimate for the proposal backed by President  Barack Obama  comes from the Joint Committee on Taxation, Congress’s
scorekeepers. Lawmakers updated the projection late today to
reflect different assumptions about how taxpayers would adjust
their  capital gains  realizations from an earlier $31 billion
version.  “The president’s so-called Buffett rule is a dog that just
won’t hunt,” Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on
the Finance Committee, said in a statement, adding that the
proposal would have little effect on reducing the federal  budget
deficit . “It was designed for no other reason than politics.
There is no economic rationale for it.”  The $47 billion would have covered about half the cost of
the 10-month extension of a payroll tax cut that Congress
enacted last month. In a broader context, the  Congressional
Budget Office  estimates that Obama’s 2013 budget plan would
expand the  deficit  by $6.4 trillion over the next decade. The
bill would reduce that by 0.7 percent.  At the request of the Republican staff on the Finance
Committee, the Joint Committee on Taxation analyzed a bill
written by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat.  Minimum Rate  The proposal would require a minimum rate for taxpayers
with adjusted gross income exceeding $1 million. The bill would
phase in the tax so that it would fully affect taxpayers with
incomes exceeding $2 million, and it would allow charitable
contributions to be deducted.  “No matter how you slice it, that’s real money that could
help bring down our deficit,” Whitehouse said in a statement
today. “Most important: It’s simply the right thing to do.”  Obama has said he sees the Buffett rule as a guideline for
a tax-code overhaul. His budget didn’t include a specific
proposal like Whitehouse’s.  The so-called rule is named for billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
who says tax rates on investment income should be raised.  Expiring Rates  Under current law, wages and other ordinary income are
taxed at a top rate of 35 percent and capital gains and
dividends are taxed at a top rate of 15 percent.  The Joint Committee on Taxation analyzed the bill under a
scenario in which expiring income-tax cuts would be allowed to
lapse. Under that scenario, wages and dividends would be taxed
at a top rate of 39.6 percent, capital gains would be taxed at a
top rate of 20 percent and a 3.8 percent tax on unearned income
would be in effect.  Continuing current  tax policy  beyond this year, as many
Republicans want, would prevent those rates from going up and
keep the effective tax rates of more high-income taxpayers under
the 30 percent mark. Under that scenario, which isn’t part of
today’s estimate, the bill would raise more money for the
government.  The bill is S. 2059.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  