-- California’s Stockton Moves Toward Mediation, Lawyer Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/california-s-stockton-moves-toward-mediation-lawyer-says.html
Stockton (3654MF) ,  California , testing a new
state requirement that municipalities try mediation before
seeking  bankruptcy protection , made formal requests to creditors
to take part, according to a lawyer for the city.  Notices sent by e-mail Feb. 29 and by certified mail gave
creditors 10 business days to say whether they’ll take part,
 Marc Levinson , an Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP partner in
 Sacramento , said yesterday by telephone. He declined to say how
many or which creditors responded, citing a new state law.  “The statute is untested and expresses a strong preference
for confidentiality and that’s what the city intends to do,”
Levinson said. “In order to keep confidential what’s discussed
in the meeting, everything ought to be confidential, including
the participants.”  Stockton’s City Council on Feb. 28 agreed to mediation
required under the new law, which aims to deter cities from
entering bankruptcy. The process is a necessary step if the
agricultural center about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco  seeks court protection. City Manager Bob Deis has said
the community is running out of funds because of escalating
retiree health-care costs, lingering effects of the recession
and recently uncovered accounting errors.  Bond Backer  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., which insures
municipal bonds against default, has agreed to take part, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said last week.
Agreeing to talk doesn’t mean the company, a unit of MBIA Inc.,
will accept a loss on the $224 million in Stockton bonds it
insures, according to the person, who declined to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  The parties have a week to agree on a mediator once the 10
business days have passed, Levinson said, citing the law. The
lawyer for the city wouldn’t say where the process stands now.  “I expect that we will have a mediator by the end of the
month,” Levinson said.  The confidential negotiations will take as long as 60 days,
Levinson said. During that time, the city or a majority of the
interested parties can choose to extend talks another 30 days.
After 90 days, the city and a majority of the parties may agree
to an indefinite extension, Levinson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 