-- Canadian Banks Gain Jobs, Profit as U.S. Lenders Cut Back
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-20T17:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/canadian-banks-gain-jobs-profit-as-u-s-lenders-cut-back.html
Canadian banks, bolstered by
profits per employee 31 percent higher than U.S. lenders, added
more than 2,800 workers in the most recent quarter while  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  shed thousands of jobs.  For every worker hired at one of  Canada ’s eight main
lenders in the first fiscal quarter, three were let go by their
U.S. counterparts, according to bank statements and data
compiled by Bloomberg. Staffing at the 10 largest U.S. banks
declined by 8,577 people in about the same period, according to
Bloomberg data.  Canada’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest for the past
four years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , are at the
highest level of employment in at least three years after they
recorded combined profits of C$7.15 billion ($7.2 billion) in
the last quarter. Earnings rose by 12 percent from a year
earlier, with seven banks matching or topping analysts’
estimates.  “It’s a reflection of the underlying strength and
resiliency of the banking industry in Canada, particularly when
compared to the situation in other jurisdictions,”  Terry Campbell , president and chief executive officer of the  Canadian
Bankers Association , said in a telephone interview.  Canada’s economy grew 2.5 percent last year following a 3.2
percent expansion in 2010. The country’s lenders didn’t receive
any government bailouts during the financial crisis of 2008-2009
and recorded a fraction of the writedowns taken by banks and
brokers worldwide.  Canada’s 10-member  S&P/TSX Banks Index (STBANKX)  dropped 3.8 percent
in the last year, compared with a 3.7 percent decline for the
24-member  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Productive Employees  Canadian banks have more productive employees than their
U.S. rivals. Among Canadian banks with market values of at least
$1 billion, every 1,000 employees brought in $19.13 million in
profit in the latest quarter, according to Bloomberg data. For
U.S. lenders, the total is $14.7 million.  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S. bank, eliminated
8,718 jobs between the third and fourth quarters, part of Chief
Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan’s plan to trim expenses
after revenue stagnated. Washington Mutual, which filed for
bankruptcy in September, shed 2,685 jobs over the same period,
while  Citigroup Inc. (C)  fired 1,000.  Bank of America fired almost a dozen workers in its
Canadian capital markets business, a person familiar with the
situation said today. The move leaves the bank with more than
100 people in the country.  Canada’s eight largest lenders, which employ about 335,000,
added 20,642 people over the last year, according to Bloomberg
data. The 10 largest U.S. banks that report employee headcount
have increased by 17,074. The U.S. banks employ more than 1.2
million people, almost equal to the population of the Canadian
province of Manitoba.  Third-Largest  Toronto, Canada’s most populous city, employs more than
200,000 people in the financial-services sector and is the
second-largest financial center in  North America  behind  New
York , according to the  Toronto Financial Services Alliance .  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canada’s third-largest bank, added
1,940 jobs between Oct. 31 and Jan. 31 for a total of 77,302,
according to filings on its  website . The increase was mostly
from the Uruguay  acquisitions  of Nuevo Banco Comercial and
consumer-finance company Pronto!, bank spokeswoman Paula Cufre
said.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, (TD)  Canada’s second-largest bank, added
426 jobs in the quarter for a total of 77,786 employees. While
the bank has “fluctuations” from quarter to quarter, the
increase was partly due to the acquisition of Bank of America’s
MBNA Canada credit-card business, said Stephen Knight, a
spokesman.  National Bank  TD also plans to create more than 1,600 jobs in  South
Carolina  over the next three to five years, Knight said.
Toronto-Dominion has more branches in the U.S. than in Canada.  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the No. 6 bank, added 281 people
during the quarter for a staff of 16,498. The increase comes
“mostly” from the bank’s acquisition of HSBC Holding Plc’s
Canadian investment-advisory business, said Claude Breton, a
bank spokesman.  Laurentian Bank of Canada , the seventh-largest bank,
increased its headcount by 307 people for a total of 3,976. Many
of the new employees came from its C$199 million purchase of
M.R.S. Inc. from Mackenzie Financial Corp.  Still, bank employment may not accelerate in Canada this
year if profit growth slows.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the No. 4 bank,
said it cut an unspecified number of jobs last month at its
investment-banking unit.  Slowdown  Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, expects profit growth for the sector to fall to about 7
percent in 2012 and 8 percent in 2013 because of slowdowns in
consumer banking. Profit before one-time items increased 13
percent in 2011, he said.  “It doesn’t sound like it ties into the strategy of
focusing in on cost control,” said investor  Greg Eckel ,
referring to the hiring at Canadian banks. He helps manage about
C$1.2 billion at Morgan Meighen & Associates Ltd. in Toronto.
“I have to believe it’s just a one-off and not a trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 