-- Canada Dollar Falls as Bets on Slowdown in China Crimp Risk Bid
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-20T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/canada-dollar-falls-as-bets-on-slowdown-in-china-crimp-risk-bid.html
Canada ’s dollar depreciated from
almost a six-month high versus its U.S. counterpart as
speculation  China ’s economy is slowing sapped demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The currency dropped against the greenback, which rose
against the majority of its most-traded peers on demand for the
safest of assets. U.S. equities declined and crude oil fell as
Canadian benchmark  government bonds  gained for the first time in
six days.  “Most of the movement has been Chinese-growth dominated,”
said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “The Canadian dollar has been
lackluster -- it still has a good chance to test short-term
highs around 99.75 cents per U.S. dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.5 percent to 99.15
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It fell more than 1
percent earlier, the most since Dec. 12. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0085. The currency touched 98.42 cents on March 1, the
strongest level since September.  The loonie weakened against the euro and the Swiss franc
after  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said China’s steel production is
slowing. BHP, whose biggest customer is China, is re-evaluating
spending plans amid slowing Chinese growth, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, citing comments by Chairman
Jacques Nasser to investors.  ‘Risk-Off Sentiment’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent and crude
oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.3 percent. The Canadian
dollar has a correlation coefficient of 0.86 with the U.S.
equity index. A reading of 1 would indicate the two move in
lockstep.  “There is a little bit of risk-off sentiment, as equity
markets have been weaker,” said Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based
director of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  “With oil off
as well, commodity currencies like the Canadian dollar have been
trading off the back foot.”  The rise in  government bonds  pushed benchmark 10-year
yields down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.28
percent. They rose yesterday to 2.30 percent, the highest since
Oct. 31.  The yield  curve , the difference between two- and 10-year
notes, widened to 99 basis points after touching 83 basis points
on March 12, the lowest in more than three years. A narrowing
yield curve indicates investors anticipate slow economic growth
and inflation.  Bond Auction  “Bonds are better and currencies are taking their cues
from risk appetite rather than yields,”  Adam Cole , global head
of foreign-exchange strategy in  London  at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit, said in a telephone interview.
“That’s inevitably negative for the Canadian dollar, versus the
U.S. dollar at least.”  Canada will auction C$1.4 billion ($1.4 billion) of 30-year
bonds tomorrow, according to a statement on the central bank’s
website. The 3.5 percent securities are due to mature in
December 2045.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback rose to 7 percent, snapping a three-
day drop. It touched as low as 6.75 yesterday, the least since
June 2007. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.
It averaged 9.97 percent during the past year.  The loonie fell 0.9 percent in the past week against nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar lost 1
percent, while the euro added 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  