-- Canada Budget Said to Have Measures to Speed Energy Approvals
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/canada-budget-said-to-have-measures-to-speed-energy-approvals.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  plans to include new measures to expedite environmental
approvals for energy projects in next week’s budget, as part of
efforts to build new pipelines that will help the country tap
into growing Asian  demand  for oil, a person familiar with the document said.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government has
vowed to speed the regulatory review process for projects such
as pipelines, as the country seeks to build oil-exporting
capacity after President  Barack Obama  in January denied
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  a permit for its Keystone XL pipeline to the
U.S. New rules to quicken approvals will be part of the March 29
budget, the person said on condition they not be identified
because the fiscal plan hasn’t been made public.  Harper has said diversifying  Canada ’s energy exports is a
“national priority” as it will reduce reliance on the U.S. and
help Canadian producers generate higher prices by easing a glut
of oil in storage facilities around Cushing,  Oklahoma . Canada
sits on the world’s third-largest pool of oil reserves and
Harper last month led a delegation of more than 40 business
executives and five ministers to deepen energy links with  China .  “If we do not act quickly to fill the demand for these
commodities, the opportunity will pass us by,” Natural Resource
Minister Joe Oliver said in a statement today as he announced
plans to hold cross-country meetings to promote Canada’s
resource industries. “That is why regulatory modernization is
an economic fundamental we have to get right.”  Oliver is scheduled to give a speech in  Montreal  on March
27 to the Economic Club of Canada, according to the
organization’s website.  Hard Deadlines  “The Department will not speculate about the contents of
the budget,” said      Jack Aubry, a spokesman for Canada’s
finance department. Patricia Best, director of communications
for Oliver, didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.
Similar requests for comment from the Prime Minister’s Office
were not returned.  In a Feb. 11 interview with Bloomberg News, Oliver said
regulatory changes will include hard deadlines for reviews.  “One of the things we absolutely need is firm and
enforceable timelines from the beginning of the process to the
end,” Oliver said. “You say it’s going to take x months or
years and it has to be done in that time.”  Oliver declined to say in the interview whether the rules,
some of which will require legislation, would apply to projects
that have already been proposed. He said the measures will
include giving regulatory bodies such as the National Energy
Board more “authority” to keep reviews within specified
timeframes.  Northern Gateway  The government began  hearings  in January on the proposed
Northern Gateway pipeline by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to move crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to British Columbia’s coast, where it could
be shipped to Asian markets. The pipeline has become a
flashpoint with environmentalists and Harper’s government.  Regulators have received more than 4,000 requests by
individuals to testify at public hearings. Environmental and
aboriginal groups say the project will increase the risk of an
 oil spill  off the coast of British Columbia. The regulatory
panel has said it plans to complete the review by the end of
2013.  The government will be looking more closely into complaints
that environmental groups backed with foreign money are seeking
to overload the regulatory process, Harper has said. Oliver has
mentioned Tides Canada as a group channeling U.S. money to
pipeline opponents.  Merran Smith, director of Tides Canada’s Energy Initiative,
said in a Jan. 10 statement the “contrived” assertions were a
“red herring.”  Shipments by 2016  China could start receiving oil from the Gateway pipeline
as early as late 2016 if the company clears regulatory hurdles
in two years, Enbridge Chairman Patrick Daniel told Bloomberg
News in an interview Feb. 9.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , the second-biggest U.S.
pipeline operator, has said it will decide by the end of March
whether to move ahead with a $3.8 billion expansion of its Trans
Mountain oil-sands pipeline, the only pipeline currently
carrying crude and refined products from Alberta’s oil-sands
region to Canada’s Pacific Coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  