-- Spain’s Castilla Said to Sell Debt as Rajoy Backs Regions
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-20T14:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/castilla-y-leon-said-to-sell-bonds-in-euros-due-october-2014.html
Spain ’s region of Castilla y Leon
is selling bonds in the third public transaction by a regional
administration in the past week after Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  offered the states loans to help them meet liabilities.  The 2014 bonds issued in euros by Junta de Castilla y Leon
will be priced to yield 210 basis points more than Spanish
 government bonds , according to a banker involved in the
transaction, who declined to be identified before the
transaction was completed. Aragon and the Madrid region issued
debt last week, according to Bloomberg data.  Spain’s regions, which control more than a third of public
spending, have been locked out of capital markets, forcing them
to sell debt to their citizens and leave bills to suppliers
unpaid. The central government is offering regions credit lines
to help them meet bond redemptions and pay suppliers, a move
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday was positive for the
states.  Rajoy’s government created a credit line of as much as 15
billion euros ($19.8 billion) via the Official Credit Institute
on Feb. 3, part of which was aimed at helping regions meet bond
redemptions. It approved on March 2 another 35 billion euros of
loans, mostly through the country’s banks, to enable regions and
town halls to pay suppliers.  Castilla y Leon, in northern Spain, had a budget deficit of
2.35 percent of its gross domestic product last year, compared
with a target of 1.3 percent for all 17 states and an average of
2.94 percent. Madrid’s shortfall was 1.13 percent and Aragon’s
was 2.88 percent, according to government data.  Barclays Capital ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Credit Agricole CIB and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  are managing the
transaction, the banker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  