-- CBRE, EC Harris Compete for $1.3 Billion HSBC Contract
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-03-20T18:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/cbre-ec-harris-vie-for-1-3-bln-hsbc-property-contract.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the world’s
second-largest bank by market value, shortlisted five companies
for a property-management contract valued at more than 800
million pounds ($1.3 billion), a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  The bidders are  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , EC Harris LLP, ISS A/S,
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The winning company will manage all of London-based
HSBC’s offices except those in  North America .  “We are reviewing our facilities-management services
contracts across HSBC,” a spokesman for the bank said in an e-
mailed statement. “We’re at the early stages of the review
process and expect it to complete by the end of this year.”  Los Angeles-based CBRE, the world’s largest commercial real
estate services company, and London-based EC Harris declined to
comment in e-mails. Adam Wurf, a spokesman for ISS’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment. The two other firms didn’t respond to e-
mailed questions or telephone calls.  The contract is expected to be among the largest facilities
management deals ever signed, the person said. The winning
company will look after more than 6,000 offices for the bank in
Europe,  South America , Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa.  HSBC has 7,161 offices across the world, 481 of them in the
U.S. and another 241 in Canada. The bank didn’t comment on the
amount of space the winning firm is expected to manage or the
length of the contract.  The bank is likely to narrow the field to two bidders in
May and choose the winner at the end of August, the person said.
HSBC dropped 12.5 pence, or 2.2 percent, to 565.3 pence in
London, giving the company a market value of 101.8 billion
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  