-- CFTC Adopts Rule Requiring Real-Time Swap-Clearing Decisions
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-20T16:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/cftc-adopts-rule-requiring-real-time-swap-clearing-decisions-2-.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  has completed Dodd-Frank Act rules requiring swaps
brokers to decide within minutes whether to clear a trade in an
effort to reduce risk in the $708 trillion global swaps market.  The CFTC voted 4-1 today to adopt the regulation, which
requires Wall Street banks or clearinghouses operating on their
behalf to accept or reject trades for clearing as soon as
technologically possible -- in “milliseconds or seconds, or at
most, a few minutes,” according to a CFTC summary of the rule.  “This lowers risk to the markets by minimizing the time
between submission and acceptance or rejection of trades for
clearing,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said at the meeting in
 Washington .  Vanguard Group Inc., based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania ;
Citadel LLC, the Chicago hedge fund founded by  Ken Griffin ; and
 DRW Holdings LLC , a Chicago-based proprietary trading firm, have
urged the CFTC to require real-time decisions on clearing to
prevent the risks of disruption and uncertainty in the swaps
market.  “Latency raises the potential for market movement which
could lead to unacceptable breakage risks for one or both of the
parties to a trade,” Vanguard’s Gus Sauter, managing director
and chief investment officer, and John Hollyer, principal and
head of risk management, said in a Sept. 30 letter to the CFTC.  Unregulated Trades  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are leading
U.S. efforts to write new regulations for the swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, is intended
to reduce risk by having most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses
that stand between buyers and sellers.  The CFTC may require Wall Street banks and large funds to
clear certain types of swaps as early as October, Gensler said.
The agency may publish recommendations in April for which types
of swaps will face the mandatory clearing requirement, which
would then be open to a 90-day review process.  Once the CFTC determines that a particular type of swap
must be cleared, the largest swap-dealers have 90 days before
they must comply with the mandate, Gensler said. The first
determinations could come as early as July, he said.  The final Dodd-Frank regulations adopted today, which will
take effect Oct. 1, also prohibit dealers from drafting trade
documents with buyers that restrict their relationships with
other dealers. Under the regulation, a dealer can’t limit the
number of counterparties with whom a customer may trade or
restrict the size of the position a customer may have with any
individual counterparty.  Access Protected  The rule will boost competition for clearing by limiting
any broker “from restricting a customer or counterparty access
to other market participants,” Gensler said at the meeting.  “It tilts a little to the buy side. Every mutual fund,
every pension fund, every asset manager that we’ve talked to has
liked this,” Gensler told reporters after the meeting. “It is
sort of the small group of dealers and the  International Swaps
and Derivatives Association Inc.  that raises concerns because
they’re rational. They’re protecting their revenue potential.”  Wall Street banks are the largest swap dealers with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  controlling 95
percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding
companies as of Dec. 31,  according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency .  Risk-Based Limits  The CFTC regulations also require members of clearinghouses
to establish risk-based limits on accounts. The rule will
require clearing members to monitor the limits during the
trading day and overnight.  Clearinghouse members will also be required weekly to
stress-test positions that present material risk to brokers. The
brokers will be required to test in-house proprietary trades as
well as client positions that could expose the firms to risks.  The clearing-member requirements call into question the
CFTC’s system of using designated self-regulatory organizations
to oversee risks in the system,  Scott O’Malia , a Republican
commissioner who opposed the rule, said at the meeting. The CFTC
is taking the position that the self-regulatory system, “is not
enough and that to some extent ‘direct’ regulation is
necessary,” he said. “I disagree with this approach.”  The CFTC is considering changes to the self-regulatory
process after  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  collapsed last year,
prompting CFTC, SEC and Justice Department investigations into
missing customer funds. The bankruptcy trustee overseeing the
liquidation of the New York-based company’s brokerage has
estimated a $1.6-billion gap between customer claims and assets
currently available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  