-- Chavez Denounces Plot to Kill Rival in Repeat of 2006 Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-03-20T20:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/chavez-warns-of-plot-to-assassinate-electoral-rival-capriles.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he had evidence of a plot to kill the opposition
presidential candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski, six years
after making a similar claim ahead of the previous election.  The director of the secret service agency, known as Sebin,
met with Capriles’s team to see how they could help protect him,
Chavez said last night in a phone call broadcast on state
television, without giving details.  “There’s information out there that they want to attempt
to kill him and it’s not the government,” Chavez said. “It’s
information we’ve taken seriously because of the source from
which it comes.”  Chavez, who is battling cancer, is seeking to extend his 13
years in power by a further six years in an election scheduled
for Oct. 7. Before the 2006 election, Chavez said security
forces had broken up a plot by “radical fascists” to
assassinate opposition candidate Manuel Rosales. Police
recovered a rifle and telescopic lenses, though Chavez declined
to say if any arrests had been made.  This year’s alleged assassination plot comes after state
media controlled by Chavez accused Capriles of offenses ranging
from participating in a Zionist conspiracy to joining a Nazi-
inspired effort to wipe out blacks and the poor. Unidentified
gunmen disrupted a campaign stop by Capriles on March 4, firing
into the air and injuring one person.  Threat or Warning  “Yesterday someone on television was saying that they had
information that someone was preparing an assassination attempt
against me,” Capriles said in comments broadcast on Globovision
today. “Quite honestly, I’ll tell you one doesn’t know if
that’s a warning or a threat.”  Chavez and Capriles often refuse to mention each other’s
names in interviews.  Chavez’s announcement yesterday “borders on the
irresponsible,” and reflected his attitude to rising crime in
the country, Capriles said on his Twitter account.  The  murder rate  in Venezuela has almost tripled to 67 per
100,000 inhabitants, the highest in  South America , since Chavez
took power in 1999, according to the Venezuelan Violence
Observatory. The government says the murder rate is lower.  “When you’re in an important position such as leading a
country, you need to speak the language of peace,” Capriles
said. “It’s not about offering security to me, you need to
offer security to all the people you serve.”  Checkpoint Murder  Chavez said last night that 12 policemen suspected of
murdering the Chilean consul’s daughter in Maracaibo on March 16
must pay for what they did “with the full weight of the law.”  The attorney general’s office said March 17 it arrested the
officers suspected of killing Karen Berendique, 19, at a
checkpoint in the north western city of Maracaibo,  Venezuela ’s
second largest city.  Berendique was being driven to a birthday party five blocks
from home by her older brother when police at a checkpoint
pointed guns at the car, her father, Fernando Berendique, said.
When his son panicked, police shot at the car six times, he
said. His son wasn’t injured, he said.  As crime surges, diplomats in Venezuela have become
targets.  Chile ’s consul in Caracas, Juan Carlos Fernandez, was shot
during a kidnapping in the Venezuelan capital in November,
Chile’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Nov. 15.  He was held for two hours and beaten by his captors before
being released, according to the statement.  Mexico ’s ambassador
to Venezuela, Carlos Pujalte, was released after being kidnapped
in Caracas in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 