-- Chelsea May Offer $48 Million for Krul, Tiote: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-20T14:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/chelsea-may-offer-48-million-for-krul-and-tiote-soccer-roundup.html
(Corrects team in fourth item.)  The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Chelsea Chasing Newcastle Pair  Chelsea may offer as much as 30 million pounds ($48
million) for Newcastle players Tim Krul and Cheick Tiote, the
 Independent  reported.  Chelsea may pay close to 20 million pounds for Ivory Coast
midfielder Tiote, who joined Newcastle from  FC Twente  two years
ago. The west London club could bid as much as 10 million pounds
for Dutch goalkeeper Krul, who signed a five-year extension with
Newcastle earlier this month.  Messi Top Earner  Barcelona player  Lionel Messi  is soccer’s top earner with
annual wages of 27.4 million pounds, the  Sun  reported, citing a
list compiled by France Football.  Messi makes 13 million pounds a year at Barcelona, with the
rest coming from bonuses as well as endorsements with the likes
of Pepsi and Adidas.  Los Angeles Galaxy  and former England star
 David Beckham  is second on the list with 26 million pounds.  Chelsea Closing in on Hulk  Chelsea may sign Porto striker Hulk for a reduced fee of 40
million euros ($53 million) after the player asked if he could
leave, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Porto is willing to let the Brazilian player go for far
less money than its initial 100 million euro release fee, the
paper said, citing unnamed sources in  Portugal .  Chelsea is also interested in Atletico Madrid striker
Radamel Falcao, who left the club last summer.  Rio, Lampard on Chinese Wish List  Chinese Super League club Guizhou Renhe is trying to
attract Manchester United’s Rio Ferdinand and Chelsea’s  Frank Lampard  by offering them as much as 250,000 pounds a week, the
 Sun  reported.  “I want the best team in  China  and we are prepared to
invest a lot of money to bring Ferdinand and Lampard to us,”
the paper quoted Guizhou chairman Wang Guolin as saying.  Shanghai Shenhua has offered Real Madrid coach Jose
Mourinho 300,000 pounds a week after tax, while the club is also
interested in Chelsea star  Didier Drogba .  Former England manager Sven Goran Eriksson may become head
coach in Yunnan province, the paper said.  Klopp on Chelsea Radar  Borussia Dortmund manager Juergen Klopp has been added to
the list of possible new Chelsea coaches, the  Daily Mail 
reported. Klopp led the German side to its first Bundesliga
title since 2002 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  