-- Chinese Automobile Sales Projected to Miss Growth Target
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-20T10:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/chinese-automobile-sales-projected-to-miss-growth-target.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped on signs that growth in
 China ’s auto market may be slowing more than previously
forecast, leading to an increase in auto discounting.  Total vehicle deliveries -- forecast by the  China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers  to grow 8 percent this
year -- may fail to increase by even 5 percent because of the
“difficult” economic backdrop, Gu Xianghua, one of two
deputies to the secretary general at CAAM, said at a conference
in Qingdao today, citing his personal opinion. Demand for
commercial automobiles would be hit the hardest, Gu said.  BMW,  Daimler (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and VW’s Audi are all offering
discounts of 20 percent or more off the sticker price of their
top-end models in the world’s largest auto market, according to
cheshi.com, which tracks prices at more than 3,000 Chinese
dealerships. China is VW’s biggest market, while it’s the third-
largest for BMW and Mercedes.  “The rebates are an indication of weaker demand” in China,
said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank.
“It’s certainly a negative” for the German carmakers, said
Schwarz, who estimates that China accounts for about 30 percent
of profit at BMW and VW and roughly 20 percent at Daimler.  BMW  declined  as much as 3.89 euros, or 5.4 percent, to
67.95 euros and was down 5 percent as of 11:20 a.m. in Frankfurt
trading. Daimler was 5.1 percent lower at 44.71 euros and VW
fell 4.5 percent to 132.90 euros.  Mercedes is offering record discounts of 25 percent on the
S-Class, according to cheshi.com. BMW’s 7-series and  Audi (VOW3) ’s A8
sell for 20 percent below sticker prices, and salesmen are
dangling perks ranging from free iPhones to Hermes-bag coupons
as waiting lists have vanished.  Declining growth may result in  China (CNGDPYOY)  expanding at a slower
pace than the estimated increases in the U.S.,  Japan  and  India .
Gu’s comments reflect the mounting pessimism over sales in China
as the economy slows and rising fuel prices threaten to drive
away consumers from dealerships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net  