-- China’s Money Rate Climbs to One-Week High as Banks Hoard Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T08:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/china-s-money-rate-climbs-to-one-week-high-as-banks-hoard-cash.html
China ’s money-market rate rose to
the highest level in almost a week as banks hoarded cash to meet
quarter-end  capital requirements .  The People’s Bank of China sold 50 billion yuan ($7.9
billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  at a  yield  of 2.8
percent, unchanged from last week, according to a statement on
its website today. Some 51 billion yuan of central bank bills
and repurchase contracts will mature this week, up from 29
billion last week, according to China Merchants Bank Co.’s data.  “Banks have started refraining from lending to each other
due to concern about a quarter-end cash shortage,” said Duan
Su, a bond analyst at Yinzhou Bank Co. in Ningbo in eastern
Zhejiang province. “Liquidity may get tight for a few days at
the end of the month, but the shortage won’t last long.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 12 basis points to 3.01 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , the highest level since March 15,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  China won’t see a “hard landing” in its economy in part
because many local governments are still targeting annual growth
above 10 percent, said Xia Bin, a former adviser to the nation’s
central bank. He’s a researcher with the State Council’s
Development Research Center.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, added six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.22 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bonds due January
2021 rose one basis point to 3.56 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Anil Varma, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 