-- China Steel Growth Has Flattened as Economy Shifts, BHP Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-20T08:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/china-steel-growth-has-flattened-as-economy-shifts-bhp-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (RIO) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said China’s steel production is slowing
as the world’s fastest-growing major economy starts to shift to
focus more on consumers than large building projects.  “The big infrastructure build clearly will come to some
end,” Ian Ashby, the Melbourne-based company’s president of
iron ore, told reporters today in Perth. “Steel growth rates
will flatten, and they have flattened, and we still see positive
growth out to the middle of the next decade.”  The Australian dollar dropped for the first time in four
days after the comments as Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
largest iron ore exporter, said at a conference in Perth that
it’s seeing a slowdown in China, its biggest customer. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  this month cut the nation’s economic annual growth
target to 7.5 percent and an official at the China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers said vehicle sales this year may
miss the industry group’s forecast.  “The rate of GDP growth in China is more immediately
slowing,” Rio’s  David Joyce , managing director of expansion
projects, said at the conference. “We remain confident on the
basis of the figures we have seen, of a soft landing, with solid
growth for this year.”  Dollar Declines  Australia ’s dollar lost 0.4 percent to $1.0564 at 6:17 p.m.
in Sydney after climbing 1.5 percent over the past three days.
The so-called Aussie slid 0.3 percent to 88.12 yen from 88.40
yesterday, when it rose as high as 88.64, the highest since May
2011. BHP closed 0.1 percent lower at A$35.31 and London-based
Rio declined 0.4 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
retreated 0.4 percent.  “There will be further risk that the Chinese economy will
be slowing down” more than expected, said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .  Steel output in China, the biggest producer, may slow
growth to 4 percent this year, the China Iron and Steel
Association said March 6. China’s vehicle sales may only
increase by 5 percent this year, compared with the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers forecast of 8 percent,
as economic conditions damp demand, Gu Xianghua, deputy
secretary general of the association said today in Qingdao.  Weak Demand  Tire production growth in China, the world’s largest
automobile market, may slow this year to 5 percent as a weaker
economy saps sales in the commercial-vehicle market, Shen
Jinrong, chairman of Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co., a Chinese
tiremaker, said today in Qingdao. Output grew 6.05 percent in
2011, according to the China Rubber Industry Association.  Iron ore  prices have averaged $141.14 a metric ton this
year, down 16 percent from last year’s average, according to
data from The Steel Index Ltd. for iron ore shipments to China’s
Tianjin port. The steelmaking raw material may average $86 a ton
by 2016, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in a
report dated yesterday.  “The type of economy that’s being developed in China is
changing,” Ashby said. It “will go through a phase of things
like machinery and equipment becoming more important as people
get up that GDP per head curve,” he said.  Double Capacity  China’s steel demand will remain positive until at least
2025, he said.  BHP (BHP)  is doubling iron ore capacity by 2020 and in
January received initial approval for a A$14 billion ($15
billion) expansion of an export harbor in  Western Australia  to
boost supply to  steel mills . The cost estimate is from a report
last year by the state’s Department of Mines and Petroleum.  “We’re still confident in the long-term demand for
commodities generally, of which iron ore is one, as one-third of
the global population is urbanizing and the population is
getting bigger,” Ashby said. The company hasn’t “slowed down”
its plans to add more capacity, he said.  Rio is also expanding its mines and sees its global
production approaching 450 million tons a year in the next five
years, it said on March 7. Its increasing output by more than 50
percent to 283 million tons by next year. Iron ore is both Rio
and BHP’s biggest earning units.  BHP, whose biggest customer is also  China , is re-evaluating
spending plans amid slowing Chinese growth, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, citing Chairman Jacques Nasser’s comments to investors. China accounted for 28 percent
of BHP’s sales in the last financial year and 31 percent of
Rio’s.  Steel output in China will grow to between 1 billion metric
tons and 1.1 billion tons by 2025 from about 700 million tons
currently, Ashby said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  