-- Chinese Executives Report Higher Economic Confidence, PBOC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T10:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/chinese-executives-report-higher-economic-confidence-pboc-says.html
Chinese business executives and
bankers reported increased confidence in the economy compared
with three months ago, according to quarterly surveys released
by the  central bank  today.  A macroeconomic confidence index of business executives
rose for the first time in a year this quarter, while a similar
index for bankers gained, the two separate surveys showed.
Gauges of companies’ expectations for market demand, export
orders and domestic orders all climbed from the previous three
months, according to the  survey .  The improving sentiment contrasts with data showing a slump
in exports and domestic demand in the first two months of the
year. That may back forecasts by Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. that  China ’s growth will begin to accelerate next
quarter after slowing since the end of 2010.  Respondents increasingly see the central bank building on
growth-supporting steps that include two reductions in banks’
reserve requirements since November. About 21.3 percent of the
bankers say monetary policies will tend to be looser next
quarter, a 17.7 percentage-point rise from the previous survey,
according to today’s  release  from the central bank in Beijing.  The surveys cover more than 5,000 companies and 3,000
financial institutions nationwide.  Indexes of current market demand and domestic orders fell
for a fifth quarter and an export-order gauge dropped, according
to the survey of business executives. Loan demand from
manufacturing and non-manufacturing industries also fell, the
bankers’ survey showed.  Cooling Growth  China’s  growth  cooled throughout last year as the central
bank tightened lending and the government prolonged property
curbs including higher  mortgage rates  and home-purchase
restrictions. Nomura forecasts gross domestic product growth may
reach a trough of 7.8 percent this quarter, down from 8.9
percent in the last three months of 2011.  The government may have more room to ease monetary policies
after consumer inflation slowed to a 20-month low in February. A
 survey  of 20,000 urban households, also released by the PBOC
today, showed inflation expectations declined this quarter.  The proportion of respondents projecting a rise in consumer
prices next quarter fell by 5.4 percentage points to 31.4
percent.  The household survey showed expectations for property-price
increases dropped to a three-year low. China’s February home
prices fell in 45 of the 70 cities monitored by the government
from the previous month, and new  home prices  in cities of
 Shanghai , Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou dropped for a fifth
month.  Still, about two-thirds of households said property prices
are unacceptably high. The proportion of people who plan to buy
homes in the next three months was unchanged at 14.1 percent,
remaining at the lowest level since the survey on property
prices began in 1999.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  