-- Contraception Fight Shapes Virginia Race for U.S. Senate
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-20T15:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/contraception-fight-shapes-virginia-race-for-u-s-senate.html
Hundreds of women lined the
entrance to  Virginia (BEESVA) ’s Capitol last month to stare down state
lawmakers debating a bill to declare that life starts at
conception. That’s the kind of event Democrats are counting on
to help them in November.  Former U.S. Senator George Allen, a  Virginia  Republican who
is running to return to the chamber, backs the “personhood”
measure and would like to make it federal law. He isn’t saying
whether he supports Virginia’s new law requiring women to
undergo an ultrasound exam before having an abortion.  “He’s absolutely running away from it,” said former
Republican Representative  Tom Davis , a Virginian who led his
party’s campaign efforts in the House. “By refusing to say
where you are, you almost get saddled with it anyway.”  The race between Allen and Democrat  Tim Kaine  is among the
most watched in the country, pitting two former Virginia
governors in a contest for an open seat with majority control of
the U.S. Senate at stake. Democrats see proposals to curb
reproductive rights as a way to drive female independent voters
back to the party in the November election. An unprecedented
1,100 such bills were proposed across the U.S. last year,
according to the Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit group that
backs reproductive and abortion rights.  “I’ve never quite seen anything like this,” said Eleanor Smeal, president of the Feminist Majority Foundation who has
spent the past 30 years working for abortion rights. “It’s a
battle royal just on family planning.”  Mississippi Vote  Even so, voters in  Mississippi  rejected a ballot initiative
Nov. 8 that would have banned abortion by declaring that life
begins at conception. A March 8-11 Bloomberg National Poll
showed that 77 percent of those surveyed said birth control
shouldn’t be a topic of the political debate, while 20 percent
said it should.  Traci Thrash, a 32-year-old mother from Leesburg, said
Allen won’t get her vote if he backs Virginia’s ultrasound
requirement. “It’s crazy,” said Thrash, who voted for
Republican presidential nominee  John McCain  in 2008. “How can
you force that on to women?”  She lives in Loudoun County, 25 miles west of Washington,
which had the U.S.’s highest median household income in a 2010
Census report and is home to many of the suburban swing voters
coveted by both parties. Voters in the county supported
President  Barack Obama  four years ago and President  George W. Bush  in 2004. Virginia’s ultrasound law “will definitely affect
my vote,” Thrash said.  ‘Felt Ashamed’  “It’s the first time I felt ashamed to be from Virginia
over the personhood and ultrasound bills,” said Nikki Davis, a
28-year-old parks and recreation worker and independent voter
from Leesburg who supported Obama in 2008. Obama was the first
Democrat to carry Virginia since 1964.  A Quinnipiac University poll released today shows Obama
ahead of Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney  in Virginia by 50
percent to 42 percent, the president’s biggest lead over Romney
in this election cycle. In the Senate race, the poll shows Kaine
leading Allen, 47 percent to 44 percent, within in the March 13-
18 poll’s three-percentage-point margin of error.  There’s a danger for Democrats in focusing on divisive
social issues in an election where voters are more concerned
about jobs and the economy, said Chris LaCivita, a Republican
strategist and longtime Allen adviser.  ‘Bridge Too Far’  “It’s kind of a bridge too far,” he said. “The warning
to Republicans is ‘just don’t take the bait.’”  Virginia lawmakers in Richmond delayed action on the
“personhood” proposal after the women gathered on Feb. 23.
Opponents, including Kaine, say the measure would outlaw
abortion as well as forms of  birth control , such as the pill,
that work by preventing implantation of a fertilized egg.  The Kaine campaign has seized on the issue. It issued a
March 15 press release highlighting a 2005 Senate vote Allen
cast against an amendment that would have required insurance
plans covering impotence drugs such as Viagra to also offer
contraception coverage.  The birth-control debate reignited in February when the
Obama administration sought to require some religious-affiliated
institutions to provide contraceptive health-insurance coverage
for women employees. Talk show host  Rush Limbaugh  called a
female law student a “slut” and a “prostitute” after she
testified in favor of birth-control coverage. He apologized,
though still lost dozens of advertisers.  Religious, Moral Reasons  On March 1, the  U.S. Senate  narrowly defeated, 51-48, a
Republican plan to let employers and insurers refuse to cover
birth control for religious or moral reasons.  The debate over women’s health is also simmering in the
presidential race, with Romney supporting the Senate birth
control bill and last week saying he wants to “get rid” of
 Planned Parenthood .  “There’s going to be a cultural dimension to the 2012
campaign, and it’s one the Democrats want,” said Bob Holsworth,
a political scientist in Virginia and a former dean at Virginia
Commonwealth University. “They really want the opportunity to
highlight what happens when Republicans have control of the
state legislature.”  Democrats are losing the party’s historic advantage with
women. In the March 8-11 Bloomberg poll, 49 percent of women
said they would choose Obama over Republican front-runner
Romney, who received 45 percent. In 2008, Obama won 56 percent
of the women’s vote to 43 percent for McCain, an  Arizona 
senator, according to national exit polls.  Trend in Legislatures  The Virginia measures are part of a trend, particularly in
Republican-controlled legislatures. “Women’s groups have been
fighting this in state after state,” Smeal said. “It sort of
popped with Virginia. It was a buildup.”  Last year, 92 bills restricting abortion became law in 24
states, a record, according to Guttmacher. All but nine were
signed into law by a Republican governor.  New Hampshire ’s House voted to let some employers opt out
of a state requirement that employers cover birth control.
Legislation to curb access to contraception also has been
introduced in Missouri, Idaho and Arizona.  In  Ohio , state Senator Nina Turner took a satirical
approach in her opposition to such proposals. She introduced
legislation requiring men to receive a psychological evaluation
before receiving impotence drugs.  ‘Return the Favor’  “The men in our lives, including members of the General
Assembly, generously devote time to fundamental female
reproductive issues -- the least we can do is return the
favor,” Turner said in a March 2 press release.  Republicans, who gained control of the Virginia Assembly in
January, have pushed a number of measures on abortion, gay
rights, guns and other initiatives that were blocked for decades
under Democratic control.  Allen opposes banning birth control and supports the
personhood bill to let women sue if they are injured while
pregnant and the fetus is harmed, spokesman Bill Riggs said in
an e-mail, adding he would rather focus on the economy. Allen’s
campaign has declined to give his position on Virginia’s new
ultrasound requirement.  One challenge for Democrats is that some women don’t appear
to be aware of the new laws. Among women interviewed in Loudoun
County, there was a split between younger and older women, who
were less critical of the ultrasound law.  Patricia Williams, a 49-year-old independent from Leesburg
who voted for Obama in 2008, said she supports the requirement
to undergo an ultrasound, though the issue wouldn’t change her
vote.  Lynn Del, a 49-year-old Republican from Leesburg, denounced
the government’s incursion into women’s personal lives. Still,
she said it’s not a voting issue for her. “Let’s feed our
children and get people off the street,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
 Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  