-- Cook Bets Apple Will Avoid Fate of Slower-Growth Peers
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-11T21:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/cook-bets-apple-will-avoid-fate-of-slower-growth-dividend-peers.html
(Corrects amount of Apple’s cash in second paragraph of
story that ran March 20.)  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  is betting that his company can keep cranking out best-
selling gadgets even while paying a dividend, avoiding the fate
of peers that return money to investors yet grow more slowly.  Cook said yesterday that Apple will dip in to its $97.6
billion in cash and investments to pay investors $2.65 a quarter
for each share owned. The Cupertino, California-based company
also instituted a $10 billion share-buyback program.  Dividends are often associated with companies that have
matured past a rapid-growth phase and get more mileage from
returning cash to shareholders than using it to generate
innovative products, said Lee Pinkowitz, an  associate professor 
of finance at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . Apple, with a
steady flow of electronics that have transformed the way people
compute and communicate, is an exception, he said.  “There is this view that dividends are an admission of
defeat,” said Pinkowitz. “Apple is unique. It has gotten to
that point as a victim of its own success. They have so much
cash and are making it faster than they could spend.”  Apple boosted sales 68 percent in calendar 2011, compared
with 2 percent at  AT&T Inc. (T) , 8 percent at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and a
decline at  General Electric Co. (GE)  All pay dividends.  While Apple is more than 30 years old, it has undergone
rapid growth in recent years after the introductions of the
iPhone and iPad. Since the iPhone debuted in January 2007, the
stock has risen more than sevenfold. The company’s cash pile
grew by 62 percent last year alone.  Growth, Plus Dividends  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, is attempting to
heed investors’ concerns that it was hoarding too much cash
while avoiding the perception that it’s no longer a growth
company, said  Giri Cherukuri , a portfolio manager at Oakbrook
Investments LLC, which holds Apple shares.  “It’s big enough to satisfy investors and for Apple to
continue to maintain that it’s a growth company,” said
Cherukuri.  Cook said Apple will continue to thrive by expanding
abroad, adding new business users and adding new customers for
its line of Mac computers.  “We don’t see a ceiling” for the company’s growth
prospects, Cook said on a conference call yesterday. Surging
global demand for smartphones will result in continued growth
for the iPhone, Apple’s top-selling product, while the iPad is
the market-leader in tablet sales, he said. The Mac business is
outperforming the broader market, and Apple is building an
enterprise sales force to lure new business users, Cook said.  ‘Extremely Confident’  “The growth speaks for itself,” Cook said on the call.
“I am extremely confident in our future. The pipeline is full
of stuff and I think our customers are going to be incredibly
pleased with what they see coming out.”  Analysts predict Apple’s shares will continue to rise. At
least four analysts have increased their price targets for Apple
to $700 or higher in recent weeks. Morgan Keegan yesterday
raised its price target for Apple to $800.  Apple climbed to a  record  $601.10 yesterday in  New York ,
leaving the year-to-date gain at 48 percent.  The buyback and dividend will cost Apple about $45 billion
over three years. Even so, the company will be adding about $30
billion in cash per year to its  balance sheet , according to  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Apple may
have more than $200 billion at its disposal by 2015, he said.  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs , who died in October, had long
resisted calls to return some of the money to  shareholders ,
saying that the company was keeping its “powder dry” in case
an opportunity emerged.  Temptation to Waste  Cook, after taking over as CEO, signaled more willingness
to listen to shareholders and said earlier this year that Apple
had more money that it needed to run the business.  Apple’s dividend was “inevitable” and its size will
likely grow as the company adds more cash to its balance sheet,
said Harry DeAngelo,  professor of finance  at the University of
 Southern California  in  Los Angeles . He said linking a dividend
with a company’s growth prospects is an “inappropriate way of
framing” the issue.  “The cash influxes are so huge that at some point you have
to ask does it make sense to keep accumulating their cash
internally,” DeAngelo said. “The answer is an unequivocally
no. When too much cash builds up, there becomes a temptation to
waste it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  