-- Corporate, Sovereign Credit Swap Indexes Roll Into New Series
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-20T09:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/corporate-sovereign-credit-swap-indexes-roll-into-new-series.html
The latest series of indexes
measuring the cost of protecting against default on corporate
and sovereign bonds started trading today.  Gauges of credit-default swaps on companies in  Europe , Asia
and Australia rolled into their 17th series. The 18th version of
the Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade Index also opens
today as well as the seventh series of Markit’s iTraxx SovX
Indexes of sovereign credit. The 17th series of  Japan ’s gauge
will roll tomorrow.  New series of credit-default swap benchmarks are created
every six months when companies are added or dropped depending
on their ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
cost 545.5 basis points at 9 a.m. in  London , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That compares with 503 basis points on the
previous series at the close of trading yesterday. London-based
Markit Group Ltd., which administers the iTraxx and CDX indexes
said four companies changed in that measure.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings cost 113 basis points, compared with
112.5 yesterday, after three companies changed.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers cost 181 and the subordinated
index cost 311 basis points. HSBC Bank Plc replaced  Banco
Popolare SC (BP)  in both financial gauges.  Cyprus replaced  Greece  in the Markit iTraxx Western Europe
Index after swaps were triggered by the biggest ever sovereign
debt restructuring. That gauge was trading at 274.5, according
BNP Paribas SA, compared with 220 basis points yesterday.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.2 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  