-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Decline for a Tenth Day
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-20T22:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-increase-for-first-time-in-10-days.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell for a tenth day as banks,  hedge funds  and other
money managers moved trades into a new version of the index.  Series 18 of the  Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index (IBOXUMAE) , which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined to 88 basis
points as of 4:46 p.m. in  New York , after trading as high as 92
basis points earlier, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. The new version ended about 6 basis points higher than
Series 17, Phoenix data show. The old series reached the lowest
level yesterday since March 9, 2011, Markit data show.  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s index, which typically
rises as investor confidence deteriorates, are created every six
months. Companies are replaced if they no longer have
appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most actively traded
borrowers, or fail to meet other criteria.  The roll is “a little bit technical for the market, and a
lot annoying for most clients,” according to Peter Tchir,
founder of TF Market Advisors in New York. Traders wanting to
buy protection often wait until after the roll to enter,
especially when the market has been rallying, he said.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  replaced Black &
Decker Corp., the toolmaker acquired by Stanley Works. Exelon
Corp. will take the place of Constellation Energy Group Inc.,
the Baltimore-based company it acquired this month.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Easing Risk  This measure touched 84.7 basis points yesterday, the
lowest level since March 2011, on optimism about the strength of
the world’s biggest economy after the  Federal Reserve  raised its
assessment at a March 13 policy meeting.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened 1.3 basis points to 26.75
basis points. The measure rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  