-- CVC Said to Tap Goldman Sachs to Study IPO of Formula One
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-20T11:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/cvc-said-to-hire-goldman-to-explore-ipo-of-formula-one-business.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to explore a possible sale of a stake
in Formula One in an initial public offering, said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Any deal to sell part of CVC’s 63.4 percent holding may
value the auto-racing series at more than $10 billion and
Singapore is a possible listing venue, the person said,
declining to be identified as the deliberations are private.  An IPO by Formula One would be a boost to Singapore, which
is vying with Hong Kong to attract companies from across the
world seeking to capitalize on  Asia ’s growing economies. Formula
One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone said he would
remain in his position under CVC’s plans.  “That’s the intention: business as usual,” Ecclestone,
81, said in a phone interview. Ecclestone said he has no plans
to sell his 5.3 percent stake.  Ecclestone, who has owned or managed the sport’s commercial
unit since 1995, is negotiating with teams over terms that
expire after this year and according to  Sky News  has offered
Ferrari SpA and Red Bull GmbH’s entrants as much as $45 million
to sign up through 2020.  Ecclestone said it’s “not really” necessary for the
negotiations with teams to be concluded before a share sale and
there was no deadline for the talks. He declined to say if any
of the 12 teams had agreed to new terms.  “We’re in the middle of sorting that out,” Ecclestone
said. “It’s always the same with these long-winded things but
it will get sorted out.”  Singapore Attraction  Sky News reported yesterday that CVC hired Goldman Sachs to
study a placement of part of its stake in Formula One.
Spokespeople for CVC and Goldman Sachs declined to comment on
the possible IPO.  Manchester United Ltd. (MNU) , the record 19-time English soccer
champion, may revive a  Singapore  IPO, people familiar with the
matter said this month. A Formula One share sale will enhance
“brand Singapore,” according to Christopher Wong, a Singapore-
based senior investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management
Asia Ltd., which manages more than $87 billion in assets in the
region.  “Listing it in Singapore appeals to the growing popularity
of the sport in this part of the world, which is driving the
growth of F1,” Wong said.  CVC bought Formula One in a leveraged buyout in 2005 and
2006 using $2.5 billion of loans. Other shareholders include the
administrators of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. who hold 15.3
percent and Ecclestone’s former wife Slavica who owns 8.5
percent through Bambino Holdings Ltd. The series has annual
sales of 1.17 billion euros ($1.55 billion) and employs 200
people, according to the CVC website.  Other Interest  News Corp . and the Agnelli family’s Exor SpA expressed an
interest in buying CVC’s stake last year, although analysts said
a phone-hacking scandal that closed News Corp.’s News of the
World tabloid had pushed a possible bid down its agenda.  Formula One added  India  to its racing circuit last year and
also holds Grand Prix races in  China ,  Malaysia ,  Japan ,  Korea  and
Singapore. The 2012 season began two days ago with the
Australian Grand Prix in  Melbourne .  Formula One may be drawn to a Singapore listing because of
the city-state’s efforts to cultivate itself as a destination
for wealthy individuals, Aberdeen’s Wong said.  “Singapore has created this whole ecosystem around private
banking, wealth management, the integrated resorts, arts and
culture for the rich and famous,” he said.  Singapore Race  Singapore began staging a Formula One race in 2008. The
government supported the event as part of a goal to boost
tourism. The race contract ends this year and Singapore hired
consultants to assess its impact on the city-state’s economy,
the Straits Times reported in September.  Singapore’s exchange is vying with  Hong Kong  for brand-name
listings as  Europe ’s credit crisis deters companies from going
public there. Hong Kong hosted IPOs by Prada SpA and Samsonite
International SA last year.  Manchester United  received the Singapore stock exchange’s
approval in September to raise about $1 billion in an IPO,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. The
process then stalled as volatile stock markets made equity sales
more difficult to pull off, bankers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  