-- Czech Monetary Conditions Should Be Loose, Policy Maker S
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-20T15:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/czechs-should-keep-monetary-conditions-loose-policy-maker-says.html
The Czech central bank should keep
monetary conditions relaxed as the euro area’s sovereign debt
crisis prompts the government, companies and households to spend
less and save more, Vice Governor Mojmir Hampl said.  Policy makers in Prague have refrained from changing
monetary settings since May 2010, keeping the  benchmark  two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter-point
less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate. The economy,
which exports about 80 percent of its output, slid into a
recession last year as  government spending  cuts overshadowed
demand for Czech-made vehicles, car parts and electronics goods.  The central bank doesn’t need to raise interest rates even
as  inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in more than three
years in February because the spike was driven by an increase in
the value-added  tax rate  at the start of the year, Hampl said.
Austerity measures and a lack of spending by households and
companies keeps demand-led inflation pressures under control.  “All major economic subjects in the Czech economy are in a
cautious mode,” Hampl said in an interview yesterday in his
office in the center of  Prague . “A combination of an economy
without an internal driver, conservative domestic subjects and
an external environment lacking a real recovery, makes me lean
toward relaxed monetary conditions.”  Bonds Gain  Hampl declined to say how he will vote on rates at the next
monetary-policy session on March 29, nor would he say whether
economic developments may warrant a decline in interest rates in
the second half of the year as indicated in the central bank’s
forecast from Feb. 2.  The state bond maturing in 2015 gained today, reducing the
yield by seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.082
percent by 4:18 p.m. in Prague, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Forward-rate agreements fixing the three-month
 interest rate  in six-months time declined three basis points to
1.18 percent today.  The Czech  economy  ships about 70 percent of its exports to
the euro area’s 17 members. Gross domestic product fell 0.1
percent in the final quarter of 2011, the same as in the
previous three months. GDP in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy
and the main destination for Czech goods, contracted 0.2 percent
in the fourth quarter after growing 0.6 percent between July and
September.  Lacking Impetus  “We aren’t exactly experiencing golden times in our
economy,” Hampl said. “It lacks its own impetus, its own
driver. The economy is dependent on the EU and the  euro zone ,
which have not yet solved their problems.”  The Czech inflation rate jumped to 3.7 percent in February,
the highest since November 2008, exceeding the central bank’s 2
percent target for a fifth month. The central bank forecasts the
headline rate will stay above 3 percent this year and sees it
falling to 1.5 percent in the first quarter in 2013.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, will “move near” the inflation target of 2 percent by
the third quarter of next year, the bank said in a Feb. 2
forecast.  “Current inflation numbers are higher than our
expectations,” Hampl said. “But these one-off factors, caused
mainly by the increase in indirect taxes, aren’t changing the
fact that this is a low-inflation economy.”  Tax Increase  The government raised the lower bracket for the value-added
tax levied on goods and services including food, drugs and
public transport to 14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012
to boost budget revenue.  Retail (CZRSYOY)  sales growth slowed to 1.3
percent in January, from 7.3 percent a year earlier, as budget
spending cuts curbed  household income  and  unemployment  rate rose
to an 11-month high of 9.2 percent.  Government spending fell 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months, while household consumption was
flat.  Inflation is tamed by strengthening of the Czech koruna,
which has gained 6.8 percent so far this year, the seventh-
biggest rise among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The koruna traded at 24.445 as of 4:18 p.m. in Prague
today, 0.1 percent stronger from yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  