-- TD Bank May Split $20 Million for Advising on Viterra Takeover
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-03-20T20:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/td-bank-may-split-20-million-for-advising-on-viterra-takeover.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Canaccord
Financial Inc. (CF)  may get as much as $20 million for advising grain
handler  Viterra Inc. (VT)  on its takeover by Glencore International
Plc, the largest of a Canadian company since 2008.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  also may get
as much as $18 million for counseling Glencore, according to New
York-based researcher Freeman & Co. Glencore, the biggest
publicly traded commodity supplier, agreed to pay C$16.25 a
share for Viterra, the companies said today.  The acquisition helped push TD, Canada’s second-biggest
lender by assets, to the top of rankings for takeovers of
Canadian companies over the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Royal Bank holds fourth place, behind
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  The takeover of Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra is
Canada’s largest since Teck Resources Ltd. bought Fording
Canadian Coal Trust for about $14 billion in cash and stock in
October 2008. The purchase will help Glencore expand in Canada
and Australia as Asian development fuels demand for grains.  Canaccord, Canada’s largest non-bank brokerage, is in fifth
place among advisers on takeovers of Canadian entities. The
Vancouver-based firm advised on acquisitions such as China
Petrochemical Corp.’s C$2.2 billion ($2.2 billion) purchase of
Daylight Energy Ltd. in Calgary last year.  The Viterra transaction also makes Bank of America the top
U.S.-based adviser on takeovers of Canadian companies in the
past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank also helped manage
Glencore’s $9.6 billion initial public offering last May.  Glencore, based in Baar, Switzerland, agreed to purchase
Xstrata Plc for $41 billion last month in the largest mining
deal on record. JPMorgan Chase & Co., which leads the banks in
global market share of deals, was among the banks that advised
on that transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  