-- Dale Says U.K. Inflation May Not Slow as Fast as BOE Expects
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-21T07:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/dale-says-u-k-inflation-may-not-slow-as-fast-as-boe-forecasts.html
Bank of England  Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said U.K. inflation may not slow as fast this year
as the central bank has forecast as tensions in the Middle East
push up oil prices.  The Monetary Policy Committee’s central projection is that
 inflation  is “somewhat more likely to be below” its 2 percent
target than above it for much of the next three years. Dale said
that while there are “good reasons” to expect price growth to
slow, his outlook is “somewhat more balanced.”  “External price pressures might continue to push up on
domestic costs and prices,” he said in a speech late yesterday
in Aberystwyth, Wales. “One obvious worry in that regard is the
possibility that tensions within the  Middle East  could escalate
and put further upward pressure on oil prices.”  The comments echo remarks by  Martin Weale , who said last
month that inflation may prove more persistent than expected and
suggested the central bank’s increase in stimulus in February
may be the last. The Bank of England kept its  bond-purchase plan 
and  interest rates  unchanged this month.  While Dale acknowledged that “the support being provided
by monetary policy is likely to have to remain in place for some
time yet,” he said policy makers will have to “remain mindful
that there is a limit to what monetary policy can achieve when
real adjustments are required.”  “Mr. Dale’s relative hawkishness is not surprising -- he
was voting for a rate increase last year,” said  Simon Hayes , an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “We would not expect
him to support any further expansion of quantitative easing in
the coming months.”  Osborne’s Budget  The pound slid for a third day against the euro today
before Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  presents his
annual budget. It depreciated 0.1 percent to 83.47 pence per
euro as of 7:52 a.m. London time. It was up 0.1 percent against
the dollar at $1.5884.  Dale said the pound’s decline over the past few years will
aid the rebalancing of the  British economy . Sterling has
declined about 23 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the
start of 2007.  “The lower  exchange rate  should help to drive that
process,” he said. “Even so, it’s likely to be a slow and
challenging journey, especially while it is played out against
the current backdrop of weak demand.”  ‘Weak’ Recovery  Inflation (UKRPCJYR)  slowed to 3.4 percent in February from 3.6
percent in January, the  Office for National Statistics  said
yesterday. The easing was less than economists forecast and left
price growth above the central bank’s 3 percent upper limit.  Dale said the pace of the economic recovery is “likely to
remain weak in the near term,” helping push down domestic price
pressures. Still, the U.K. is “not out of the woods” and the
longer-term outlook is less clear, he said.  “There are still a few more base effects to drop out of
the annual calculation over the next couple of months,” Dale
said. “What is far more uncertain, and far more important for
the path of monetary policy, is how far and how fast inflation
will fall thereafter.”  Crude- oil prices  have increased about 24 percent in the
past six months on concern that European Union and U.S.
sanctions against  Iran’s nuclear program  will disrupt Mideast
exports. In addition to oil prices, Dale pointed to risks to
inflation from weak productivity growth and the possibility that
companies may try to rebuild profit margins.  The MPC bank kept its  bond-purchase target  at 325 billion
pounds this month after increasing it by 50 billion pounds in
February. The Bank of England will publish the minutes of the
March meeting, which will show how the nine policy makers voted,
at 9:30 a.m. today.  “There is a delicate balancing act to manage,” Dale said.
“The best contribution that monetary policy can make to the
long-run health and sustainability of our economy is to ensure
that inflation remains on track to hit the 2 percent inflation
target.”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  