-- Dangdang Sees Consolidation in China E-Commerce Market in 2012
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-03-20T03:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/dangdang-sees-consolidation-in-china-e-commerce-market-in-2012.html
E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) ,
owner of  China ’s biggest Internet bookstore, expects mergers and
acquisitions in the nation’s online retail market this year as
operators face difficulty obtaining funds.  “Given what happened to the  capital market  for the last
six months and today, most of the companies will have difficulty
continuing to do fund-raising on the e-commerce side,” Dangdang
Chief Financial Officer Conor Yang said in an interview in Hong
Kong today. “Therefore I do expect that by the end of this
year, there will be a lot of consolidation.”  Dangdang has posted three straight quarters of  losses 
because of price cuts and promotions to lure users from websites
including 360Buy.com and  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ) ’s Tmall.com.
Shares of Beijing-based Dangdang slumped 84 percent last year,
falling below the December 2010 initial public offering price of
$16.  Yang said Dangdang’s book prices are about one-third lower
than in physical stores. The company maintains its profitability
through cheaper purchases from suppliers, he said.  “Pricing is a very important factor for margins,” Yang
said in the Bloomberg Television interview. “Even as we’re
selling at 30 to 35 percent cheaper than physical bookstores,
we’re still able to enjoy a fairly good margin because of our
scale.”  Yang, who is attending a Credit Suisse Group AG investor
conference in  Hong Kong , didn’t elaborate on whether Dangdang is
targeting any companies for acquisitions.  More than 12.2 million users have made purchases on
Dangdang, he said. The website also sells products ranging from
home furnishings and cosmetics to  baby food .  Dangdang’s American depositary receipts, each representing
five shares, fell 3 percent to $7.38 in New York trading
yesterday. The stock has gained 68 percent this year.  The company last month posted a fourth-quarter net loss of
129.8 million yuan ($21 million), compared with profit of 14.8
million yuan a year earlier.  Its gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
deducting the cost of revenue, shrank to 10.5 percent from 22.4
percent a year earlier, Dangdang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
mtighe4@bloomberg. 