-- Denmark Tightens Requirements for Bank Boards Amid Failures
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-03-20T11:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/denmark-tightens-requirements-for-bank-boards-amid-failures-1-.html
Denmark’s financial regulator is
tightening requirements for boards at the country’s banks after
a lack of oversight and knowledge played a part in the collapse
of several lenders since 2008.  Boards must evaluate whether they have the experience and
knowledge to run their banks and submit the review to the agency
by October, the Copenhagen-based Financial Supervisory Authority
said today on its  website .  At least a dozen banks have failed since a real estate
bubble burst in 2007, forcing lenders to take write-offs and
pushing the Nordic economy to the brink of a recession. The
banks collapsed partly because boards gave managers too much
leeway, letting them pursue business in which the bank had no
experience and, in some cases, allowing them to bypass oversight
entirely, the regulator said.  “There are many banks that have had difficulties and have
had to be wound down since the financial crisis began in 2008,”
the FSA said. “In many instances, the same weakness in
leadership has caused the crises in the banks.”  The tougher demands are part of an increased focus on
governance in financial companies. The FSA also placed new
demands on the insurance and pension industry. The industries
face a May 1 deadline to comment.  The industry is fighting a separate crackdown by the FSA on
how and when banks write off losses. The rules will inflate
losses and lead banks to retrench to protect capital buffers,
Poul Kjaer, head of regulation at the Danish Bankers
Association, said in an interview this month.  Denmark  on March 2 presented its fifth bank rescue bill
since 2008 as lawmakers struggle to end a crisis that claimed
three lenders last year and forced losses on senior creditors.
Most of Denmark’s 120 banks have since been locked out of
funding markets since creditors lost money on the February 2011
failure of Amagerbanken A/S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  