-- Diagnostic Medical-Test Patents Limited by U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-20T20:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/diagnostic-medical-test-patents-limited-by-u-s-high-court-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court put new
limits on the availability of patents for diagnostic medical
tests, ruling in favor of the  Mayo Clinic  in a decision that
will shape the growing field of personalized health care.  The justices today said two patents owned by  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s
Prometheus unit are invalid because they cover a natural
phenomenon. Prometheus argued that the patents concerned an
application of a law of nature, not the law itself.  The case tested the types of medical inventions that are
eligible for legal protection. Companies, trade groups and
lawyers filed more than two dozen legal briefs, many warning
that the court’s ruling might have widespread, unintended
ramifications. Each side in the case said a defeat might stifle
innovation.  Writing for the court, Justice  Stephen Breyer  pointed to
“a concern that  patent law  not inhibit further discovery by
improperly tying up the future use of laws of nature.”  Patent protection is important for companies that are
focusing on personalized medicine, including  Myriad Genetics
Inc. (MYGN)  and  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  The field involves determining whether a
patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be especially responsive to certain medicines.  Salt Lake City-based Myriad fell $1.33, or 5.2 percent, to
close at $24.31 in New York trading after dropping as low as
$23.07 after the ruling.  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX) , based in  Redwood
City ,  California , fell $1.19, or 3.8 percent, to $30.33.  Myriad Appeal  An appeal involving Myriad is awaiting  high court  action,
perhaps as early as next week. A group of doctors, researchers
and patients are challenging Myriad’s patents on genetic
material used in tests for breast and ovarian cancer.  The Mayo dispute divided companies.  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , Hewlett Packard Co. and Laboratory Corporation of America
backed Mayo, arguing for patent limits. Trade groups for the
biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, along with SAP
America Inc., sided with Prometheus.  The patents covered a method for determining the proper
dosage of thiopurine, a stomach medicine, based on the rate at
which particular patients metabolize the drug. Doctors can use
the method, which involves testing blood for metabolites, to
maximize effectiveness and limit toxic side effects while
treating Crohn’s disease and other inflammatory bowel illnesses.  Monopoly Argument  Prometheus  sued  two units of the Mayo Clinic, the not-for-
profit medical practice based in Rochester,  Minnesota . Mayo at
one point shipped patient samples to Prometheus and paid the
company to perform the test. That relationship ended in 2004,
when Mayo created its own test.  Mayo contended the patents would give Prometheus a monopoly
over all uses of the natural relationship between the
metabolites created by thiopurine and the drug’s impact on the
human body. The patents are so broad they would bar doctors
familiar with the Prometheus method from even thinking about the
connection between metabolite levels and the proper dosage for a
patient, Mayo’s lawyers said.  Breyer agreed with that reasoning, saying, “the steps add
nothing of significance to the natural laws themselves.”  The decision reversed a ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit, which specializes in patent issues.  ‘Big Deal’  The ruling “is a very big deal, especially given that the
opinion is unanimous,” said Adam Mossoff, a patent-law
specialist who teaches at George Mason University School of Law
in Arlington, Virginia. “It is a signal that the  Supreme Court 
is unhappy with the expansive view of patentable subject matter
that the Federal Circuit has developed in its rulings for the
past two decades.”  The ruling was surprising and a “real departure” from
past Supreme Court cases, said Erika Arner, a Washington lawyer
who filed a brief on behalf of SAP urging the court not to
restrict software and computer patents.  The court’s focus on laws of nature means the ruling will
have a bigger impact on the biotechnology industry than computer
companies, she said.  “The court was careful, it seems, to avoid any unintended
consequences,” she said.  Nestle, based in Vevey,  Switzerland ,  acquired  Prometheus
last year. Prometheus said the ruling will cause health-care
companies to forgo new research and development.  “This decision will, in our view, encourage imitation, not
innovation,” Prometheus said in an e-mailed statement.  Myriad, Novartis, Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings’s
Monogram Biosciences and Genomic Health all have urged that
diagnostic methods be patentable. Monogram and Genomic Health
told the Supreme Court in 2009 that they would have difficulty
getting funding without patent protection.  The annual market for diagnostic tests and drugs tailored
to individuals may reach $42 billion by 2015, according to a
2009 report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  