-- Euro Touches Highest in Nearly 2 Weeks as Greek Aid OK’d
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-21T11:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/dollar-remains-higher-on-china-concern-before-home-sales.html
The euro reached the highest level
in almost two weeks against the dollar as  Greece  won
parliamentary approval for a new international bailout, boosting
demand for the region’s assets.  The 17-nation currency advanced versus all except two of
its 16 major peers tracked by Bloomberg before reports tomorrow
forecast to show German services and factory output expanded.
The dollar touched a one-week low against the currencies of
major U.S. trading partners before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies to U.S. lawmakers. The pound dropped
versus the euro after minutes of the  Bank of England ’s meeting
showed two policy makers supported more stimulus.  “It has been slow, but the euro has been pushing higher,”
said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “Many people have been waiting for the
bad news to hit again, and it sort of hasn’t, so people are
getting impatient with betting against the euro.”  The euro appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3242 at 7:35 a.m.
New York time. It earlier climbed to $1.3285, the highest level
since March 8. The shared currency gained 0.5 percent to 111.26
yen after reaching 111.44, the strongest since Oct. 31. The yen
dropped 0.3 percent to 83.95 per dollar.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen and pound, was little
changed at 79.56 after touching 79.32, the lowest level since
March 9.  Currency Volatility  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies was at 10.01 percent after touching 10.72 last week,
its highest level since Feb. 16, according to the JPMorgan
Morgan Chase & Co. G7  Volatility Index .  Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won approval for a
130 billion-euro ($172 billion) aid package. A total of 213
lawmakers voted in favor of the legislation and 79 against,
Acting Parliament Speaker Grigoris Niotis said in remarks
carried live on state-run Vouli TV.  Europe  must further strengthen its banks, and its financial
and economic situation “remains difficult” even as stresses
have lessened, Bernanke said in the text of testimony prepared
for delivery to the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.  Bernanke said reduced stress is a “welcome development”
for the U.S., according to the remarks, which echoed the Federal
Open Market Committee’s statement last week that “strains in
global financial markets have eased.”  German Indexes  The euro also gained before London-based Markit Economics
releases purchasing managers’ indexes tomorrow for German
manufacturing and services. The measure of  factory output 
climbed to 51 this month from 50.2 in February, while the gauge
of services rose to 53.1 from 52.8, according to Bloomberg News
surveys of economists. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The shared currency appreciated 0.8 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar advanced
0.7 percent, the yen weakened 5 percent, and sterling gained 1.3
percent.  The pound dropped for a third day against the euro as
minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee’s March 7-8 meeting
showed that the policy makers  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  wanted
to increase the target for bond purchases by 25 billion pounds
($40 billion) to 350 billion pounds. The seven remaining members
voted to keep the current 325 billion-pound target.  U.K.’s Deficit  Sterling also depreciated as Britain’s budget deficit
almost doubled in February as taxes fell and spending surged,
leaving Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  with little
room to meet his full-year goal as he prepares to announce the
annual budget today.  Net borrowing excluding support for banks was 15.2 billion
pounds, the highest for any February on record, compared with
8.9 billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. There was a public-sector net
cash requirement, or PSNCR, of negative 7.8 billion pounds.  “The combination of a nasty looking PSNCR right ahead of
the budget plus dovishness from the MPC minutes with respect to
credit conditions, those two together are certainly enough to
weaken sterling,” said  Peter Frank , global foreign-exchange
strategist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in  London .
“The big one is going to be the budget. What it needs for
sterling to rally is clear cut fiscal stimulus within the
budget.”  Sterling fell 0.1 percent 83.44 pence per euro. It was
little changed versus the greenback at $1.5876.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  