-- Dubai Villa Sales Surge as Bank Lending Gains: Mortgages
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-03-21T11:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/dubai-villa-sales-surge-as-bank-lending-gains-mortgages.html
Jean-Luc Desbois, a Dubai mortgage
consultant, has increased his sales force by 40 percent this
year as low  interest rates  and depressed prices help the desert
sheikhdom emerge from a three-year property slump.  “January was our best month ever,” said Desbois, who
started his Home Matters company in 2006, two years before the
real estate market collapsed. “Eighty-five percent of our
business is for villas and we expect this strong demand to
continue this year.”  Mortgage lending for all Dubai properties jumped by 59
percent to 5.95 billion dirhams ($1.62 billion) from a year
earlier, according to data from the emirate’s  Land Department .
Last year, transactions for land, offices and residential
properties gained 12 percent to 86 billion dirhams, with about
20 percent involving homes.  Dubai’s housing market is hitting bottom after a boom led
by speculators collapsed in 2008, and villas are now attracting
more interest from buyers who plan to live in them. Home sales
increased 67 percent by value in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier to 2.85 billion dirhams, Land Department data show. The
number of homes sold rose 72 percent to 2,605 units, after a 64
percent gain in the fourth quarter from the third.  “More people are looking to buy property now and more of
them are end users,” said Sam Wani, general manager of Dubai-
based mortgage brokerage  Independent Finance . “Interest rates
are at record lows, banks are now offering fixed-rate mortgages
and property prices appear to have bottomed out.”  Market Opening  The  boom  started after Dubai opened the  property market  to
foreign buyers in 2002, and at its height was driven by cash
buyers and speculators who profited from purchasing and selling
contracts for yet-to-be-built houses and apartments. Prices fell
more than 60 percent over the next three years, keeping buyers
and lenders on the sidelines as they waited for the market to
hit bottom.  Villas in Dubai’s more expensive developments are proving
more attractive to buyers than apartments.  “With limited availability of premier villa products, we can
expect this strong demand to continue through 2012,” said
 Matthew Green , head of United Arab Emirates research at 
broker CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. “The top end has actually
been less impacted by the downturn, with investment remaining
focused on the more established lifestyle communities.”  Price Gains  The average asking price for three-bedroom villas rose by 5
percent on Nakheel PJSC’s Palm Jumeirah, 8 percent at  Emaar
PJSC’s (EMAAR)  Arabian Ranches and 1 percent at its The Springs
development last year, property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
Apartment prices fell 9 percent over the year, it said.  Nakheel plans to build townhouses on the palm-shaped island
in its first new housing project since the property slump,
Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah said in an interview last month.  The  Betterhomes  real estate agency opened a sales kiosk in
the Arabian Ranches community center at the beginning of last
year. Rene D’Souza, a real-estate agent for the company, said
visitors have increased and the type of buyer is changing.  He said Arabian Ranches selling prices have risen this year
to 950 to 1,200 dirhams per square foot, from 850 to 900 dirhams
a year ago. The average selling price for a small three-bedroom
villa in the development is now about 1.85 million dirhams, or
about $500,000, compared with 1.5 million a year ago. Rents are
about 135,000 dirhams, compared with 120,000 a year ago.  End Users  “There was still a lot of interest during the difficult
times, but there was a lot of panic selling and investors were
looking to pick up bargains,” he said. “Now there’s more
interest from end users. Banks are lending again and there’s a
buzz going around.”  Craig Plumb, head of research in the  Middle East  and  Africa 
for  Jones Lang , said the villa market has performed better than
apartments over the past six months after falling prices made
them more affordable.  Mortgage transactions, which totalled 3.39 billion dirhams
in the fourth quarter of 2008, fell to 2.7 billion dirhams by
the fourth quarter of the following year, according to
 Reidin.com , a research firm that tracks Dubai’s property market.
The value rose to 2.9 billion dirhams in the last three months
of 2011.  The rise in lending is fuelled by more renters in Dubai
deciding to purchase homes and by customers switching banks to
refinance at lower rates, said Venkatesh Srikantan, head of
personal banking at the U.A.E. unit of  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Mortgage Price War  Banks have cut lending rates to attract buyers amid signs
that  home prices  are bottoming out. Barclays is offering some of
the lowest rates in the U.A.E at 4.15 percent to 7.5 percent.
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s mortgages start at 4.49 percent. HSBC
Bank Middle East Ltd., the Dubai-based unit of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, cut rates to as low as 5.49 percent
from a high of 9.5 percent in 2009.  “In early 2009, only three to four banks were providing
mortgages, whereas now there are over 25 banks in the market
with a good appetite to lend,” said Desbois of Home Matters.
“Mortgage inquiries in January 2009 were virtually non-
existent, while this year we had more than 300 enquiries in
January.”  Overall, lending in Dubai is showing signs of recovery. The
three-month Emirates interbank offered rate, the level at which
banks in the U.A.E. lend to each other, dropped 31 percent, or
66 basis points, since the beginning April, to 1.47 percent on
Aug. 8, the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in
September 2006. It has since risen 7 basis points to 1.54
percent on March 20. The rate reached 4.79 percent in October
2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brother Holdings Inc.
triggered the worst economic slump since the Great Depression.  Lower Risk  “Banks see mortgages as a lower-risk asset -- mainly
because property prices have corrected so much -- and are
willing to cut rates to attract business,” said Shabbir Malik,
a Dubai-based analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.
“Competition amongst banks is high because a lot are offering
mortgage products and the market is still small, even after
improving from a year ago.”  One-year interbank interest rates were at 1.98 percent in
the U.A.E., compared with 1.05 percent in  Saudi Arabia ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage
rose to 3.92 percent in the week through March 15 from 3.88
percent,  Freddie Mac , the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
finance company said in a statement.  Foreign Lenders  International lenders are looking to capture market share
from Dubai mortgage providers such as  Tamweel (TAMWEEL)  PJSC and Amlak
PJSC, which supplied almost 90 percent of all mortgages in the
U.A.E. as of mid-2008. Both companies halted lending in October
2008 after the property market collapsed.  Tamweel resumed lending in November and now offers a 25-
year, 80 percent Islamic mortgage at 5.25 percent profit rate to
buyers in selected areas.  Dubai’s developers are delivering thousands of new homes to
the market every year as they complete developments and fulfil
contracts signed before the market crashed. That and a lack of
lending have kept prices from recovering even after some markets
around the world have rebounded from the credit crisis.  About 13,000 residential units were completed in Dubai last
year, bringing the total to 336,000, Jones Lang said in a
January report. Almost 90 percent of the completions were
apartments. Although 38,000 units are scheduled due to be
completed this year, Jones Lang estimates the total will be
about 60 percent of that.  Desbois of Home Matters said the last quarter of 2011 was
his company’s best. Besides low lending rates, cash buyers are
also helping the market, he said.  “There are a lot of buyers from  Afghanistan , as there’s
concern about U.S. and British troops pulling out,” he said.
“They’re mainly cash buyers, but once there are more buyers in
the market, this naturally encourages others and pushes the
prices up. We’re not going to get back to boom times, but there
is strong demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  