-- Durbin Urges Private Student Loans Be Discharged in Bankruptcy
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-03-20T14:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/durbin-urges-private-student-loans-be-discharged-in-bankruptcy.html
Students who take out loans from
private lenders to finance their education should have the same
right to discharge their debt in bankruptcy that other borrowers
enjoy, Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin  said today.  “While the overall growth in student indebtedness is
troubling, the most pressing concern is private student loans,”
Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said in prepared remarks at a
Senate judiciary subcommittee hearing. “These private student
loans are a far riskier way to pay for an education than federal
loans.”  Outstanding student-loan debt reached an estimated $867
billion in the fourth quarter, and is greater than total U.S.
credit-card debt. The student debt includes private loans, which
don’t offer options as some government-backed loans when
borrowers become financially distressed, including income-based
repayment. Durbin introduced a bill in May to eliminate a 2005
provision that made privately issued student loans
nondischargable in bankruptcy.  Five years after graduating from  Harrington College of
Design  in  Chicago , Danielle Jokela has yet to find a job as a
designer and struggles to repay more than $98,000 in student
loans.  “I’m asking you to create legislation that will empower us
to overcome this burden, and prevent future students from
falling into the same trap,” Jokela said in prepared testimony
for the hearing. She has a monthly debt payment of about $830,
about 28 percent of her current income. Harrington is operated
by for-profit college company Career Education Corp.  Sallie Mae  The largest private student lender is  SLM Corp., (SLM)  known as
Sallie Mae, which made $2.7 billion in private education loans
last year, up 19 percent from a year earlier, the company said
in a statement in January. It expects to originate about $3.2
billion this year.  Sallie Mae ’s portfolio of private student loans was about
$36 billion, and loans to students at for-profit colleges
account for about 10 percent, according to the  Newark , Delaware-
based company.  “Sallie Mae supports reform that would allow federal and
private student loans to be dischargeable in bankruptcy for
those who have made a good-faith effort to repay their student
loans over a five-to-seven year period and still experience
financial difficulty,” Patricia Nash Christel, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mail.  ‘Severe’ Treatment  Deanne Loonin, an attorney for the  National Consumer Law
Center,  said harsh treatment of students in the bankruptcy
system was built on the false premise that they are more likely
to abuse the system.  “Current bankruptcy law treats students who face financial
distress the same severe way as people who are trying to
discharge child support debts, alimony, overdue taxes and
criminal fines,” Loonin said in written testimony. “Yet there
is no evidence and has never been any evidence to support this
assumption.”  Congress has investigated high rates of default on student
debt at for-profit colleges, where as much as 90 percent of
revenue comes from government grants and loans. The U.S.
Education Department released rules last year that may cut off
government funding to schools where students struggle the most
to repay their loans.  ‘Unjust Transfer’  Reinstating the rule to let privately issued loans be
dischargeable in bankruptcy would increase the cost for all
student borrowers because interest rates would rise, said  G.
Marcus Cole , who teaches commercial and financial law and
regulation at  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California .  “If the goal is to relieve the debt burden upon student
borrowers who have taken on student debt that did not result in
higher productivity and earnings potential, removal of the
exemption is a blunt instrument that is unlikely to address the
root source of the problem, accomplishing instead a one-time,
unjust transfer from innocent lenders who did nothing more than
give money to people in the hopes of being repaid someday,”
Cole said in written testimony.  The root issue is tuition inflation, and restoring the loan
discharge rule may have “a very marginal impact” on the issue
of student debt, said  Neal McCluskey,  associate director of the
Cato Institute’s Center for Educational Freedom.  Higher Rates  “If lenders know that borrowers can escape repayment
through bankruptcy, they would likely raise  interest rates  to
account for that risk and lend to fewer people, discouraging use
of such loans,” McCluskey said in testimony. “However,
students might be more apt to take such loans -- and pay still
higher college prices -- if they think that they will be able to
unload their debt without repaying it.”  Senator Mike Enzi, the Wyoming Republican and ranking
member of the Senate education committee, doesn’t support
discharging student loans, said Sarah Chu, a spokeswoman for
Enzi.  Enzi would prefer the Senate committee address the rising
cost of higher education rather than “a number of incomplete
solutions,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  “Recognizing that many Americans may encounter unexpected
financial difficulties during the repayment of their  student
loans , Congress has already enacted a variety of protections to
help student loan borrowers avoid default and protect their
credit,” Enzi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  