-- Dutch Premier Rebuffs Call for Early Elections as Lawmaker Quits
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-03-20T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/dutch-premier-rebuffs-call-for-early-elections-as-lawmaker-quits.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
rebuffed calls for early elections as his minority government
became more dependent on the opposition after a lawmaker quit
its  Freedom Party  ally.  “We can’t have the luxury of early elections given the
crisis we’re in,” Rutte said in a televised interview today.
“It would be totally irresponsible to talk about elections
right now.”  Hero Brinkman  of the Freedom Party, which supports the
coalition government in parliament, quit the group today while
keeping his lower-house seat. Brinkman, 47, said the Freedom
Party, led by  Geert Wilders , isn’t democratic enough and that he
rejects its stigmatizing of ethnic minorities. He said he would
continue to back the government.  The ruling Liberals and  Christian Democrats , together with
the Freedom Party, now have only 75 of the 150 seats in the
lower chamber following Brinkman’s move. Opposition leaders
Diederik Samson from the  Labor Party  and Emile Roemer of the
Socialist Party called on Rutte to hand in his resignation and
organize early elections. The next vote is  due in May 2015 .  While the Freedom Party supports the Cabinet on most
topics, Rutte relies on the opposition Labor Party to back his
European policy as Wilders opposes further financial aid to euro
countries. The move by Brinkman came as the Cabinet is seeking
more than 9 billion euros ($12 billion) in budget cuts to meet
European rules by 2013.  ‘Sad and Unnecessary’  Wilders, whose anti-Islamic stance has been at the center
of the party’s appeal to voters, called Brinkman’s decision
“sad and unnecessary,” according to Dutch news agency ANP.  The Dutch economy entered its  second recession  in three
years during the second half of 2011 and  unemployment  has risen
for two quarters to 6 percent. The  budget deficit  next year is
forecast at 4.6 percent of gross domestic product, up from a
preliminary estimate of 4.5 percent, the government planning
agency CPB said today. Unemployment may stay at 6 percent
through 2014, the agency said.  “Populism is speaking the language of the people and
acting accordingly,” Brinkman told reporters in  The Hague . “I
will continue to back the government. I will take responsibility
for the future of this country.”  Brinkman’s departure may shift more power to the two lower-
house members from the Reformed Political Party, known as the
SGP in Dutch, which appeals to devout Protestants. The party has
already helped the government to gain a majority for its
proposals in the upper house of parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  