-- Tea Party Can Thank the Sun for Success
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-03-20T14:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/tea-party-can-thank-the-sun-for-success.html
Grassroots political movements such
as the Tea Party are a mainstay of American society. But do they
really make a difference?  According to one view, the  Tea Party  is a powerful new
force reshaping our politics. The alternative view is that it’s
all signs and fury, a bunch of like-minded individuals who
gather to cheer on their favorite political causes, but whose
activities have no more effect on the outcome than sports fans
getting together to watch their favorite team.  What makes it hard to assess these competing views is that
the Tea Party is strongest in highly conservative, born-again,
Republican communities. So how do we know whether the movement
actually influences these people, or merely reflects their
changing views and behavior?  If medical researchers were trying to sort this out, they
might randomly infect some areas of the country with  Tea Party 
mania, and leave others untouched. By comparing the political
evolution of these treatment and control groups, they might hope
to learn about the true effects of the Tea Party.  Fortunately, nature sometimes meddles much as our
hypothetical experimenters would.  The Tea Party came into prominence in a series of protests
around the country on tax day, April 15, 2009. Sunny skies in
some parts of the country encouraged large and boisterous
rallies, while in other places rain suppressed the attendance.
If the areas that nature randomly selected to have good weather
that day subsequently became more conservative, that would
suggest the Tea Party had a real impact beyond what would have
happened in its absence.  Striking Research  How much of a difference can a rainstorm make? It turns out
a lot. At least that’s the message from some  striking research 
by four young scholars spanning the political spectrum --
Andreas Madestam of  Bocconi University  and Daniel Shoag, Stan
Veuger and David Yanagizawa-Drott of  Harvard University .  Their research demonstrates that in politics, success
begets success. The initial boost from the weather generated
substantial momentum. Counties that enjoyed better weather on
tax day had more people sign up to become Tea Party organizers,
greater donations to an affiliated political action committee,
and larger rallies a year later.  It’s easy to imagine how this works. Showing up at a rally
increases the chances of getting more involved, making a
donation or bringing a friend to another event. Larger and more
successful rallies also boost subsequent news media coverage of
the movement, further stimulating community interest.  What’s more, the Tea Party experiment shows that the
activism catalyzed by those sunny days translates into real
political influence. Politicians whose districts were sunny on
tax day voted in a more reliably conservative fashion throughout
2009 and 2010. Indeed, the absence of rain in a congressional
district on April 15, 2009, made its representative 8.7
percentage points more likely to vote against the Affordable
Care Act. Had the weather at those early rallies been sunnier,
it’s possible that Obama’s signature legislation wouldn’t have
passed.  The Tea Party also changed the makeup of Congress. Sunny
days -- and thus large rallies in 2009 -- led to greater
Republican turnout and slightly weaker Democratic participation
in the 2010 midterm elections. This boosted the Republican vote
share by almost three percentage points in the affected
districts. There was even some impact before Election Day:
Several Democratic incumbents, seeing the writing on the wall,
decided not to seek re-election.  The Next Election  It’s rather striking to realize that a sunny day can have
such big repercussions for our political landscape.  One can’t help but wonder whether the Occupy Wall Street
movement has had similarly far-reaching effects. The researchers
behind the Tea Party study tell us that weather-driven momentum
was also important for  Occupy  protesters. We won’t know the
broader effects of this movement until we see the 2012 election
results.  Already, though, we are seeing some suggestive evidence of
the Tea Party’s influence on the 2012 elections.  Mitt Romney ,
who has less support from the movement than his opponents, eked
out close wins in the Ohio and Michigan primaries -- states
where rain on that fateful day in 2009 muted the strength of the
Tea Party.  As attention now shifts to the  Illinois  primary, we suggest
that pundits consider one extra fact: In 2009, tax day was
mostly dry in Illinois.  (Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers, both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu  or Betsey Stevenson
at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 