-- Health-Care Victory Seen as Possible Setback for Obama
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/health-care-victory-seen-as-possible-setback-for-obama.html
A win for President  Barack Obama  at
the U.S. Supreme Court, weighing the constitutionality of the
health-care law that stands as his chief domestic achievement,
could also set back his re-election bid.  While the White House counts on the court upholding a law
extending health insurance to millions of Americans, a favorable
ruling offers Republicans a pointed campaign message for
November: Remove Obama, repeal the law.  “It gives a certain, simple focused objective to people
that is a much easier rallying point,” said  Ken Cuccinelli , the
Republican Virginia attorney general waging a legal battle
against the law in federal courts. “It would galvanize a lot of
grassroots activities.”  With three days of arguments starting at the court next
week, the Republican presidential candidates are pointing to the
case as a way of highlighting their opposition to Obama’s
signature legislative accomplishment.  Still, a ruling upholding the law from a court with a
majority of Republican appointees could serve as repudiation of
Republican claims that Obama, a former law professor, violated
the Constitution in pushing the measure through Congress. A pro-
Obama finding may validate the most debated decision of his time
in office in a political period when he needs support most.  “It has great symbolic value for his leadership and
judgment,” said Robert Blendon, a professor of health policy
and political analysis at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “The Republican leadership loses a degree of
credibility if the whole bill is not unconstitutional.”  Motivating Opposition  All four Republican candidates already have promised to
make repeal of the Affordable Care Act, which they’ve dubbed
“Obamacare,” a central focus of the fight for the White House
and control Congress, divided between the two parties.  Cuccinelli predicts a pro-Obama ruling would reignite
Republican activists to “2010 levels,” when opposition to the
legislation helped Republicans gain control of the U.S. House of
Representatives and widen their margin in the  U.S. Senate .  “Frankly we already know how motivating opposition to the
law is,” he said. “Look at what happened in 2010.”  Since Obama signed the law nearly two years ago,  public
opinion  has remained divided, with opinion polls showing strong
opposition among Republicans and independents.  Public Opinion  In a  Bloomberg National Poll  conducted March 8-11, 75
percent of respondents said they expect politics will influence
the court’s ruling, 17 percent said the decision would be based
solely on legal merits and 8 percent said they weren’t sure.  Three-quarters of Republicans and 44 percent of
independents said the law should be repealed, while 8 percent of
Democrats agreed. The margin of error in the survey of 1,002
adults was 3.1 percentage points.  Even among Democrats who back the law, a majority -- 70
percent -- said it may need small modifications, though they
agreed that it should be given a chance to work.  One of the main provisions on which the  Supreme Court  will
focus -- a requirement for most Americans to buy health
insurance -- also remains broadly unpopular, surveys show.  A majority -- 58 percent -- of respondents in an Associated
Press-GfK  poll  said they oppose a requirement for every American
to have health insurance. The poll was conducted Feb. 16-20 and
had a margin of error of 4.1 percentage points.  “The opponents have more people who feel strongly about it
than the proponents,” Blendon said. “There’s no question that
the Republicans have a core base that will be activated over
this.”  Republican Campaign  Seeking to capitalize on that passion, Republicans are
planning an offensive against the law next week with ads in key
states, appearances by elected officials, grass-roots events and
speeches on the House floor.  Several anti-tax Tea Party groups have scheduled a rally
against the law on the Capitol grounds for March 27, the second
day of Supreme Court arguments. Republican lawmakers, including
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  and U.S.
Senator  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania , plan to address crowds
organized by Americans for Prosperity, founded by billionaire
 David Koch .  A separate rally on March 24 organized by the Tea Party
Patriots will feature speeches by former presidential candidate
Herman Cain and Cuccinelli.  “The purpose of it all is to send a message to  Capitol
Hill  that whatever the Supreme Court decides representatives
need to know the opinion of their constituents,” said Levi
Russell, spokesman for Americans for Prosperity.  Campaign Fodder  The Republican presidential candidates also have begun
mentioning the case on the campaign trail, using it to gain an
advantage in their primary contest. Santorum, a former senator
from Pennsylvania, who tells voters that the health-care law
prompted his return to politics, says the arguments will test
whether the federal government has the constitutional power to
“micromanage everything.”  “I always knew that the linchpin of government taking
control of our lives, of fundamentally shifting what America’s
all about, will come down to health care,” he told voters on
March 15.  Santorum and some others in the party have warned that
Republicans would be sacrificing the health-care issue if they
nominated  Mitt Romney , a former governor of  Massachusetts  who
supported the state’s health-care law.  “The issue goes from a nine to a two in terms of
motivating the base,” Cuccinelli said in an interview. “The
grassroots knows that he’s not where they are on it and that
weakens the power of that issue for him.”  Romney Watching Court  Romney, questioned by a voter in Vernon Hills,  Illinois ,
about how he could repeal the health-care law without a
Republican Congress backing him, said the high court would play
a key role.  “Let me mention the first shot we have at Obamacare, and
that’s the court, the Supreme Court,” he said March 18, before
describing his strategy for undoing the measure as president.  For any of Romney’s perceived weakness on the issue,
Democrats in Congress and allies have long urged the White House
to combat the drumbeat of Republican attacks with a more
forceful defense. With the court arguments pushing the issue to
the fore, White House officials and backers of the law plan to
spend the next two weeks building support for the measure.  Obama’s Supporters  Top administration officials will travel to events across
the country to talk about the law. Yesterday, Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius visited a community college
in  St. Louis ,  Missouri , to discuss the impact of the law on
senior citizens.  A coalition of supporters, including labor unions and
women’s groups, have organized events in 32 states highlighting
the law’s benefits for seniors, women, young adults and small
business owners. In  Nevada , for example, youth advocates plan to
host a Zumba exercise class and an education forum at a Las
Vegas community center to teach families about the provisions in
the law benefiting children.  “This is a teaching moment,” said  Ron Pollack , executive
director of Families USA, a consumer advocacy group in
 Washington . “It’s part of an incremental process to help more
people understand what’s in the law and how they benefit.”  Supporters also plan speeches outside the court during the
arguments and will organize interviews with advocates of the law
at a “radio row” on Capitol Hill.  Those activities are unlikely to change many minds,
according to Blendon, who says opinions about the law haven’t
shifted much since the moment it was passed.  “I don’t think you’re going to shift public opinion in two
weeks,” he said. “The party splits are very real and haven’t
changed since the moment the bill passed.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington,
DC at   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  