-- Tebow’s Next Team Favored to Be Jaguars as Manning Joins Broncos
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/tebow-s-next-team-favored-to-be-jaguars-as-manning-joins-broncos.html
“Tebow Time” appears to be over
in Denver with the Broncos’ reported addition of  Peyton Manning .  Even though  Tim Tebow  helped the Broncos to their first
playoff victory in seven years in 2011, chances are the
quarterback will be with a new National Football League team
next season, according to online oddsmaker  Bovada.lv . The
Broncos already have looked into trading Tebow, ESPN and NFL.com
said, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  The slight favorite for Tebow’s services are the
 Jacksonville Jaguars  with 3-2 odds, according to Bovada. The
Jaguars went 5-11 last season with rookie Blaine Gabbert at
quarterback and play just over an hour from the University of
 Florida ’s campus in Gainesville, where Tebow led the Gators to
two college football national championships.  The  Miami Dolphins  are 7-4 to sign Tebow, the same odds the
Broncos have of retaining the player who helped them rebound
from a 1-4 start last season.  While Tebow guided five fourth-quarter comeback wins last
season, the Broncos are finalizing a contract with Manning, a
four-time NFL Most Valuable Player who’s a free agent after
spending his first 14 seasons with the  Indianapolis Colts , ESPN
said, citing unidentified people close to the situation.  The  New England Patriots  have 7-1 odds of being Tebow’s
next team, followed by the Cleveland Browns at 12-1.  Tebow, 24, had a 7-4 record in Denver last season, though
his  46.5 completion percentage  as a passer was the worst among
the league’s starting quarterbacks. Jacksonville’s Gabbert had
the second-worst completion percentage at 50.8.  Tebow’s strength is as a runner. The 6-foot-2, 236-pound
quarterback rushed for 660 yards and six touchdowns last year,
when the Broncos had the league’s top rushing attack.  Tebow’s Starting Odds  “The way the league is now, you’ve got to be able to pass
the ball,” four-time Pro Bowl linebacker Joey Porter said in an
appearance on the NFL Network. “I just think that was something
they bought into that year. I don’t think he can take that same
way of offense to another team and be successful.”  Bovada’s odds on whether Tebow will be a starting
quarterback in Week 1 of the 2012 season suggest a similar lack
of confidence. The oddsmaker’s money line breaks down to a 55
percent chance that Tebow won’t be a starter, according to Las
Vegas-based handicapping website  Pregame.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  