-- ECB’s Nowotny Says Portugal in Much Better Shape Than Greece
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-20T13:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ecb-s-nowotny-says-portugal-in-much-better-shape-than-greece-2-.html
European Central Bank council
member Ewald Nowotny said  Portugal  is “in much better shape”
than  Greece  and predictions by Pacific Investment Management Co.
it may need more money are “extremely problematic.”  “I consider this announcement by an asset manager, who is
also following his own interests, to be extremely problematic,”
Nowotny wrote in a live online chat with  Austria ’s Der Standard
newspaper today. “Portugal’s debt ratio and the development of
its foreign trade are in much better shape than in Greece, even
though risks do remain, of course.”  Portugal last year became the third euro-area country to
request external aid, following Greece and Ireland, and Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting spending and raising
taxes to meet the terms of the 78 billion-euro ($103 billion)
plan. Still, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pimco,
told  Germany ’s Der Spiegel magazine in an interview published on
March 18 that the first aid package will prove insufficient,
forcing the nation to ask for more money.  Portugal’s government has managed to cut the country’s 2011
deficit to 4 percent of gross domestic product from 9.8 percent
a year earlier and the  International Monetary Fund  said last
month that Portugal’s financial aid program was on track.  While a rise in exports has helped narrow Portugal’s trade
deficit, the country’s economy is expected to remain mired in
recession this year. GDP may shrink 3.3 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said on Feb. 23, more than twice the 1.5
percent contraction last year.  Nowotny said he sees a discrepancy between the economic
development of the peripheral nations and the rest of the euro
area for 2012 and “probably also for the next two years,”
according to the chat. “After that, the effects of structural
measures adopted in the meantime should kick in and be reflected
in correspondingly higher growth rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  