-- Egypt Cuts Reserve Ratio to Lower Near-Record Borrowing Cost
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-20T15:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/egypt-cuts-reserve-ratio-on-pound-deposits-by-200-basis-points.html
The Egyptian central bank cut the
required reserve ratio on local-currency deposits to help free
up funds for banks, a move that Bank of America Merill Lynch
said may lower near-record government borrowing costs.  The central bank cut the ratio by two percentage points to
12 percent and the changes will take effect starting today, it
said in a statement today on its website. “This measure will
provide permanent liquidity into the banking system and help
ease credit conditions in the market,” it said.  Egypt ’s state-owned banks bore the brunt of financing the
government after foreign investors dumped Egyptian securities
following last year’s uprising and four credit rating cuts by
Moody’s Investors Service effectively shut the country out of
global bond markets. Public banks increased their holdings of
treasury bills last year by 34 percent to 100.7 billion pounds
($16.7 billion), according to the most recent central bank data.
Foreign investors reduced theirs by 51.4 billion pounds.  “It’s positive,” Jean-Michel Saliba, London-based
economist at Bank of America Merill Lynch, said by telephone.
“The reason why t-bill yields have been sticky while every
other Egyptian asset has rallied year-to-date was that the
banking system’s excess pound liquidity has deteriorated over
the past year.” This was due to the economic slowdown and
increased government funding requirements, he said.  Borrowing Costs  While the country’s dollar bonds and stock market rallied
this year, domestic borrowing costs are stuck near record highs.
The yield on one-year treasury bills rose 539 basis points since
the start of the January 2011 uprising to a record 15.98 percent
in February, before falling to 15.92 percent on March 15,
central bank data on Bloomberg show. The benchmark  stock index 
soared 40 percent, the second-best performing measure in the
world among indexes tracked by Bloomberg after  Venezuela ’s.  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April 2020
plunged 158 basis points this year to 6.42 percent at 3:52 p.m.
in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The risk
premium investors demand to hold Egypt’s debt instead of U.S.
treasuries plunged 147 basis points this year to 460 on March
19,  according to data  from JPMorgan & Chase Co.  Still, a drop of more than 50 percent in Egypt’s foreign-
currency reserves is prompting some foreign investors to think
twice about buying domestic treasury bills. Reserves have fallen
by about $20 billion since the start of the revolt against  Hosni
Mubarak  to $15.7 billion in February, central bank data show.  Currency Devaluation  “We’re concerned about the devaluation or deprecation of
the currency, so we’re not increasing our Egyptian holdings
right now,” Daniel Broby, chief investment officer at Silk
Invest Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview. “We’re
not selling our assets, but we did have some debt mature
recently, and we didn’t buy more debt.”  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has
weakened 3.8 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the start of
last year.  The Egyptian government is in talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  about a $3.2 billion loan. Analysts such as Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, have said the agreement may encourage
international donors to increase their support of Egypt.  While the central bank’s decision today “should help bring
down t-bill yields” it can’t stand as a “sustainable
replacement for striking an IMF deal,” Bank of America’s Saliba
said.  Deposits in foreign currencies have increased 15 percent
since the start of the revolt last year to the equivalent of
184.6 billion pounds in January, according to the most recent
central bank data. Pound-denominated deposits for the period
were little changed in the same period.  Today’s decision will reduce “the cost of Egyptian pound
deposits for banks, so it might be aimed at helping banks combat
dollarization -- making it more attractive for them to mobilize
Egyptian pound funding,” said Dubai-based Ibrahim Masood, who
helps manage about $400 million at  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)  “Government
borrowing needs will remain significant. They could just be
looking at freeing up some reserves to finance their
requirements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  