-- Elevation Partners Said to Seek $1 Billion for Next Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-20T17:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/elevation-partners-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-next-buyout-fund.html
Elevation Partners LP, the private-
equity firm whose founders include Bono and  Roger McNamee , is
seeking $1 billion for its next buyout fund, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The company, an investor in social media websites  Facebook 
Inc. and Yelp Inc., is raising money after a nearly seven year
hiatus from the market, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the fund is private. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based firm collected $1.8 billion for its last fund
in 2005.  Elevation is among a number of companies looking to gather
capital to invest in closely held Internet companies.
Institutional Venture Partners, also based in Menlo Park, is
seeking as much as $1 billion for its next fund and  Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers (ZZISK)  will start fundraising in April for an
early-stage fund that will take stakes in technology firms,
among others. Both firms are based in Menlo Park.  Paul Kranhold , a spokesman for Elevation, declined to
comment on fundraising.  The firm holds a 22 percent stake in Yelp, a social-media
service that raised $107.3 million in an initial public offering
earlier this month. Elevation, which was founded by McNamee and
the Irish rock band U2’s singer in 2004, also is an investor in
Facebook, which has filed plans to go public.  Elevation’s prior fund was generating an 11.1 percent
internal rate of return and a 1.38 times multiple of the
acquisition cost as of Sept. 30, according to the Oregon Public
Employees Retirement Fund, an investor.  The company’s fundraising plans were reported earlier today
by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  