-- Eli Lilly to Focus on Cancer, Diabetes in China, CEO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T12:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/eli-lilly-to-focus-on-cancer-diabetes-in-china-ceo-says-1-.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  will introduce more
than a dozen products in  China , including drugs for diabetes and
cancer, in the next five years to help maintain sales growth,
Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said.  “Our goal is to be the fastest growing pharmaceutical
company in China,” Lechleiter told reporters at a briefing in
Beijing today. “We are increasing our investments in every
aspect of our business,” he said.  Lilly’s Chinese sales grew by 25 percent last year, faster
than the industry average, after the Indianapolis-based
drugmaker doubled its sales force in the Asian country over a
three-year period, according to Lechleiter. The 58-year-old
executive plans to raise Lilly’s share of revenue from China to
more than 2 percent by focusing on “unmet needs.”  As diabetes rates soar in China, Lilly is competing with
drugmakers including Merck & Co. and Sanofi to try and unseat
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  as the biggest providers of
diabetes medicines. At stake is a market that may triple to $2.1
billion in annual sales by 2019 from $700 million in 2009,
according to Yifi Liu, an analyst for Datamonitor in  Shanghai .  Diabetes treatments were probably the main driver of
Lilly’s 31 percent growth in third-quarter sales in China,
Lechleiter said in November.  Drug Quality, Reliability  Still, the world’s fastest-growing major economy poses its
share of challenges to pharmaceutical companies.  Drugmakers, seeking new sources of growth as patents on
their best-sellers expire, are facing pressure on margins in
China as the government has vowed to extend drug-price cuts to
trim the cost of caring for an aging population. Lechleiter said
he hopes China won’t focus only on cutting drug prices.  “While we understand the need of the government to save
money and moderate the cost of providing health care, we also
believe that other factors need to be taken into account,” he
said. Drug quality and the reliability of supply should be
considered, Lechleiter said.  Lilly’s Cialis drug for treating erectile dysfunction,
which was introduced in China in 2009, will soon surpass  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Viagra as the top seller for the condition in the
nation’s markets where it is sold, Eric Baclet, president of
Lilly China, said. “In our quest for leadership in some of
these China cities, we feel very confident,” he said.  Cialis was Lilly’s  fifth best-selling  pharmaceutical
product in 2011, contributing $1.88 billion or 7.7 percent of
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  