-- Emerging Stocks Cheapest Since 2009 on China Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-20T21:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/emerging-stocks-drop-for-fourth-day-as-china-raises-fuel-prices.html
Emerging-market equities tumbled on
concern a Chinese slowdown will worsen the decline in global
growth, pushing equity valuations to the cheapest level in three
years compared with developed-market shares.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped for a fourth day,
retreating 1.1 percent to 1,049.79 at the close in  New York , its
longest losing streak since December. Stocks on the gauge trade
for 10.7 times estimated earnings,  compared  with 13.2 times for
developed-country equities on the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The gap is
the widest since Feb. 18, 2009.  The best start to a year for emerging-market shares since
1992 is faltering as  China  cut its growth target on March 5, and
data from trade and retail sales to  home prices  signal the
world’s second largest economy is slowing. Emerging-market
stocks have retreated 2.8 percent from a seven-month high
reached on March 2, curbing the year’s rally to 15 percent,
still on track for the best first-quarter gain since 1992.  “People’s hopes that there would be a strong cyclical
rebound in emerging-market economies in the first half are being
recalibrated to a more realistic setting,”  Nick Chamie , head of
 emerging markets  at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by
phone. “Emerging-market global growth conditions will continue
to look lackluster and China and other major emerging-market
commodity demand will likely be soft.”  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer and steelmaker,
is raising fuel prices for the second time in less than six
weeks, according to a government statement yesterday. Vehicle
sales may miss industry growth forecasts in 2012 as economic
growth slows, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary of the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said.  Energy Leads Drop  Emerging-market  energy and materials producers  led the drop
in the MSCI Index.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) ,  Brazil ’s largest steelmaker,
slumped 2.2 percent, the biggest drop in two weeks, pushing the
Bovespa Index to a one-week low. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.5 percent to close at the lowest level since
Jan. 16.  Mining companies  led South African stocks lower.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
dropped 1.7 percent to $43.16, slumping for a third day.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 5.1 percent to 25.14 at
4:46 p.m. in New York, rising for the first time in four days.  U.S. housing starts fell in February from a three-year
high, the Commerce Department said today.  BHP Sees Slowdown  BHP Billiton Plc, the world’s biggest mining company, slid
3.1 percent in  South Africa , the biggest one-day decline since
Nov. 21. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  retreated 1
percent in Johannesburg.  China’s steel production is slowing as the economy focuses
more on consumers than large infrastructure projects, Ian Ashby,
president of  iron ore  at BHP, the world’s third-largest
exporter, said today.  David Joyce , managing director of
expansion projects at  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-
biggest iron-ore exporter, said the company is seeing a slowdown
in China, its biggest customer.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, slumped for
the first time in four days, losing 0.8 percent. Iron-ore
producer  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  lost 1.7 percent. The
Bovespa slid 0.6 percent as 54 stocks fell on the 70-share
gauge.  Gazprom Retreats  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodities index declined 1.5
percent, the most in two weeks.  OAO Gazprom slid 2.6 percent in Moscow and the  Micex Index (MICEX) 
retreated 1.7 percent.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) ,  Russia ’s largest
mining company, declined 3.9 percent to the lowest level since
Jan. 20.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  dropped 0.6 percent in Istanbul,
slipping for the first time in six days.  Zhongsheng Group Holdings Ltd. (881) , a Beijing-based auto
retailer, slumped 6.7 percent in  Hong Kong , the most since March
1.  Most emerging-market currencies weakened against the
dollar, with South Africa’s rand depreciating 0.9 percent and
 Turkey ’s lira falling 1.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 318 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  