-- Eircom Parent ERC in Failure-To-Pay Credit Event, ISDA Says
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-20T15:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/erc-ireland-finance-in-failure-to-pay-credit-event-isda-says.html
Credit-default swaps on  Eircom
Group Ltd (ERU) .’s parent ERC Ireland Finance Ltd. will be settled
after the International Swaps & Derivatives Association said
there has been a failure-to-pay  credit event .  ISDA’s determinations committee ruled an auction will be
held “in respect to outstanding CDS transactions,” it said in
a  statement . There were 2,080 swaps contracts covering a net
$293 million of the Dublin-based phone company’s debt as of
March 9, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central registry for the market.  ERC Ireland Finance was cut to ‘selective default’ from CC
by  Standard & Poor’s  last month after the company missed a
coupon payment on its floating-rate notes. Eircom, seeking to
restructure 3.75 billion euros ($5 billion) of debt, may seek
protection from creditors as early as this month, three people
with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 15.  Eircom said March 14 it supports “in principle” a
restructuring proposal submitted by a group of first-lien, or
most senior, lenders. They proposed writing off 15 percent of
their loans, double the amount previously planned, in exchange
for full control of the company, two people with knowledge of
the matter said that day.  The first-lien lenders, led by two Blackstone Group LP
units, envisage second-lien lenders recovering 35 million euros,
or 10 percent, of their loans, with more junior creditors losing
virtually all their investment, according to the people.  Editors: Michael Shanahan,  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  