-- Merkel Coalition Seeks Full Parliament Vote on Euro Rescues
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-20T13:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/merkel-s-lawmakers-draft-euro-rescue-vote-rules-die-welt-says.html
Future euro-area sovereign bailouts
would require approval by the full German parliament under
legislation proposed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition.  Exceptions from a floor vote would allow committees of
lawmakers to make rescue decisions deemed urgent by the
government and on sovereign-bond purchases in the secondary
market,  Peter Altmaier , the majority whip of Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , told reporters in Berlin today.  Merkel’s coalition aims to pass the bill next week as part
of euro-area efforts to strengthen defenses against the debt
crisis while taking account of bailout fatigue in  Germany , the
biggest single contributor to sovereign rescues. Coalition and
opposition lawmakers haven’t agreed on the scope of the
emergency loophole yet, Altmaier said.  “There are no insurmountable problems that stand in the
way of us getting together and reaching a broad consensus” in
parliament, he said.  Conforming with a German high-court ruling, a special
closed-door panel of lawmakers will be limited to deciding on
requests by the euro-area rescue fund to buy bonds of debt-laden
governments in the secondary market, Altmaier said. Parliament’s
budget committee could make other emergency decisions.  The Federal Constitutional Court restricted the powers of
the special committee in a Feb. 28 ruling, requiring Merkel to
get approval from the full lower house, or Bundestag, in most
cases related to the  European Financial Stability Facility , the
temporary rescue fund. Euro-area governments plan to activate
the permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism, in July.  Bailout Approved  Merkel cleared a key hurdle in her effort to tamp down the
crisis and enforce budget discipline across  Europe  when German
lawmakers approved a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) second
bailout for  Greece  on Feb. 27.  Her government aims to have both houses of parliament back
the 500 billion-euro ESM and ratify the debt-limiting fiscal
pact backed by 25 European Union leaders by June 15, according
to a Finance Ministry timetable dated March 5.  The final votes on both the ESM and the fiscal pact in the
Bundestag are tentatively set for May 25. The upper house, the
Bundesrat, where Merkel’s governing coalition can’t count on a
majority, is due to vote on June 15. Merkel has consistently won
support of opposition Social Democrats and Greens for laws
dealing with the debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  