-- Lionel Messi Breaks Barcelona Scoring Record With Hat Trick
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-21T03:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/messi-breaks-barcelona-goal-scoring-record-in-la-liga-match.html
Lionel Messi broke Barcelona’s
career scoring record with a hat trick in a 5-3 win against
Granada that lifted his team within five points of  Real Madrid 
atop Spanish soccer’s La Liga.  Messi, 24, scored in the 16th minute to tie the mark of 232
goals in official matches set by Cesar Rodriguez during the
1940s and 50s. He broke the record in the 66th minute when he
lobbed the ball over Granada goalkeeper Julio Cesar, and then
took his tally to 234 in the 85th minute by finishing from a
narrow angle for his league-leading 34th goal of the season.  “Messi is defining an era,” Barcelona goalkeeper  Victor
Valdes  said on Barcelona’s website. “He is the best.”  Barcelona  said two days ago  that it had revised Rodriguez’s
goal tally to 232 from 235 after the club’s Center of
Documentation and Studies conducted joint research with La
Vanguardia newspaper to verify his record.  Messi’s second goal last night put Barcelona up 3-2 after
Granada had rallied to 2-2 with second-half goals by Diego Mainz
and Guilherme Siqueira. Cristian Tello drove the ball into the
net after Cesar parried Messi’s shot to make it 4-2, and Messi
followed up four minutes later by rounding the goalkeeper and
slamming the ball into the roof of the net to secure his 12th
career hat trick in La Liga.  The Argentine’s 34 league goals this season match his
previous best tally set in 2009-10.  Barcelona’s  Dani Alves  was sent off after getting a second
yellow card in the 88th minute for handling the ball in the
penalty area. Siqueira converted the spot kick to complete the
scoring.  Closing on Madrid  Barcelona’s sixth straight league win took the defending
champion to 66 points. Barca has played one game more than
league leader Real  Madrid , which visits Villarreal today.
Osasuna and Getafe drew 0-0 in yesterday’s other match.  Elsewhere in  Europe , Juventus reached its first Italian Cup
final since 2004 by drawing 2-2 with AC Milan last night to
secure a 4-3 victory over two games. Mirko Vucinic’s goal sent
Juve into the title match after Milan forced extra time.  Marseille, which advanced to the Champions League
quarterfinals last week, was eliminated in the quarterfinals of
the French Cup with a 3-2 loss to third-tier club Quevilly.
Striker Johan Ayina scored with one minute of extra time
remaining to secure the upset.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  