-- Metro Sees Unchanged 2012 Earnings on Economic Slowdown
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-03-20T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/metro-sees-unchanged-2012-earnings-on-economic-slowdown.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest
retailer, forecast unchanged earnings this year because of
slowing economic growth after  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
contributed to a 13 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit.  Earnings before interest, taxes and special items fell to
1.31 billion euros ($1.73 billion) from 1.5 billion euros a year
earlier, the Dusseldorf-based company said today in a statement.
Profit matched the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings this year are likely to equal last year’s
level before rising again in 2013 and sales will increase in
2012, Metro said.  “We’re positive for medium and long-term developments,”
Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch told journalists at a press
conference. “We have to set priorities and focuses.”  Metro said it will concentrate on the Cash & Carry
wholesale unit and Media-Saturn electronics outlets with less
investment in Kaufhof department stores and Real supermarkets.
Koch said he doesn’t see any immediate disposals.  Joel Saveuse, the head of the Real unit, will leave the
company at the end of the month, Metro said. Koch, who beat
Saveuse in a contest last year to become CEO, will be
responsible for Real on the management board.  An Ebit margin of 2 percent to 3 percent still “can be
achieved” for Real, Koch said. The CEO said he doesn’t see “a
cut in the portfolio yet” as he explores developing the
business and expansion opportunities. Koch excludes a “massive
investment program” for the hypermarket chain.  Shares Rise  Metro  rose  0.9 percent to 31.16 euros at the close in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 10 percent this year.  The retailer said last year that it hasn’t decided whether
to sell the Real chain, which accounts for 17 percent of sales
and has been losing market share to discount chains including
Aldi and Lidl.  “Metro faces structural difficulties in its key formats,”
Matthew Truman, analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
report today.  Koch told analysts that Kaufhof remains a non-core business
and if it received a fair valuation, solid  capital structure  and
sustainable plan for Kaufhof, Metro wouldn’t delay a sale.  The company said there’s no “urgency” to  sell  Kaufhof and
no time frame for a disposal until market conditions improve.
“We’re the wrong owners in the long run,” Koch said.  Kaufhof Sale  The company halted negotiations in January to dispose of
the unit that it has sought to exit since 2008. Metro has held
talks on selling Kaufhof with bidders including Signa Holding
GmbH, an Austrian real-estate company managed by Rene Benko, and
Berggruen Holdings, the owner of the competing Karstadt chain.  German retail sales declined in January, the country’s
Federal Statistics Office said on March 2, counter to analyst
estimates that the figure would rise. European leaders’ efforts
to stem mounting sovereign debt are curbing growth across the
euro area,  Germany ’s largest export market, and higher energy
costs pushed inflation to 2.5 percent last month.  “The sovereign-debt crisis, high unemployment rates and
austerity programs in many European countries led to a buying
restraint on the part of consumers,” Metro said.  Koch, the youngest CEO among companies on Germany’s
benchmark DAX Index at 41, said the retailer achieved cost-
saving targets as its Shape 2012 program expires, while he still
wants to increase productivity. His predecessor,  Eckhard Cordes ,
initiated Shape in 2009 to boost profit by 1.5 billion euros
over four years.  Future Savings  Savings of 150 million euros a year are possible in the
future, Koch said without specifying whether the goal can be
achieved this year.  The retailer said this month that it will combine Cash &
Carry’s two geographical units into a single division under a
management board to be led by Frans Muller. Koch identified
eight focus countries for the unit today in terms of sales
contribution and market growth: China, France, Germany, Italy,
Poland, Russia, Turkey and  Spain .  “It’s better to do less to generate more progress,” Koch
said. He added that prices at Metro should be “competitive.”  Fourth-quarter Ebit at Cash & Carry, Metro’s largest unit,
slipped 0.4 percent to 579 million euros. Earnings were almost
unchanged at Media Markt/Saturn while dropping 23 percent at
Real and 2.8 percent at Kaufhof.  Koch said Metro’s Saturn German e-commerce platform had a
good start after its introduction in October. Metro plans to
make more products available on its Saturn and Media Markt
online platforms.  Full-year Ebit dropped to 2.37 billion euros from 2.42
billion in 2010. The retailer will propose a dividend of 1.35
euros per ordinary share for the year, less than the 1.37-euro
average of 33 analyst estimates.  -- With assistance from Heather Burke in  London . Editors: Sara
Marley,  Paul Jarvis   To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Dusseldorf via 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  