-- EU Criticizes Russian Livestock Ban, Threatens Legal Steps
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-20T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/eu-criticizes-russian-livestock-ban-threatens-legal-steps-1-.html
The European Union criticized
 Russia ’s decision to prohibit imports of pigs, cattle, sheep and
goats from the bloc and said it will use “all opportunities”
to ensure the ban is lifted.  “The trade in these live animals from the EU has in no way
endangered the health of citizens of the Russian Federation and
these restrictions are therefore not based upon scientific fact,
necessity or proportionality in any way,” the European
Commission said today in an e-mailed statement from Brussels.
“This import ban is not in line with the World Trade
Organization rules.”  Russia outlawed imports of live animals from the 27-nation
EU starting today due to an outbreak of the Schmallenberg virus,
which causes stillbirths and deformed offspring. Shipments of
animals from the U.K.,  France , Germany,  Belgium , the
Netherlands,  Italy  and Luxembourg to other countries via Russia
were halted on March 16.  The Schmallenberg virus is named after the German city near
where it was first identified in November. It was probably
spread by biting midges last year, infecting pregnant sheep,
cows and goats, according to Germany’s Federal Research
Institute for Animal Health, which discovered it.  European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht and Health
Commissioner  John Dalli  consider the Russian ban to be
“disproportionate and unjustified,” the commission said in its
statement.  WTO Membership  Russia is set to join the Geneva-based WTO no later than
August, after which governments can challenge the country’s
rules at the trade arbiter’s dispute settlement body.  The Schmallenberg virus has been found on 923 farms in
 Germany , 670 in France and 158 in the U.K., data from the
countries show. The commission said pigs aren’t affected by the
virus.  EU exports of pig, cattle, sheep and goats to Russia were
worth 188 million euros ($248 million) last year, and about 75
million euros of shipments are affected by the ban that started
today, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  