-- EU to Propose Power to Ban Firms From Procurement Pacts
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-20T15:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/eu-to-propose-power-to-ban-non-eu-firms-from-procurement-pacts.html
The European Commission will
present proposals tomorrow that would empower the region’s
authorities to ban companies from outside the EU from bidding
for public procurement contracts in  Europe .  The powers, part of plans to boost the 27-nation bloc’s
arsenal against trade discrimination, could be used if other
countries don’t grant equivalent  market access  to European
businesses, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the regulator, said
today in Brussels.  The proposals, to be presented in Brussels by Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  and Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht, come as the EU clashes with  China  over possible
subsidies for Chinese steel exports. The government in Beijing
said last month that China’s businesses are “strongly
dissatisfied” with an EU announcement that it may impose
tariffs.  Wu Hailong, China’s ambassador to the EU, said China’s
procurement process is open and transparent. In a speech today
in Brussels, Wu said Chinese purchasers may choose domestically
produced products because of pricing or because they are more
comfortable with local offerings.  “It is reasonable that they go for lower prices,” Wu
said.  EU officials plan to propose that the commission have the
power to ban companies from winning procurement contracts in the
EU if they are based in countries that “repeatedly
discriminate” against European firms,  Chantal Hughes ,
spokeswoman for Barnier, said last month.  The measure will be part of a  broader proposal  that will
also clarify what access foreign companies get to EU public
procurement markets through free-trade agreements and other
accords, according to Hughes. The aim of the initiative is to
“re-establish a fair competition on the European market,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  