-- Ex-Carter’s President Indicted for Fraud, Falsifying Records
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-20T20:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ex-carter-s-president-indicted-for-fraud-falsifying-records-1-.html
The former president of  Carter’s
Inc. (CRI) , the world’s biggest maker of children’s clothing, was
indicted by a federal grand jury for  securities fraud  and
falsifying the records of a public company, prosecutors said.  The charges filed today against Joseph Pacifico, 62, are
part of a superseding indictment and follow a plea of not guilty
entered last year by Joseph Elles, a former sales executive, to
charges he reported inflated sales at the Atlanta-based company,
the  Justice Department  said in an e-mailed statement.  Pacifico “was aware of millions of dollars in undisclosed
rebates and attempted to keep them hidden from other members of
senior management, Carter’s shareholders, internal and external
auditors, and others,” according to the statement.  A copy of the indictment wasn’t immediately available.
Pacifico’s attorney, Scott Sorrels, didn’t immediately respond
to a phone message seeking comment on the indictment.  Pacifico was president of Carter’s from 2004 to 2009, and
supervised Elles, according to the statement. Pacifico and Elles
and others caused the company to falsely report millions of
dollars in rebates that Elles agreed to pay to retailers such as
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , the government said.  The rebates are expenses that reduce Carter’s net sales
revenue and profit, and help compensate retailers when they are
unable to make their expected profit from sales of Carter’s
clothing, according to the statement. The government claims
Elles applied the rebates to years or quarters rather than prior
years or quarters when the sales were made, the U.S. said.  The fraud caused Carter’s to misstate net income and other
items in its publicly filed financial statements from April 2009
through July 2009, according to the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Elles, Pacifico, 11-cr-445, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  