-- French Southwest on Highest Alert Amid Toulouse Killer Search
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-20T13:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ex-soldiers-among-suspects-in-toulouse-killings-minister-says.html
France ’s southwestern region was
put on the highest terror alert as a massive search began for
the man who killed four people at a Jewish school yesterday and
three military personnel of Arab descent last week.  The area’s alert was raised to “scarlet,” the first time
in France such as level was reached. The whole country has been
under a ‘red” rating since the London bombings in July 2005.
Scarlet allows security forces to close schools, public
transport and tunnels.  “We’ve stepped up control at all schools,” Olivier
Dugrip, the academic rector of Toulouse, said in an interview on
BFM television.  The school killings were the deadliest attacks on a Jewish
target in France since 1982. The spree left a 17-year-old Jewish
student seriously injured and a black soldier in a coma. The
same weapon was used in all the attacks, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said last night.  All the major candidates in France’s presidential election
have suspended their campaign. Sarkozy, Socialist challenger
 Francois Hollande  and Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  appeared
together last night at a service at a Paris synagogue. They had
all been in Toulouse earlier in the day. The first round of the
presidential vote is April 22.  Sarkozy said last night that 120 detectives are in Toulouse
and 14 units of military police have been sent to the area to
protect all Jewish and Muslim houses of worship and schools.  Killer’s Camera  Interior Minister Claude Gueant, whose ministry oversees
law-enforcement agencies, and Defense Minister Gerard Longuet
are both in Toulouse to oversee the investigation.  The killer may have filmed his own attack, Gueant said. An
eye witness said the killer had a camera attached to his neck,
he said.  “It adds one more element to the profile of the killer,”
Gueant said. “He was filming his cruelty to watch it again or
to post it” on the web.  Three soldiers who were expelled in 2008 for neo-Nazi
activities from the 17th parachute regiment -- which is based in
Montauban, site of one of last week’s attacks -- had been
earlier among the potential suspects.  They were deemed to not have been involved after they were
interviewed by the police, Le Point reported, citing Reuters,
which got its information from unidentified investigating
officers. The three soldiers had been in the same regiment that
two of the dead soldiers belonged to.  Minute’s Silence  Sarkozy met today with Jewish and Muslim leaders, including
Gilles Bernheim, the chief rabbi of France, and Dalil Boubakeur,
rector of the Paris mosque. All schools in France observed a
minute of silence at 11 a.m.  “It happened with students at a Jewish school but it could
have happened here,” Sarkozy said at a public school near a
monument to French citizens who helped shield Jews during World
War II. “These children were exactly like you.”  Richard Prasquier, head of the CRIF, France’s largest
Jewish lobby, said the attack had nothing to with the sometime
heated exchanges in France’s electoral campaign.  “Nobody grabs a kid by the hair so he can put a bullet in
her head because he heard something about religious slaughter of
animals,” said Prasquier, referring to a dispute about Halal
meat being served in French schools. “There is no link.”  Everything had been removed from Sarkozy’s campaign  website 
except the statement: “Faced with a national tragedy I suspend
my presidential campaign until at least Wednesday.”  No Campaigning  Hollande, following Sarkozy, visited the school in Toulouse
yesterday, saying “the anti-Semitic character of this attack is
as evident as it is awful. I must be here to express my
solidarity.” He canceled a television appearance last night and
a rally today, saying on RMC radio that he hoped no candidates
use the killings as a “tool” in the campaign.  While Hollande leads Sarkozy in all polls before an
expected May 6 run-off between the two, surveys show that most
French think Sarkozy is more able than Hollande on security
issues.  Anti-immigrant candidate Marine Le Pen, whose father Jean-
Marie was condemned by a French court in 1991 for denying the
Holocaust, also suspended her campaign.  “In a moment like this there is no politics, no right, no
left, just a French people that’s touched to its heart,” she
said in a press conference in Paris.  Francois Bayrou , a centrist
politician who is running fourth in the polls, also visited
Toulouse.  Shooting Spree  The killer, who escaped on a scooter after randomly
shooting people at the school, had two weapons and fired at
“everything in sight,” Michel Valet, the state prosecutor for
Toulouse, told reporters yesterday.  A rabbi and his two boys, three- and-six-years of age, and
the eight-year-old daughter of the school’s director were
killed. A 17-year-old youngster was seriously hurt and is in
critical condition. The teacher had recently arrived from  Israel 
and the bodies will be returned there for burial, the Israeli
Foreign Ministry said yesterday.  The three children killed weren’t students at the school
and were shot while waiting for a ride to their own primary
school. A security film at the school shows that the killer
grabbed one of the children by the hair before shooting her,
school officials said.  The soldiers were killed on March 11 in Toulouse and on
March 15 in Montauban, 30 miles away. In all three attacks, the
helmeted attacker arrived and left on the same stolen scooter.
Yesterday’s killer was a medium-sized man of European descent,
witnesses told France2 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  