-- Ex-Taylor Bean Finance Chief Admits $3 Billion Fraud Role
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-20T15:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ex-taylor-bean-finance-chief-admits-role-in-3-billion-fraud-1-.html
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.’s former finance chief admitted to helping his boss,  Lee Farkas , commit what prosecutors say was one of the largest bank
frauds in U.S. history.  Delton de Armas, 41, pleaded guilty today in federal court
in Alexandria,  Virginia , to one count of conspiracy to commit
bank and wire fraud and one count of false statements in a
scheme that contributed to the failures of Montgomery, Alabama-
based  Colonial Bank  and its parent, Colonial BancGroup, once
among the nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  He faces as much as 10 years in prison when he is sentenced
by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema on June 15.  “As CFO, Mr. de Armas could have put a stop to the fraud
the moment he discovered it,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said
in an e-mailed statement. “Instead, the hole in Ocala Funding
grew to $1.5 billion on his watch, and as it grew, so did his
lies to investors and the government.”  From 2005 through August 2009, de Armas helped Farkas and
other conspirators misappropriate more than $1.5 billion from
Ocala Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by
 Taylor Bean , according to a statement of facts filed by
prosecutors and signed by de Armas. De Armas issued false
financial reports that masked shortfalls at Ocala Funding in
order to keep auditors at bay and investors on board, the
document states.  ‘Didn’t Speak Up’  “I regret I didn’t speak up more,” de Armas, of
Carrollton,  Texas , told Brinkema today after being asked about
his role in covering up Taylor Bean and Ocala Funding’s
financial problems.  Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor Bean, is serving a 30-
year sentence after being convicted in April of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.  Six conspirators to the fraud scheme who pleaded guilty and
testified against Farkas at trial were sentenced to prison terms
ranging from three months to eight years. De Armas did not
testify at Farkas’ trial.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of  Freddie Mac 
loans, when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  De Armas admitted to falsifying mortgage loan data so that
Taylor Bean would meet collateral thresholds set by its lenders
and inflated the assets Taylor Bean supposedly owned, according
to the statement of facts.  False financial statements were given to Ginnie Mae and
Freddie Mac so that Taylor Bean’s authority to sell and service
mortgage securities guaranteed by the government-sponsored
entities would be renewed, according to the court filing.  The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  