-- Mexican Peso Erases Drop as Earthquake Damage Concerns Recede
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-21T02:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/mexican-peso-declines-on-concern-china-to-crimp-global-growth.html
Mexico ’s peso reversed earlier
declines and hovered near the strongest in a week as a 7.4-
magnitude earthquake that sent residents into the streets of the
capital failed to cause major damage.  The peso was little changed at 12.6502 at 3 p.m. in Mexico
City, from 12.6453 yesterday. While it was down before the
temblor and extended losses immediately afterword, the currency
recouped losses as no reports of immediate damage or injuries
emerged.  President Felipe Calderon, in a message posted on his
Twitter account, said no major damage had been detected so far
from the temblor. Power was knocked out and windows destroyed in
several Mexico City neighborhoods.  “You had a sort of a short-covering rally, and that bounce
was a little bit more pronounced,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of
Latin America fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal, said by phone
from  New York . Earlier “you had a kneejerk reaction where the
news broke on the earthquake, people panicked and sold the peso
a little bit.”  The peso earlier fell as much as 0.7 percent as concern
that growth is slowing in  China  sent most emerging-market
currencies lower. The Asian nation, the world’s second-largest
oil consumer after the U.S., raised gasoline and diesel prices
for the second time in less than six weeks. BHP Billiton Ltd.
said the country’s steel production is slowing.  “There was some China-related news that I think is driving
this move,”  Eduardo Suarez , a currency strategist at Scotia
Capital Inc., said by phone from Toronto at the time.  The peso has gained 10.2 percent this year, the second-best
performance among the most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg behind the Colombian peso.  The yield on peso-denominated government debt due in 2024
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.57
percent. The price fell 0.41 centavo to 129.54 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  