-- Mexico City Buildings Shake in Strongest Earthquake Since 2003
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-03-21T05:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/mexico-city-buildings-shake-after-7-9-magnitude-earthquake-1-.html
Buildings in  Mexico  City swayed,
sending frightened residents into the streets of the capital,
after a 7.4-magnitude earthquake struck near Acapulco.  President Felipe Calderon, in a message posted on Twitter,
said no major damage had been detected and there were no reports
of casualties. The quake, which was originally estimated by the
 U.S. Geological Survey  to have a 7.9 magnitude, struck 200 miles
southeast of the capital in Oaxaca state.  Jesus Ramos said the quake was the worst he felt since he
began working at Mexico City’s stock exchange in 2006.  “It felt horrible,” Ramos, 31, said outside of the
bourse, one of many buildings on the busy Paseo Reforma
thoroughfare that were evacuated within minutes of the quake.
“There have been others, but not this strong.”  Power was knocked out and windows shattered in several of
the capital’s neighborhoods, and a pedestrian bridge collapsed
on a vehicle, injuring one person,  El Universal  newspaper
reported. A 5.1-magnitude aftershock was felt 30 minutes after
the original temblor and a magnitude 5.0 quake hit Guerrero
state at 8:54 p.m. local time yesterday, the USGS said on its
website.  The peso briefly extended declines, then recovered, after
the quake struck.  Obama’s Daughter  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, had
no reports of damage and spokeswoman Fatima Campos said its
Salina Cruz refinery, the country’s biggest, is operating
normally.  Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB) , the world’s fifth-largest copper
producer, said the temblor hasn’t affected its mines and
refineries.  President  Barack Obama ’s oldest daughter, Malia, is safe
and was never in danger during the long quake, said Kristina
Schake, a spokesperson for First Lady  Michelle Obama . Malia, 13,
is on vacation with a school group in Oaxaca.  Mexico City Mayor Marcelo Ebrard said on his Twitter
account that he detected no damage in a helicopter flyover and
that the international airport, subway and water systems were
all functioning normally.  Some houses collapsed and around 500 were damaged along the
Pacific Ocean coastline in southern Guerrero state near the
quake’s center, state Governor Angel Aguirre said in an
interview broadcast on Milenio TV. No deaths or injuries have
been reported nor has any damage been detected in the resort
city of Acapulco, he added.  Jell-O Effect  The quake was the biggest since a 7.6 magnitude temblor
struck offshore of Colima state in 2003 and caused 29 deaths,
according to USGS data. In 1985, an 8.0-magnitude quake
 flattened  hundreds of buildings in the capital, leaving more
than 9,000 people dead.  Mexico City’s location on an ancient lakebed may have
magnified the quake’s vibration, though the epicenter’s distance
from the capital and improvements in building techniques since
the 1985 tragedy should limit damage, said John Bellini, a
geophysicist at the  USGS . More extensive damage may be reported
near the epicenter, he said.  “The lakebed kind of acts like a bowl, a Jell-o so to
speak,” Bellini said in a phone interview from Golden,
 Colorado . “Historically very large earthquakes in the coastal
areas have caused damage in Mexico City but we’re not seeing
that with this one.”  Yesterdays’s quake was felt in five states, as well as
neighboring  Guatemala . As far south as Chile authorities were on
the lookout for possible tsunami.  “I felt dizzy,” said Christopher Hernandez, who works at
the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City. “I was more surprised than
scared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  