-- Exxon Valdez to Be Junked Years After Worst U.S. Ship Spill
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-20T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/exxon-valdez-sold-for-scrap-years-after-worst-u-s-tanker-spill.html
The Exxon Valdez has been sold for
scrap 23 years after causing the worst tanker spill in U.S.
history, which led to new designs for oil carriers.  Now called the Oriental Nicety, the vessel was sold for
about $16 million, Maryland-based Global Marketing Systems Inc.,
the world’s biggest cash buyer of ships for demolition, said in
a report March 16. Converted into an ore carrier in 2007, it
changed owners and names four times since the 1989 accident,
American Bureau of Shipping records show.  The spill, which dumped 11 million gallons of oil in
 Alaska ’s Prince William Sound, was the largest in U.S. waters
until the 2010 accident at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo oil well in the  Gulf
of Mexico . It’s still the country’s largest leak from a tanker,
and it led to the U.S. requirement for ships to have two hulls.  “The accident pointed out that the biggest risk involved
in oil transport is the impact an accident can have on the
environment,” Thomas Zwick, an analyst at Oslo-based shipping
consultant Lorentzen & Stemoco AS, said in an e-mail today.
“Large companies can go under as a consequence of the financial
liabilities bestowed upon them following an accident.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil company, still
faces litigation from the spill. The Irving, Texas-based company
spent three years and $3.86 billion to clean up the spill, which
damaged 700 miles of coastline and killed more than 36,000
birds, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.  Damage Claims  Exxon agreed in 2009 to pay $470 million in interest on a
$507.5 million judgment won by local victims, including
fishermen and small businesses, in addition to a $900 million
civil settlement. Last month, a judge ruled that U.S. and
Alaskan governments could pursue further damage claims.  The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 required owners to phase out
single-hulled ships. All but 18 of the world’s 560 operating
supertankers are now double-hulled, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The scrapping of the Oriental Nicety was reported earlier
by TradeWinds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  