-- Facebook CEO Is Said to Take Low Profile in IPO Marketing
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-20T17:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/facebook-ceo-is-said-to-take-low-profile-in-ipo-marketing.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-
networking website seeking to raise $5 billion in an initial
public offering, will pay underwriters a 1.1 percent fee, said
two people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  The fee will be shared among Facebook’s underwriters, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the details are
private. Facebook has hired 31 banks to work on the IPO,
including Morgan Stanley as lead underwriter. The lead bank
typically earns a bigger cut of the total.  The world’s most popular social network is paying less than
half the 2.5 percent median fee on the largest U.S. offerings in
history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At $5 billion,
the IPO would be the biggest on record for an  Internet company 
and may value  Facebook (FB)  at $75 billion to $100 billion, people
familiar with the situation have said.  “Facebook has enormous leverage,” said  Dan Veru , who
oversees $3.6 billion as chief investment officer at Palisade
Capital Management LLC in  Fort Lee ,  New Jersey . “Being an
underwriter of an IPO that has so much visibility is like
advertising to other companies that are considering using an
investment banker. It’s like putting your name in neon lights.”  Facebook is paying about one-fifth the typical rate for
IPOs, with underwriters receiving an average of 5.48 percent in
127 offerings last year, Bloomberg data show. With larger IPOs,
banks can often afford to take a smaller percentage fee, and
high-profile offerings such as Facebook can lead to future
business, making securities firms willing to accept less.  GM, Visa  Among U.S. IPOs larger than $5 billion, only General Motors
Co. has paid a lower fee than Facebook on a percentage basis.
The automaker’s $18.1 billion U.S. government-led IPO in 2010
paid bankers a fee of 0.75 percent. Visa Inc.’s $19.7 billion
IPO, the largest in history, included a 2.8 percent fee for
underwriters, Bloomberg data show.  At a fee rate of 1.1 percent, a $5 billion offering would
generate $55 million for Facebook’s banks. Jonathan Thaw, a
spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  The banks Facebook named last month to handle the deal
included Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc and Allen & Co.
This month, Facebook expanded the list to include Deutsche Bank
AG, Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. Smaller banks were
added as well, such as M.R. Beal & Co., Muriel Siebert & Co. and
William Blair & Co.  Banks including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,
Bank of America and Barclays also arranged an $8 billion
financing package for Facebook, the company said in a filing
earlier this month.  Zuckerberg’s Role  The role  Mark Zuckerberg  will play in marketing the
offering hasn’t been determined, said a person with knowledge of
the matter. Executives told attendees to keep their expectations
for his role low, said the person, who asked not be identified
as the matter is private. The company’s 27-year-old co-founder
and chief executive officer didn’t attend a meeting yesterday
that served as a precursor to the IPO’s so-called roadshow, this
person said.  That left Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s operating chief, and
David Ebersman, the chief financial officer, to answer questions
from analysts and bankers. The company, which held the event at
its headquarters in  Menlo Park ,  California , will probably have
another meeting with analysts next month, the person said.  The company also hasn’t decided yet whether it will offer
financial guidance to analysts, according to the person. At the
event, executives emphasized that the company is focused on the
long term and well positioned for growth, the person said.  The Wall Street Journal  previously reported  on Zuckerberg
missing the analyst meeting. Executives at the event said he
would be focused more on developing Facebook’s service, the
Journal reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  