-- Facebook Investor DST Seeks $1 Billion for New Tech Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-21T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/facebook-investor-dst-seeks-1-billion-for-new-tech-fund.html
Digital Sky Technologies, a Russian
firm that invested in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , is seeking $1 billion for a
new late-stage technology fund less than a year after raising
its last pool, promising investors a stake in the social-
networking site in return.  DST has committed Facebook stock valued at $50 million to
the fund, meaning limited partners get a chance to own the
shares through their investment, according to an investor
presentation obtained by Bloomberg News. Early investors were
offered the Facebook holding at a 12 percent discount to an
internal valuation of about $74 billion, as well as a 25 percent
reduction in the fund’s management fee.  DST, founded by Russian technology investor Yuri Milner, is
among a number of  venture capital  and buyout firms seeking money
after the biggest year for U.S. Internet initial public
offerings in more than a decade. Facebook backer Elevation
Partners and Zynga Inc. investor Institutional Venture Partners
are each seeking as much as $1 billion for their next funds.  Leonid Solovyev, a spokesman for DST, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  DST’s investments in companies including Facebook,  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN) , Twitter Inc., Zynga Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. have buoyed
returns. The firm’s first fund, DSTG I, has returned a 4.89
times the invested capital, before fees, and produced an annual
151 percent gross internal rate of return, according to the
December presentation.  Zynga, LinkedIn  DST Global III LP plans to make noncontrolling investments
in late-stage private companies in the global Internet industry
with a valuation of at least $500 million. A minimum commitment
of $25 million is required, according to the presentation.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is acting as placement agent for the
fund.  DST gathered $867 million for its prior fund, which was
formed in late 2010. Of the total, $792 million was invested in
10 companies last year, according to the December presentation.
The firm invested $37.5 million in online digital music company
Spotify Ltd. in June 2011 and $36.7 million in Airbnb Inc. in
July.  Its highest-profile holding is Facebook, which is seeking
to raise $5 billion in an initial public offering that may value
the company at $75 billion to $100 billion. DST first invested
in the social-networking site in May 2009 and purchased
“substantially” every Facebook common share that was traded
from September 2009 to February 2010, according to the investor
presentation. DSTG I invested a total of $490 million during
that period in the company at a $10.8 billion valuation.  In December 2010, the firm’s first fund also agreed to
invest an additional $125 million that was later transferred to
DSTG II. A year later, DST bought $50 million more of Facebook
stock at a $74 billion valuation, said a prospective investor
who viewed recent marketing materials.  DST has held a $120 million early-bird close on the new
fund and is expected to hold a first close soon, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  