-- Falkland Oil Finds Partner That May Help With Drilling Costs
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-20T16:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/falkland-oil-finds-partner-that-may-help-with-drilling-costs-2-.html
Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , an
explorer in the South Atlantic, secured an option to sell a 25
percent stake in its license areas.  An unidentified partner would purchase the interest in
exchange for paying a part of $68 million in past costs as well
as a contribution of $40 million toward future drilling,
Falkland Oil said today in a statement in  London . The partner,
though unable to complete the farm-out agreement at this time,
should be able to do so within two months and before the company
starts drilling the Loligo well in June.  The shares rose 3.5 pence, or 5.7 percent, to 64.5 pence in
London. That narrowed the stock’s decline to 19 percent in the
past 12 months, valuing the explorer at 206.4 million pounds
($328 million).  Falkland Oil is targeting more than 4 billion barrels of
reserves this year in two wells to the south of the U.K.
territory that  Margaret Thatcher  went to war to defend from
 Argentina  in 1982. The company raised 48.5 million pounds in a
share sale in January to finance its drilling program.  “This farm-out provides further external industry
confirmation of the technical case and gives us greater
flexibility with respect to our drilling plans,” Chief
Executive Officer Tim Bushell said in a statement.  Falkland Oil will maintain operatorship under the potential
farm-out agreement. The partner can’t complete the deal now
“for corporate reasons unconnected with the proposed farmout,”
the company said.  Darwin Prospect  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  is currently drilling a
well near Falkland Oil’s acreage in the Darwin prospect and will
drill another well in the Stebbing prospect before handing the
rig over.  If Borders & Southern makes a discovery before the farm-out
is completed, Falkland Oil’s partner would have to either remove
the Southern License area from the agreement, pay $10 million
more for the 25 percent stake, or reduce its interest.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , the only company to make a
commercial discovery in the Falklands so far, is seeking $2
billion from a larger  oil company  to develop the Sea Lion field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  