-- Fighting in Syrian Capital, U.S. Citizen Killed in Yemen
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-20T05:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/fighting-in-syrian-capital-u-s-citizen-killed-in-yemen.html
A Russian military fuel tanker with
a squad of marines arrived in the Syrian port of Tartus, RIA
Novosti’s Arabic-language service said, citing unidentified
Russian navy officials.  The marines, specialists in anti-terrorist operations,
traveled aboard the Iman, which is based at  Russia ’s Black Sea
Fleet headquarters in Sevastopol, Ukraine, the state-run Russian
news service reported.  The  Defense Ministry  in Moscow responded to requests for
comment on the report by posting a statement on its website late
yesterday saying the Iman will be docked at the Russian naval
base in Tartus for 10 days.  “There are no Russian military vessels carrying out
missions off the shores of  Syria ,” the ministry said. The
tanker has a civilian crew and is charged with supplying Russian
ships conducting anti-piracy operations in the Gulf of Aden,
according to the statement.  A year of violence in Syria since President Bashar al-Assad
started a crackdown on an anti-government uprising has claimed
more than 8,000 lives, according to United Nations estimates.
Veto-wielding UN Security Council members Russia and  China  have
blocked Western and Arab demands for Assad’s resignation,
arguing for talks between the Syrian leader and his opponents.  The Iman replaced the Ivan Bubnov tanker, which was sent to
Syria to “demonstrate a Russian presence” and prepare for the
possible evacuation of Russians from Syria, the Moscow-based
Interfax news service reported late yesterday, citing
unidentified Black Sea Fleet officials.  The Syrian leader’s father, Hafez al-Assad, who ruled for
three decades until his death in 2000, was a close ally of the
 Soviet Union . Russia has maintained a servicing point for naval
vessels at Tartus, where it stations about 600 personnel, since
the  Cold War , the Izvestia newspaper said last year.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry late yesterday called on Syria to
ensure a daily pause in fighting to provide access for
humanitarian workers.  The ministry issued the statement after
Foreign Ministry  Sergei Lavrov  held talks with International
Committee of the Red Cross head Jakob Kellenberger in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 