-- First Uranium Shareholders Object to AngloGold Deal
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-03-20T20:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/first-uranium-shareholders-object-to-anglogold-deal.html
A group of  First Uranium Inc. (FIU) 
shareholders said the mining company’s planned sales of South
African assets to  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Gold One
International Ltd. for a combined $405 million are being done
too cheaply.  The group sent a letter to the boards of First Uranium,
AngloGold and Gold One explaining its objections, Nicholas Betsky, head of equities at  Russia ’s Olma Investment Firm in
Moscow, and Mikhail Pak, a spokesman for Stratton Enterprises
Inc. in Moscow, said yesterday in separate interviews.  The investor group comprises Olma, Stratton, Sprott Asset
Management Inc. and Patto Corporate Services Ltd. and
collectively holds more than 41 million shares, or 17 percent,
of Toronto-based First Uranium. It may vote against both deals,
Betsky said.  First Uranium’s board “has not exhausted all its
options,” Betsky said by telephone from Montpellier,  France .
“We’re trying to tell the board they should go back to the
drawing board.”  First Uranium said March 2 it agreed to sell its Mine Waste
Solutions unit to Johannesburg-based AngloGold for $335 million
and that  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO)  would buy its Ezulwini
Mining Co. unit for $70 million. If the deals aren’t completed,
First Uranium won’t have enough funds to pay the outstanding
principal on about C$150 million ($151 million) of convertible
debentures that are due June 30, the company also said March 2.  Related Parties  Gold One gained 14 percent to 3.99 rand at the close in
Johannesburg. AngloGold fell 0.9 percent to 287.61 rand. First
Uranium was unchanged at C$0.15 in Toronto.  The group of investors said in the letter that Mine Waste
Solutions has a so-called net present value of C$700 million
while just Ezulwini’s infrastructure is worth C$150 million,
Betsky said.  First Uranium Chief Executive Officer Deon Van Der Mescht
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Alan Fine , a spokesman
for AngloGold, and Maria Smirnova, an associate portfolio
manager at Sprott in Toronto, declined to comment. No number or
e-mail address could immediately be found for Patto.  The AngloGold and Gold One deals will be voted on
separately by First Uranium investors at a meeting to be held in
mid-May. The Mine Waste Solutions acquisition requires 50.1
percent or more of the votes cast by shareholders excluding
AngloGold and certain related parties, First Uranium said March
2. The Gold One deals needs 66.7 percent.  AngloGold owns 20 percent of First Uranium, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Franco Nevada Corp. and Village Main
Reef Ltd., which hold stakes of 7.4 percent and 5.7 percent
respectively, are considered related parties.  “We are planning to vote ‘no’ and we think enough
shareholders will join us,” Betsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  