-- Florida’s Inland Residents May Pay as Sea Levels Climb
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/florida-s-inland-residents-may-pay-as-sea-levels-climb.html
Telephone repairman  Josh Smith 
lives in Jasper, which is Florida’s most inland city, according
to the state’s Geological Survey.  Even 75 miles (121 kilometers) from the Atlantic Ocean,
Smith is bearing part of the cost of rising seas and stronger 
storms caused by global warming. That’s because U.S. taxpayers
help insure against hurricane damage for nearly 5 million 
Americans, mostly in  Florida (BEESFL) , whose homes are less than four 
feet (1.2 meters) above normal high tides. The programs pit 
beachfront property owners against inland residents who 
subsidize their policies.  Sea level may rise eight inches in the next 18 years and 80
inches by 2100,  Climate Central Inc. , a nonprofit research and
advocacy organization in Princeton,  New Jersey , estimated in a
report this month. Global warming doubles the odds of the most-
disastrous flooding for two-thirds of 55 U.S. coastal locations
studied and triples the chance in about half of those, the group
said. The rise of the oceans also may produce stronger storms.  “We’ve put ourselves in this situation by choosing to live
a few feet from the coast,” said Smith, a 31-year-old Hamilton
County commissioner. “I certainly hope I never have ocean-front
property in Jasper.”  Higher oceans raise hurricane damage, said the Consumer
Federation of America’s insurance director, J.  Robert Hunter .
The Washington organization includes 300 advocacy groups.  Blow, Winds, Blow  “It’s not just the frequency of flooding, but the severity
of storms,” Hunter said. “You might have the same number of
hurricanes, but with higher sea levels they’re going to travel
farther inland and cause more damage.”  Taxpayers subsidize insurance on beach real estate through
programs at state and federal levels.  Louisiana , Florida and all Atlantic Coast states save  Maine 
write wind coverage for high-risk properties, according to 2010
report from  Towers Watson & Co. (TW) , a consulting firm in  New York .
Their exposure rose almost 14-fold to $757.9 billion in 2010
from $54.7 billion in 1990, according to a report last year from
the industry-backed  Insurance Information Institute  in New York.  Florida’s state-run Citizens Property Insurance Corp. is
the largest coverage provider, with 1.43 million policies,
almost a quarter of the market, according to the Insurance
Regulation Office in Tallahassee.  Bad for Capitalism  “Our subsidized insurance market is an embarrassment to
anyone who believes in free enterprise,” said state Senator
Alan Hays, a Republican on the Banking and Insurance Committee
who lives in Umatilla, an inland city about 45 miles northwest
of  Orlando .  In  Florida , where seven of the National Hurricane Center’s
10 most expensive storms have hit, the insurance, mortgage and
building industries have opposed changes to Citizens Property
that would reduce the amount inland residents pay toward
indemnifying their coastal neighbors.  Republican Governor  Rick Scott , who owns a beachfront home
in Naples, on the  Gulf of Mexico , that he says the company
doesn’t cover, has championed the measures.  Opponents, such as Republican state Senator Mike Fasano of
New Port Richey, say the measures would increase rates for his
coastal constituents and damage the real-estate market.  “It’s difficult for me to understand what the emergency
here is,” Fasano said. “If they raise premiums and there is no
storm, where has that money gone? Will a homeowner see a
reduction? Absolutely not.”  High Water Everywhere  Climate Central’s report will intensify the debate, Hunter
said. The organization, started in 2008 with a Flora Family
Foundation grant, also got money from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration and other government
agencies and nonprofit groups, according to its website.  The study, led by Ben Strauss, is based on 2010 census data
and land-elevation estimates from the  U.S. Geological Survey  and
 NASA . The study also calculated estimates for how global warming
shifts the odds of high storm surges.  The conclusion is that sea level is rising at an
accelerated rate that “dramatically increases” the odds of the
worst floods, according to the report.  Florida, where about 2.4 million people live within four
feet of the local high-tide line, has eight of the 10 U.S.
cities most at risk, according to Climate Central’s study.  Florida Deluged  About $30 billion in taxable property is endangered in just
three southeast Florida counties, excluding Miami-Dade, which
has the most homes at risk in the state and the nation,
according to the report.  Taxpayers across America may foot the bill for that damage.
With few private insurers providing coverage, the federal
National Flood Insurance Program serves about 5.6 million U.S.
property owners at below-market prices.  The program, almost $18 billion in debt after the 2005
hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, would have to pay for houses
lost because of rising sea levels, Hunter said.  Short-term extensions have kept the program alive as the
U.S. House of Representatives and Senate battle over its future.
When it was suspended for 20 days in 2010, 47,000 home sales
were delayed or canceled, according to a National Association of
Realtors survey.  “They want to be able to build a home when the tide goes
out and sell it before the tide comes back in,” said Hunter, a
former  Texas (BEESTX)  insurance commissioner. “I don’t like high rates,
but I really don’t like rates that are subsidized and invite
construction in unsafe areas.”  Florida’s Miami-Dade, Broward,  Palm Beach  and Monroe
Counties formed the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change
Compact in 2009 to coordinate defenses against ocean storms. The
group of county commissioners is among the most important
responses to global warming threats in the U.S., Strauss said.  “This problem has the potential to cause more economic
damage than most of the things we read about every day,”
Strauss said. “Actual actions are few and far between.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  