-- Fourteenth Colombia Rebel Attack Halts Ecopetrol Pipeline
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-03-20T23:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/fourteenth-colombia-rebel-attack-halts-ecopetrol-pipeline-2-.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest
oil company, shut a pipeline attacked for the 14th time this
year by rebels targeting energy infrastructure.  Soldiers are securing a mountainous area near the Cano
Limon Covenas pipeline in eastern Colombia after the attack
March 18 by members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC, according to a military official who can’t be
identified because of army policy. The company is preparing to
repair the 771-kilometer (479-mile) pipeline, said a company
official who couldn’t be named due to Ecopetrol policy.  Guerrilla attacks may jeopardize Colombia’s plans to reach
an oil production target of 1 million barrels a day, said
Mauricio Restrepo, an analyst at brokerage Bolsa y Renta SA.
Crude output slid 4.8 percent in February from January to an
average of 896,000 barrels a day as attacks cut transport.  “There has been news lately about security that might make
us not reach the goal,” Restrepo said today by phone from
Medellin. “But the government is reacting.”  Colombia is making additional investments to guarantee
security as rebels act out of “desperation,” Mines and Energy
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said last week.  Ecopetrol still expects to meet production targets after 13
attacks on Cano Limon this year, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said in an interview last week, prior to the latest
assault. The pipeline carries about 70,000 barrels a day of
crude from the plains of Colombia near the Venezuelan border to
the Caribbean coast.  Rising Sabotage  Sabotage of energy towers, pipelines, roads and bridges
rose last year for the first time since 2008, according to
 government statistics . On March 17, guerrillas killed 11 troops
guarding a roadway in the eastern Colombian province of Arauca.  Ecopetrol completed repairs from a March 11 FARC attack on
the pipeline, which resulted in fires and a spill. The FARC is
 Colombia ’s oldest guerrilla group.  Ecopetrol rose 0.2 percent to close at 5,220 pesos in
Bogota.  Shares rose amid rising production and reserves, Santiago
Melo, an analyst at Alianza Valores SA who doesn’t own shares,
said today by phone. The brokerage has a “buy” on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  