-- Free Lunches Pushing U.S. to Insolvency, Columbia’s Mundell Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-20T16:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/free-lunches-pushing-u-s-to-insolvency-columbia-s-mundell-says.html
Political competition for votes and
lack of fiscal discipline are pushing the world’s largest
economy toward solvency issues, according to the Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Robert Mundell .  “The public is looking for free lunches, and the political
competition for votes makes the politicians offer them free
lunches,” Mundell, a professor of economics at Columbia
University, said on Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “That’s what gets us in to the difficulties of
insolvency.”  The U.S. plans to finance a  budget deficit  forecast to
exceed $1 trillion for a fourth year, and  outstanding  U.S.
marketable debt expanded to $10 trillion in February.  Even as the jobless rate has fallen from a high of 10
percent in October 2009 to 8.3 percent in February, it remains
almost 2 percent above the average of the past decade and the
central bank has called unemployment “persistent.”  “You could have fiscal stimulus back in the day of Keynes,
when the government was a small proportion of gross domestic
product and there was no insolvency problem,” he said,
referring to British economist  John Maynard Keynes . “You can’t
just issue more bonds to pay for deficits and expect it to solve
the employment problem.”  The euro area is forecast to have fiscal spending of 3.3
percent of GDP in 2012, compared to 7.1 percent in the U.S. this
year.  “The United States is not in as bad a situation as
Europe,” he said, “but it’s getting that way.”  ‘Political Glue’  As the  International Monetary Fund  said  Greece  may require
additional funding or a third debt restructuring, the odds of
the fiscal union breaking up by the end of 2013 have reached
36.5 percent, based on bets made at Intrade.com. Mundell, often
referred to as the father of the common currency, sees a
different outcome.  “It’s political glue inside  Europe  to keep it together --
the euro is the best thing going for it since the creation of
the common market,” he said. “The end game is going to be
deeper integration in Europe and more centralization of the
fiscal authority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  