-- French Households Struggle to Pay for Energy, Ombudsman Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-20T17:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/french-households-struggle-to-pay-for-energy-ombudsman-says.html
At least half a million French
households had their power or natural gas supplies cut off or
lowered last year because they couldn’t pay their bills,
according to the country’s energy ombudsman.  “Increasing numbers of households are having trouble
paying their bills as prices increase,” Denis Merville said in
a statement on the agency’s  Web site . “This will be a challenge
for our society in coming years.”  The French Mediateur National de l’Energie, which published
its 2011 report today, said the economic slowdown, a 25 percent
increase in natural gas rates over the past two years and 8
percent rise in electricity prices have led to growing numbers
of consumers struggling to pay their bills.  Government measures to counter the problem “don’t go far
enough” and the ombudsman is increasingly being asked to
intervene when utilities threaten to cut off power and gas
supply, the report said. About 3.8 million households pay more
than 10 percent of their income for energy.  Electricite de France SA and GDF Suez SA, the former French
monopolies that have the most customers in  France , declined to
provide the agency with figures on how many clients don’t pay
their bills and have services cut, the report said. The agency
estimated the number at 500,000 in 2011.  Unpaid bills cost EDF 5 million euros last year, the
utility said in an e-mailed statement today. It spends 30
million euros a year on employees advising struggling customers,
49 million euros on a government plan through 2013 to renovate
housing and more than 22 million euros for a housing solidarity
fund.  EDF and GDF Suez, based in Paris, have their rates for
French households set by the government, which is under pressure
from consumers to keep them low.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  last year challenged a
government gas price freeze in the country’s highest court,
winning an increase from Jan. 1. An increase in power prices
could come after the country’s presidential elections in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  