-- French Chemicals Makers Seek Support on Shale Gas, Nuclear Power
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-03-20T11:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/french-chemicals-makers-seek-support-on-shale-gas-nuclear-power.html
French chemicals makers urged
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and contenders in the election to
reconsider their objection to shale gas and preserve nuclear
power as energy costs are key to the industry’s competitiveness.  “If we’re told no shale gas and less nuclear, and if we
have to pay 50 percent more for energy, that’s a huge or even a
life-threatening concern,” Olivier Homolle, who chairs the
 Union des Industries Chimiques , the French chemicals industry
federation, said in a March 16 interview. “Nuclear energy is
very useful. It’s one of the rare areas where we have an
advantage over Germany, so let’s try to preserve it.”  French chemical production will probably increase 1.8
percent this year as  Europe ’s economic growth slows after
climbing 5.9 percent in volume last year to 86.7 billion euros
($114 billion), according to the group. French production lagged
behind China, the U.S.,  Japan  and Germany last year. It’s now on
par with  Brazil  and  South Korea , Homolle said.  Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , who’s leading in
opinion polls to replace Sarkozy as president, wants to cut the
use of nuclear power in electricity production to 50 percent by
2025, down from about three-quarters now. Sarkozy, meantime,
aims to extend the lifespan of nuclear plants.  Hollande also has said he plans to maintain a ban
introduced by Sarkozy on shale gas exploitation through rock-
fracturing techniques that use water and chemicals, saying the
method harms the environment.  ‘Ball and Chain’  “In a global competition, we can’t be burdened with a
bigger and bigger ball and chain,” said Homolle, who also
oversees BASF SE’s operations in France. Chemical companies
based in France also need stability and a level-playing field
with other European countries in terms of tax, technical and
environmental rules, he said.  “The cost of gas in Europe is three times the cost of gas
in the U.S. because of shale gas,” Thierry Le Henaff, chief
executive officer of  Arkema SA (AKE) , a French maker of industrial
chemicals, said on March 8. “Not only is Europe not competitive
against the  Middle East , it’s now isn’t competitive against the
U.S.” and may soon lose ground against  Asia  in terms of gas
prices, he said.  The French economy is also burdened by higher labor costs
and the chemicals industry needs better pipelines and harbor
infrastructure to compete with neighbors, Le Henaff said.  Arkema put on hold a 70 million-euro investment to expand
production of polyvinylidene fluoride, used to make protective
coatings, in France as long as unions refuse some productivity
gains, according to Le Henaff.  “It would be less expensive and more profitable” to make
the investment in the U.S. or  China  than in France, where Arkema
makes 60 percent of its production and just 13 percent of sales,
he said. “The ball is in the unions’ camp.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  