-- Gasoline Falls on Concern Slower China Growth May Curb Fuel Use
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-20T19:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/gasoline-falls-on-concern-slower-china-growth-may-curb-fuel-use.html
Gasoline slipped from a 10-month
high on concern that demand for fuel will decline as  China 
increased prices and as  Greece  may require a third bailout.  Futures fell for the first time in three days after China,
the world’s biggest energy consumer, raised gasoline and diesel
costs by the most in more than two years. The  International
Monetary Fund  said Greece many need additional funding.  “There’s more concern about Greece today, speculation it
may need another bailout,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “There is a lot of concern
about slowing China growth and that demand for fuel will slow.”  Gasoline for April delivery fell 0.47 cent to settle at
$3.3631 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  China raised fuel prices for the second time in less than
six weeks. Refiners will charge 7 percent more for gasoline and
7.8 percent more for diesel, the biggest price increases in more
than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China
on March 5 reduced its growth target to 7.5 percent for 2012,
after projecting 8 percent yearly growth since 2005.  Greece, whose credit crisis has threatened the euro-
region’s economy, got approval last week from euro-area  member
states  for a second bailout package.  Best Performer  Gasoline has surged 25 percent this year, becoming the best
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities,
on higher crude prices and refinery shutdowns even as pump
prices climbed 17 percent and demand has declined. Crude oil on
the Nymex has gained 6.9 percent and heating oil 10 percent.  “The gasoline market is in its own world right now and you
won’t see relief at the pump any time soon,” said Ray Carbone,
president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York .  “The raw
material cost has already lifted gas prices and then you have
refinery shutdowns. Everything is conspiring to support
gasoline.”  Retail demand this year through March 16 was 5.6 percent
lower than a year earlier, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report today. That’s the biggest drop for this
time of the year in MasterCard records, dating back to July
2004. Measured on a four-week average, fuel use has been below
year-earlier levels for 51 consecutive weeks.  “Low demand is lurking in the background,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels analyst and principal with
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Pare Losses  Futures pared losses after touching $3.3187 a gallon as
supplies tightened before peak demand season. Gasoline
stockpiles probably slumped for a fifth consecutive week in the
seven days ended March 16.  Inventories (DOEASMGS)  shrank 2 million barrels
last week, the median of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Diesel and heating oil  stocks  declined 1.5 million barrels,
according to the survey.  Heating oil for April delivery fell 2.46 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.2367 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.4
cent to $3.846 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring group. Prices are 8.4 percent higher
than a year ago. Gasoline peaked in 2011 at $3.985 on May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  