-- Geithner Agrees to Testimony in Lehman’s JPMorgan Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/geithner-agrees-to-give-testimony-in-lehman-s-jpmorgan-suit.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  agreed to answer questions in writing in Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s lawsuit alleging that  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  contributed to Lehman’s collapse in 2008.  Geithner’s agreement, noted in a March 16 filing by the
U.S. in federal court in Washington, forestalls a judge’s ruling
on whether he could be compelled to testify in the case. U.S.
District Judge Reggie Walton yesterday accepted the arrangement
and ordered both sides to update him by April 3.  “If the parties should reach an impasse or plaintiff is
otherwise dissatisfied with the written responses, the parties
shall so notify the court,” Assistant U.S. Attorney John
Interrante said in the filing.  Lehman sued Geithner in February, alleging that the
Treasury Department “has for many months delayed and ultimately
refused” to allow testimony by the secretary. His testimony is
key to Lehman’s contention that JPMorgan siphoned off $8.6
billion during the 2008 credit crisis, according to a court
filing in  Washington .  Geithner, at the time president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York , discussed the collateral JPMorgan was demanding for
its loans with Richard Fuld and  Jamie Dimon , Lehman’s and
JPMorgan’s chief executive officers, in the week before Lehman’s
bankruptcy, according to the filing. He also met with Dimon and
 Henry Paulson , then Treasury Secretary, to discuss “concerns”
that Dimon was using the crisis to strengthen his bank at
Lehman’s expense, they said.  Paulson’s Answers  Paulson, according to the March 16 filing, has also agreed
to answer questions in writing.  Lehman claims in court papers to have interviewed more than
200 witnesses.  The biggest U.S. bank, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s
brokerage around the time of the 2008 bankruptcy, sued Lehman
back after the $8.6 billion suit, alleging Lehman defrauded its
lender into making the loan. It has asked a judge to dismiss
Lehman’s suit.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The testimony case is Official Committee on Unsecured
Creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings In., 12-00098, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The main case
is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 