-- Gillard’s Party Faces Reversal in Australia Battleground State
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-20T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/gillard-s-party-faces-reversal-in-australia-battleground-state.html
Australia’s ruling Labor party this
week faces its first loss of power in Queensland since 1996,
after a surging  exchange rate  eroded the job market of a state
that’s been a battleground in national elections.  Premier  Anna Bligh , who earned a bump in public support for
her handling of floods last year, finds her party 20 percentage
points behind in polls before the March 24 vote. Queensland
accounted for more than half the national seats lost by Labor in
the most recent federal vote, in 2010.  A reversal would leave the Labor party out of power in all
but the two smallest of Australia’s six states, deepening Prime
Minister Julia Gillard’s challenges 20 months before national
elections are due. Queensland’s  unemployment rate  soared more
than 2 percentage points under Bligh as the local dollar’s climb
to its strongest since the early 1980s hurt the tourist industry.  “Queensland voters to a large degree determined the
outcome of the past two federal elections,” said John Wanna, a
professor of public administration at the Canberra-based
 Australian National University  and author of “The Ayes Have
It,” a history of Queensland politics. “Gillard will be hoping
this is a chance for Queensland voters to get their anger at the
party out of their system before the next federal election.”  Rating Cut  The opposition Liberal National Party, led by Campbell
Newman, has set as a priority restoring Queensland’s AAA credit
rating, stripped by Moody’s Investors Service in May 2009 two
months after Bligh, 51, took office. Moody’s cited Bligh’s A$54
billion ($57 billion) capital-spending plan for roads, hospitals
and schools, along with slowing economic growth in its decision.  Investors demand 31 basis points more to buy Queensland
Treasury Corp.’s 6 percent bonds due in April 2016 compared with
similar-maturity debt issued by top-rated New South Wales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities yielded
4.90 percent as of 12:28 p.m. yesterday in Sydney.  Bligh sought to limit strains on the budget in part by
raising A$15 billion from selling off state assets such as coal-
train operator QR National Ltd. She’s running for re-election
with a pledge to invest 50 percent of royalties from the state’s
expanding liquefied natural gas industry into schools, increase
the number of doctors, nurses and health workers by 3,000 in
three years, and protect river systems from industrial damage.  ‘Tough Years’  “There’s still a few more tough years to go for Queensland
regarding its credit ratings,” said Martin Whetton, a fixed-
income strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “There’s
still going to be a discount on the state’s debt” regardless of
the party that wins, he said.  Queensland, the nation’s third most-populous state, has
endured the same two-pronged forces that have created what
Gillard calls  Australia ’s “patchwork” economy. A Chinese-
demand-led mining boom has propelled a 54 percent surge in the
nation’s exchange rate against the  U.S. dollar  in the past two
years, hollowing out business sensitive to currency strength.  Jobs in food services and accommodation, linked to
Queensland’s tourist industry, dropped 13.6 percent in the year
to February, government data show. Employment in mining, which
is less labor intensive than tourism, jumped 14 percent.  Bligh, a former social worker who grew up in a single-
parent home during adolescence, won plaudits for her handling of
the aftermath of a cyclone that hit Queensland in February 2011.
Her heartfelt response to the most costly storms in Australian
history saw Labor’s public approval recuperate for a time.  Bligh Bounce  The bounce dissipated as Labor’s long tenure in office left
voters looking for a change. After winning power in 1989, the
party ruled in the state capital  Brisbane  for all but two years.
In 1996, the main opposition party won a by-election that gave
it a majority, which it lost in the next state election in 1998.  “When you’ve been in power for so long you accumulate a
range of grievances with the electorate,” said  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Melbourne ’s  Monash University .  An inquiry commissioned by Bligh found last week that
mismanagement of the government-run Wivenhoe Dam near Brisbane
during last year’s floods exacerbated the crisis. In December,
Bligh said she would close Queensland Health after an employee
was arrested for allegedly embezzling A$16 million from the
government-run public hospital operator. The flap stoked
criticism by Newman that Labor is a poor economic manager.  Federal Instability  “While state elections are won or lost on local issues, if
Labor loses there will still be people lining up to blame the
instability of  Julia Gillard ’s government,” Economou, who is
co-author of “Media, Power and Politics in Australia,” also
said.  At the federal level, Labor was riven by a leadership
contest last month that saw Queenslander  Kevin Rudd , a former
prime minister, fail to unseat Gillard, who ousted him in 2010.
Bligh had urged the national party to resolve differences that
were handicapping it in the Queensland election.  Labor trails the opposition, 40 percent to 60 percent, in
the two-party preferred vote, a Galaxy poll conducted March 15-
16 of 800 people showed, without giving a margin of error. The
20 percentage-point gap was unchanged from a month earlier.  Newman, 48, is looking to make history by becoming
Australia’s first non-sitting state leader to win a seat at an
election and become premier. The former Brisbane mayor, who led
the city’s recovery efforts during last year’s floods, faces a
fight to win the seat of Ashgrove, currently held by Labor’s
Kate Jones with a margin of 7.1 percent.  Newman Concern  Among his challenges is countering allegations that a
property developer who made seven donations to his re-election
fund as mayor was also conducting business from a property owned
by Newman’s family.  Queensland, known as the “Sunshine State” and almost the
size of  Mexico , was an agricultural heartland for Australia
dominated by conservative politics until the end of the 1980s.
In that decade, a wave of international tourism, led by  Japan ’s
booming middle class, led to a surge of development in the
southeast capital of Brisbane and nearby  Gold Coast , now the
nation’s third- and sixth-largest cities.  “The state has slowed economically, the government has
lacked enthusiasm and Queenslanders can sense that,” said
Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at Brisbane’s Griffith
University. “Labor hasn’t made the most of its opportunities to
sell its message, which is a lesson for Gillard’s government as
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  