-- Glaxo Wins Panel Backing for Votrient to Treat Rare Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-20T16:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/glaxo-wins-fda-panel-backing-for-votrient-to-treat-rare-cancer.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  won the backing
of U.S. advisers for a drug to treat a rare and often deadly
form of cancer.  A  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel voted 11-2
today in Silver Spring, Maryland, that the benefits outweigh the
risks including liver toxicity and heart dysfunction of an
expanded approval for Votrient. The agency isn’t required to
follow the panel’s recommendation. The advisers will vote later
today on a similar treatment developed by  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Ariad
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)   Glaxo is seeking U.S. clearance for the medicine as the
first targeted treatment for a cancer that invades soft tissue
such as muscle, tendons and fat outside the stomach and
intestines. Chemotherapy is now used for these tumors. New drugs
are needed even if the benefit isn’t as great as hoped, panel
members said.  “It’s a little step but it’s a little step in a field
that’s had nothing,” said panel member Lee Helman, scientific
director for clinical research at the  National Cancer
Institute ’s center for  cancer research , during the meeting.
“This is a drug I would like to have in my armamentarium.”  Votrient was approved in 2009 to treat advanced renal cell
carcinoma. Glaxo rose less than 1 percent to 1,433 pence at 3:55
p.m. London time.  Benefit Questioned  FDA staff questioned the drug’s benefit in a  report  March
16 because the treatment didn’t prolong patients’ lives even
though it kept sarcoma from spreading in soft tissue. The median
survival of patients diagnosed with soft-tissue sarcoma that is
spreading is about a year, according to the agency documents.
The regulator is set to decide on London-based Glaxo’s drug by
May 6.  About 10,000 cases of soft-tissue sarcoma are diagnosed
each year, Richard Riedel, an oncologist and assistant professor
at the  Duke University School of Medicine  in Durham, North
Carolina, said in a telephone interview.  There are about 50 types of soft-tissue sarcoma, which are
different from carcinomas that arise from cells, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Most sarcomas are in the arms and
legs or internal organs, according to the Bethesda, Maryland-
based  National Cancer Institute .  Shrinking Tumor  Chemotherapy is effective at shrinking the tumor in 20
percent to 25 percent of patients, said  Scott Okuno , an
oncologist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota . Once
tumors have spread, a minority of patients are cured, he said in
a telephone interview.  In rare cases, tumors develop in the stomach and small
intestine. Two existing drugs are approved for these
gastrointestinal sarcomas:  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec.  Votrient, chemically known as pazopanib, enabled patients
to live a median 4.6 months, or 3.1 months longer than placebo,
while the disease stopped advancing, according to a Glaxo
 statement . The final-phase trial studied 369 patients, 246 on
the drug, with certain metastatic soft tissue sarcomas that
didn’t respond to chemotherapy.  Median survival was 12.6 months for patients taking
Votrient and 10.7 months for those on placebo.  Of the patients on Votrient, 98 experienced a serious
adverse event compared with 29 on placebo, according to the FDA
staff report. Forty-seven patients on Votrient discontinued the
treatment, compared with six on placebo, because of side effects
such as signs of a liver disorder, shortness of breath, high
 blood pressure  and a blockage in the main artery of the lung.  The trial excluded patients with gastrointestinal tumors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  