-- Glencore Agrees $6.15 Billion Deal for Canada’s Viterra
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-20T23:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/glencore-will-buy-grain-handler-viterra-for-6-15-billion-1-.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodity supplier, agreed to buy
 Viterra (VT)  Inc. for C$6.1 billion ($6.15 billion) to add grain
assets in Canada and  Australia  as growth in Asia boosts demand.  Glencore will pay C$16.25 a share, it said in a statement
yesterday. Glencore agreed to the deal in partnership with
 Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and Richardson International Ltd., who will buy the
majority of Viterra’s Canadian and other assets for about C$2.6
billion in cash, according to the statement.  The Swiss trader’s move on Viterra is part of efforts to
extend its geographical reach and expand its agriculture unit in
 North America . Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is also
seeking to bolster production of coal and metals through a 22.6
billion-pound ($35.9 billion) friendly takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
announced last month.  “While the timing of this acquisition is somewhat
surprising in light of Glencore’s ongoing attempt to merge with
Xstrata, the strategic rationale is not,”  Christopher LaFemina 
and Seth Rosenfeld, analysts at Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a
note. “We believe this accretive transaction is a modest
positive.”  The offer is 48 percent above Regina, Saskatchewan-based
Viterra’s closing price of C$10.98 on March 8, the day before
Viterra said it had received expressions of interest, according
to the statement. Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore plans to fund
the acquisition through cash and available credit facilities, it
said.  ‘Great Deal’  Viterra dropped 0.4 percent to C$15.91 at the close
yesterday in Toronto. Glencore fell 1.6 percent to 413.8 pence
in  London . The deal values Viterra at 14 times earnings before
interest and tax, compared with the median of 16 times for 10
comparable deals since 2002, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It looks like it’s going to be a great deal across the
board,” Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer at Sun Life
Global Investments in Toronto, which manages about C$9 billion
in assets including Viterra stock, said yesterday. “I wouldn’t
say there are a ton of players looking for this asset. Nobody
wanted to buy the whole piece, so I think that’s where it makes
sense.”  Glencore sees annual global demand growth for grains and
oilseeds of as much as 3.5 percent, driven by  Asia , Director of
Agricultural Products Chris Mahoney told reporters yesterday on
a conference call. Mahoney said he plans to use the deal as a
platform to extend Glencore’s North American grain operations in
the U.S.  Gavilon Bid?  “We are looking to expand also in the U.S.,” he said,
declining to comment when asked whether the company is
interested in acquiring U.S. grain-trading company Gavilon Group
LLC, which hired Morgan Stanley in January to explore strategic
alternatives.  “It’s no secret that prior to this deal Glencore had very
little in North America, in contrast to the assets and the
structures and the people we have elsewhere in the world,”
Mahoney said.  Wheat and barley farmers in western  Canada  can sell to
buyers other than the Canadian Wheat Board starting Aug. 1,
which Viterra has said will boost its earnings and market share.
It owns more than half the grain-export capacity in Canada as
well as ports in  South Australia , which are key gateways to
growing markets in Asia, according to the  company . Australia is
the world’s second-largest wheat exporter, behind the U.S. and
ahead of  Russia  in third spot and Canada in fourth.  ‘Strong Position’  “It puts them in such a strong position in terms of grain
marketing and handling,”  Peter White , president of the South
Australian Farmers Federation, said yesterday in a phone
interview from Adelaide, the capital of South Australia. “They
can control most of the ports and the rail lines” in the state,
which exports about 80 percent of the grain it produces, said
White, who is also a farmer who has sold grain to Glencore in
the past.  The acquisition is “expected to be earnings enhancing to
Glencore in the first full-year after consolidation,” according
to the Glencore statement. The company doesn’t “expect any
issues” with regard to regulatory approvals for the takeover,
Mahoney said.  Canada Review  Canada’s Competition Bureau will review the acquisition,
spokesman Greg Scott said. There is no fixed timetable for the
Ottawa-based government antitrust agency to finish its work,
Scott said in e-mailed comments.  Teaming up with Canadian partners has “largely mitigated”
the  investment risk , BMO Capital Markets said. Canada blocked a
hostile takeover of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan  by  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  in 2010 on the grounds it wasn’t in the nation’s interest
to sell the fertilizer maker.  Viterra said March 19 it was in exclusive talks with a
third party for a possible acquisition. It said four days
earlier that it had started a sales process following
approaches. Archer Daniels Midland Co. was interested in buying
Viterra and chose not to submit a final bid, it said yesterday.  “We determined that at the valuation level we anticipated
to be competitive, which has been confirmed by the announced
deal, the acquisition would not meet our return objectives,”
Decatur, Illinois-based ADM’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman Patricia Woertz said in an e-mailed statement.  Break Fee  Holders of 16.5 percent of Viterra shares, including
Viterra executives and senior officers as well as its biggest
shareholder, Alberta Investment Management Corp., have pledged
support for Glencore’s offer, the Swiss company said.  “We believe such a deal could be financed, and would gain
the required regulatory approvals,” Christine Healy and
Alexandru Palivan, analysts at Scotia Capital Inc., wrote in a
March 19 report. A friendly offer from the group would be
“tough to beat” and it’s unlikely potential competing bidders
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and ADM could offer more than C$16 a share, they
said.  Glencore is entitled to a break-fee of C$185 million should
Viterra agree to a superior bid or if Viterra’s board withdraws
or modifies its recommendation, it said. A reverse break-fee of
C$50 million would be payable to Viterra should the deal be
blocked by regulators, according to Glencore.  Profit Gains  Annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will rise by C$50 million a year after 2014 as
Viterra’s market share expands to close to 50 percent from 45
percent, Viterra forecast March 8.  Grain handling and marketing made up 68 percent of
Viterra’s sales in the year through Oct. 31 with agricultural
products accounting for 19 percent and food processing at 13
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg  show .  Agrium will acquire about 90 percent of Viterra’s Canadian
retail facilities and all of its Australian retail facilities,
it said yesterday in a separate statement. Calgary-based Agrium,
North America’s largest fertilizer supplier by revenue, will
also buy Viterra’s 34 percent stake in Canadian Fertilizer Ltd.
for a total cost of C$1.8 billion, according to the statement
from Glencore.  Richardson, the second-largest grain handler in Canada, is
a unit of Winnipeg-based James Richardson & Sons Ltd. It agreed
to buy 23 percent of Viterra’s Canadian grain-handling assets as
well as other operations in North America for C$800 million.
Canada is the fourth-biggest wheat exporter after the U.S.,
Australia and Russia, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  Viterra shareholders will be asked to vote on the
transaction in May, according to the statement. The acquisition
is expected to close during Viterra’s fiscal third quarter.  Glencore is being advised by Bank of America of Merrill
Lynch and  RBC Capital Markets . Viterra is being advised by
Canaccord Genuity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  