-- Goldman’s Russia Exodus Grows as Workman Quits for Otkritie
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-03-20T15:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/goldman-s-russia-exodus-grows-as-workman-quits-for-otkritie-1-.html
Michael Workman,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s  executive director  in fixed income in Moscow, quit
to join Otkritie Financial Corp., a month after the U.S. bank’s
co-heads and chief trader in the Russian capital left.  Otkritie hired Workman to replace George Urumov, who the
Russian brokerage accuses in a lawsuit of helping to defraud it
of $183 million, Alexey Karakhan, an Otkritie spokesman, said
today by phone in Moscow. Urumov denies the allegations.  Goldman Sachs last month said Paolo Zannoni, chairman of
Italian  investment banking , will take over as chief of Russian
operations from co-heads Chris Barter and Jean Raby -- the third
leadership change for the Wall Street firm in as many years.
Barter is setting up his own investment management firm and Raby
is returning to Paris to work for the bank there. Peter Kizenko,
the former chief trader in Moscow, also left in February, and
started a commercial sauna business in  New Jersey .  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , a member of
President Dmitry Medvedev’s advisory committee for turning
Moscow into a financial center, has struggled to build a
business in  Russia . The bank scaled back operations in Moscow
soon after opening an office in 1994 amid a worldwide
retrenchment and returned in 1998, weeks before Russia defaulted
on domestic debt, prompting it to withdraw almost entirely
before ramping up again in 2006.  Goldman Sachs’s press service in Moscow declined to comment
on Workman’s departure.  ‘Great Potential’  “The opportunity to build a new business line was what
attracted me to Otkritie,” Workman said by phone in Moscow.
“There’s great potential to develop structured products,
Russian Eurobonds and locally traded OFZ Euroclearable bonds.”  Urumov “strongly denies all the allegations made against
him,” Farrer & Co., the firm representing his defense, said in
an e-mailed statement on Feb. 17. Urumov allegedly defrauded
Otkritie of $160 million through offshore transactions involving
Argentine warrants and $23 million in bonuses meant for
subordinates while working as the brokerage’s global head of
fixed income in  London , according to court documents and lawyers
on the case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  