-- Greece Seeks Turkish Buyers for Assets in Economic Reversal
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-20T14:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/greece-seeks-turkish-cash-for-asset-sales-in-economic-reversal.html
Greek officials met with investors
from  Turkey  to showcase a sale of state-run assets, reflecting a
reversal in the fortunes of the Mediterranean rivals as Greece
faces possible financial collapse and Turkish growth rivals
 China ’s.  Officials of the Greek asset-sales agency, investment
office and Foreign Ministry made presentations and held talks
with Turkish businessmen in Istanbul today.  The ascent of Turkey, a nation of 74 million straddling
Europe and  Asia , contrasts with the decline of Greece, its
centuries-old adversary. The  Turkish economy , which expanded 9.6
percent in the first nine months of 2011, is forecast to grow
more this year than anywhere in the European Union, while the
 Greek economy  is expected to shrink 4.8 percent.  National Bank
of Greece SA (NBG)  has earned more at its Istanbul-based unit
 Finansbank AS (FINBN)  since the financial crisis erupted in 2008 than it
did in Greece.  “It’s great that Greece is back to its privatization
program -- the physical proximity of Greece to Turkey will be
very important,”  Turcas Petrol AS (TRCAS)  Chief Executive Batu Aksoy
said in an interview at the investor meeting with Greek
officials.  Greece says it plans to raise 50 billion euros ($66
billion) by 2017 by selling or renting  assets  including water
utilities, ports, gas companies, regional airports, postal
services, tourism facilities and roads.  Possible Port Bidder  Global Yatirim Holding AS (GLYHO) , an Istanbul-based company
investing in energy and infrastructure, is interested in bidding
for operating rights to “large” Greek seaports and is in talks
with international operators for partnerships, said Adnan Nas,
executive board member at the Istanbul-based company.  Greece will auction two seaports by December this year,
Panos Protopsaltis, the country’s privatization coordinator,
told today’s investors’ meeting. Operational rights will be
around 35 years, he said. Greece will establish a regulatory
framework to sell the Piraeus and Thessaloniki ports by
September, according to an International Monetary Fund report
published March 16.  Gas, Betting  The government in  Athens  has also asked for expressions of
interest in the sale of gas supplier Depa SA and gas-grid
operator Desfa SA on Feb. 29. The sell-off program continues
with sports betting company  Opap SA (OPAP)  and the country’s biggest
refiner  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , according to the IMF report.  Greece expects to raise 19 billion euros from asset sales
by 2015, Protopsaltis said. About 90 percent of the assets are
in energy and real estate, he said. Greek assets up for sale are
not “appropriate for private equity investors” as the
government needs long-term investors, he said.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  missed his target for asset
sales last year, selling 1.6 billion euros compared to a goal of
5 billion euros.  The sales “would save Greece about 1 percent of gross
domestic product per year in interest,” the IMF said. However,
meeting the target “may take considerably more time” than
estimated given “weak market conditions, uncertainties about
 Greece ’s near-term prospects and the time needed to prepare the
assets,” it added.  Debt Ratios  The asset sale program will help the ratio of debt to gross
domestic product in Greece to fall to 116 percent in 2020 from
165 percent in 2011, so long as the nation’s “ambitious”
program to overhaul the economy is implemented, according to a
report posted on the website of the European Union’s executive
arm last week.  The EU approved a second Greek bailout of 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) on March 14 after the country agreed to spending
cuts and structural changes. That followed a first rescue
package agreed on in May 2010.  Turkey, where debt to GDP is less than 40 percent, emerged
from a banking crisis of its own at the beginning of the last
decade. Since then, it’s recapitalized the banks, reduced
inflation to 10.4 percent from more than 30 percent in 2002, cut
state debt, sold off assets, and opened the industry to
international competitors, including National Bank and Athens-
based  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA. (EUROB)   National Bank’s reliance on Turkey shows how the tables
have turned for the countries, which fought four major wars
since Greece won independence from the  Ottoman Empire  in the
19th century. National Bank is worth 2.5 billion euros compared
with Finansbank’s 9.76 billion liras (4.1 billion euros),
according to the companies’ share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  