-- Greece’s Third Bailout Seen in Debt With Junk Grade: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-03-20T08:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/greece-s-third-bailout-seen-in-debt-with-junk-grade-euro-credit.html
Greece ’s bonds and credit ratings
are factoring in a third bailout for the nation that analysts
and investors say will require greater concessions from its
international creditors.  Within a week of euro-area  member states  giving their
formal approval to a second bailout package for Greece, the
 International Monetary Fund  said the country may require
additional funding or a further debt restructuring. Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, said it remains “cautious” on euro-area government debt
even after the largest-ever sovereign refinancing because the
risk remains that Greece will leave the single-currency area.  “It’s still a very steep mountain to climb,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London. The restructuring deal
“doesn’t do anything to put Greece on a sustainable path,” he
said. “A third bailout will become necessary.”  The price of Greek  government bonds  maturing in February
2042 that were provided as part of its debt exchange was at
21.48 cents on the euro at 8:04 a.m. London time, with yields at
15.02 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  said on March 15 it rated the
securities CCC, its fourth rank above default, citing
questionable growth prospects, a weakening political consensus
to implement budget cuts, and a “still large” debt burden.  Default Swaps  Sellers of credit-default swaps on Greece will have to pay
as much as $2.5 billion to settle contracts triggered by the
nation’s debt restructuring, an auction determined yesterday.  Yields on Portuguese bonds due in 2037 were at 11 percent,
with the price at 41.835 cents. The securities are rated BB by
S&P, six steps above the new Greek securities.  Greece’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product will fall
to 116 percent in 2020 from 165 percent in 2011 if the nation’s
“ambitious” program to overhaul the economy is implemented,
according to a report posted on the website of the European
Union’s executive arm last week.  The EU approved the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) second
Greek bailout on March 14 after the country agreed to spending
cuts and structural changes. That followed a first rescue
package agree on in May 2010.  While private bondholders wrote off more than 100 billion
euros on their Greek government investments as part of the deal,
the  European Central Bank  was exempted from taking losses on the
debt it had bought under its  Securities Market Program (ECBCSMPW) .  ‘Big Enough’  “There is a saying, if you do a default, make it big
enough,” said Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington . “There is
a broad expectation in the market that there will be a writedown
of the official-sector debt. The very idea that the ECB should
not be able to take losses is wrong.”  Efforts should be made to push Greece’s debt level below 90
percent of GDP and to ensure the nation remains a member of the
euro area, said Aslund, an adviser to the Russian government in
the early 1990s.  Greece remains “accident prone” and may require further
debt restructuring or additional financing from euro countries
if it struggles to implement measures attached to a new 130
billion-euro bailout, staff at the IMF wrote in a report
released on March 16.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said the nation may
need more external support if it’s unable to return to financial
markets by 2015, the Financial Times reported on March 18,
citing an interview.  Sovereign Risks  Pimco said it is avoiding the debt of Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  and sees a “significant risk” the former will leave
the 17-nation euro-region. A key risk is that Greece’s
“forthcoming elections in early May will usher in a government
that is more hostile to the euro zone and the IMF’s demands for
fiscal austerity,”  Andrew Balls , London-based head of European
 portfolio management , said in an interview published on the
company’s website yesterday.  Greece may need an extra 20 billion euros over the next
three years as its growth and austerity measures fall short of
targets, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Still, some official-
sector aid may help contain its debt, according to Kedran Panageas, a fixed-income strategist at the company in  London .  “It is highly likely that Greece is going to need to take
some form of additional action, like lowering  interest rates  or
extending maturities on official-sector loans,” she said. “The
debt is barely sustainable after this, and they will probably
need more support.”  Equity Rally  Stock markets have rallied this month, while haven assets
including German bunds and U.S. Treasuries slid, aided by the
completion of Greece’s second bailout. The Stoxx Europe 600
 Index (SXXP)  rose 2.9 percent since Feb. 29, while 10-year bund yields
climbed 24 basis points to 2.06 percent, and similar-maturity
Treasury yields increased 38 basis points to 2.35 percent.  Further “support looks more likely than not” for Greece,
said Alex Johnson, co-head of global fixed income at Fischer
Francis Trees & Watts in London, which has $54 billion in assets.
“The EU and IMF loans are likely to be restructured at some
stage, but Greece and its people seem to want to remain in the
euro, and other  euro-zone  countries seem to want that for I
suspect social reasons as well as containment reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  