-- Greek Premier Secures Parliament Approval of New Bailout Accord
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-03-20T23:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/greek-premier-secures-parliament-approval-of-new-bailout-accord.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary approval for a new 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) international bailout that will keep the
country’s possible financial collapse at bay.  A total of 213 lawmakers voted today in favor of the
legislation and 79 against, Acting Parliament Speaker Grigoris
Niotis said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV. When,
on Nov. 16, Papademos won a mandate from the Parliament to
implement budget measures and secure the bailout, he received
the support of 255 lawmakers in the 300-member chamber.  Passage of the legislation moves the country a step closer
to elections that may be held as soon as next month. Greece
pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history
earlier this month after getting private investors to forgive
more than 100 billion euros of debt, opening the way for the
second bailout.  The second financing package and writedown were key
elements in European leaders’ efforts to turn the tide against
the crisis that first emerged in  Greece  in late 2009, then
forced Ireland and Portugal to follow Greece in requiring
bailouts.  Papademos had to agree to deeper spending cuts to obtain
the new funds, including cuts to pensions and wages that
prompted riots in the capital of  Athens  when the measures were
brought to parliament on Feb. 12. Papademos was appointed in
November to shepherd the measures through Parliament and secure
the loan accord before standing aside for general elections to
be held.  Aid Package  Greece was granted its first aid package of 110 billion
euros in May 2010. Failure by the government of then-Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  to stick to pledges for reforms as
the country sank further into a recession led to the need for a
new bailout package.  Greece remains “accident prone” and may require further
debt restructuring or additional financing from euro countries
if it struggles to implement measures attached to the bailout,
staff at the  International Monetary Fund  said on March 16.  The Washington-based IMF, which is already lending to
 Portugal  and Ireland, has reduced its share in the second Greek
bailout as it sees its exposure to the euro region posing what
the staff called “unprecedented financial risks” to its
finances. It has also pushed European governments to boost their
own bailout fund in an effort to protect Spain and  Italy  from
contagion.  The IMF report said the new program was “subject to
exceptional risks,” including upcoming elections that create
uncertainty over whether the measures will implemented.  “The materialization of these risks would most likely
require additional debt relief by the official sector and, short
of that, lead to a sovereign default,” it wrote. “In the
absence of continued official support and access to”
refinancing by the  European Central Bank , “a disorderly euro
exit would be unavoidable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ; 