-- Li Ka-Shing’s ARA Considers Yuan IPO as Currency Demand Wanes
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   F o x   H u   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-21T10:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/li-ka-shing-s-ara-asset-said-to-plan-singapore-s-first-yuan-ipo.html
ARA Asset Management (ARA) , the manager
of property trusts backed by  Li Ka-shing , is considering
Singapore’s first yuan-denominated stock offering even as
expectations for the currency’s appreciation wane.  ARA said it’s exploring is the possible establishment and
listing of a real estate investment trust with assets located in
 China  and traded in yuan, according to a statement to the
Singapore stock exchange today. The company was responding to
media reports about the plans.  The company hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) 
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  for the initial public offering of
one of its property funds, three people with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday. The size and timing of the deal have yet
to be decided, the people said, declining to be identified
because the process is private.  The IPO is being considered even as lowered expectations
for the Chinese currency’s appreciation this year mean demand
for yuan-denominated investments in  Hong Kong  is slowing. The
only other yuan-denominated stock listed outside of China, Li’s
 Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust (87001) , is down 25 percent in
Hong Kong since its debut last April.  “It’ll be challenging to launch a yuan IPO in Singapore,
where yuan deposits are much lower than in Hong Kong,” said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion in
assets. “Investors have been lowering their expectations of
yuan appreciation, making it difficult to do such a deal.”  Lowered Expectations  In Hong Kong, deposits in the Chinese currency dropped to
576 billion yuan at the end of January, the lowest level in six
months, and investors are demanding higher returns to invest in
yuan-denominated debt, known as Dim Sum bonds.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan were at a
0.3 percent discount to  Shanghai ’s onshore spot rate as of 5:57
p.m., indicating that traders are paring expectations for
appreciation in the coming year. The contract was at a 3.1
percent premium on April 25, 2011, a one-year high, just before
Hui-Xian began trading.  Companies offering high enough yields have attracted demand
from investors. Ford Motor Co., which this month received orders
for ten times the amount it sought in a Dim Sum sale, will pay a
yield of 4.875 percent on the March 2015 bonds. That is a full
point above the yield on its U.S. dollar bonds.  Hui Xian priced its initial public offering at a forecast
yield of 4.2 percent last year, the lowest among property trusts
listed in the city. The company raised 10.5 billion yuan ($1.7
billion) by selling units at 5.24 yuan apiece.  ARA, 15.6 percent  owned by Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. , has
advanced 23 percent this year in  Singapore  trading, giving it a
market value of S$1.16 billion ($919 million). The  stock  rose
5.6 percent to close at S$1.51 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  