-- Tieto Cuts 1,300 Jobs in Strategy Revamp to Focus Offerings
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-20T08:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/tieto-cuts-1-300-jobs-in-strategy-revamp-to-focus-offerings-1-.html
Tieto Oyj (TIE1V) ,  Finland ’s largest
software company, will cut 7 percent of its workforce as it
restructures to simplify its business and exit unprofitable
markets. The stock rose to its highest in 13 months.  Tieto will eliminate 1,300 jobs including about 500 in
Finland and 300 in  Sweden  as part of a plan to save 50 million
euros ($66 million) in annual costs, the Helsinki-based company
said in a statement. It will incur one-time costs of 50 million
euros.  Chief Executive Officer Kimmo Alkio, who took over in
November, will focus the company on specific industries
particularly financial services, government and healthcare,
manufacturing, telecommunications and utilities. Tieto’s costs
are higher than peers, he said, setting a target of earnings
before interest and taxes of at least 10 percent of sales by
2016.The company will concentrate on markets where Tieto can be
among the top three service providers.  “We will evaluate our presence in other markets and either
create focus within very specific industry segments and operate
profitability, and if that’s not possible we will also consider
exits,” Alkio said in a telephone interview. “This process is
already ongoing in our most challenging markets.”  Shares Gain  Tieto gained 4.5 percent to 15.26 euros, the highest since
Feb. 10, 2011, as of 10:40 a.m. in Helsinki.  The company has already reduced its activities in  Russia  to
supporting Nordic companies and to the finance, oil and gas
industries. It is reviewing operations in  Germany  this year.  Tieto gets most of its revenues from outsourced software
maintenance and management for corporate customers. It is now
seeking to expand in consulting and systems integration to get
revenue from designing new applications, said the CEO, who
joined Tieto in November from security and cloud software maker
 F-Secure Oyj. (FSC1V)   About 20 percent of revenues come from so-called product
engineering, or subcontracting work building products for
customers including  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Nokia Siemens Networks, and
Ericsson AB. Nokia is phasing out its Symbian software platform
through an outsourcing agreement with  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and has
adopted Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone for its latest handsets.  “The Symbian work going down creates short-term clear
challenges but this is the kind of variation at key customers
that we are used to managing,” Alkio said. Tieto is investing
in Windows Phone development and will seek product engineering
contracts globally even as it narrows its geographic focus in
the enterprise outsourcing business, he said.  Tieto had 18,123 employees at the end of December according
to its  annual report . The Finnish government holds  10.3 percent 
of Tieto shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  