-- Tiffany Jumps After Annual Profit Forecast Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-03-20T20:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/tiffany-profit-trails-analysts-estimates-as-sales-growth-slows.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, rose the most in more than six
months after forecasting annual profit that beat analysts’
estimates, driven by sales growth in the Americas and  Asia .  Tiffany  advanced  6.7 percent to $73.27 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since Aug. 26. The shares increased
11 percent this year.  Profit excluding some items will advance to as much as
$4.05 a share in the year ending Jan. 31, 2013, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts projected
$3.92, the average of 22  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Tiffany is benefiting from stock-market gains that have
prompted luxury consumers to resume jewelry purchases, a
turnabout from January, when the retailer said weak spending
from U.S. customers had slowed holiday sales. New designs, such
as Paloma Picasso’s Venezia collection introduced in the fall,
helped boost fourth-quarter sales 7.8 percent to $1.19 billion.  “Their guidance suggests that business has
reaccelerated,”  David Schick , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore, said today in an interview. “When the
financial markets, economic conditions and consumer sentiment
improve, people go shopping.”  The company projected annual sales growth of about 10
percent and said most earnings gains will occur in the latter
part of 2012. Tiffany plans to add 24 stores this year,
including 9 in the Americas and 7 in the Asia-Pacific region. As
of Jan. 31, the company operated 247 stores worldwide.  “While it is obviously still quite early in this new
fiscal year, we are pleased that worldwide sales growth is
tracking in line with our internal expectations,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said.  Higher Product Costs  Tiffany said  profit  in the fourth quarter was hampered by
higher product costs and expenses to relocate its New York
headquarters.  Fourth-quarter net income fell 1.6 percent to $178.4
million, or $1.39 a share, from $181.2 million, or $1.41, a year
earlier, Tiffany said. Analysts projected $1.42, the average of
17  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  