-- India Claim of Poverty Success Renews Debate Over 60-cent Cutoff
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-03-20T06:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/india-claim-of-poverty-success-renews-debate-over-60-cent-cutoff.html
Claims by the Indian government
that the number of people living in poverty declined by 20
percent over five years is again fueling debate over how the
poorest are counted in the world’s second-most populous country.  The overall percentage of the population in poverty fell to
29.8 percent at the end of March 2010 from 37.2 percent five
years earlier, according to figures  released  yesterday by the
 Planning Commission , which sets growth and investment targets
for the country. Both rural and urban areas showed a similar
drop in impoverishment, the study showed.  The commission was criticized by opposition political
parties in September for setting the poverty line too low after
officials scrapped a previous measure based on calorie intake.
In the latest study, Indians living on more than 28 rupees (60
cents) a day in towns and cities or 22 rupees in villages are
not considered to be in poverty.  “This is delusional, you are dropping the bar of poverty
to get more people over it,” said Mohan Guruswamy, chairman of
the Centre for Policy Alternatives in  New Delhi , who wrote a
report in 2006 that estimated the  poverty rate  in India was 69
percent. “This is intended to make the government and society
feel better about themselves.”  The Planning Commission argued that it has adopted a more
sophisticated technique that examines spending on food,
clothing, education and health by India’s 1.2 billion people.
About 350 million Indians, or less than a third of the
population live in poverty, according to the commission.  Using a different measure of $2 a day, the  World Bank 
estimated that that 828 million Indians, or about two-thirds of
the country, live in poverty.  “Regardless of how you measure poverty, the most important
thing is that the numbers are enormous and need to be tackled
immediately,” said Shaibal Gupta, an economist at the Asian
Development Research Institute in Patna in Bihar,  India ’s
poorest state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  