-- India Stock Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses on Oil
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-03-20T06:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-on-oil.html
Indian stocks gained, ending three
days of losses, as a first drop in crude prices in three days
improved the outlook for inflation and interest rates.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the country’s largest company,
rose for the first time in five days.  Bharat Heavy Electricals
Ltd. (BHEL) , the largest power-equipment maker, added 1 percent after a
three-day, 12 percent drop.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) ,
the biggest copper and zinc producer, advanced 1.4 percent.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent
to 17,333.56 at 11:49 a.m. in Mumbai, halting a three-day, 3.6
percent decline. The gauge has fallen for four straight weeks,
the longest such run since November, even as global investors
put a net $3.8 billion into local stocks in the period. Funds
focused on developing nation stocks posted a net inflow of $453
million for the week ended March 14, the 11th straight weekly
increase, according to data by EPFR Global.  “Liquidity is likely to be benign for the global markets,
especially for emerging risk on assets like  India ,” Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., told
Bloomberg UTV today. “The market will look for global cues.
Given that most of the downsides in India have been known for
quite a while, there will be limited downside from here. Global
cues are likely to remain positive.”  Oil futures in  New York  dropped 0.6 percent to $107.50 a
barrel in electronic trading on speculation  Saudi Arabia  may
boost output. Lower energy prices cut costs for companies in
India, which imports almost 80 percent of its oil, and ease a
burden on government finances. India and Turkey are the “most
negatively” affected by rising oil prices, according to a
Morgan Stanley report last month.  Fuel Prices  “ Interest rates  will come down over time but the extent of
the fall will be determined on how we tackle diesel and petrol
prices,”  Prashant Jain , chief investment officer at HDFC Asset
Management Co., the nation’s biggest money manager, said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday. “If we take credible
and timely actions on diesel and petrol, then interest rates can
come down meaningfully. That will also give a lot of comfort to
the RBI that one inflationary issue is behind us.”  A 17 percent jump in  Brent crude  this year, the benchmark
for almost all of India’s imports, has stoked inflation, paring
the central bank’s scope to cut rates. The wholesale-price index
gained 6.95 percent in February, after rising 6.55 percent in
January.  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India rose 0.3 percent to 5,270.35. India VIX, which measures
the cost of protection against declines in the Nifty, sank 3
percent to 22.27. The  BSE 200 Index (BSE200)  gained 0.3 percent.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  The Sensex has risen 12 percent this year as  foreign funds 
put a net $8.8 billion into local stocks on optimism slowing
inflation will spur the RBI to ease monetary policy. The gauge
trades at 15.3 times future earnings, compared with 10.8 times
on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The central bank left the
benchmark rate unchanged at a policy meeting on March 15.  “Valuations are attractive, earnings revisions have
troughed and rates are likely heading lower,”  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
analysts led by Ridham Desai wrote in a report sent yesterday.
“Higher share prices and global liquidity are helping companies
repair their balance sheets and create a virtuous cycle of
higher growth and higher share prices.”  The Sensex trades at a price-to-book  ratio  of 2.8, less
than the 10-year average of 3.3, according to Bloomberg data.  The BSE and NSE traded a combined 908.3 million shares on
March 19 compared with the daily average of 916 million shares
in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reliance Industries climbed 1.1 percent to 763.65 rupees,
halting a four-day 7.9 percent decline. Bharat Heavy rose 1
percent to 262.8 rupees, ending a three-day, 12 percent drop.
Sterlite advanced 1.4 percent to 115.65 rupees.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  9.2 billion rupees  ($182.6
million) of stocks on March 16, taking their investment in the
nation’s equities this year to 436.5 billion rupees, according
to the market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  