-- India’s Supreme Court Affirms Dismissal of Vodafone Claim
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-03-20T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/india-top-court-affirms-dismissal-of-claim-in-vodafone-tax-case.html
India ’s Supreme Court reaffirmed
its earlier dismissal of a $2.2 billion tax claim on  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  after the government last month petitioned it to
reconsider its decision.  A panel of judges comprising Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia,
K.S. Radhakrishnan and Swatanter Kumar yesterday rejected a
government plea to review the court’s January decision to
dismiss a tax claim on Newbury, England-based Vodafone’s 2007
purchase of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s India operations, the court
master said citing the chief justice.  The dismissal comes after Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
last week in his annual budget speech proposed an amendment in
the law that will enable the government to retrospectively tax
cross-border transactions. Once the government makes the change
in the law, it could petition the nation’s top court again,
Dinesh Kanabar, deputy chief executive officer at  KPMG ’s India
operations, said.  “The law provides that once the amendment is done, they
will override any judgments of the court,” said Kanabar.
“Vodafone would, obviously, need to prepare for something like
that.”  Vodafone and Hutchison conducted their transaction
offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone
International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands
company controlled by Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  `Unambiguous'  “The Supreme Court’s clear and unambiguous ruling, based
on the existing laws of India, reiterates that the Indian tax
authority does not have the jurisdiction to tax the
transaction,” Vodafone said in an e-mailed statement.  Vodafone rose 2.1 percent to 170.80 pence in  London .  India’s Supreme Court on Jan. 20 ruled the government can’t
seek capital gains tax from Vodafone because the transaction
occurred between foreign companies. The court also directed the
government to return a 25 billion-rupee ($495 million) deposit
Vodafone made on the contested tax bill, plus 4 percent
interest.  The government will immediately return the deposit made by
Vodafone, a finance ministry official told reporters in  New
Delhi  yesterday, asking not to identified before a public
announcement.  The government on Feb. 17 filed a petition to review the
Supreme Court’s decision, seeking to overturn the January
ruling.  The Indian tax department sought 112.2 billion rupees in
capital gains levy from Vodafone, saying the company should have
withheld the tax from its payment to Hutchison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  