-- Insurers at Risk in Challenge to Health Law’s Medicaid Plan
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-03-20T21:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/insurers-at-risk-in-challenge-to-health-care-law-s-medicaid-plan.html
A  Supreme Court  decision striking
down the U.S. health-care law’s expansion of Medicaid might
expose environmental and educational laws to legal challenges
while hurting stocks that surged anticipating more than $600
billion in new spending over the next decade.  In the case against President Barack Obama’s health-system
overhaul, to be heard by justices March 26-28,  26 states argue 
the plan to cover 17 million uninsured Americans by expanding
the care program for the poor is unconstitutional -- even though
the federal government would pick up most of the tab.  The challenge to the program’s expansion has received less
attention than the dispute over the requirement that all
Americans carry health insurance or face tax penalties. While a
lower court upheld the Medicaid plan even as it struck down the
individual mandate, reversal might change the program for good
and also expose laws such as the  Clean Air Act  to the No Child
Left Behind education law to judicial challenge.  “If they buy the more fundamental claim by states that
this is coercive, not only would that cast doubt on the
constitutionality of Medicaid as we know it, it would also cast
doubt on a huge number of other spending programs,” said I.
Glenn Cohen, an assistant professor at  Harvard Law School  who
 wrote about  the case in the New England Journal of Medicine.  Managed-Care Companies  Managed-care companies with large Medicaid businesses, such
as  Centene Corp. (CNC)  of  St. Louis ,  Missouri , have seen their stock
prices more than double since March 2010 on the expectation that
states with rising caseloads will turn to them to help control
program spending. An adverse decision might affect those gains
while also hurting hospitals, nursing homes and other health
providers.  The decision by the Supreme Court to review the
constitutionality of the Medicaid expansion came as a surprise,
said Elizabeth Wydra, chief counsel for the Washington-based
 Constitutional Accountability Center , who represents state
lawmakers supporting the health-care law. It was upheld by the
11th Circuit Court of Appeals.  “The Medicaid expansion issue is the real sleeper issue of
the health-care challenge,” Wydra said in a telephone
interview. “The states’ arguments have the potential to open
Pandora’s Box. While they only want to limit their argument here
to Medicaid expansion in the Affordable Care Act, I think the
consequences of their argument are much more extreme than
that.”  $627 Billion  The  Congressional Budget Office   projects  that the expansion
of Medicaid set to take effect in 2014 will lead to $627 billion
in new federal spending over the next 10 years.  “It is significantly more revenue than is currently in the
system right now,” said Matt Barry, health-care analyst team
leader for Bloomberg Government and author of a new study that
looks at the impact on businesses in states pressing the court
challenge if the Medicaid expansion is halted. “If the
Affordable Care Act is struck down, which includes the Medicaid
expansion, then there is going to be a lost business opportunity
for managed care companies, hospitals, nursing homes and other
providers.”  More than $207 billion in new federal spending from
2014-2018, slightly more than half of the total nationwide, will
go to states that have challenged the health-care law, the BGOV
study found. Five of the states -- Texas, Florida, Pennsylvania,
Ohio and  Georgia  --account for more than half of that spending.  Most to Gain  Managed-care providers have the most to gain in the
expansion -- and to lose if the Supreme Court stops it. In the
litigant states, those health insurers are expected to gain $46
billion in the first five years of the expansion. Investments
that have occurred in preparation for the new law, such as
 Molina Healthcare (MOH)  Inc.’s $135 million acquisition of  Unisys
Corporation (UIS) ’s health information management business in 2010,
may no longer make financial sense if it is struck down,
according to the BGOV study.  Since March 1, 2010, shares of Centene have surged 146
percent;  Wellcare Health Plans inc . of Tampa, Florida, jumped
145 percent;  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  of  Virginia  Beach, Virginia,
increased 134 percent; and Molina Healthcare of  Long Beach ,
 California , rose 122 percent.  “They are the most vulnerable,” Paul Heldman, senior
health policy analyst for  Potomac Research Group  in  Washington ,
said in a telephone interview. If the Supreme Court halted the
new spending, “it would be a big surprise to  Wall Street .”  Health Providers  Hospitals, nursing homes and other providers also are
expected to be helped by the Medicaid expansion. Depending on
how the court rules, a decision against the expansion could be a
double-whammy if reductions in Medicaid and Medicare payments
and other cuts that are part of the law are left intact, Heldman
said.  The  federal government  says states’ participation in
Medicaid is voluntary -- if they don’t like the requirements to
expand coverage they can opt out of Medicaid altogether. The
states argue that the federal government is “making states an
offer they could not refuse” and that dropping out of the
program that is in place in all 50 states and losing federal
funding they now get is not practical. They are being coerced to
accede to onerous new federal demands that will lead to
significant outlays of state cash, they say.  The U.S. would pay the full cost of the Medicaid expansion
in the first two years, a share that would decline gradually to
90 percent in 2020 and thereafter. Still,  Florida , which is
leading the states’ challenge to the law, estimates its share of
Medicaid spending will increase by $1 billion annually by the
end of the decade.  Other states , such as  New Hampshire , have
said they will save money under the new law.  ‘Fiscally Unreasonable’  Doug Holtz-Eakin, president of the  American Action Forum 
and former director of the CBO, thinks the federal government’s
demands on the states are “fiscally unreasonable” but he
doesn’t believe justices will strike down the Medicaid expansion
-- even though he has joined other economists in  urging them  to
do so.  If they did, the ruling “would be very important and would
change dramatically the federal-state relationships,” he said.  At the least, a ruling against the Affordable Care Act
might leave Medicaid as it exists today. It could also provide
the political push to do what Holtz-Eakin and many Republicans
have called for: significant changes to health-care funding that
give states more flexibility and contain costs.  “This is an enormous fiscal and regulatory initiative and
has enormous implications for all the participants in the health
care sectors,” Holtz-Eakin said. “Which way the winds blow on
this matters a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  