-- Hippocrates’s 3-Cent Aspirin a Day May Keep Cancer at Bay
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-21T13:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/hippocrates-s-3-cent-aspirin-once-a-day-may-keep-cancer-away.html
Aspirin, the 3-cent painkiller
whose origins can be traced to Hippocrates, reduces the chances
of developing or dying from cancer earlier than previously
thought and also prevents tumors from spreading, studies showed.  People who took a daily low dose of aspirin had a 24
percent lower rate of developing cancer after three years,
according to a  study  in The Lancet medical journal today. Those
who took a daily dose of any size were 37 percent less likely to
die from the disease after five years than those who didn’t, the
study found. The rate was similar for men and women.  Doctors have known since 2007 that aspirin can reduce the
long-term risk of dying from cancer, though those benefits are
only seen after at least eight years. The new studies show the
drug also has short-term advantages, suggesting it could be used
to treat some tumors, said Peter Rothwell, a professor at the
University of Oxford who led the research.  “Aspirin differs from virtually all other drugs in that
situation, both in the sense that it’s considerably cheaper, but
also it’s probably a lot safer,” Rothwell said in a telephone
interview.  The researchers also found that the risk of internal
bleeding -- a potential side-effect of aspirin -- wanes over
three or four years, Rothwell said. After that, the risk of
dying from a bleed was lower among those taking aspirin than
those who weren’t, the study found.  5 Million Cases  Cancer is the second-most common cause of premature death
worldwide and 5 million new cases are diagnosed in  Europe  and
the U.S. each year, Rothwell and colleagues wrote. The risk of
the disease starts to increase “steeply” from about age 45,
suggesting that might be a good time to start taking aspirin,
Rothwell said. The risk of internal bleeding from aspirin
increases from about age 65, which would be a good time to stop,
he said.  “People with a family history of cancer in middle age, or
a family history particularly of  colon cancer , or people with
vascular risk factors who are at risk of heart attack or
stroke” would be most likely to benefit from taking aspirin,
Rothwell said. “If someone’s completely healthy, and has a good
diet, doesn’t smoke, does regular exercise, has no risk factors
for cancer or for heart attacks and stroke, then the benefit
will probably be greater than the risk, but the benefit will be
relatively small.”  Rothwell, 47, said he started taking daily aspirin three or
four years ago.  Prevents Tumor Spread  Bayer AG (BAYN) , based in Leverkusen,  Germany , invented aspirin
and has sold it since 1899. A bottle of 500 generic 325
milligram aspirin tablets marketed by  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  costs $14.99
on drugstore.com, or 3 cents a pill.  The drug is based on salicin, a chemical found in the bark
of the willow tree that was first mentioned about 2,400 years
ago by Hippocrates, an ancient Greek considered the father of
Western medicine. Bark containing salicin was used by the Romans
and North American Indians to treat cold, flu, aches, pains and
infections, Rothwell said.  Rothwell and colleagues reviewed 51 trials involving about
78,000 people concerning the use of aspirin to prevent heart
attacks and stroke. The finding that the drug reduces the
chances of getting cancer was from six trials in which
participants took 75 to 100 milligrams of aspirin daily.  The reduction in the risk of dying from cancer was found in
trials involving aspirin at any dose, and is probably because
the drug prevents tumors spreading, Rothwell said.  Two other studies published in  The Lancet  and  The Lancet
Oncology  today showed that aspirin reduced the risk of any
cancer spreading to other organs by 36 percent and certain types
of tumors by 46 percent.  ‘Exciting Development’  “We still need to do trials of aspirin in treatment of
cancer to show that the benefit is definitely there if you start
taking it after the cancer’s been diagnosed,” Rothwell said.
“But potentially it would be a highly cost-effective way of
preventing the spread of cancers.”  He’s now involved in a study testing aspirin to treat
people with colorectal cancer, and another trial with lung
cancer patients is starting, he said. The drug is already
recommended in countries including the U.S. for middle-aged
patients at risk of heart disease or stroke, Rothwell said.  “This is an exciting development,” Peter Johnson, the
chief clinician of  Cancer Research UK , said in an e-mailed
statement. “We now need some definitive advice from the
government as to whether aspirin should be recommended more
widely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  