-- Ireland Won’t Hold Re-Run If Voters Reject EU Pact, Howlin Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-20T08:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ireland-won-t-hold-re-run-if-voters-reject-eu-pact-howlin-says.html
Ireland won’t hold a second
referendum if voters reject the European Union’s fiscal compact,
Public Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin said.  The government hasn’t made a decision on when the planned
vote will take place, though it may happen “before the
summer,” Howlin said in an interview in  Singapore  today.
Ireland said last month it will hold a referendum on the fiscal
compact after receiving advice from the attorney general.  “This is not like other treaties, other treaties required
unanimity, so it’s a once-off selection for people to determine
if they want to be part of this pact or not,” Howlin said.
“The train is leaving the station and it’s just a matter of
determining how many countries want to be on board.”  In contrast to two previous Irish referendums on European
policies, losing this one wouldn’t sink the treaty, which
requires support from just 12 of the 17 euro-area countries to
come into effect. Still, the government, which plans to exit an
international bailout at the end of 2013, won’t be able to
access the region’s permanent aid fund if it doesn’t pass the
vote.  Ireland sought a 67.5 billion-euro ($89 billion) rescue
from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union in
2010 after the collapse of the country’s property boom pushed
the state to the brink of bankruptcy. Two newspaper polls
published this month showed that about 60 percent of the Irish
public, who expressed a preference, will vote for the
referendum.  Public Support  “I think there will be a great deal of public support for
it because it is an important part of our trajectory for an
orderly exit from the support package which we’re on from the
EU-IMF,” Howlin said. It will also “ensure that when we return
to the markets at the end of next year, there is that insurance
there of access to the European Stability Mechanism,” he said.  The Irish government is seeking support from  Europe  to
reduce the cost of bailing out its banks even as it prepares to
vote on the European measures to impose budget discipline. Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said March 15 that the
government hasn’t ruled out getting an agreed delay this month
on a 3.1 billion-euro cash payment on promissory notes used to
bail out the former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) .  ‘Completely Separate’  “We see this as two completely separate and distinct
issues,” Howlin said. “The stability treaty will stand or fall
on its own merits and we are advocating people to support it on
the basis that it is necessary for Ireland, and the  euro zone 
and our common currency.”  Ireland’s  Finance Ministry  said March 15 that the
government is “on track” to emerge from its bailout and return
to international markets for funding next year, after former
European Central Bank Executive Board Member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
said in the Financial Times that the country may need a further
80 billion euros of aid.  “We don’t foresee that we will need any second bailout and
talk of that, bluntly, is unhelpful,” Howlin said today. Irish
banks are also well-capitalized and probably won’t need a
further injection of funds this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  