-- IRS Flags Almost 2 Million Tax Returns in Anti-Fraud Efforts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-20T15:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/irs-flags-almost-2-million-returns-for-fraudulent-tax-refunds.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  has
identified and started reviewing almost 2 million tax returns
for possible fraud, Deputy Commissioner  Steven Miller  told a
U.S. Senate subcommittee.  With about a month remaining in the tax-filing season, that
number “approaches the total” of returns identified in 2011,
Miller said today. A primary cause of such fraud, he said, is
 identity theft .  “The IRS is confronted with the same challenges as every
major financial institution in preventing and detecting identity
theft,” he said. “We cannot stop all identity theft. However,
we are better than we were, and we will get better still.”  Last year, the IRS prevented the issuance of $14 billion in
fraudulent refunds, Miller said. This year the agency has added
hundreds of employees to its anti-fraud efforts and has
implemented new filters that flag questionable returns.  Legitimate refunds are delayed when the IRS spends
additional time reviewing returns before issuing refunds, said
 Nina Olson , the national taxpayer advocate. When the IRS tries
to speed up returns, fraudulent refunds are issued.  “There is no way around these trade-offs,” said Olson,
who runs an independent office inside the IRS.  Senator  Bill Nelson ,a Florida Democrat, said criminals have
turned to  tax fraud  instead of stealing cars or dealing drugs,
affecting honest taxpayers.  ‘Turned Upside Down’  “Their lives are being turned upside down by identity
theft and then tax fraud,” said Nelson, who is chairman of the
Senate Finance economic growth and fiscal responsibility
subcommittee, which held today’s hearing. “They have their  tax
refund  stolen, and then they are delayed when the IRS sorts out
the mess.”  Criminals receive identifying information from a variety of
sources, according to Miller’s testimony. He cited the case of
an Alabama woman, sentenced to prison, who obtained information
about student-loan borrowers from her former employer and then
filed false tax returns.  Some prisoners also file fake tax returns and claim
refundable tax credits, Miller said.  “We see thefts from schools,” he said. “We see thefts
from hospitals, doctor’s offices.”  Nelson has introduced legislation that would impose tougher
penalties and make it harder to gain access to the Social
Security numbers of people who have died.  Nelson’s bill is S. 1534.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  