-- Mismanaged Energy Loans Too Solar-Focused, U.S. Republicans Say
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-20T17:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/mismanaged-energy-loans-too-solar-focused-u-s-republicans-say.html
The U.S. Energy Department
mismanaged stimulus programs, putting taxpayer dollars at risk,
according to two Republican reports released at a hearing where
lawmakers debated who is responsible for rising gasoline prices.  The reports, by Republican staff on the House Oversight and
Investigations Committee, focused on a program that gave
Solyndra LLC its $535 million loan guarantee two years before
the company went bankrupt, and on a $5 billion home-energy
efficiency initiative.  “These reports document a  Department of Energy  seemingly
unprepared to deal with the exponential increase in taxpayer
funds it received under the stimulus, leading to serious
questions of waste and abuse,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a
 California  Republican and committee chairman, said.  The programs provided jobs, reduced pollution and helped
low-income homeowners cut energy costs, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said today at the hearing. Republicans said the reports
showed the stimulus wasn’t effective in creating jobs and risky
bets were made on companies with poor credit ratings.  Republicans often ignored the committee’s reports and
pressed Chu on administration actions to stem rising gasoline
prices, which climbed for 11 straight days through yesterday.  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican, asked what steps are being taken to cut prices at
the pump.  More Needed  After Chu said the administration is promoting the use of
natural gas from shale in long-haul trucks, McHenry said the
U.S. needed to do more to promote oil production on federal
lands. Other Republicans faulted Obama for taking credit for
rising domestic oil production on private lands.  “The administration is supportive of increased
production,” Chu said.  The Republicans’ 74-page report on the loan program found
that two solar projects, developed by Tempe, Arizona-based  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , weren’t sufficiently innovative or different from
one another to qualify for the guarantees.  Chu, who defended Solyndra’s loan while testifying in
November to a House Energy and Commerce Committee panel, said
the department has largely met its mission to spend stimulus
funding quickly, responsibly and transparently.  “We evaluate each loan application on its technical
merits,” Chu said.  ‘Robust’ Dialogue  E-mails Republicans highlighted in the report were part of
a “robust” dialogue, he said. Ultimately, career professionals
found the projects met Energy Department eligibility
requirements, Chu said.  The projects under scrutiny are Antelope Solar Valley Ranch
in California and Agua Caliente in  Arizona .  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , based
in  Chicago , bought Antelope, and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  in Princeton,
 New Jersey , purchased Agua Caliente immediately after First
Solar won the awards.  In one e-mail cited by Republicans, Dong Kim, the loan
program’s technical director, said the Antelope project’s use of
single axis tracker wasn’t innovative. The technology lets the
solar panels track the sun throughout the day.  “The record will show that we did not grade this as
innovative during intake review,” Kim wrote in the June 23 e-
mail.  Jonathan Silver , then the executive director of the loan
program, in an e-mail dated Feb. 1, 2011, referred to the
projects as alike in design.  ‘Carbon Copy’  “Where are we with antelope valley?” Silver asked energy
official David Frantz. “Isn’t that a carbon copy of agua
caliente?”  “It is,” Frantz responded.  An Energy Department rule states a company can only submit
one application using a particular technology, Republicans said.  Chu said he believed Silver and Frantz were discussing the
projects’ similar financial structure, and not comparing their
technical components.  The department yesterday released an Aug. 4, 2010, memo
from Dong Kim that said Agua Caliente included “new and
innovative components” and that Antelope was sufficiently
different to be eligible for a loan guarantee.  The Republican report says the loan-guarantee program was
too focused on solar energy, distributing about 80 percent of
the loans to projects relying on the sun. More diversity in
spending would have offered taxpayers better protections against
market fluctuations, according to the Republican report.  Weatherization Faulted  Representative  Jim Jordan , an Ohio Republican, said eight
administration officials had ties to companies that won clean-
energy loans. Chu said firewalls prevented officials who might
gain from the awards from participating in decisions affecting
the companies.  A separate report said a $5 billion weatherization program
paid for shoddy work that in some cases actually damaged homes,
in some cases repeating critical findings from the Energy
Department’s independent Inspector General’s reports.  For example, contractors in  Alabama  sprayed insulation in a
furnace compartment in a legally blind woman’s kitchen in a way
that could have caused a fire.  Chu said the department had worked to correct mistakes
identified by the agency watchdog. Overall, the program has
worked well, improving the efficiency of 680,000 homes,
including for a woman in  Milwaukee  who said the work made her
home more comfortable, allowing her to eat breakfast in her
kitchen for the first time in  Wisconsin ’s cold winter months and
cutting her energy costs, he said.  “It was overall a very successful program,” Chu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  