-- Israel’s Barak Casts Doubt on Iranian Cooperation Ahead of Talks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-20T17:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/israel-s-barak-casts-doubt-on-iranian-cooperation-ahead-of-talks.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
cast doubt on  Iran ’s willingness to cooperate with international
negotiators as he repeated his view that economic sanctions
won’t be sufficient to respond to a nuclear threat.  Iran’s leadership should be held to a “clear threshold”
when talks over its atomic program resume in coming weeks,
including stopping all enrichment activity, surrendering highly
enriched uranium, shutting its nuclear facility in Fordo and
undergoing “tight, continuous,” inspections, Barak said today.  “If all this happens, we would love to see it -- but I’m
not sure that that’s going to happen,” Barak told reporters
during a visit to Berlin. “Until now, the Iranian leadership
have shown a clear determination to defy and deceive the whole
world and keep moving toward nuclear-military capability.”  The U.S. and its European allies accuse Iran of pursuing a
nuclear weapon, with the Israeli government indicating it may
mount a military strike to forestall any further development.
International sanctions on Iran have tightened as the country
refuses to heed demands by the  United Nations  to suspend  uranium
enrichment  and allow wider access to inspectors.  Meanwhile, Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  insisted
that his country has no ambitions to make a bomb, telling German
broadcaster ZDF in a  40-minute interview  that atomic weapons are
immoral and “belong to the last century.”  Asked whether Iran would retaliate if it were attacked, the
president said his country would respond, equating such a
scenario to what would happen in the U.S.  ‘Defend Themselves’  “What does a country do if it’s attacked? What would the
Americans do?” Ahmadinejad said, according to translated
comments posted late yesterday on  ZDF’s website . “They would
defend themselves, clearly. That’s what we would do.”  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  called today
for increased domestic economic production to combat the effects
of the international sanctions. Ahmadinejad also denounced the
sanctions, saying that such measures “set the wrong tone.”  On his trip today in  Germany , the Israeli defense minister
said sanctions on Iranian exports weren’t enough, repeating that
“all options should remain on the table.”  “I mean all options, but not the containment,” Barak said
alongside his German counterpart, Thomas de Maiziere. “Just to
accept a nuclear Iran would be inconsiderable and I believe
unacceptable to the whole world.”  Ahmadinejad said Iran was “cooperating at maximum” with
the  International Atomic Energy Agency , though he blamed the UN
watchdog for succumbing to pressure from the “great powers” to
cajole his country into going beyond IAEA rules.  Secret Installations  Nuclear powers said this month that Iran must allow nuclear
inspectors to have access to a secret military installation in
Parchin, southwest of Tehran, where Iranian officials have so
far blocked entry. IAEA inspectors have said they have
“credible” evidence of nuclear-military work there.  “The IAEA tells us that we must prove that we’re clean,
that we’re correct,” Ahmadinejad said. “How can you prove
that? How can you prove that you’re not sick?”  The five permanent members of the UN Security Council --
the U.S, U.K., France, Russia and  China  -- as well as Germany
said this month that Iran must enter negotiations “without
preconditions.” The group committed to resume talks over Iran’s
nuclear work after the last round fell through in January 2011.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said today he’s
convinced Iran won’t carry out threats to attack  Israel  as it
can’t do so without also inflicting damage on  Palestine .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  