-- Israel Condemns Ashton Remarks on Toulouse Attack and Gaza
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-03-20T14:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/israeli-ministers-criticize-ashton-remark-on-toulouse-attack-1-.html
Israeli leaders condemned remarks
made by  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, saying she improperly compared children killed in the
shooting in Toulouse, France and those in the Gaza Strip.  “And the days when we remember young people who have been
killed in all sorts of terrible circumstances -- the Belgian
children having lost their lives in a terrible tragedy and when
we think of what happened in Toulouse today, when we remember
what happened in Norway a year ago, when we know what is
happening in Syria, when we see what is happening in Gaza and in
different parts of the world -- we remember young people and
children who lose their lives,” Ashton said yesterday at a
conference in Brussels.  Four people, three of them children, were shot dead
yesterday by an unknown assailant outside a Jewish school in
Toulouse.  “What makes me angry is the comparison between the
premeditated slaughter of children to the defensive surgical
activities of the  Israel Defense Forces  aimed at hitting
terrorists who use children as shields,” Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said at an appearance in Haifa, in remarks
text-messaged by his office.  Michael Mann , the EU foreign affairs spokesman, said the
reporting of Ashton’s remarks was “grossly distorted,”
asserting that she “strongly condemns” the Toulouse killings.  ‘No Parallel’  Ashton “referred to tragedies which take the lives of
children around the world,” Mann said at a press conference in
Brussels. “She drew no parallel whatsoever between the
circumstances of the Toulouse attack and the situation in
Gaza.”  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman and Defense
Minister Ehud Barak both released statements criticizing Ashton,
saying the Israeli military makes an effort to avoid civilian
deaths.  “The comparison Ashton made between what happens in Gaza
with  Syria  and Toulouse is far from the truth,” Barak said in
an e-mailed statement sent today by the  Defense Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  