-- JPMorgan Seeks to Appeal Ruling on Jefferson County Bankruptcy
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/jefferson-county-creditors-seek-to-appeal-bankruptcy-ruling-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , along with a
trustee for creditors of Jefferson County, Alabama, sought to
appeal a March 4 ruling by a federal judge who rejected their
demands to throw out the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , trustee for the county’s
sewer debt, JPMorgan, which owns more than $1 billion of the
sewer warrants, and other creditors filed a request for court
approval to appeal the ruling simultaneously with filing notices
of their intent to appeal, according to a filing yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Birmingham, Alabama.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November, after
county, state officials, a court-appointed receiver and
bondholders failed to implement a tentative agreement that would
have required its sewer debt to be reduced by about $1 billion.  Creditors had argued that  Alabama  state law requires cities
and counties to have issued bond debt to be eligible for
bankruptcy. The U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  allows states to set
limits, or even bar, their cities and counties from filing for
bankruptcy.  Because Jefferson County’s long-term debts were called
warrants, not bonds, in all legal papers, Alabama law prevented
the bankruptcy, creditors argued.  “An immediate appeal of this threshold issue will
materially advance the ultimate termination of this case,”
lawyers for the creditors said in yesterday’s filing. “If the
appellate court determines that the county is not eligible, as
the movants contend, then the county’s Chapter 9 case will be
dismissed and the parties will avoid tremendous costs and
unnecessary litigation.”  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  