-- Jewelers in India Extend Strike Seeking Withdrawal of Taxes
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-20T12:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/jewelers-in-india-extend-strike-seeking-withdrawal-of-taxes-1-.html
Gold jewelers in  India , the world’s
biggest bullion buyer, will extend the first nationwide strike
in seven years for two more days to demand withdrawal of some
levies, a trade group said.  The bullion industry is losing about 10 billion rupees
($199 million) in daily sales due to the strike that began on
March 17, said Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems
& Jewellery Trade Federation. The group wants a new excise duty
of 1 percent on non-branded gold jewelry to be withdrawn.  “Smaller jewelers have the main problem and they are in a
state of panic and in confusion,” Bamalwa said in a phone
interview. “If they open their shops today, they don’t know how
to go about with this levy.”  Jewelers are protesting against increased taxes announced
by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  in his annual budget speech
last week as the government seeks to rein in a widening current-
account deficit, partly fueled by record bullion imports in
2011. Purchases may plunge 35 percent this year after the
government also said it would raise the import tax on gold for a
second time this year, raising retail prices by about 6.3
percent, according to the Bombay Bullion Association.  Mukherjee raised the import duty on gold bars and coins and
platinum to 4 percent from 2 percent, after doubling the tax in
January. A levy on gold ore, concentrate and so-called dore bars
for refining will be doubled to 2 percent and an excise tax on
refined gold will climb to 3 percent from 1.5 percent, he said.  ‘Huge Burden’  “Gold imports are a huge burden on the balance of payments
and accentuates the current account deficit,” the Associated
Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India said in a statement.
Bullion purchases by India could reach $100 billion by
2015-2016, it said. “The government should strictly monitor the
inflows with higher customs duty,” it said.  Imports may drop to $38 billion in the year starting from
April 1 from $58 billion this year, Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said
in a report last month.  Rajesh Exports (RJEX)  Ltd., India’s biggest exporter of gold
jewelry, closed its 75 stores for a fourth day, losing 40
million rupees a day in sales, Chairman Rajesh Mehta said.  “We are solidly with the trade,” Mehta said in a phone
interview today. “We have closed all our stores.”  Gold for immediate delivery fell 1.1 percent to $1,646.30
an ounce at 5:30 p.m. in Mumbai. Futures for April delivery on
the on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. fell 0.4
percent to 27,780 rupees per 10 grams ($552).  Revenue Shrinks  Members of the jewelers federation, which met Mukherjee
last night, have been asked to submit a detailed petition to the
government within the next two to three days, Bamalwa said.  The levy on non-branded jewelry won’t apply to small
goldsmiths and artisans, the Central Board of Excise and Customs
said in a statement today.  “From the jewelers point of view, the tax on them is not
positive,”  Kunal Shah , head of commodity research with Nirmal
Bang Commodities Pvt. in Mumbai, said yesterday. “Their
revenues are going to shrink because of the moves in the
budget.”  Rajesh Exports fell for a seventh day in Mumbai trading
today, the biggest losing streak since May 2011. The shares fell
1.2 percent to 124.05 rupees, the lowest level at close since
Oct. 7.  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG)  fell for a third day, losing 0.6
percent to 369.75 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  