-- Jon Stewart’s ‘Daily Show’ Goes Nuclear With Power-Industry Ads
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/jon-stewart-s-daily-show-goes-nuclear-with-power-industry-ads.html
“ The Daily Show  with  Jon Stewart ”
is going nuclear.  The Nuclear Energy Institute, representing companies
including  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and  Southern Co. (SO) , will use the Emmy-
award winning  Comedy Central  show starting today for an
advertising campaign showing the value of atomic power a year
after the triple meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The industry wants “to reach some of the younger audience
that are helping to shape policy,”  Scott Peterson , the
Washington-based industry group’s senior vice president for
communications, told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  NEI will double its annual advertising spending on the
campaign, Peterson said, without providing specific figures. The
ads will appear in the next six months in such outlets as the
Washington Post, the Economist, Bloomberg Businessweek, and on
“NBC Nightly News With Brian Williams,” the network’s “Meet
the Press,” National Public Radio and Facebook.  The NEI is joining other industry groups, such as the
 American Petroleum Institute , that are seeking to reach
policymakers in an election year where energy policy has become
a central theme. A glut of cheap natural gas has discouraged
investment in other sources of electricity, and the average
retail price of gasoline for the week ended March 16 reached
$3.87 a gallon, the Energy Department said.  API Commercials  API, which represents oil companies such as  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
of Houston and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas, today plans
to start a series of commercials aimed at encouraging President
Barack Obama to take action to lower gas prices, Sabrina Fang, a
spokeswoman for the group, said in an e-mail.  The oil group supports congressional approval of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which the
Obama administration has stalled pending completion of further
environmental review early next year.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission two weeks ago issued its
first orders in response to the Fukushima disaster and six weeks
ago awarded Southern of Atlanta a permit to build reactors,
ending a 30-year drought for new projects.  “Our goal is to communicate the overriding need for
nuclear energy,” which provides about 20 percent of all
electricity generated in the U.S., Peterson, of the NEI, said.  NEI spent $2.18 million on lobbying in 2011, up 29 percent
from its expenditures in 2010, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. Expenditures for 2012, released each
quarter, aren’t available.  Indian Point  While the industry’s message within the past year dealt
with safety after the crisis in  Japan , the campaign today will
promote nuclear power as a reliable, low-carbon source of energy
that creates jobs, he said.  About 57 percent of 1,032 Americans polled by market-
research group ORC International are less supportive of nuclear
power than they were before the Fukushima disaster, according to
a March 7 survey released by the Civil Society Institute, the
Newton, Massachusetts-based research group that commissioned the
study.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has said Entergy’s Indian
Point plant, about 24 miles (39 kilometers) north of New York
City, should be closed because of its proximity to the nation’s
most populous metropolitan area, which would be difficult to
evacuate in an emergency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  