-- JPMorgan Employees Join Goldman Sachs Among Top Obama Donors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/jpmorgan-employees-join-goldman-sachs-among-top-obama-donors.html
President Barack Obama’s largest
campaign donors last month included employees of  Wells Fargo &
Co., (WFC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
according to an analysis of Federal Election Commission records.  Their support indicates that Wall Street, which gave Obama
$16 million for his successful 2008 White House run, is opening
its checkbook again for the president. The contributions helped
Obama raise $21 million in February, including $6.5 million
transferred from a joint fundraising committee with the
Democratic National Committee.  “The reality is the election has evolved from being Obama
versus Obama to Obama versus a Republican alternative,” said
Robert Zimmerman, a Democratic National Committee member and
Obama fundraiser. “Now that contributors, party activists and
citizens are seeing the choice, you’re seeing more support
emerge for  Barack Obama .”  Obama has raised $161 million for his re-election and
entered March with $84.7 million in the bank. Four years ago,
engaged in a primary battle with  Hillary Clinton  for the
Democratic nomination, he had raised $197 million by the end of
February and had close to $40 million in cash.  The incumbent has raised twice as much as Republican front-
runner  Mitt Romney , who has brought in $75.6 million, including
$12 million last month. Obama’s campaign bank account entering
March was more than 11 times greater than Romney’s.  Romney Investor Support  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and a co-founder of
the Boston-based private equity firm Bain Capital LLC, has
received strong support from  Wall Street  to fill his campaign
coffers. He has received $6 of every $10 contributed to a
presidential candidate by securities and investment industry
employees and their families, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign giving.  Through Jan. 31, they had given $6.6 million to Romney,
including $521,180 from Goldman employees and their families,
and $2.3 million to Obama.  The president has acknowledged the falloff in donations
from Wall Street. “So many of you have had to defend me from
your co-workers over the last three years,” he said to laughter
March 2 at a  New York  City fundraiser targeting the financial
industry.  Microsoft Donations  Obama has focused on technology companies. Employees of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , based in Redmond,  Washington , donated $91,881,
his biggest source of contributions from those listing an
employer, according to a computer-assisted analysis of FEC
reports filed today. Microsoft employees and their families have
given almost $300,000 to Obama’s re-election, more than anyone
else, according to FEC records and the  Center for Responsive
Politics .  This time around, the president also counted as his top
sources of campaign cash employees of San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo and JPMorgan and Goldman of New York. The financial
community had been missing from his list of top donors for his
re-election, some of whom are upset over his support of new
legislation designed to regulate an industry blamed for
contributing to the worst  economic downturn  since the Great
Depression.  Obama’s Small Donors  Obama continued to do well among small donors; 54 percent
of the money donated to his campaign came in amounts of $200 or
less.  Priorities USA Action, a political action committee
supporting the president, also got a boost in large donations.  After raising 58,816 in January, it reported getting $2
million in February, including $1 million from comedian  Bill Maher , after the president signaled to wealthy backers that they
should support the committee. The super-PAC began this month
with $2.8 million in the bank.  Jim Messina, Obama’s campaign manager, said on Feb. 6 that
White House and Cabinet officials would begin helping the super-
PAC raise money to take on Republican groups which are amassing
millions to oppose him.  Employees of the law and lobbying firm  DLA Piper (1191L)  gave
$41,728, second only to Microsoft, bringing their total to more
than $200,000. DLA Piper last year was paid $8.2 million for
lobbying services by such clients as Comcast Corp. and  Raytheon
Co. (RTN)   Wall Street Money  Wells Fargo employees ranked sixth with $16,290 in
donations to the president’s campaign last month; JPMorgan
executives came in 10th with $14,903, just ahead of Goldman
employees who gave $14,610.  Employees of New York-based Goldman and their families gave
Obama $1 million four years ago, more than those of any other
company, and JPMorgan employees contributed $808,799, the fourth
most, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Eight of the 10 biggest donors to Romney through Jan. 31
worked for banks and investment funds. In February, there were
four:  Bank of America Corp.  of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; New
York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) ; JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs. Romney
took in $13,500 from Goldman employees last month, less than
Obama did.  Romney’s two largest sources of contributions in February
were employees of insurance companies, Hartford, Connecticut-
based  Aetna Inc., (AET)  which gave $43,000, and Liberty Mutual Holding
Co. of  Boston , which donated $37,250.  “This cartoon caricature that political pundits have of
Wall Street sitting around a table and deciding who’s in and
who’s out has no relevance in political reality,” said
Zimmerman, who has raised between $100,000 and $200,000 for the
president’s re-election. “Individuals on Wall Street give like
other donors do, with their own agenda and their own goals and
aspirations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 