-- Kingfisher Air Scraps Overseas Flights as Mallya Seeks Funds
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-03-21T04:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/kingfisher-to-scrap-international-flights-as-it-seeks-investment.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the
Indian carrier struggling with a cash shortage and losses, will
end international flights next month and cut local routes as it
seeks funds to revive operations.  Kingfisher will pare local flights by as much as 37 percent
to between 110 and 125 a day with a 20-plane fleet, Chief
Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal told reporters in New Delhi
yesterday after submitting a new plan to India’s aviation
regulator. The airline will stop services to eight overseas
destinations by April 10 after bookings were hit by a suspension
from an international billing facility, he said.  The carrier may lose its license as billionaire Chairman
 Vijay Mallya  struggles to implement turnaround plans, according
to Aviation Minister Ajit Singh. The new proposal is at least
the second reduction in services in less than a month for the
Bangalore-based carrier, which had 340 flights a day in October.  “The problem is in the last two to three months, he’s
given so many plans and he’s not adhered to any of them,” Singh
told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. The government won’t let
any carrier fly if safety standards are endangered, which
usually includes financial viability, he said.  Kingfisher rose 1.1 percent to 19.20 rupees as of 9:51 a.m.
in Mumbai, after gaining as much as 4.2 percent.  Jet Airways
(India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest airline, fell as much as 1.9
percent, while  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  dropped as much as 2.4 percent.  Frozen Accounts  Kingfisher got access to some bank accounts that were
earlier blocked by tax authorities because of late payments,
Mallya said yesterday. The frozen accounts had disrupted
payments to suppliers, including the  International Air Transport
Association , contributing to the carrier cutting flights and
delaying salaries to employees.  Closure may happen “unless you find a buyer or someone who
pumps serious money into the business,” said Shumukh Ghosh, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Naman Securities & Finance Pvt. “Still,
I don’t feel the regulator will shut the airline down just yet.
In  India , we don’t want to take hard decisions.”  Cancellation of the license was not discussed in the
meeting with the regulator, Aggarwal said. “What we have
presented is a plan that is sustainable and can be continued
without further hiccups.”  Ownership Rules  Some of the potential investments in Kingfisher depend on a
change in foreign ownership rules, Aggarwal said. The airline is
also in talks with local investors for funds, he said, without
giving details.  The carrier has been seeking new funds or loans since at
least November when it shuttered low-cost services and deferred
plane deliveries as part of a turnaround plan. The company has
posted more than 10 straight quarterly  losses  as it contended
with high jetfuel expenses and a price war.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  last week proposed
allowing airlines to borrow as much as $1 billion industrywide
from overseas for working-capital requirements. Mukherjee also
earmarked 40 billion rupees in the federal budget to bail out
Air India Ltd., the state-owned carrier.  The government doesn’t want to ground Kingfisher because of
concerns about employees, passengers and fares, Minister Singh
said.  Kingfisher also had its five-star service rating suspended
by SkyTrax Research following cuts in its international network.
The carrier said March 14 it was paring overseas operations that
are “bleeding heavily.”  Suspension from the IATA system used by travel agents
because of overdue fees affected bookings. Airline executives
have gone to Geneva to work to regain access as soon as
possible, Mallya said.  Kingfisher lost domestic market share every month from
October through February, according to data available with the
regulator, as it cut flights and as service disruptions deterred
passengers from booking tickets. The carrier had a market share
of  9.7 percent  last month from 11.3 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  