-- Knicks’ Lin Signs Two-Year Deal to Promote Volvo Cars in China
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/knicks-lin-signs-two-year-deal-to-promote-volvo-cars-in-china.html
Jeremy Lin of the  New York Knicks 
signed a two-year contract to promote Volvo Cars in  China  and
the U.S.  Lin, a 23-year-old Harvard University graduate, sparked the
phenomenon that became known as Linsanity after he took over as
the Knicks’ starting point guard last month. His play helped get
the Knicks back into playoff contention while boosting the
team’s television ratings, ticket prices and shares.  “He has become a global cultural phenomenon,” John
Maloney, president and chief executive of Volvo Cars of North
America LLC, said at a news conference yesterday in New York.  Lin, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the  National Basketball Association , will appear in his first
television commercials for Volvo after the NBA season ends.
He’ll be used in promotional materials immediately, company
officials said.  “Growing up, I never had the super luxurious cars or
watches or whatever it may be,” said Lin, who added that he
doesn’t currently own a car while living in  New York . “Being
able to find a car company that has high quality but is also
affordable and relatable was very important to me.”  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. (GEELZ) ’s Volvo is betting Lin’s
popularity will help the company double sales to 800,000
vehicles by 2020 in China, the carmaker’s fastest-growing
market.  Following Yao  The 6-foot-3 guard, who was cut by two NBA teams before
joining the Knicks, has helped draw Chinese interest in the NBA
similar to former Houston Rockets All-Star center Yao Ming.  The 7-foot-6-inch Yao, a Shanghai resident, signed
sponsorship deals with companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  before he retired in July.  Sports Illustrated 
in June ranked Yao the fifth-highest paid non-U.S. athlete in
the world, with an estimated annual income of $36 million.  A group led by Zhejiang Geely bought Volvo from  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  for $1.8 billion in August 2010, completing the biggest
overseas acquisition by a Chinese carmaker. Volvo makes the S40
sedan and XC90 sport-utility vehicle and sold 449,255 cars last
year. The company plans to open two carmaking factories and an
engine plant in China.  The Knicks won seven straight games after Lin began running
the offense Feb. 4. It then lost nine of 12 games, including six
in a row, which led to the March 14 resignation of coach  Mike D’Antoni . Since assistant Mike Woodson took over on an interim
basis, the team has won three straight games.  New York occupies the eighth and final playoff place in the
NBA’s Eastern Conference, half a game ahead of the  Milwaukee
Bucks .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  