-- Kocherlakota Says Fed’s Power Is Limited in Expanding Jobs
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-20T23:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/kocherlakota-says-fed-s-power-is-limited-in-expanding-employment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the Fed can achieve only
limited gains in promoting employment and needs to rely on
fiscal policy to help generate jobs.  “In terms of employment, there are limits to what monetary
policy can achieve on its own,” Kocherlakota said in a speech
today in  St. Louis . “Monetary and non-monetary policy must work
in concert to reduce the impact of a decline in labor demand.
Neither can do it alone.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left policy unchanged
this month, noting improvements in the job market, where the
 unemployment rate  is 8.3 percent. Since the meeting, reports
from jobs to housing have signaled the expansion is
strengthening.  “I don’t feel the need for additional accommodation right
now,” he said to reporters after the speech. Kocherlakota said
he sees the Fed beginning to withdraw monetary stimulus in 2012
or 2013 if the economy meets his forecast, including an
inflation rate of 2 percent or higher during the next two years.  “That doesn’t mean I want to raise rates tomorrow,” he
said. “You want to be cautious about that.”  The Fed is “clearly doing well” meeting its congressional
mandate to maintain stable prices, Kocherlakota, who doesn’t
vote on the policy-setting FOMC this year, said at  Washington
University . While the Fed can offset some employment losses, the
central bank alone can achieve only something “less than the
full employment of labor resources,” he said.  ‘Pleasant Surprise’  U.S. economic performance has been a “pleasant surprise”
in recent weeks, and there’s no need for more Fed stimulus now,
the  Minneapolis Fed  president told reporters after the speech.  Responding to audience questions, Kocherlakota said, “I
think we will continue to see declines in unemployment” with
the rate falling to “the high sevens by the end of the year and
low sevens by the end of 2013.”  “I think it is going to be a slow process,” he said.  U.S. stocks fell prior to Kocherlakota’s speech, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down 0.3 percent to 1,405.52 at 4
p.m. New York time. Treasuries rebounded today following the
longest drop since 2006, with yields on 10-year notes falling to
2.36 percent.  Kocherlakota dissented from a FOMC pledge in August to keep
 interest rates  near zero through mid-2013, and a decision in
September to sell $400 billion of short-term Treasuries and buy
$400 billion of longer-term securities. He opposed the central
bank’s decision to increase accommodation at a time when the
economy was showing signs of healing.  Three-Year High  Housing starts  hovered near a three-year high in February
while building permits rose, Commerce Department figures showed
today. In the meantime, jobless claims in the week ended March
10 have matched a four-year low, adding to signs the
 unemployment rate  that was at 8.3 percent last month may fall
further as the recovery gains traction.  The FOMC said on March 13 that economic conditions are
likely to warrant low borrowing costs through at least late
2014. The Committee in January extended that pledge from mid-
2013.  Kocherlakota, 48, built his career in academia and is
former chairman of the economics department at the  University of
Minnesota  in Minneapolis. He has led the Minneapolis Fed since
October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  