-- N.Z. Rugby Cup Likely Gave Economy Biggest Lift Since 2008
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2012-03-20T22:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/n-z-rugby-cup-boost-likely-gave-economy-biggest-lift-since-2008.html
New Zealand ’s economy probably
expanded last year at the fastest annual pace since the 2008
global financial crisis as a tourism boost from the Rugby  World
Cup  outweighed weakness in manufacturing.  Gross domestic product  rose 2.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest annual pace in almost
four years, according to the median of 16 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey  before a government report tomorrow at
10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The economy grew 1.9 percent in the 12
months through September.  Spending by locals and about 133,000 foreign rugby fans who
visited New Zealand from July to October helped stoke retail
sales, and construction rebounded last quarter after earthquakes
caused a five-quarter slump. Economists’ median forecast matched
the prediction of the central bank, where Reserve Bank Governor
Alan Bollard has signaled he may extend a 12-month pause and
keep the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent until
later this year.  “The New Zealand recovery is gaining a firmer footing,”
 Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland, said
in a research note. “Nevertheless, the pace of underlying
growth remains gradual. We continue to expect the RBNZ will
leave the cash rate on hold until December.”  Tomorrow’s report may also show GDP expanded by 0.6 percent
in the fourth quarter from the July-to-September period, when it
increased 0.8 percent.  Key’s Victory  The fifth consecutive quarter of growth helped the re-
election of Prime Minister John Key, whose  National party 
increased its share of the vote at a general election held in
November.  “The domestic economy is showing signs of recovery,”
Bollard said in a March 8 statement announcing no rate change.
“Household spending appears to have picked up over the past few
months and a recovery in building activity appears to be under
way.”  The Canterbury region of New Zealand’s  South Island  was
struck by quakes in September 2010 and another in February 2011
that killed 185, making the latter the nation’s deadliest
temblor in eight decades. Bollard has held the nation’s
benchmark borrowing cost since lowering it a half percentage
point in March 2011.  Twelve of 14 economists expect no change in  interest rates 
until the fourth quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey. There is a better-than 50 percent likelihood he will
leave rates unchanged until December, according to swaps prices
from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Rate Pause  Bollard on March 8 forecast fourth-quarter growth of 0.6
percent and signaled he may leave the benchmark rate unchanged
until the end of the year because modest growth and the New
Zealand dollar’s 13 percent gain in the past year were curbing
inflation.  Retail sales rose 2.2 percent in the final three months of
2011 from the third quarter, when they gained 2.4 percent,
according to a government report last month. Spending was
boosted by rugby fans and the reopening of two large department
stores in central Christchurch, more than six months after they
were closed by a devastating earthquake, the statistics agency
said.  Construction rose in the final three months of the year,
the first gain in six quarters, according to a report published
March 5. The pickup in rebuilding of damaged Christchurch
property is taking longer than expected because of continuing
aftershocks, Bollard said this month.  Milk Output  Farm production was boosted late last year by favorable
weather.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest
dairy producer, said in December that milk collection was 8.4
percent higher than a year earlier. The Auckland-based company
later said it loaded a record volume of product for overseas
shipment in December.  Exports (NZMTEXP)  surged 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter, outpacing
imports, a government report showed on March 1. Exports make up
30 percent of the New Zealand economy, with commodities such as
milk powder, meat and lumber accounting for about two-thirds of
all sales.  The current-account deficit narrowed to 4 percent of GDP in
the year ended Dec. 31 from 4.3 percent in the 12 months through
September on rising exports and rugby fan spending, the
statistics agency said today.  A decline in manufacturing may have curbed GDP growth in
the fourth quarter, Tuffley said. Meat processing contracted
because animals were kept on the farm for longer rather than
being sent to slaughter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  