-- New York Times Restricts Web Access Further to Lure Users
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-20T20:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/new-york-times-restricts-web-access-further-to-lure-paying-users.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of
the namesake newspaper, will further restrict free access to its
news articles online starting in April to increase digital
subscriptions amid declining print sales.  Times Co. will limit the number of stories available to
non-paying users to 10 a month from 20, according to statement
today from the New York-based company. Readers who come to
articles through links shared via e-mail, blogs or social media
channels such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. can read stories
even after going past the limit.  The publisher started its digital-subscription program a
year ago with the New York Times website to stem losses from the
industrywide drop in print advertising caused by marketing
dollars shifting online. Times Co.’s  revenue  has declined every
year since 2006, driving its stock down more than 70 percent
over the same period.  U.S. newspapers lost $10 in print-advertising sales for
every $1 gained online last year,  Pew Research Center  said this
month. That’s a sharper loss than in 2010, when newspapers lost
$7 in print advertising for every $1 made from digital outlets.  Times Co. said today it had 454,000 online subscribers to
all its news sites, including the Boston Globe and the
International Herald Tribune, as of March 18. That’s up from
406,000 at the end of last year. The company hasn’t broken out
the online subscribers for the  New York  Times website since
September, when the number was 324,000.  “We knew that readers placed a high value on our
journalism, and we anticipated they would respond positively to
our digital subscription packages,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Arthur Sulzberger Jr. said in the statement.  Time Co. rose 0.7 percent to $6.92 at the close in New
York. The stock has declined 10 percent this year.  Separately, the company last week announced the appointment
of Marc Frons as chief information officer, reporting to both
Chief Financial Officer James Follo and Chief Advertising
Officer Denise Warren. He replaces Joseph Seibert, who will be
leaving the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  