-- New York Times Co. Said to Focus on External CEO Candidates
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-20T20:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/new-york-times-co-hires-spencer-stuart-for-ceo-search.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , which hired
executive-recruiting firm  Spencer Stuart  to conduct a search for
a new CEO, is focusing on external candidates, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the situation.  The company is looking outside its own ranks to find a
successor to Janet Robinson, who was pushed out in December,
though it hasn’t made a final decision, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Times
Co. also has internal candidates, the person said.  Times Co. has suffered from industrywide declines in print
advertising, driving its sales  down  every year since 2006. Its
shares have lost more than 70 percent over the same period, and
the lack of a CEO is part of what’s depressing the stock price,
Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New
York , said in a phone interview.  “Since Robinson left, the stock has gone nowhere despite
an unbelievable rally in the market,” said Arthur, who
 recommends  buying the shares. “It’s disappointing.”  Eileen M. Murphy, a spokeswoman for New York-based Times
Co., confirmed in a phone interview today the publisher has
retained Spencer Stuart. Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. has been
acting chief executive since Robinson’s departure.  Leading internal candidates for the CEO position include
Chief Advertising Officer Denise Warren and Scott Heekin-Canedy,
president and general manager for the New York Times Media
Group, the person said.  Murphy declined to comment on potential candidates.
Evercore’s Arthur said an outside executive would better meet
investors’ expectations.  Creative Problem Solver  “They’d be best served by getting someone with digital
experience and with brand experience, a creative problem
solver,” according to Michael Speck, a partner with executive
search firm  Heidrick & Struggles. (HSII)  “You don’t necessarily need
someone with publishing background.”  Times Co. rose 0.7 percent to $6.92 at the close in New
York. The stock has declined 8.1 percent since Robinson’s
departure was announced, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has advanced 16 percent.  Robinson received an exit package, including  stock options 
and retirement benefits, of $23.7 million. That’s more than
Times Co. earned in net income in the past four years, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Times Co. is struggling to replace declining print
advertising with online revenue. The company said today it will
further restrict free access to its news articles online
starting in April, limiting the amount of stories available to
non-paying users to 10 a month from 20.  Readers who come to articles through links shared via e-
mail, blogs, or social media channels such as Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. can read stories after going past the limit.  Below Expectations  The publisher started its digital-subscription program a
year ago with the New York Times website. The company now has
454,000 paying online subscribers for all its sites, up from
406,000 at the end of the year.  “That’s a little below what we were expecting,” Citigroup
Inc. analyst Leo Kulp, who was looking for 467,000 paying
subscribers a year after the company began charging for online
access. He lowered his recommendation for the stock to neutral
from buy in October.  “We became more bearish on the stock seeing the paywall is
not going to offset the print declines,” he said. The company’s
shares have declined more than 20 percent since it introduced
the paywall.  U.S. newspapers lost $10 in print-advertising sales for
every $1 gained online last year, Pew Research Center said this
month. That’s a sharper loss than in 2010, when newspapers lost
$7 in print advertising for every $1 made from digital outlets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  