-- Nigeria May Keep Interest Rate Unchanged at Record High of 12%
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/nigeria-may-keep-interest-rate-unchanged-at-record-high-of-12-.html
Nigeria ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record
high for a second consecutive meeting to keep inflation in check
as fuel prices climb.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold the  policy rate  at 12 percent, according to
all 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sanusi is due to
announce the decision at a press conference in the capital,
Abuja, today.  Gasoline costs in Africa’s largest oil producer jumped by
about half to 97 naira a liter in January after President
Goodluck Jonathan partially removed a subsidy on fuel. That may
add to price pressures as the government ramps up spending and
the central bank struggles to bring inflation down to under 10
percent.  “The fact that the fiscal stance has been loosened does
affect a bit the gains from inflation declining, so it’s
certainly a worry,” Coura Fall, a sub-Saharan  Africa  analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview.  Inflation (NGCPIYOY)  slowed to 11.9 percent in February from 12.6
percent in the previous month as food prices eased, the
statistics office said yesterday. The central bank expects
inflation to accelerate to as high as 14.5 percent in the first
half of this year because of fuel costs, before slowing to below
10 percent in 2013.  Pause Warranted  Sanusi said on Feb. 28 the central bank can “afford to
hold so long as inflation behaves in line with our forecast.”
The  International Monetary Fund  said on the same day that a
pause is “warranted” after the central bank increased its key
rate by 6 percentage points since 2010.  Government spending  is threatening inflation in a nation of
about 164 million people, adding pressure on the central bank to
keep interest rates at a record high.  Lawmakers voted on March 15 to raise budgeted spending to
about 4.9 trillion naira this year, 300 billion naira more than
proposed by Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala. Parliament
also agreed to boost the budget’s benchmark oil price, the level
at which the government saves oil revenue, to $72 barrel a day
from $70, providing more funds for spending.  Higher interest rates have helped to spur foreign
investment inflows, benefiting the naira and keeping price
pressures in check. The naira gained 2.8 percent to 157.65
against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  