-- Obama Says U.S. Seeks Dialogue to Bridge Gaps With Iran
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-20T16:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/obama-says-u-s-seeks-dialogue-to-bridge-gaps-with-iran-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. wants to open a dialogue with citizens of Iran that could
help to end the “continued tension between our two countries.”  To keep up pressure on the Iranian regime, the
administration also said it will make it easier for U.S.
businesses to provide software and services that give Iranians
broader access to social media and Internet resources as part of
an effort to bypass government controls on information.  The president’s message, in a video address timed to
coincide with Nowruz, the start of the Iranian calendar’s new
year, was delivered as the U.S. and other nations have ramped up
sanctions against Iran in the confrontation with the Islamic
Republic over its nuclear development program.  Iran, the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is bracing for a
European ban on purchases of its crude set to start in July.  One element of the U.S. strategy has been seeking to
separate approaches to Iranian citizens from actions taken
against the government.  “Even as we’ve imposed sanctions on the Iranian
government, today my administration is issuing new guidelines to
make it easier for American businesses to provide software and
services into Iran that will make it easier for the Iranian
people to use the Internet,” Obama said in the  video  .  The president sought to make clear that Iranian-Americans
don’t live with hostility in the U.S., citing an Iranian movie -
- “A Separation” -- that won the Oscar for best foreign film.  U.S. and Iranian navies have confronted the danger of
piracy, he said, and U.S. sailors have rescued Iranian citizens
who had been taken hostage.  Iranian Reaction  Iran’s Supreme Leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , today
accused the U.S. of trying “to deliver a blow and divide the
Iranian nation” with its sanctions.  “We are aware of our points of weaknesses but our points
of strength outweigh them,” Khamenei said in remarks to a crowd
of followers that were broadcast by state television from the
northeastern city of Mashhad.  He said the U.S. was making a “mistake” by trying to
pressure Iran.  Obama said Iranians are denied the basic freedom to access
the information that they want. He cited the Iranian
government’s jamming of satellite signals to disrupt television
and radio broadcasts.  Censoring Internet  “It censors the Internet to control what the Iranian
people can see and say,” he said. “Because of the actions of
the Iranian regime, an electronic curtain has fallen around  Iran 
-- a barrier that stops the free flow of information and ideas
into the country and denies the rest of the world the benefit of
interacting with the Iranian people, who have so much to
offer.”  The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
today released guidelines on promoting use of software and
services for personal communication in Iran. They include
Internet messaging and chat software, browsers and data storage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  