-- Obama to Press Hu on North Korea, Iran at Seoul Nuclear Summit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-20T22:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/obama-to-visit-dmz-during-south-korea-trip-white-house-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will meet
with  China ’s President Hu Jintao next week in  Seoul  as the U.S.
seeks to keep up pressure on  North Korea  to negotiate an end to
its nuclear weapons program.  North Korea and the confrontation with  Iran  over its
nuclear development will be the backdrop for Obama’s meetings
with world leaders, including Hu, at a nuclear security summit
March 26-27.  The U.S. and its partners in the six-party talks have been
attempting to restart negotiations aimed at persuading North
Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. North Korea’s announcement
that it plans to launch a satellite atop a long-range rocket has
jeopardized a deal that would have North Korea halt nuclear and
missile tests in exchange for 240,000 metric tons of food aid.  “There is a path that allows North Korea to have a better
relationship with the international community,”  Ben Rhodes ,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser for strategic
communications, told reporters in a briefing yesterday.  North Korea and Iran aren’t among the 53 nations taking
part in the Seoul summit, which is intended to set goals for
securing fissile materials and thwarting nuclear terrorism.  Obama plans a separate meeting with Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev . He also will hold a news conference with South
Korean President Lee Myung-bak.  Russian and China, along with  Japan  and South Korea, are
part of six-party negotiations on North Korea and are key
partners in efforts to stop Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon.  Syria, Iran  In his meetings with Hu and Medvedev, Obama will discuss
the situation in  Syria , Rhodes said. A government crackdown on a
year-long uprising there has cost more than 8,000 lives. Russia
and China have blocked two United Nations resolutions calling
for stronger action against the government.  On Iran, the Obama is seeking to bolster support for
maintaining the bite of sanctions aimed at forcing the Islamic
Republic to abandon any plans to develop a nuclear weapon. Iran,
the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is bracing for a European ban on
purchases of its crude set to start in July.  Obama is scheduled to arrive in South Korea on March 25 and
one of his first stops will be to the demilitarized zone between
 South Korea  and North Korea.  While Obama has twice visited South Korea as president,
this will be his first visit to the DMZ.  Support for Troops  “The fundamental message of the trip to the DMZ is
underscoring support” for U.S. and South Korean forces, Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy national security adviser for strategic
communications, told reporters in a briefing.  The U.S. has about 28,500 troops in South Korea. North
Korea and South Korea remain technically at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended in an armistice rather than a treaty.  Obama introduced the concept of a nuclear security summit in
a 2009 speech and held the first in Washington in 2010 with the
goal of securing the world’s loose nuclear material within four
years.  Participating countries will report on how far they have
come since 2010 or announce new commitments to secure or remove
highly enriched uranium or plutonium, crack down on nuclear
trafficking or come into compliance with nuclear agreements.  The U.S. expects the summit will demonstrate there is a
“very strong and united front from the international
community” in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and
material, Rhodes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  