-- Lockheed F-35 Overruns Top $1 Billion, Government Auditor Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-20T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/lockheed-f-35-overruns-top-1-billion-government-auditor-finds.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s first 63
F-35 fighter jets are exceeding their combined target cost by $1
billion, showing the Pentagon’s costliest program lacks a
reliable design and efficient manufacturing, according to U.S.
congressional auditors.  The Pentagon is absorbing $672 million and Lockheed Martin
the remaining $328 million in added costs for the aircraft in
the first four production contracts, the Government
Accountability Office said in prepared testimony today for a
House Armed Services Committee hearing on tactical aviation. The
committee is conducting the first oversight hearing on the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter for the fiscal 2013 budget.  “The long-stated intent that the Joint Strike Fighter
would deliver an affordable, highly common fifth-generation
aircraft that could be acquired in large numbers could be in
question,”  Michael Sullivan , the GAO’s director of acquisition
management, said in the statement.  The testimony previews the GAO’s annual report on the
Defense Department’s most costly weapons program, which is to be
published next month. The GAO’s findings and the Pentagon’s
annual test report, issued in January, are the two primary
sources that lawmakers and the public have for assessing the
military’s and Lockheed Martin claims for the F-35.  The reports are also closely watched by the program’s eight
international partners, including  Canada , the United Kingdom,
Italy, Australia and  Norway .  More Changes   “Engineering changes have been persisting at relatively
high rates and additional changes will be needed as testing
continues,” the GAO said today. “Manufacturing processes and
performance indicators show some progress, but performance on
the first low-initial production contracts has not been good.”  Frank Kendall, the Defense Department’s acting
undersecretary for acquisition, cited software development and
flight-test execution as the major issues in his prepared
testimony for the hearing.  “We have observed past and current performance by industry
on software that gives us concern,” Kendall said. “It is
important that Lockheed Martin demonstrate performance and help
us establish confidence that the F-35 is a stable and capable
platform.”  At a time of reduced defense spending driven by budget-
cutting measures, the F-35’s “projected annual funding needs
are unprecedented, averaging more than $13 billion a year
through 2035,” the GAO said.  The Pentagon “is still investing billions of dollars on
hundreds of aircraft while testing has years to go,” according
to the GAO.  Tankers and Bombers  The  Air Force  needs to budget $8 billion to $11 billion
year from fiscal 2016 to 2035 as it also purchases new aerial-
refueling tankers and new bombers, the GAO said.  The Pentagon’s current plan calls for spending $69 billion
by the time flight-testing ends in 2017, buying 365 aircraft, or
about 15 percent of the planned U.S. total of 2,443.  The agency report gives Lockheed Martin and the program
credit for some testing and manufacturing process improvements
in 2011.  “Even with the progress, most development flight-testing,
including the most challenging, still lie ahead,” with only 21
percent of the almost 60,000 planned flight tests points
accomplished through 2011, the agency said.  The $1 billion in cost increases for the first 63 aircraft
is on top of $373 million the Pentagon already has incurred for
corrections of deficiencies discovered in development testing.  Overlapping Efforts  The program continues to overlap manufacturing, development
and flight tests, known as concurrency.  The overruns, likely additional concurrency retrofitting
costs and projected annual spending put at “major risk” the
program’s “overall affordability,” the GAO said.  “The program’s strategic framework, laden with
concurrency, has proved to be problematic and ultimately, a very
costly approach,” according to the agency.  Kendall acknowledged the challenge of concurrent
development. The Pentagon’s original 2001 program assumptions
were based on “unfounded optimism,” he said.  The risks will “progressively decline,” he said in his
testimony. “There is no known design issue that cannot be
overcome by effective engineering,” Kendall said.  “There is much work still ahead but we believe we have put
the program on sound footing,” he said. “Industry must
understand that” the program “will not execute itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  