-- Oil Drops From Three-Week High on Speculation of Supply
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-20T20:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/oil-drops-from-three-week-high-on-speculation-of-supply.html
Oil dropped the most in more than
three months in  New York  as Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
crude-exporting country, said it can boost output immediately to
stave off shortages.  Futures fell 2.3 percent after Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said in Doha, Qatar, that  the kingdom  has increased production
and can pump 25 percent more crude if needed. A U.S. government
report tomorrow will show stockpiles rose for a fifth week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The Saudis are trying to talk down prices,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale in New
York. “We already knew they were increasing output, but now
they are acknowledging the fact.”  Oil for April delivery fell $2.48 to settle at $105.61 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day
decline since Dec. 14. Futures are up 6.9 percent this year. The
April contract expired today. The more actively traded May
futures declined $2.49, or 2.3 percent, to $106.07 a barrel.  Prices rebounded from the close after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported oil supplies fell 1.37 million
barrels to 347.9 million last week. The May contract was down
$2.27 to $106.29 at 4:32 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for May settlement decreased $1.59, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $124.12 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract was at a  premium  of $18.51 to the May West Texas
Intermediate oil traded in New York.  ‘No Shortage’  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest oil producer, has output
capacity of 12.5 million barrels a day and will pump about 9.9
million this month and in April, al-Naimi told reporters at the
Ritz Carlton hotel in Doha. The global market is oversupplied by
as much as 2 million barrels a day and inventories are rising,
the minister said.  “I want to assure you that there is no shortage of supply
in the market,” al-Naimi said. “OPEC is supplying what it
needs, we have capacity, additional reserves of 2.5 million
barrels.”  Libya (OPCRLIBY)  is boosting production that was disrupted last year
by the rebellion against Muammar Qaddafi’s regime. The country
pumped 1.125 million barrels a day last month, the most since
February 2011, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Output tumbled to
45,000 barrels a day in August from 1.585 million in January
2011, the last month before the uprising.  “Saudi Arabia continues to increase production and it
looks like Libyan output is approaching levels last seen before
the revolt,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 2.2 million barrels
last week, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report. Supplies at  Cushing, Oklahoma (DOESCROK) , the delivery point for
the New York oil contract, have climbed to the highest level
since June because of the output of crude from  Canada .  “U.S. inventories continue to increase and there’s a
growing awareness that production is rising,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “The
Naimi comments today underscore that we don’t have a physical
shortage of oil in the market.”  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  may expand its Seaway oil
pipeline to carry more than 400,000 barrels a day from Cushing.
Enterprise will open the reversed Seaway pipeline between
Cushing and Houston by late May, Vice President Mark Hurley said
today during a presentation to analysts. The company had
previously said the pipeline would start up by June.  “The sooner that that takes place, the quicker oversupply
at Cushing will drop,” Evans said. “This is bearish for the
Brent-WTI spread.”  Iran Embargo  Oil prices  may increase 30 percent because of a European
embargo on Iranian oil set to take effect in July,  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International Monetary Fund ,
said in  New Delhi . Any sudden price increase will hurt global
growth, she said.  The Obama administration has decided to grant an exemption
from new U.S. sanctions to 10 European Union countries and  Japan 
because they have demonstrated “significant reductions” this
year in their petroleum purchases from  Iran .  Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat and co-author
of a law enacted Dec. 31 that will sanction banks in countries
that don’t reduce their Iranian oil purchases through Iran’s
central bank, said that Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called him today to inform him of the decision.  Commodity Decline  The drop in oil prices accelerated as equities decreased.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials dropped 1.5 percent.  Societe Generale  raised its forecast for Brent in 2012 by
15 percent to $127 a barrel as spare capacity in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries shrinks, according
to a report dated yesterday.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 631,149
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 576,077
contracts yesterday, 8.2 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  