-- Oil Drops From Three-Week High on Speculation of Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-20T12:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/oil-drops-from-three-week-high-on-speculation-of-rising-supplies.html
Oil dropped from the highest price
in almost three weeks in  New York  on signs U.S. crude supply is
rising and speculation that Saudi Arabia may boost output.  Futures fell as much as 1 percent, their first decline in
three days. A government report tomorrow may show that U.S.
stockpiles rose to the highest level in six months last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Saudi Arabia’s cabinet
will work with crude consumers and producers to restore “fair”
prices, according to the state news agency. Prices may be
boosted as much as 30 percent by a European embargo on Iranian
oil to take effect in July, said  Christine Lagarde , managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund .  “The market is currently well-supplied with oil but supply
disruptions and looming supply shortage from  Iran  is keeping
uncertainty high,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna who predicts U.S.
futures will average $104 this year. “Without an intensifying
Iran conflict, further price gains aren’t justified.”  Oil for April delivery slid as much as $1.12 to $106.97 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $107.06 at 12:32 p.m. London time. It gained 1
percent to $108.09 a barrel yesterday, the highest close since
March 1. The April contract expires today. The more-actively
traded May future fell $1.07 to $107.49 a barrel. Front-month
prices are up 8.3 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement fell $1.65 to $124.06 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $16.57 to New York
futures for the same month.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 2.1 million barrels
last week as refineries idled units and imports from  Canada 
increased, according to the median of six analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey , before the Energy Department report. That
would be the fifth weekly gain. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will release its own weekly data on supply
and demand levels today.  U.S. stockpiles and increasing Saudi output are a “buffer
against the supply concerns from Iran,” said David Lennox, an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney who estimates New York crude
would be below $100 a barrel without the threat to output from
the Persian Gulf. “Supply shock concerns are still priced in.”  Iran Dispute  Lagarde said in  New Delhi  today that a major disruption of
oil supplies as a result of the dispute with Iran may drive
prices up 20 to 30 percent. Any sudden price increase will hurt
global growth, the IMF director said.  Societe Generale SA raised its forecast for Brent oil
prices in 2012 by 15 percent to $127 a barrel as spare
production capacity in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries shrinks, according to a report dated yesterday.  Iranian supplies will be cut by about 600,000 to 800,000
barrels a day as a result of a European embargo on Iran due to
take effect in July and co-ordinated measures by the U.S.,  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research, said in the report.  Saudi Arabia  boosted its output in January to the second-
highest level since at least 1980, according to the Joint
Organization Data Initiative. Some importers are seeking
substitutes for crude they normally buy from Iran, the head of
research for Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment Co. said.  The kingdom, the world’s biggest crude exporter, seeks
prices that are reasonable for consumers, producers and the oil
industry, the cabinet said after its weekly meeting, according
to a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency. It
didn’t mention any figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  