-- Oil Rebounds From Biggest Drop in Three Months
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-03-21T08:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/oil-trades-near-three-day-low-on-saudi-output-increase-pledge.html
Oil rebounded from the largest
decline in three months in  New York  after an industry report
showed crude stockpiles fell in the U.S, the world’s biggest
consumer of the commodity.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent, recovering from a
2.3 percent drop yesterday after Saudi Arabia said it may boost
supplies. U.S. crude inventories shrank 1.4 million barrels last
week, the most in six weeks, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . The Energy Department may say today that stockpiles
climbed 2.2 million barrels, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Saudi Arabia can increase output by 25 percent immediately, Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said. Prices have risen this year on
concern tension with  Iran  threatens supply.  “We should see better demand growth in the second half,
particularly in the U.S. and  China ,” said  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Bank, who
forecasts New York crude will average $107 a barrel and London-
traded Brent $121 this year. “I think the Saudis have some
slack but not a lot, and this is a reason fundamentally why oil
has quite a positive long-term outlook to it.”  Crude for May delivery rose as much as 79 cents to $106.86
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $106.74 at 4:35 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract dropped $2.49 yesterday to $106.07, the lowest close
since March 15. The April future, which expired, fell $2.48 to
$105.61. Front-month prices are up 8 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange increased as much as 0.5 percent to
$124.70 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
 premium  of $17.77 to New York futures from $18.05 yesterday,
when it widened for the first day in four.  Gasoline Stockpiles  U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  decreased 2 million barrels in the
week ended March 16, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Yesterday, the API
yesterday said supplies slid 1.4 million barrels.  The Energy Department will release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Commercially held crude inventories in China, the second-
largest oil consumer, fell 3.8 percent in February, according to
a newsletter published by the official Xinhua News agency.
That’s about 12.5 million metric tons, Bloomberg calculations
showed. Supplies were down for the fourth time in five months.  Brent crude  rallied 11 percent last month, the most in a
year, on concern European Union and U.S. sanctions against
Iran’s nuclear program will disrupt oil exports from the  Middle
East . Iranian output slipped 45,000 barrels to 3.45 million
barrels a day in February, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts and producers. The Persian Gulf nation has threatened
to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil supplies, in response to an embargo.  Technical Support  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $105.21 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
yesterday’s decline near this indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  “Oil rebounded off of the $105 support level,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodities-derivatives sales manager at Newedge
Group in  Tokyo .  Saudi Arabia  has the capacity to produce 12.5 million
barrels a day and will pump about 9.9 million barrels a day this
month and in April, al-Naimi told reporters yesterday in Doha.
There is no shortage of supply and the kingdom has excess
capacity of 2.5 million barrels a day, which makes up the bulk
of spare capacity in the Organization for Petroleum Exporting
Countries, he said.  “We agree whole-heartedly with al-Naimi’s assertions that
supply is flush relative to 2008,” when oil reached a record
high,  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said in a note e-mailed today. “Unfortunately,
this is a market that can remain irrational, or at least
rational on irrelevant criteria, longer than investors can
remain solvent and thus we maintain our bullish biases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  