-- Home Buyers Face Risk on Longer Loans, BMO’s Downe Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-20T12:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/home-buyers-face-risk-on-longer-loans-bmo-s-downe-says.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Chief Executive
Officer William Downe said the trend toward longer amortizations
coupled with low  interest rates  on mortgages is causing “risk”
to borrowers.  “In the current low-interest rate environment, there is
risk to borrowers, given the national trend toward longer
amortization periods,” Downe said today in a speech at the
bank’s annual general meeting in Halifax. “It is for this
reason we are emphasizing a 25-year amortization with a 5-year
or 10-year fixed interest rate.”  Bank of Montreal announced March 7 that it was offering a
new 10-year fixed-rate mortgage for 3.99 percent, effective
March 11, and lowering one of its five-year fixed-rate mortgages
by 50 basis points to 2.99 percent. The  mortgage rates , which
carry a 25-year amortization are available until March 28.  The Toronto-based lender has prompted mortgage cuts among
rivals on the offers. The lower rate of these mortgages aims to
draw attention to 25-year amortizations as an alternative to
longer amortization periods.  “The logic is this: With a shorter amortization,
homeowners are able to build equity faster and have the
confidence of knowing what their monthly payments will be, no
matter where interest rates go in the future,” Downe said.  Downe also reiterated his expectations that  Canada ’s
housing market is heading for a “soft landing.”  “We took a long, hard look at the Canadian housing market
and concluded, on the one hand, there was a legitimate concern
that housing prices -- particularly in the largest cities -- had
been rising at a rate that was simply unsustainable,” Downe
said. “With growing concerns over  household debt , a soft
landing in housing is in the best interest of our customers and
the national economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  