-- Homebuilding Probably Increased in U.S. to Three-Month High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/homebuilding-probably-increased-in-u-s-to-three-month-high.html
Homebuilding in the U.S. probably
climbed to a three-month high in February, another sign the
residential real-estate market is stabilizing, economists said
before a report today.  Housing starts increased to a 700,000 annual rate last
month from a 699,000 pace in January, according to the median
 estimate  of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It would
be the strongest reading since November’s three-year high of
702,000. The same report may show that building permits, a proxy
for future construction, climbed.  Falling home prices and mortgage rates close to all-time
lows are helping drive record housing affordability, benefiting
builders like  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Nonetheless, the real estate
market faces headwinds from distressed properties and more
foreclosures that could push values down further.  “We have seen some improvement from extremely low
levels,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc.
in  New York . “There seems to some mild progress there.”  The housing starts figures are due from the Commerce
Department at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 650,000 to 775,000.  Today’s report may also show building permits climbed by
0.6 percent to a 686,000 annual rate, the fastest pace since
March 2010, according to the survey median.  Milder-than-normal weather may have also played a role in
propelling construction last month. The average temperature was
38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4 Celsius), 3.6 degrees warmer than
the 20th century average and the 17th warmest February in 118
years.  Sentiment Improving  Optimism among homebuilders has been improving in recent
months. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
index of builder confidence held in March at the highest level
since June 2007 as sales expectations climbed for a sixth month,
figures showed yesterday.  “All the economic signs seem to be positive in terms of
 consumer confidence ,  interest rates , unemployment levels,”
 Martin Connor , chief financial officer at Toll Brothers, said
March 5 at an investors’ conference in  Orlando ,  Florida .  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage reached an
all-time low of 3.87 percent in February, according to data from
 Freddie Mac .  A measure of housing affordability a month earlier climbed
to 206.1, according to the National Association of Realtors. A
value of 100 means a family earning the national median income
can afford a median-priced property at current mortgage rates.  Investors also are upbeat about prospects. The  Standard &
Poor’s  Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has advanced 28 percent
since the end of last year, more than twice the 12 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 .  Federal Reserve policy makers last week said they will
continue to swap $400 billion in short-term securities with
long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of the central
bank’s holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist and aimed at
bringing down borrowing costs like  mortgage rates .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  