-- OMV Petrom Analyzes Romania Shale Gas Exploration Potential
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-03-20T15:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/omv-petrom-analyzes-romania-shale-gas-exploration-potential-2-.html
OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , Romania’s biggest
oil company, is analyzing the potential for shale-gas
exploration in the eastern European country.  Petrom, majority owned by Austria’s  OMV AG (OMV) , will decide on
the next steps based on the results of a preliminary assessment
and Romanian and European legislation, Chief Executive Officer
Mariana Gheorghe said today in a live chat on hotnews.ro. OMV
Petrom will update its business strategy throughout 2021 by mid-
year, she said.  The government is weighing the possibility of adopting a
law for shale-gas production because Romania lacks adequate
regulations, Prime Minister Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu said on March
14.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which has licenses to explore three blocks in
Romania to search for unconventional oil and gas reserves, plans
to begin shale-gas drilling in the country later this year.  Romania may have a “significant potential” for developing
shale-gas fields, according to Alexandru Patruti,  head of the
national Mineral Resources Agency.  Eastern  Europe  may hold as much as 7.1 trillion cubic
meters of shale gas, according to the Energy Information
Administration’s estimates. Poland, which according to the EIA,
may have about 5.2 trillion cubic meters of shale gas, already
granted more than 80 exploration licenses.  Fracking Ban  Neighboring Bulgaria banned hydraulic fracturing, used to
exploit shale gas amid protests that it will pollute the water
and soil and withdrew Chevron’s exploration license in January.
 France  also banned the process, which uses a mixture of water,
sand and chemicals to open fissures in shale rocks to release
gas and oil.  OMV, central Europe’s biggest energy producer, ruled out on
Jan. 23 the use of chemicals when it employs fracking techniques
to tap Austrian natural-gas reserves.  Petrom’s shares  were unchanged in Bucharest trading today
and closed at 0.39 lei, valuing the company at 22 billion lei
($6.6 billion).  -- With assistance from Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna. Editors:
James M. Gomez, Alan Purkiss  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  