-- On Assignment Buys IT Staffer Apex Systems for $600 Million
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-03-20T20:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/on-assignment-buys-it-staffer-apex-systems-for-600-million.html
On Assignment Inc. (ASGN) , the provider of
temporary workers to technology and health-care companies,
agreed to purchase information technology staffing firm Apex
Systems Inc. for $600 million.  On Assignment, based in Calabasas,  California , will acquire
all of closely held Apex Systems’ equity for $383 million in
cash and $217 million in new stock, according to a statement
today. The transaction, expected to close in May, will almost
double the size of the company and create the second-largest IT
staffing firm in the U.S., On Assignment said.  “The U.S. labor markets are becoming more in tune with
using contract labor,” Peter T. Dameris, On Assignment’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “Layer on top
of that the adoption of technology and the supply and demand
imbalance of people who are knowledgeable about that technology,
and that drives people to contract labor even more.”  The strength of the debt markets and the company’s
confidence in the improving U.S. economy provided another part
of the reasoning for the acquisition, Dameris said.  On Assignment obtained a commitment for a new $540 million
senior secured credit facility from  Wells Fargo  (WFC) & Co., Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG, according to the statement.  “Not only was it a good time based on what we’re seeing in
our businesses, but the access to capital and the cost of
capital is very strong right now,” Dameris said. Apex’s
founders will own about 29 percent of On Assignment after the
deal closes, he said.  The takeover is On Assignment’s biggest since it went
public in 1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2007, the company bought Oxford Global Resources Inc., a
provider of technology and engineering consultants, for $196.6
million, its second-largest deal.  On Assignment and Apex first discussed a deal in 2010. The
latest talks, which were exclusive, began in December.  Moelis & Co. was On Assignment’s financial adviser, while
 Latham & Watkins LLP (1115L)  served as its legal counsel. Apex Systems,
based in Richmond,  Virginia , received financial advice from
Wells Fargo and legal counsel from  Troutman Sanders LLP (1370L) .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  