-- Hong Kong Beats Netherlands and U.S. as Best Place for Business
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-03-20T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/hong-kong-beats-netherlands-and-u-s-as-best-place-for-business.html
Hong Kong (HSI) , a bastion of free-market
policies and low corporate taxes as well as the gateway to the
world’s most populous nation, is the best place to do business,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The city of about 7 million people secured top position in
a new index based on six criteria including the degree of
economic integration and labor costs. The Netherlands, the U.S.,
the U.K. and  Australia  occupied the next four leading slots.  The ranking marks a victory for Hong Kong 15 years after
the  city’s  return to Chinese sovereignty stoked concern that its
role as an international financial hub would slide. General
Electric Co. has established operations there, Gap Inc. is among
the retailers drawn by the 28 million Chinese tourists who pass
through it and HSBC Holdings Plc is one of the financial titans
listed on its stock exchange.  “ Hong Kong  is a gateway to China, it has competitive tax
rates and that makes it one of the natural choices for companies
to set up their Asian headquarters,” said Tomo Kinoshita,
deputy head of  Asia  economics research at Nomura Holdings Inc.
who has worked in the city for five years. “It makes sense for
companies that want to be close to China as well as the rest of
Asia to use Hong Kong as their base.”  Bloomberg Rankings measured 160 markets on a scale of zero
to 100 percent based on six factors. These are the costs of
setting up business, hiring and moving goods; the degree of
economic integration; less tangible costs such as inflation and
corruption; and the readiness of the local consumer base, a
category that includes the size of the middle class, household
consumption and gross domestic product per person.  Last-Placed Brazil  Hong Kong scored 49 percent, eclipsing the Netherlands’
48.3 percent and the U.S.’s 46.9 percent. Of the top 50,  Germany 
was the leader on the basis of cost of doing business, moving
goods and less tangible costs, while the readiness of the local
consumers was deemed best in the United Arab Emirates. The price
of labor and materials was lowest in Montenegro and the
Netherlands was deemed best for setting up a business.  Brazil  came bottom of the top 50 with 35.5 percent,
undershooting  India  at 35.9 percent and  Russia  at 36.1 percent.  Hong Kong’s reputation for rule of law and corruption-free
administration has helped distinguish the city from mainland
China. Its links to the world’s fastest-growing major economy
have plus points by allowing it to serve as center for the
international use of the yuan, and last August  China  further
relaxed limits on investment flows.  Hong Kong charges a corporate tax rate of 16.5 percent
compared with the U.S.’s 35 percent. The prospect of tougher
regulations on the financial industry elsewhere has increased
pressure on banks from investors to weigh a move there.  GE Decision  When General Electric was looking to open headquarters for
its global growth and operations team outside the U.S., it chose
Hong Kong for its proximity to important  emerging markets ,
quality of life and infrastructure, according to Michael A. Jones, executive vice president of business development, global
growth and operations.  “Hong Kong is one of the best places in terms of
transportation and logistics,” Jones said in a telephone
interview. “The ability to be in a vibrant international city
was pretty important.”  The city still faces challenges. It is home to Asia’s
largest wage gap, and less than 25 percent of the land is
developed, forcing up property prices and discontent among
lower-paid locals.  Dutch Appeal  The Netherlands ran second, reflecting the appeal of an
economy with five major ports and easy access to mainland
 Europe . Companies based there include Royal Philips Electronics
NV, the largest light-bulb maker, and  ASML NV (ASML) , which has an 80
percent market share in the semiconductor equipment market.  The U.S., the world’s largest economy, came third.
President Barack Obama released a business-tax overhaul proposal
on Feb. 22 that would reduce the corporate rate to 28 percent
and eliminate tax breaks.  Regionally, Chile was ranked the best place to do business
in  Latin America , while the U.A.E. was top in the  Middle East 
and Africa. Poland had the highest score in emerging Europe.  The World Bank ranks  Singapore  and Hong Kong top in its
gauge focused on the ease of doing business. The Washington-
based Heritage Foundation has named Hong Kong the world’s freest
economy for 18 successive years.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  