-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall a Third Day as Sun Hung Kai Slides
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2012-03-20T08:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/hong-kong-stocks-fall-a-third-day-as-sun-hung-kai-slides.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell for a third
day after  China ’s government raised fuel prices and as a Federal
Reserve board member warned the  U.S. economy  isn’t “out of the
woods.”  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  dropped after a director
was arrested as part of a bribery investigation.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier to Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., dropped 2.4 percent after  New York  Fed President William
C. Dudley said signs the economy is improving don’t dispel risks
to growth. Belle International Holdings Ltd., a women’s show
retailer, dropped on concern higher fuel prices will further
dent growth in the China. Sun Hung Kai, the world’s No. 1
developer by market value, slid 2.4 percent after Executive
Director Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen’s arrest by the city’s Independent
Commission Against Corruption.  “The overall market is going into a correction” after
recent gains, and property stocks will limit the upside, said
Linus Yip, a strategist at First Shanghai Securities. Costs for
manufacturers and retailers are rising, adding pressure to their
corporate earnings outlook, he said. “I don’t think it will be
a free-fall. Compared to the third quarter last year, Europe’s
systemic risk is reduced. The global macro environment is more
stable now.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 1.1 percent to 20,888.24, its
lowest close since March 7. Volume was about 3.8 percent more
than the 30-day intraday average. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in the city slid
1.5 percent to 10,870.61.  Volatility Rises  Futures on the Hang Seng Index expiring this month dropped
0.5 percent to 20,887. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  rose 3.3 percent
to 21.52, indicating options traders expect a swing of about 6.2
percent in the benchmark index over the next 30 days.  The Hang Seng Index rose 15 percent this year through
yesterday amid signs the U.S. economy is improving and as China
reduced curbs on bank lending. The advance has boosted the price
of shares on the gauge to 10.7 times estimated earnings. That
compares with 13.5 times for the  S&P 500 Index  and 11.4 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Dudley’s comments elaborated on a March 13 statement by the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which noted that unemployment has
declined while remaining “elevated.” Dudley, FOMC vice
chairman, said the economy has shown signs of strength partly
because of inventory building and unseasonably warm weather.  “The incoming data on the U.S. economy has been a bit more
upbeat of late, suggesting that the recovery may be getting
better established,” Dudley said in a speech in Melville, New
York. “But, while these developments are certainly encouraging,
it is far too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods in
terms of generating a strong, sustainable recovery.”  Exporters Decline  Li & Fung dropped 2.4 percent to HK$18.92.  Man Wah Holdings
Ltd. (1999) , a sofa maker that counts the U.S. as its largest market,
dropped 4 percent to HK$5.54.  China, the world’s largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second time in less
than six weeks after crude had its biggest monthly gain in a
year.  Prices will increase by 600 yuan ($95) a metric ton
starting today, after the three crude grades tracked by the
National Development and Reform Commission climbed more than 10
percent, according to a statement on the planning agency’s
website yesterday.  ‘Slowing Even Further’  “Higher energy costs and falling profits may worry
investors that the economy is slowing even further,” said Dai
Ming, a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. in Shanghai.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , a Chinese container shipping
line, fell 5.6 percent to HK$4.57, the biggest decline on the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index. Emerging market and Asian
transport stocks were cut to underweight yesterday at Morgan
Stanley because of rising oil prices. BYD Co., a maker of
electric vehicles that’s partially owned by billionaire  Warren
Buffett , climbed 0.7 percent to HK$21.20.  Belle International Holdings Ltd. dropped 0.7 percent to
HK$13.54. The company will announce earnings today.  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that’s aiming to build its market
share in China, slipped 1.6 percent to HK$15.90.  Of the 116 companies on the  Hang Seng Composite Index (HSCI)  that
have reported full-year earnings since January, 56 percent have
exceeded analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Health-care and basic materials companies recorded
the biggest increases in earnings per share, while industrial
companies were the only ones among 10 industries to report a
decrease.  Hong Kong & China Gas Co. (3)  rose 2.2 percent to HK$20, its
highest level in at least 26 years, after reporting profit that
beat analyst estimates.  Sun Hung Kai slipped 2.4 percent to HK$113. Chan’s arrest
will not affect the group’s normal business operations, the
company said in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange
yesterday. Sun Hung Kai set up a committee comprised of three
board members to handle the commission’s investigation.  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s biggest fixed-line
carrier, slid 3.1 percent to HK$4.36 after its fourth-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates because of costs to add mobile
subscribers.  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69) , a Hong Kong-based hotel operator,
slumped 7.8 percent to HK$17.06 after saying its net income for
the year ended Dec. 31 fell to $253 million from $287 million a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  