-- Hong Kong’s $11 Billion Third Runway Wins Government Backing
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-20T08:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/hong-kong-s-11-billion-third-runway-wins-government-backing.html
Hong Kong ’s government backed plans
to build an HK$86.2 billion ($11 billion) third runway at the
city’s airport as  China ’s economic growth spurs demand for
passenger and cargo flights.  Airport Authority Hong Kong needs to study the
environmental impact and draw up financing plans before the
government will give final approval,  Eva Cheng , the secretary
for transport and housing, told reporters in the city today.
Completing the assessment may take two years and the ultimate
decision will probably happen in 2015, she said.  Adding the third runway, which will largely be built on
reclaimed land, will let the airport handle passenger numbers
set to reach 97 million by 2030, according to the city-owned
Airport Authority. The airport operator and  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293) , the city’s biggest carrier, both favored a third
runway over a more-limited and cheaper alternative.  Hong Kong Airport, Asia’s third-busiest in terms of
passengers, aims to boost capacity after  traveler numbers  surged
63 percent in a decade to 53.9 million last year. The facility
has also become the world’s busiest for air cargo because of the
growth of manufacturing in the  Pearl River Delta .  Environmental groups have opposed the third runway because
of concerns about the effect of land-reclamation work on marine
wildlife, including endangered Pink Dolphins. About 650 hectares
of land will be added to the northern edge of the existing
airport island under the construction plans.  The alternative plan for expanding the airport, costing
HK$23.4 billion, would have limited capacity to 74 million
passengers.  The HK$86.2 billion cost for the third-runway is in 2010
dollars and the final number may be HK$136.2 billion at “money-
of-the-day prices” by the time it’s built, according to the
airport operator’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 