-- Monti Says Italy to Ease Firing Rules Without Union Deal
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-03-21T12:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/monti-says-italy-to-ease-firing-rules-without-union-deal.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  pledged
to implement plans to ease firing rules after talks failed to
produce an agreement on revamping  Italy ’s labor laws, prompting
the nation’s biggest union to announce a general strike.  The  CGIL , the only union to oppose the deal, announced
today an 8-hour general strike to protest the changes, saying
the date will depend on Parliament’s vote on the bill, according
to an e-mailed statement. The union headed by Susanna Camusso,
who will hold a press conference at 6 p.m. in Rome, will also
stage eight hours of strikes at individual companies.  “There won’t be any signed agreement,” Monti said at a
press conference last night in Rome after leading the final
round of talks following two months of meetings with social
partners. “These negotiations were purely consultative,” he
said, adding that he wants to resolve the issue by next week.  Monti, who took over as premier from  Silvio Berlusconi  in
November, pledged to expand  jobless  benefits, reduce temporary
work contracts and allow more leeway in firing. The package
marks his fourth major legislative effort since coming to power
in November. He passed a 20 billion-euro ($26.5 billion)
austerity plan to balance the budget and revamp pensions,
followed by measures to boost competition and cut red tape.  ‘High Standard’  “This agreement sets a high standard, as it would help to
make significant progress towards a more modern and flexible
labor market, and therefore encourage new hiring,” Fabio Fois,
a European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London  wrote in a
note to investors. “The current legal framework has led to a
two-tier labor market, with some workers overly protected with
open-ended contracts and another group of workers with fixed-
term contracts who lack  job security .”  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was little changed at
4.91 percent at 1:09 p.m. Rome time. The benchmark FTSE MIB
Index fell 0.7 percent.  Companies should now “double” their efforts to boost
“investments, growth and employment” because they will no
longer have the “excuse” of a rigid labor market, Monti said.
The premier said the changes would also help convince foreign
companies to expand in Italy.  With Monti forging ahead, the focus will now shift to
getting the plan through parliament, where he will likely need
the support of the Democratic Party, which is close to the CGIL.
Monti has said he wants the bill passed by the end of the month.  Rules ‘Gutted’  “Timing is fundamental,” Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said
last night. Dragging out the process would damage the
credibility of the effort, she said, declining to rule out the
Cabinet passing the legislation as a decree, so it would take
effect before parliamentary passage.  Stefano Fassina, head of economic policy for the  Democratic
Party , said in an interview with newspaper La Repubblica that
Article 18 had been “gutted.” The party would try to get the
plan changed before it goes to parliament and propose amendments
in the legislature if necessary, he said.  “The question now is whether there will be any dilution in
the labor law legislation to assure passage,” said  Richard McGuire , senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London, said.  Dismissals  Fornero said even under the new plan, dismissals without
just cause would still be illegal and companies would still risk
having to reinstate workers. Judges will also be able to order
reinstatement if they rule that a company unjustly claimed they
were firing staff for disciplinary reasons. The new rules would
allow companies to fire for economic reasons without risk of
reinstatement and workers would be entitled to as much as 27
months of compensation pay.  The package seeks to make the open-ended job contract the
cornerstone of Italy’s labor market, Fornero said. The
government wants to reduce structural unemployment and encourage
the hiring of young people and women through apprentice
contracts that lead to open-ended agreements, she said. Italy’s
 unemployment rate  tops 9.2 percent, the highest since 2001.  The plan would also expand the system of  unemployment
benefits , which currently favor workers at the largest companies
who already enjoy the most job security. Fornero said that the
plan will cost an additional 1.8 billion euros. Workers will be
eligible for 12 months of benefits, with anyone over 54
qualifying for 18 months.  Monti’s steps to shore up public finances and spur Italy’s
economic growth, which has lagged behind the euro-region average
for more than a decade, has helped restore confidence in the
nation and bring down record borrowing costs. Italian 10-year
bonds yield 4.9 percent, down from 7 percent when he took over.  Fiat SpA would not have “easily” implemented a plan to
keep production at its Mirafiori plant in Turin if it weren’t
for the policies of Monti’s government, Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said today. “The investment in Mirafiori
would not have gone ahead very easily” without Monti as
premier, he said in Bruges,  Belgium .  -- With assistance from Flavia Rotondi in  Rome . Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Jeffrey Donovan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  