-- Monti Eyes Labor Plan Amid Jobless Youth, Trapped Firemen
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-20T09:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/monti-eyes-labor-plan-amid-jobless-youth-trapped-firemen.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is
taking charge of the final round of talks to overhaul Italy’s
labor market as he seeks to convince unions that easing firing
rules will help bring down a decade-high  unemployment rate .  Monti is holding an informal meeting with union leaders
this morning before the formal talks, which began on Jan. 23,
resume at 3:30 p.m. The premier has pledged to push ahead with a
plan to expand jobless benefits, reduce temporary work contracts
and allow more leeway in firing, even if he can’t get a
negotiated deal.”  “Not surprisingly, the three unions, particularly CGIL,
are mostly concerned about revisions” to the firing rules “but
all three major political parties support the changes, so the
social partners know the pressure is real to come to an
agreement,”  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at UniCredit
SpA in  London , wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  This is the first attempt to ease firing rules since  Silvio Berlusconi  backed down a decade ago after protests across Italy
and the murder of a leading labor economist. The overhaul marks
Monti’s fourth legislative effort since coming to power in
November. He passed a 20 billion-euro ($26 billion) austerity
plan to balance the budget and revamp the pension system,
followed by measures to boost competition and cut red tape.  Borrowing Costs  Monti’s steps to shore up public finances and implement
policies to spur Italy’s economic growth, which has lagged
behind the euro-region average for more than a decade, has
helped restore confidence in the country and bring down record
borrowing costs. Italian 10-year bonds yield 4.84 percent, down
from 7 percent when Monti took over.  Labor Minister Elsa Fornero, who has led the talks, has
reached a broad agreement on offering young workers job
contracts that offer more security, and the sides have made
progress on outlining a more universal system of  unemployment
benefits . The thorniest issue remains easing firing rules in a
country where unemployment tops 9.2 percent, the highest since
2001. She has called for talks to wrap up by March 23.  The negotiations have “matured” and an agreement is
possible, Fornero said in a March 18 interview on state-owned
Rai television. Still, “we can’t keep going ahead and having
endless discussions,” she said.  Just Cause  The government and employers want to rework Article 18 of
the labor code, which bans dismissals without just cause and
forces employers to rehire and compensate workers deemed
unfairly released. By making it harder to fire during economic
downturns, employers say the law discourages hiring when times
are good. The rule applies to companies with more than 15
workers, which can lead smaller firms to shun expansion.  “Companies prefer to remain small in order to be more
flexible and often abstain from laying off even when they think
it’s necessary, sometimes to the detriment of profitability,”
UniCredit economists Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico said in
an e-mailed comment.  The rule is one of the reasons  Italy  was deemed to have the
strictest legislation on collective layoffs in the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development’s 2008 Employment
Protection Index.  Monti said in a March 15 statement that he wanted to give
employers more leeway to cut staff for disciplinary or economic
reasons, while keeping the strictest protection for workers let
go without just cause.  Protests, Murder  “We are pretty far from any hypothesis of a deal,”
Susanna Camusso, head of the CGIL union said on March 17 in
Milan, news agency Ansa reported. “Focusing the whole
negotiation on Article 18 means they want to suggest that the
only problem we have today is how to fire staff.”  The resumption of the talks comes one day after the 10th
anniversary of the assassination of Marco Biagi, a government
adviser on labor law, who was gunned down on Father’s Day
outside his home in Bologna. The killing was claimed by the New
Red Brigades, which took their name from the 1970s terrorist
group, and followed their 1999 slaying of another labor expert,
Massimo D’Antona. Biagi’s murder and protests by workers across
the country led Berlusconi to abandon plans to change the rule.  “On Article 18 we wasted 10 years of competitiveness,”
 Angelino Alfano , head of Berlusconi’s People of Freedom party
said in a March 17 interview with newspaper Il Mattino. “The
reform should have been passed by Berlusconi at that time.”  Safety Net  Another pillar of the Italian talks involves broadening
unemployment benefits, which currently favor the type of
permanent workers protected by Article 18. Unions and employers
favor the idea of expanding the safety net, though are critical
of the government’s plans to finance the new system through
contributions by employers and workers.  The overhaul “cannot be accepted as it unloads all the
costs onto the small and medium-size companies, retailers and
craftsmen, who represents the basis of Italy’s productive
system,” Guido Crosetto, a lawmaker for People of Liberty Party
said in a March 16 interview. “That doesn’t make sense, given
the current economic outlook.”  The additional costs for small companies may average 271
euros per employee yearly, Marco Venturi, head of the country’s
retailers lobby Confesercenti, who is taking part in the labor
talks said on March 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 