-- Oracle Losing Ground as More Businesses Look to the Cloud
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/oracle-losing-ground-as-more-businesses-look-to-the-cloud.html
When  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
needed new software to help it field questions from users of its
“Call of Duty” shooter franchise and other games, it held a
bakeoff between  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Salesforce.com Inc.  Oracle lost.  Activision, the world’s biggest video-game maker, wanted
applications delivered over the Internet and stored in the
cloud, rather than on its own servers, Activision Chief
Information Officer Robert Schmid said in an interview.  “Salesforce has really stepped up to the plate,” he said.
“I’m much more interested in a cloud application than an on-
premises application. I don’t want to do plumbing.”  Companies as varied as Bayer AG, Zynga Inc. and Hewlett-
Packard Co. also have opted in recent months for  Salesforce (CRM)  over
Oracle, evidence of shifting loyalties in the $113.8 billion
business-applications market. Some corporations aiming to cut
costs and find more flexible ways to run operations are turning
to cloud providers like Salesforce and Workday Inc., shunning
the kinds of pre-packaged applications made by Oracle that are
installed on machines and carry multiyear service agreements.  “Salesforce.com and Workday are taking share and eroding
Oracle’s application maintenance stream,” said Brad Zelnick, an
analyst at  Macquarie Capital  in  New York , who downgraded
Oracle’s stock to neutral in January. “That’s what’s really
giving Oracle a run for their money.”  Slower Growth  Evidence of Oracle’s challenges may come later today, when
the company releases fiscal third-quarter results. Oracle, based
in  Redwood City ,  California , is  forecast  to report that revenue
rose 3 percent in the period that ended in February, according
to analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg. That would
follow a sales gain of 2.5 percent in the second quarter, which
was the slowest rate of growth in two years.  The company’s shares have declined 3.3 percent in the past
12 months, compared with a gain of 13 percent for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Systems Software Index. (S5SYSF)  Besides Macquarie, JMP
Securities and Jefferies & Co. also have downgraded Oracle’s
stock in the past two months. JMP cut Oracle shares to market
perform, while Jefferies has a hold rating on the stock.  Workday, a Pleasanton, California-based maker of Web
software that helps companies manage human resources and
finances, is also gaining ground at the expense of industry
stalwarts like Oracle and  SAP AG (SAP) ,  Europe ’s largest software
maker.  Workday Moves In  Workday replaced Oracle and SAP systems at companies
including Flextronics International Ltd., Kimberly-Clark Corp.,
Sun Life Financial Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd. The startup plans
to file for an initial public offering this year that would
raise as much as $500 million. Workday is aiming for the same
companywide software installations that are Oracle’s and SAP’s
strong suits.  Salesforce and Workday espouse an approach called
“software as a service” that lets customers rent business
applications instead of installing them on their own servers.
This means companies that want to arm employees with new
software don’t have to buy the underlying hardware, databases
and the middleware that helps various programs work together.
Nor do they have to retain the phalanx of consultants often
needed to keep the systems working well.  The enterprise software industry, meantime, has thrived by
shipping big upgrades after years-long development cycles, then
collecting richly profitable maintenance fees each year for bug
fixes, said Salesforce Executive Vice President John Wookey, a
veteran of Oracle and SAP who joined Salesforce last November.  Customers’ Burden?  “In that model, the burden for making the software work is
on the customer,” said Wookey, who spent a dozen years at
Oracle and led development of the company’s new Fusion
applications, then worked at SAP from 2008 until last year.
“What’s different about the cloud is if people don’t like your
software, they’ll stop using it.”  Oracle is still a software powerhouse, many times bigger
and more profitable than Salesforce. Excluding options costs and
other expenses, Oracle turned an $11.4 billion profit in its
most recent fiscal year, compared with Salesforce’s $193.6
million.  There’s also ample chance for Oracle and other large
software makers to peel off customers of aging business
applications like those made by Lawson Software Inc. and Sage
Group Plc. Sensitive data can’t always be stored outside a
company’s walls. What’s more, cloud computing companies’
software may actually cost more than the sticker price because
some companies need to hire consultants from  Accenture Plc  and
Infosys Ltd. to integrate it with other programs they run.  Web-Friendly  Yet as companies swap older enterprise resource planning
systems with newer cloud-computing software, SAP and Oracle have
struggled to offer more Web-friendly applications. Oracle was
years late to market with its Fusion applications, meant to knit
together its  acquisitions  of Siebel, PeopleSoft and other
companies with a more modern user interface and software code.  Responding to the threat, Oracle is making forays into
cloud computing. It agreed last month to buy Taleo Corp., a
maker of online human resources software, for $1.9 billion. In
January, Oracle acquired RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5
billion to gain online customer-service software. The company
has also announced a service called the Oracle Public Cloud to
run Fusion applications in Oracle’s data centers.  “We are well positioned as the only vendor with a
standards-based, fully integrated suite of modern applications
which can be deployed on premises or on a public or private
cloud,” Oracle President  Mark Hurd  said in an e-mailed
statement.  SAP’s Push  SAP also has reacted to the competition with its own
efforts to take on newer companies -- and Oracle -- in the
cloud. The German software maker on Feb. 23 closed its $3.4
billion acquisition of SuccessFactors Inc., whose online
software for managing employees’ performance has more than 3,500
customers and 15 million users.  The company is directly targeting Oracle’s database
customers with its own data-analysis software, called Hana.
Eventually, large enterprise customers will be able to run Hana
with SAP’s applications outside their own data centers, Chief
Technology Officer Vishal Sikka said in an interview.  “In five years there’s no doubt the majority of deployments
will be in the cloud,” he said.  Activision’s Mix  Activision still uses Oracle applications and databases to
run its operations, financial planning and data analysis, Schmid
said. Still, the  Santa Monica , California-based company chose
Salesforce’s Service Cloud, Chatter social network and Radian6
marketing software to respond to gamers’ problems and analyze
data from players of the “Call of Duty” war game to refine
future versions.  Salesforce’s software helps Activision analyze data flowing
in from as many as 3 million simultaneous online  “Call of
Duty”  players, then feed the findings to the company’s game
developers to improve future versions, Schmid said.  Software-as-a-service companies like Salesforce and Workday
will continue to pressure traditional software companies like
Oracle in the months and years to come, said Mike Volpi, a
partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures.  “This is the critical battleground for the next decade,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  