-- Oracle Gains on Report Showing Buoyant Business Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-21T13:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/oracle-exceeds-estimates-on-buoyant-corporate-software-demand.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  rose to the highest in
three months after reporting fiscal third-quarter profit and new
license sales that topped analysts’ predictions, a sign of
buoyant demand for programs that help companies organize data
and run operations.  New software-license sales, a predictor of revenue  growth ,
gained 7 percent to $2.37 billion,  Redwood City , California-
based Oracle said yesterday. Analysts had projected 3 percent
growth, according to Raimo Lenschow, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital . Profit excluding certain costs advanced to 62 cents a
share, topping 56 cents, the average analyst  estimate , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I view this as a high-quality beat, and it certainly
should be viewed as a positive catalyst” for Oracle shares,
 Joel Levington , a  managing director  at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “The license
number was about $100 million better than we expected.”  Oracle  shares  gained 1.8 percent to $30.64 at 9:43 a.m. New
York time, after rising to $31.15 for the highest intraday level
since Dec. 13. The stock had climbed 17 percent this year before
today,  compared  with a 12 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , followed
disappointing results the previous quarter by reorganizing its
sales force, closing deals that were delayed and taking
advantage of the improving economy, said Lenschow, who is based
in  New York  and rates Oracle overweight.  SAP Remarks  SAP, the biggest maker of business applications used to
manage financials, operations and human resources, fell 0.3
percent to 53.86 euros in  Frankfurt .  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said the company’s
database and Java software, as well as human resources,
financial management and customer management applications, will
be available in cloud-computing versions in the fourth quarter.  He also attacked SAP’s plans to position its Hana data-
analysis software as an alternative to Oracle’s database.  “I don’t believe SAP is equipped to compete with us in the
database business,” Ellison said. “This is arguably our core
competence.”  Oracle’s database software is used by companies to store
information and process customer transactions.  Sales of database and middleware licenses increased 9
percent to $1.72 billion, while license sales of business
applications rose 3 percent to $658 million.  Profit Forecast  Oracle has also been making acquisitions to broaden its
offerings in cloud computing software delivered over the Web. It
agreed last month to buy  Taleo Corp. (TLEO) , a maker of online human
resources software, for $1.9 billion, its second Web software
 acquisition  in less than four months.  Oracle acquired RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5 billion
in January to gain online customer-service software. It’s also
announced a service called the Oracle Public Cloud to run Fusion
applications in Oracle’s data centers.  Profit this quarter, which ends in May, may also exceed
analysts’ predictions. Excluding certain costs, profit will be
76 cents to 81 cents a share, Oracle said on a conference call
yesterday. Analysts  projected  76 cents. Sales will range from a
2 percent decline to a 2 percent gain, Oracle said. Analysts had
predicted a 3 percent increase, to $11.2 billion.  “All we’ve really needed to do was focus on our execution
and that we did,” co-President and Chief Financial Officer
Safra Catz told analysts on the call. “It’s clear by these
numbers that Q2 was actually an aberration.”  Even as software sales rebounded, hardware sales fell more
than analysts predicted as Oracle sacrificed volume for higher
margin products. The company bought computer maker Sun
Microsystems two years ago and has been emphasizing sales of
large systems for data processing at the expense of Sun’s less
expensive gear.  “Next fiscal year our hardware business should be a growth
story,” CEO Ellison told analysts on the call.  Hardware systems sales declined 16 percent to $869 million.
Analysts were projecting an 11 percent drop, Lenschow said.  “They’ve got some work to do proving themselves to the
market with this hardware business,”  Josh Olson , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  