-- More Regulation May Hurt EU’s Growth, Czech Policy Maker Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-20T09:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/more-regulation-may-hurt-eu-s-growth-czech-policy-maker-says.html
Proposals to tighten financial-
industry regulation and introduce a special transaction tax
threaten to curtail the European Union’s economic growth, Czech
central bank Vice-Governor Mojmir Hampl said.  Hampl commented on the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis,
its impact on the Czech economy and the country’s monetary
settings in an interview in  Prague  yesterday.  On the sovereign-debt crisis:  “Looking at things from outside the euro zone, it seems we
haven’t seen the definite solution of problems with overly
indebted countries yet.  ‘‘Regarding  Greece , even with the haircut taken by private
creditors, the amount of remaining debt will be large and I
would personally say unsustainable.  ‘‘If you have an insolvent country, it takes a radical cut
in debt to solve your problems. The level of debt at 120 percent
of GDP or more, after the private-sector haircut, would be
difficult to manage even for countries with faster growth and
better growth and macroeconomic prospects.  ‘‘Private creditors were replaced by public creditors, and
the big question now is what will happen to the debt held by
these public creditors. If they have to take losses on this
debt, that would be something potentially influencing us as well
through IMF involvement.  ‘‘The question is whether the magnitude of structural
changes needed in EU economies isn’t larger than what is
acceptable for the public. My intuition is telling me that the
size of the required changes is greater than the tolerance level
of voters in some EU countries.  ‘‘We in the EU aren’t helping to improve economic growth
potential with a number of proposals of new regulations or
interventions in the economy. Namely in the area of regulation
of the financial sector we are doing rather too much, too soon.  ‘‘It’s hard to understand a proposal to introduce a
financial-transaction tax at a time when the economic outlook is
so discouraging. The EU is trying to tighten rules at a time
when the economy is near the bottom, which is curtailing growth
prospects for the future.’’  On the domestic economy:  ‘‘We aren’t exactly experiencing golden times in our
economy. It lacks its own impetus, its own driver. The economy
is dependent on the EU and the  euro zone , which have not yet
solved their problems.  ‘‘All major economic subjects in the Czech economy are in a
cautious mode. Companies, households and the government are all
very conservative. In bad times, they tend to invest or spend
less and save more.  ‘‘This means that the economy depends on impulses from
abroad. The Czech economy isn’t a pro-inflationary environment
and it doesn’t warrant monetary tightening.’’  On higher inflation:  ‘‘Current inflation numbers are higher than our
expectations. But these one-off factors, caused mainly by the
increase in indirect taxes, aren’t changing the fact that this
is a low-inflation economy.  ‘‘In the Czech Republic, an increase in indirect taxes is
paradoxically an anti-inflationary factor. Such an increase
pushes the headline inflation rate up, but it depresses demand
as people spend less and start saving even more.  ‘‘A combination of an economy without an internal driver,
conservative domestic subjects and an external environment
lacking a real recovery, makes me lean toward relaxed monetary
conditions.  ‘‘The end of the year is very far away and one can hardly
rule out anything in the current uncertain situation. But
looking at the big European picture now, the Czech economy as
part of it is an anti-inflationary story.’’  On fiscal consolidation:  ‘‘A fiscal consolidation effort is absolutely fundamental
for the stability of financial institutions in the  Czech
Republic , and the importance of this will only grow in time.  ‘‘A failure to consolidate public finances in the future
would be a risk to financial institutions, whose share of
holding the state debt is increasing.’’  -- Editor: Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  