-- Morgan Stanley Among Firms Allowed to Bid in Harrisburg
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/morgan-stanley-among-firms-cleared-to-bid-in-harrisburg.html
Harrisburg (9661MF)  gave Morgan Stanley,  KKR
& Co. (KKR)  and 18 others permission to bid for its parking system,
water and sewer operations, and the incinerator that drove the
 Pennsylvania  capital into insolvency.  Out of 14 would-be bidders for the parking assets, 12 can
submit offers for a long-term lease or sale, according to a list
posted yesterday on the website of David Unkovic, the city’s
receiver. One is a partnership between New York-based Morgan
Stanley and  Central Parking Corp. (PK)  of Nashville,  Tennessee .  Selling or leasing assets is part of Unkovic’s plan to deal
with more than $300 million in incinerator-related debt, five
times Harrisburg’s general-fund budget. The community of 49,500
residents backed financing an overhaul of the waste-to-energy
plant, which doesn’t produce enough revenue to cover the cost.  “I’m feeling confident,” Unkovic said by telephone before
posting the lists. “So far, so good.”  Harrisburg skipped $5.27 million in general-obligation bond
payments due March 15, Unkovic said in a March 9 notice. The
money saved will provide enough cash to pay for vital services
such as police and firefighters, he said. State law bars the
city, where 30 percent of residents live below poverty level,
from seeking bankruptcy-court protection before July.  Aiming for June  Unkovic has said he expects to close any transactions by
June, subject to approval by the state’s Commonwealth Court.  Once he knows the value of the assets, Unkovic has said
he’ll determine how to tackle the remainder of the city’s debt.
His plan for fiscal recovery was approved by the court, which
deals with state legal matters, on March 9. While Mayor Linda Thompson supports his plan, it has been opposed by the City
Council president, the controller and treasurer.  Harrisburg has 10 garages, five surface lots and 1,250
metered spaces, which provide 72 percent of the public parking
in the city. In 2010, the Harrisburg Parking Authority, which
owns the facilities, reported $13.8 million in revenue.  In  Chicago , a different  Morgan Stanley (MS)  venture may reap
$9.58 billion in profit over a 75-year lease of city parking
facilities, based on documents from the group. The bank, joined
by the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Allianz Capital
Partners, set up a venture to lease the Chicago operations in
2008. The profit was estimated based on projections in a 2010
offering document.  Bidders Listed  Along with Morgan Stanley’s group, qualified parking
bidders from  New York  were listed as the  National Development
Council , a community organization, and a venture from Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a financial services company, called Harrisburg
First LLC. Those from Pennsylvania include  Brandywine Realty
Trust (BDN)  in Radnor and Boenning & Scattergood Inc., a securities
broker in West Conshohocken.  Also listed were InterPark Holdings Inc., a parking manager
and developer in Chicago;  NW Financial Group LLC , a  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based investment bank; a partnership between the
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Fund and Vancouver-based  Impark
Parking Corp. (2896591Q) , and QIC Private Capital, part of the Australian
fund manager QIC Ltd.  Firms calling themselves Harrisburg Forward LLC, Harrisburg
Parking Partners LLC, and Keystone Parking Group were also
cleared to bid, according to the list, which didn’t say where
any of the companies are located.  Incinerator Bidders  For the incinerator, which is run by a unit of  Covanta
Holding Corp. (CVA) , four parties can bid:  Cambridge Project
Development Inc.  of Miami and Energy Investors Funds; Interstate
Waste Services Inc., an  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  unit
in Ramsey,  New Jersey ; the  Lancaster County Solid Waste
Management Authority (26675MF)  in Lancaster, Pennsylvania; and
Wheelabrator Technologies, a Hampton, New Hampshire-based part
of  Waste Management Inc. (WM)   Another four can make offers to run the water and sewer
systems. They are a venture of New York-based KKR and United
Water, an affiliate of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and located in Harrington Park,
New Jersey;  Aqua America Inc. (WTR)  of Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania; a CH2M
Hill Cos. unit in Englewood, Colorado; and Pennsylvania American
Water in Hershey, part of  American Water Works Co. (AWK)   The incinerator and water and sewer operations each drew
interest initially from five different entities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 