-- Osborne Credit Easing Backed By Major U.K. Banks Except HSBC
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/osborne-credit-easing-backed-by-major-u-k-banks-except-hsbc.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  won the backing of all except one of Britain’s major
banks for his credit-easing plan that aims to funnel cheap loans
to small and mid-sized companies.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  abstained from the first 5 billion pound
($8 billion) tranche of the 20 billion-pound National Loan
Guarantee Scheme.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  said they
would sign up to the plan that uses the government’s lower
borrowing costs to get loans to companies, the Treasury said.  “The government promised to help small businesses get
access to lower  interest rates ,” Osborne said in a statement
released by his office in  London . “Today, we deliver on that
promise.”  Osborne is facing growing pressure to stimulate growth amid
a slowdown triggered by the debt crisis in  Europe  and his
unprecedented budget-cutting program. Credit easing seeks to
supplement the  Bank of England ’s 325 billion-pound quantitative-
easing program, whereby the central bank buys bonds with newly
created money. Four years after the global financial crisis
erupted, small businesses continue to complain that banks are
reluctant to lend or do so at prohibitive interest rates.  RBS, Lloyds, HSBC, Barclays and Santander U.K. collectively
lent 214.9 billion pounds to business, 13 percent more than a
target agreed on with the government last year under the Project
Merlin deal.  Still, lending to small and medium-sized companies, defined
as those with revenue of less than 25 million pounds annually,
fell 1.1 billion pounds short of the 76 billion-pound target.
That was a “disappointing” result, U.K. Treasury minister Mark Hoban said in February.  Credit easing allows for the government, which can borrow
money more cheaply than banks, to underwrite the lending so that
lenders can pass on those lower costs to companies.  Cheaper Loans  The plan, available to companies with less than 50 million
pounds in annual sales, would reduce loan costs by about 1
percentage points compared with loans currently provided by
commercial banks. Banks rather than the government will chose to
whom they lend.  HSBC won’t participate in the first tranche of the program,
two people with knowledge of the situation said yesterday.  The bank uses little wholesale funding and relies on
deposits to lend, said one of the people. The government’s
proposal would penalize the bank for this model and be less
profitable, the person said. HSBC hit its 2011 target for
lending in the U.K. under last year’s government-sponsored plan.  Meanwhile, RBS, Lloyds, Barclays and Santander said in
separate statements that they will all take part.  ‘Vital Ingredients’  “The scheme’s real benefit will come through its potential
to rekindle confidence, stimulate demand and encourage
investment -- all of which are vital ingredients of recovery and
growth,” said John Maltby, who heads commercial banking at
Lloyds.  Barclays said it would give clients the reduction in loan
costs the program will provide as a lump sum at the beginning of
the loan, promising it won’t profit from the plan.  RBS said it is “determined to send a message to small
firms that RBS is open for business and that cost will not be a
barrier to getting the loans they need.”  Santander U.K. said “many businesses remain keen to invest
and grow and we are committed to helping them to build the right
capital structures to do so.”  The loan guarantee plan mirrors practices used by the
 European Investment Bank  and  Germany ’s KFW Group.  HSBC’s loan-to-deposit ratio for 2011 fell to 75 percent,
meaning the bank loaned 75 pounds for every 100 pounds it took
as deposits, from 78 percent in 2010. RBS said its loan-to
deposit ratio was 108 percent for 2011, and Lloyds’s was 135
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  