-- House Republicans Gamble With Election-Year Spending Cuts
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/house-republican-budget-plan-to-call-for-overhaul-of-tax-code.html
A call by  House Republicans  for
budget cuts exceeding those proposed by President  Barack Obama  -
- slicing social welfare programs while reducing taxes for the
wealthy -- is inflaming an election-year debate over how to curb trillion-
dollar U.S. deficits.  “The American people have figured out somebody is going to
have to make some serious suggestions, and they’re probably not
going to be all sunshine and cotton candy,”  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said yesterday as House leaders
released their plan.  Republicans say their election-year budget plan makes the
difficult decisions needed to reduce the nation’s $1.2 trillion
deficit. It contains a revised version of last year’s proposal
to overhaul Medicare, which would privatize the health-care
program for the elderly and drew widespread public opposition.  Democrats said the new budget would slash important
programs to finance tax cuts for the high earners.  “It does not reduce the deficit in a responsible way,
instead placing the burden of deficit reduction onto seniors,
the middle class, working families, and the most vulnerable by
refusing to ask the wealthiest among us to contribute,” said
Representative  Steny Hoyer , the House’s second-ranking Democrat.  The plan, proposed by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , will be considered by his panel today. House Republicans
intend to put it to a vote by the end of this month. The
proposal is certain to die in the Senate, where majority
Democrats said they will skip adopting a budget this year.  Breaking the Stalemate  Lawmakers are unlikely to make much progress resolving
their differences soon, with both parties looking to the
November election to break the stalemate.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  praised the
House plan, calling it an “excellent piece of work” that is
“very much needed.” Fellow contender  Newt Gingrich  said it is
“a courageous plan that correctly understands the key to
returning to a balanced budget is robust economic growth,
spending control and bold entitlement reform.”  Not all Republicans, though, are enthusiastic.  “It’s like gift wrapping an attack for Democrats,” said
Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican and co-
chairman of a group of House moderates. “I don’t know why we
have to do that,” he said, saying Democrats plan “to ride that
dead Medicare horse to a win in November.”  Others said they are ready for combat. “Do I look like a
man who’s concerned?” asked Representative  Allen West , a
Florida Republican whom Democrats are targeting over his support
of the plan. “I’ve been in three different combat zones,” said
West, an Army veteran.  Medicare Subsidies  The Republicans Medicare overhaul proposal would offer
senior citizens subsidies to buy private health insurance or
participate in Medicare. Either way benefits would be capped, a
major change in how the open-ended program operates.  The budget also calls for almost $2 trillion in cuts in
non-health-related benefit programs, including Pell college
tuition grants,  food stamps ,  farm subsidies , federal employees’
pensions and various programs for the poor.  It would cut taxes and consolidate the number of individual
tax brackets to two, from the current six, with rates set at 10
percent and 25 percent. That would be financed by clamping down
on individual tax breaks, though Republicans didn’t say which
ones would have to go.  Mortgage Interest  Ryan’s plan probably would require deep cuts in many
popular tax breaks, including one letting homeowners write off
the interest on their mortgages, said Marc Goldwein, policy
director at the Washington-based Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget, a bipartisan nonprofit group.  “He needs to go pretty far,” Goldwein said. “There’s no
way to get there without seriously trimming or eliminating the
mortgage interest deduction.”  By comparison, Obama’s February budget request relies on
tax increases on the wealthy to narrow the budget gap. It would
generate a little more than twice as much in deficits as Ryan’s
over the next decade.  “We believe that America deserves a choice of two
futures,” and “we are letting the country decide which path
they want America to go down,” said Ryan of  Wisconsin .
“Americans are ready to be talked to like adults on these
issues -- not pandered to like children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  