-- P&G Pushed to Pull Russia Ads as Putin Protesters Pursue
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-20T08:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/p-g-pushed-to-pull-russia-ads-as-putin-protesters-pursue.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company, is facing a boycott of its
products by Russian opponents of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
for supporting state-run NTV television through advertising.  NTV broadcast a  documentary film  called “Anatomy of a
Protest” on March 15 that accused opposition groups of paying
people to attend their rallies, sparking demonstrations outside
its broadcasting center in Moscow and calls from prominent
bloggers to boycott the channel and its advertisers’ products.  P&G, the largest advertiser in Russia, said in an e-mailed
statement today that while respecting the rights of citizens to
express their opinions, it rejects any attempt to make it an
“instrument” in a political war. P&G accounted for 5.2 percent
of all ad spending in  Russia  last year, according to Moscow-
based research group TNS Media Intelligence.  The boycott campaign marks a new tactic for Russian
opposition forces struggling to regain momentum. They brought
tens of thousands of people to the streets of major cities to
protest election fraud in parliamentary polls that Putin’s
United Russia party won in December and the presidential ballot
March 4 that will put the former president back in the Kremlin.  “P&G doesn’t make any exclusive products, so we can easily
substitute them with brands of their competitors,” said
Alexander Plushchev, an opposition activist and journalist, in a
 blog posting .  Tide, Pringles  The Cincinnati-based company, whose brands range from
Gillette razors to Tide detergent and Pringles chips, had sales
last year of $82.6 billion, about 14 percent of which came from
Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and  Africa ,
according to the company’s website.  “Advertising is a means of bringing information about our
goods to a wide range of consumers through all communication
channels,” P&G said in the statement. “The assessment of
contents of TV programs broadcast by licensed TV channels is
beyond an advertiser’s competence.”  Andrei Lyan, a P&G spokesman in Moscow, declined to
disclose how much the company spends each year on advertising on
NTV, which is owned by the media arm of natural-gas exporter  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , saying the information is confidential, “commercial
information.”  Fyodor Bogatyryov, a member of the Solidarity group that
has organized a series of anti-Putin rallies, said yesterday he
is suing NTV in a Moscow court to demand a retraction to the
claim that organizers paid protesters to attend rallies.  The channel’s owner, Gazprom-Media, hit back at the
campaign against it, which it said included hacker attacks that
paralyzed the NTV website.  ‘Attacks’ on Democracy  “These attacks are aimed against democratic mechanisms,
social discussion and a free exchange of views among members of
society,” Gazprom-Media Chief Executive Officer Nikolai
Senkevich said in a statement on the company’s website.  Discontent is growing among Russia’s urban middle classes,
which is increasingly fed up with corruption and barriers to
unhampered participation in the political process, according to
pollsters. Putin, 59, has been in power for 12 years and could
stay at the helm another 12 if he runs again in 2018, making him
the longest-serving ruler since dictator  Josef Stalin .  The proportion of Russians with at least $500 of monthly
income rose to about 50 percent last year from less than 10
percent in 2004, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  That helped drive
up retail sales by an annual average of 11 percent in the decade
through last year, attracting retailers from Ikea Group to
 Inditex SA. (ITX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  