-- Panel Backs Glaxo Rare-Cancer Therapy; Rejects Merck Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-20T21:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/panel-backs-glaxo-s-rare-cancer-therapy-rejects-merck-s-drug.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s drug for a
rare, often deadly form of cancer won the backing of U.S.
advisers, while a similar treatment from  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Ariad
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  failed to gain support.  A  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel today
determined the benefits of the Glaxo treatment outweighed the
risks while the therapy from Merck and Ariad didn’t. The agency
isn’t required to follow the panel’s recommendations.  If approved, Votrient from London-based Glaxo and
ridaforolimus, developed by Merck and Ariad, would be the first
targeted treatments for a cancer that invades soft tissue such
as muscle, tendons and fat outside the stomach and intestines.
Chemotherapy is now used for these tumors, which are diagnosed
in about 10,000 patients a year.  “Everyone wants better therapies to be available,”
 Wyndham Wilson , the panel chairman and chief of the  National
Cancer Institute ’s Lymphoma Therapeutics Section, said during
the meeting. “The story is told in what the actual delay in
progression-free survival is.”  Glaxo’s Votrient kept sarcoma from spreading in soft tissue
three months longer than placebo. Ridaforolimus stopped
progression of the cancer three weeks longer than placebo.
Patients in clinical trials experienced heart, kidney and liver
disorders.  Panel Votes  The panel vote 11-2 that Votrient’s benefits outweighed its
risks and 13-1 that the risks of ridaforolimus outweighed the
drug’s potential benefits. The advisers met in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland .  Ariad  fell  2 percent to $14.75 at 4:50 p.m. New York time
in extended trading. Merck fell less than 1 percent to $37.73.
Glaxo gained less than 1 percent to close at 1,433.5 pence in
London trading.  The agency is set to decide on Glaxo’s drug by May 6 and
the medicine from Merck and Ariad by June 5.  “Merck remains confident in the potential of the
investigational agent ridaforolimus for an indication where
patients have limited options,” said Eric Rubin, vice
president, clinical research oncology, at the  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based drugmaker. “We remain committed to
bringing forward this promising therapy for patients with
metastatic sarcoma, and will continue to work with the FDA to
address the committee’s questions.”  Tumor Types  There are about 50 types of soft-tissue sarcoma, which are
different from carcinomas that arise from cells, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Most sarcomas are in the arms and
legs or internal organs, according to the  National Cancer
Institute .  The median survival of patients diagnosed with soft-tissue
sarcoma that is spreading is about a year, according to the FDA
documents.  Sarcoma tumors also can develop in bone tissue. About 2,500
new cases are diagnosed a year, according to the University of
 California ,  San Francisco . Ridaforolimus, the experimental drug
from Merck and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Ariad, also would
treat bone sarcoma.  Chemotherapy is effective at shrinking the tumor in 20
percent to 25 percent of patients, said Scott Okuno, an
oncologist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota . Once
tumors have spread, a minority of patients are cured, he said in
a telephone interview.  Study Results  Glaxo’s Votrient, chemically known as pazopanib, enabled
patients to live a median of 4.6 months, or 3.1 months longer
than a placebo, while the disease stopped advancing, according
to a company  statement . The final-phase trial studied 369
patients, including 246 on the drug, with certain metastatic
soft tissue sarcomas that have tried chemotherapy.  The trial excluded patients with gastrointestinal tumors.
The FDA approved Votrient in 2009 to treat advanced renal cell
carcinoma.  “It’s a little step but it’s a little step in a field that
has had nothing,” Lee Helman, a panel member and scientific
director for clinical research at the National Cancer
Institute’s center for  cancer research , during the meeting.  Ridaforolimus didn’t have the same benefit, the panel said.  Patients stayed alive and free of disease progression on
ridaforolimus, which may be called Taltorvic if approved, for a
median of 17.7 weeks, or 3.1 weeks longer than placebo,
according to an FDA staff  report . The final-phase trial tested
711 patients, 347 on the compound, with soft-tissue sarcoma that
spread to other areas of the body or bone sarcomas whose disease
hadn’t progressed after at least four cycles of chemotherapy.  Since patients can’t stay on chemotherapy indefinitely
because of harsh side effects, ridaforolimus would be used to
delay progression of the disease after the treatment.  Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide
commercialization of ridaforolimus in oncology, while Ariad has
co-promotion rights in the U.S., Pamela Eisele, a Merck
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  