-- Partner Slips on Report Hutchison Won’t Return
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-03-20T12:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/partner-slips-on-report-hutchison-won-t-return-correct-.html
(Corrects size of drop in last paragraph to reflect Ituran
paid it’s dividend today.)  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  halted
its best rally in six weeks as a report that former shareholder
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. won’t reinvest boosted concern the
Israeli mobile-phone company’s stock will extend declines.  American depositary receipts of Partner dropped for the
first time in five days yesterday, ending their longest run of
gains in New York since the end of January. The Rosh Ha’Ayin,
Israel-based company had the  second-biggest drop  of eight
decliners on the Bloomberg Israel-US Index of the largest New
York-traded Israeli companies, which was little changed at
87.81. The shares fell 1.2 percent at 10:38 a.m. in Tel Aviv
today.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)  rose after announcing a pact
with the Swiss Center for Electronics and Microtechnology.  Partner posted its  biggest advance  since the start of
February last week on speculation Hutchison, controlled by Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , will buy shares in  Israel ’s
second-largest mobile-phone company, according to IBI-Israel
Brokerage & Investments Ltd. The Chinese company doesn’t intend
to regain part of the 51 percent stake it sold in August 2009 to
Scailex Corp., Globes newspaper reported on March 18, citing
Hutchison representatives that it didn’t identify in Israel.  “Hutchison coming into the market is good news for the
company because under its holding Partner was flourishing,” Ori Licht, the head of research at IBI said by phone from Tel Aviv
yesterday. “There were expectations that Hutchison may buy the
stake from Scailex for a higher price. But now there are rumors
it’s not going to happen.”  Shares Halved  Shares of Partner have more than halved to $7.41 from
$17.79 in  New York  when Scailex  bought  the stake from Hutchison,
as the government stepped up efforts to boost competition in the
mobile market and as concern increased about growing debt at
controlling shareholder Ilan Ben Dov’s investment company Tao
Tsuot Ltd.  The Tel Aviv-based shares of Partner dropped to 27.69
shekels, or the equivalent of $7.38, today. Israel’s benchmark
TA-25 Index declined 0.2 percent.  Hans Leung, a spokesman for Hutchison, declined to comment
in an e-mail. A Scailex spokeswoman declined to comment. Partner
declined to comment on the report today.  Ben Dov, who has a 44.5 percent holding in Scailex through
his 82 percent  stake  in Sunny Electronic Inc., said on Feb. 2
that he’s considering a deal in which Partner would become
closely held. Scailex said on Dec. 26 that it plans to sell part
of its Partner stake.  Hutchison, which invests in ports, telecommunications
ventures, retail, property and energy producers in more than 50
countries, is Li’s biggest company by revenue.  ‘Big Group’  Li is 13th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net
worth of $25.5 billion. He opened a plastic flower factory in
the wake of World War II and began focusing on Hong Kong real
estate in 1967 after riots during  China ’s Cultural Revolution
depressed prices.  “Hutchison is a big group that doesn’t seem to have the
same problems that Partner’s biggest shareholder has,” said
IBI’s Licht, who has a neutral rating on Partner shares.  Partner postponed on Feb. 22 its  earnings  results until the
end of the month and forecast a drop in fourth-quarter profit.
The company didn’t issue dividends in the second quarter.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Tower  climbed  1.7 percent to 2.92 shekels in  Tel Aviv 
today, or the equivalent of 78 cents, after rising 6.8 percent
to 78 cents yesterday in New York. The Migdal Haemek, Israel-
based chipmaker will cooperate with the Swiss center on European
design center projects, according to a statement yesterday.  Ituran Location and Control Ltd. , a maker of systems for
locating stolen vehicles based in Azur, Israel, dropped 3.1
percent to 51 shekels, or the equivalent of $13.61, at 2:38 p.m.
in Tel Aviv, after sliding 3 percent to $13.86 in the U.S.
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  