-- Paul Ryan’s Medicare Voucher Plan Improves With Each Pass
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-20T23:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/paul-ryan-s-medicare-voucher-plan-improves-with-each-pass.html
Democrats suspect that
Representative  Paul Ryan  proposed a tax overhaul in his 2013
budget to camouflage a politically foolhardy Medicare
privatization plan. They have it backward: Ryan’s Medicare
proposal is getting better with each pass.  It’s his tax plan that seems slapdash, lacking important
details, including who would pay more and who less, that would
allow us to judge its merits.  So we’ll focus on Ryan’s Medicare  blueprint  for now. It
remains a work in progress, but with further tweaking has the
potential to be truly transformative. It could begin to stop the
growth of health-care costs, the U.S.’s toughest challenge in a
generation. And it shows that the Wisconsin Republican continues
to be his party’s boldest policy thinker.  Ryan’s first offer on  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  reform a year ago would have
turned it into a voucher-like system, called premium support. In
essence, rather than pay seniors’ doctor and hospital bills, as
the government does now, it would subsidize each older
American’s purchase of a health plan from a menu of options.
(The new system would begin only when people now under age 55
retire and qualify for Medicare.)  The problem with the old Ryan plan was that annual
increases in the premium support would have been capped at the
rate of inflation -- a steep cut considering that Medicare costs
have grown about 8 percent annually for the last 15 years.
Eventually, the failure of the subsidy to keep pace with  health-
care inflation  would have saddled seniors with unbearable out-
of-pocket costs.  Liberal Democrat  Ryan improved his plan in December when he teamed up with
Oregon Senator  Ron Wyden  (proving that even a liberal Democrat
can appreciate premium support). Their plan would have offered
seniors a subsidy to buy private health insurance, only this
time they could choose the traditional Medicare program. Still,
benefits would be capped. But Ryan and Wyden would have allowed
more generous increases in per-capita Medicare spending of 1
percent above the rate of gross domestic product growth, or
about 4 percent if the plan were in place this year.  The 2013 budget that Ryan unveiled Tuesday picks up some
important features, including the Medicare option, from the
Ryan-Wyden plan. It would create a competitive-bidding process
to determine the annual increase in the government voucher,
forcing health plans and the Medicare program to compete for
patients. The federal subsidy would be based on the second-
least-expensive plan in each market. Ryan would means-test
Medicare by subsidizing the poor more and the wealthy less. And
beginning in 2023, he would increase gradually the Medicare
eligibility age until it reaches 67 in 2034.  Those are all desirable additions. But Ryan 3.0 tweaks the
GDP-plus-1-percent formula -- making it a less generous GDP plus
0.5 percent -- probably because the original formula wouldn’t
have bent the cost curve enough. Health care is the biggest
driver of future  budget deficits , and Ryan needed to be less
generous in order to cut overall government debt. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that, by 2030, spending on
the average Medicare beneficiary would be $7,400 (in 2011
dollars) under Ryan’s plan, 14 percent lower than what would be
spent under current law.  Even then, his plan rests on an unproven theory: that
competing private plans will find numerous efficiencies,
including better coordinated care, which will allow them to
offer the same health benefits as traditional Medicare for less
money. And instead of Medicare, with its considerable market
power, setting provider rates and determining which procedures
to cover, each plan would do the negotiating, with seniors
deciding which one offers the best value.  The danger is that Ryan may be cutting costs too steeply,
forcing Americans to choose from a stingier menu of options
while shouldering ever-higher out-of-pocket costs. He may also
be relying too heavily on seniors’ ability to make smart
decisions about their insurance -- often when they are frail or
seriously ill.  Cherry-Picking  To avoid these pitfalls, Ryan should clarify that insurers
wouldn’t be able to charge any Medicare patient excessively high
premiums. One way to do that would be to require insurers to
charge the same premiums for all enrollees of the same age.
To keep private insurers from cherry-picking the healthiest
seniors, plans must be “risk-adjusted,” insurer-speak for
customizing government subsidies for the average beneficiary’s
health status. Finally, participating plans must be required to
offer benefits at least as comprehensive as traditional
Medicare.  Democrats are already hammering Ryan for ending Medicare as
we know it. But the CBO estimates that the present system will
run out of money in the next nine years. Ryan’s plan may be poor
politics, but it’s the right policy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 