-- Premier League CEO Says U.K. Television Sale May Be Scrapped
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-20T12:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/premier-league-ceo-says-u-k-television-sale-may-be-scrapped.html
The Premier League may scrap plans
to sell its record-breaking live soccer rights to the U.K.
market and instead issue a pan-European license from 2013
following an anti-trust ruling by the region’s top court.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Scudamoresaid his
organization is mulling an option of selling the rights in a
bundle to sell across the continent after the  European Court  of
Justice last year stated that homeowners could purchase decoders
showing foreign broadcasts.  “There’s not a decision been made yet as to whether we’re
going to do a domestic deal or not,” Scudamore said. “One of
the implications of the ECJ decision is that we are still
working on whether we now actually sell the rights on a pan
European basis.”  The English league’s current three-year U.K. contracts with
 Sky Sports  and ESPN are valued at 1.78 billion pounds ($2.8
billion) and finish at the end of the 2012-13 season. It gets
another 1.4 billion pounds from overseas sales, making it the
highest grossing domestic soccer league in the world. Pubs
remain barred from using a European card to show matches that
feature copyright material owned by the league.  The tender documents for the next round of rights bidding
will be released between April and June and the league will keep
its options open, Scudamore said.  “We won’t set ourselves false deadlines,” Scudamore said,
adding the league is talking to broadcasters across  Europe  to
understand their “attitudes and aptitudes for pan-European
verses individual territory” sales.  BSkyB  The Premier League’s financial success has come from
payments from  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , which has
broadcast the competition in the U.K. since the league’s
inception in 1992. Scudamore said that relationship counts for
little when it comes to deciding who the rights are awarded to.  “Ultimately whatever umbilical cord there might be as an
ongoing working commercial relationship gets severed as the
invitation to tender gets issued,” he told an audience of
sports industry professionals that included Barney Francis, the
managing director of Sky Sports. “Once we’re in the process,
there’s nothing they can do other than being the best bidder to
win those rights.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  