-- Putin Portrait Demand Spikes as Officials Spurn Medvedev
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2012-03-20T07:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/putin-portrait-demand-spikes-as-officials-spurn-medvedev.html
Portraits of Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  are surging in online sales after his re-election
to the Kremlin, almost eliminating demand for President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s image.  “People were buying Medvedev before, but now they’re
buying Putin and no one is buying Medvedev,” Vladimir Tishko,
director of the Vramke.ru online store, said in a telephone
interview. Vramke.ru, which lists the lower house of parliament
and St. Petersburg city hall as clients, sells pictures for 900
rubles to 17,600 rubles ($31 to $604).  Putin, 59, is set to start his third term as Russian
president in May. The leader, who held the top office for two
terms ending 2008, has said his protege Medvedev, 46, will
replace him as head of the Cabinet.  Igor Yurgens , a presidential
adviser, said last month that Medvedev should reject the post.  While the retailers declined to provide exact sales
figures, data from Yandex NV, which operates  Russia ’s largest
search engine, show interest is rising. The number of  queries 
per month for “Putin portrait” have surged from about 1,000 in
August to almost 4,000 by late December, according to the latest
figures available.  “In the past half month, there have been a lot of Putin
orders, much more than before,” said Alisa Shumkina, who works
at Vseportrety.ru, another Internet portrait retailer. “We’ve
only sold one Medvedev.” Alexei Abramov, an employee at
Nastenku.ru, said his store was seeing the same trend.  Bureaucratic Demand  Most of the demand comes from state employees, said the
three portrait sellers. Russia has about 1 million civil
servants, according to  data  from the Federal Statistics Service.
Still, portrait retailers say their boom days have passed. More
than twelve years since Putin first assumed the presidency in
2000, demand for his image has mostly been met.  “Everyone already has a Putin,” said Tishko, of
Vramke.ru. “Now if Prokhorov had won, that would have been
great.”  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , the only first-time
candidate in the presidential campaign, finished third with 8
percent of the vote, lagging Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov ,
who took 17 percent.  “We would have made a fortune overnight” with a Prokhorov
victory, said Shumkina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  