-- Pyramid Regulation Spurs Internet Gold Plunge: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-03-21T14:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/pyramid-regulation-spurs-internet-gold-plunge-israel-overnight.html
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) 
sank to the lowest level in more than two years in New York on
concern tighter regulation by the Israeli government will hurt
holding companies that control telecommunication companies.  Internet Gold, a Petach Tikva, Israel-based holding
company, dropped to the lowest price since July 2009 yesterday,
 extending  its decline this year to 39 percent.  Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , the country’s largest fixed-line
operator, which is owned by a unit of Internet Gold, said on
March 14 that net income fell because of regulatory changes.
Internet Gold gained 0.6 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel
Aviv, while Bezeq rose 0.2 percent. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New York-traded Israeli companies
was little changed at 87.69 yesterday.  Israel ’s committee on economic concentration submitted to
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday recommendations on
simplifying corporate structures and strengthening the power of
minority shareholders that may change Internet Gold’s
composition and Bezeq’s dividend payout, according to DS
Securities and Investments Ltd. The Communications Ministry has
also forced providers to cut connection fees and issued licenses
to new wireless and virtual operators to boost competition.  “Internet Gold suffers twice from all of this regulation,
first because of the changes in the telecommunication market and
second because of the government trying to flatten the pyramid
structures of companies in Israel,” said Eran Jacoby, the head
of research at DS Securities in Tel Aviv, who rates the company
market perform meaning it will probably provide returns in line
with the overall market.  Pricing Regulation  Tel Aviv-based Bezeq, down 12 percent this year in Israeli
trading, is 31 percent  owned  by  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM) , which in
turn is 80 percent held by Internet Gold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bezeq declined to the lowest level in a month yesterday
after TheMarker newspaper reported the Communications Ministry
won’t ease regulation on the company’s pricing and structure.  The ministry will recommend continued supervision of Bezeq
on rates and structural separation, TheMarker reported, without
saying where it got the information. Yechiel Shabi, a spokesman
for the ministry, declined to comment on the report when
contacted yesterday.  Bezeq’s  net income  fell to 524 million shekels ($138.3
million) from 575 million shekels a year earlier as revenue
dropped to 2.65 billion shekels from 3.06 billion shekels. The
company announced 3.16 billion shekels in dividends for 2011
after distributing 3.73 billion shekels in 2010.  Investors ‘Concerned’  “Investors are concerned that under the new regulation the
dividend payout will be changed because of the current ownership
structure,” Zach Herzog, a trader at Psagot Investment House
Ltd. said by phone from  Tel Aviv .  Shaul Elovitch controls the dividends paid out by Bezeq
through B Communications’ 30 percent stake in the fixed-line
provider, and the concentration committee may require at least a
50 percent stake to exercise such control in future, Herzog
said.  Internet Gold dropped 4.1 percent to $6.81 yesterday. The
Tel Aviv shares climbed to 25.55 shekels today, the equivalent
of $6.84.  Protesters demonstrated in Israel last year, calling for
more affordable housing and lower prices for food and other
consumer products. Netanyahu appointed a committee led by
economist  Manuel Trajtenberg  to boost competition in the market
in response to the protests.  ‘On Top of the Pyramid’  The committee on economic concentration recommended last
month that companies limit their pyramid structure to no more
than three public layers and proposed a four-year deadline for
corporations to comply with the new rules.  Israeli groups will need to reduce cross-holdings in
financial and industrial businesses and the holding companies at
the third level will see increased regulation to boost minority
shareholders’ power.  “The concentration committee is changing the structures of
some of these companies and hurting the holding companies that
are at the top of the pyramid,” DS Securities’ Jacoby said.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , an Israeli company that develops
aesthetic medical devices, dropped 2.1 percent to $10.97, the
biggest one-day slide in two weeks.  Mellanox Slides  The Yokneam Illit, Israel-based company said it will take a
one-time charge of as much as $3.5 million during the first
quarter of 2012 after European regulators suspended approval for
its dental laser system, Syneron said in a statement yesterday.
The company said that it will upgrade current products to meet
the new standards.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Israeli adapter maker that
is 9.6 percent owned by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , gained 3.4 percent to 152
shekels in Tel Aviv today, or the equivalent of $40.67.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , reported
fiscal third-quarter profit and new license sales that topped
analysts’ estimates as the company sold more databases and
business applications. New software-license sales, a predictor
of revenue growth, rose 7 percent, while analysts had estimated
3 percent growth, according to Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  