-- Qantas Says Plan for Asian Hub on Hold for Up Three Years
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-21T10:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/qantas-says-plan-for-asian-hub-on-hold-for-up-three-years.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce said plans to set up a full-service carrier
in  Asia  have been put back by “a year or two or three” after
the carrier failed to secure a deal to build a hub there.  “We are still in dialogue with both the Singaporeans and
Malaysians but nothing is happening in the short term,” Joyce
said in a Berlin interview. “It’s more of a long-term issue.”  Qantas announced plans for a base in Malaysia or Singapore
in August so it could hire workers at a lower cost and offer a
greater choice of connecting flights in the fastest growing
aviation market and stem international losses. Talks with
 Malaysian Airline System Bhd (MAS)  collapsed after the companies
couldn’t agree on the commercial terms, the Sydney-based carrier
said in a statement on March 9.  “While we understand the attraction of Malaysia, given the
capital light solution it offered, we believe a delay of the
introduction of the premium carrier could be a better outcome,”
Anthony Moulder, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a
March 9 report.  Qantas  rose  1.4 percent to A$1.78 at the close of trading
in Sydney. The stock has gained 22 percent this year compared
with a 4.9 percent rise in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  The Asian project failed because the requisite traffic
rights couldn’t be secured in Singapore, while Malaysian Air is
going through a restructuring plan of its own, so that reaching
an accord with Qantas proved too “complex,” Joyce said last
night in Germany, where  Air Berlin (AB1)  joined the Oneworld alliance
of airlines.  ‘Time Wasn’t Right’  “We both agreed mutually that we would delay it for a
while and then start the dialogue again in the future,” he
said.  The Asian carrier would have lost money in the first few
years of its operation, and the plan was aimed more at
recovering market share rather than delivering on current
earnings targets, Joyce said.  “We’ll eventually do it but the time wasn’t right today,”
he said. Qantas is a member of Oneworld, along with British
Airways,  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines. Malaysian Air is joining this year, according to the
alliance’s website.  While Qantas has about 65 percent of Australia’s domestic
air market, less than 20 percent of international passengers
choose to fly on its namesake planes after customers switched to
rivals such as  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Dubai-based Emirates.  Qantas last month announced A$700 million ($736 million) of
spending cuts as Joyce slows fleet growth. Qantas will also
eliminate 500 jobs as it contends with international
competition.  Credit Rating  Joyce wants  capital spending  to match  cash flow  and reduce
the risk of Qantas losing its investment-grade credit rating.
Moody’s Investors Service in January lowered the carrier to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade.  Qantas and Southwest Airlines Co., the largest discount
carrier in the U.S., are the only two airlines with  investment-
grade rating s from both Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s .  While plans for a full-service carrier have stalled, Qantas
will this year begin services of a new airline in  Japan  through
its Jetstar budget unit.  Jetstar Japan Co., which is owned by Qantas,  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will start flights in July to four
domestic cities from  Tokyo .  The Japanese carrier will fly to Osaka, Sapporo, Fukuoka
and Okinawa using three Airbus SAS A320 planes, the same type of
jet Qantas had planned to use for the Asian carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  