-- Quebec Aims to Boost Mining With Infrastructure in Budget
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-21T19:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/quebec-aims-to-boost-mining-with-infrastructure-in-budget.html
Quebec  is ramping up efforts to
develop its northern region by investing in infrastructure,
seeking to attract resource companies and boost royalties from
increased output of minerals and hydrocarbons, Finance Minister
Raymond Bachand said.  Canada ’s second-most populous province will earmark C$1
billion ($1 billion) for investments in mining and hydrocarbon
development projects over the next five years, twice the amount
allocated in last year’s budget, Bachand said. Quebec will set
up two funds dedicated to government investments in natural
resources, the minister said.  “Getting the most out of our natural resources is probably
at the heart of this budget,” Bachand told reporters in the
provincial capital, Quebec City. “We’re controlling our public
finances and building our future.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Rio Tinto Group and  Goldcorp Inc. (GG)  are among
commodities producers that announced expansion projects in
Quebec’s northernmost part last year. Premier Jean Charest
unveiled the so-called Plan Nord on May 9, promising C$80
billion of government and company investments by 2036 to tap
mining and energy resources in an area twice the size of  France 
and 10 times the size of New York state.  Quebec will probably account for half of all mining
investment in Canada this year,  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said in
a March 13 report. The performance will probably boost gross
domestic product by more than 1 percentage point,  Stefane Marion , chief economist at the bank, said in the report.  Resource Funds  The first of the new funds, called Ressources Quebec, will
take equity interests in “promising” mining projects, Bachand
said. Ressources Quebec will be a unit of state-owned
Investissement Quebec and start with assets of about C$235
million, Bachand said. When “fully implemented,” Ressources
Quebec will manage more than C$1.2 billion in assets, he said.  Another fund, Capital Mines Hydrocarbures, will focus on
government investments in the province’s underground resources.  Quebec will negotiate options on equity stakes in mining
development in exchange for government support, Bachand said.
The size of the interest “will depend on the value of the
benefit granted and the level of risk involved,” he said.  “The mining and hydrocarbon industries can be lucrative,
but the risk is also huge,” Bachand said in the text of his
speech to lawmakers in the provincial legislature. “We will not
gamble with the money of Quebeckers. The equity interest
strategy we are putting forward allows for prudent risk
management.”  Auctioning Licenses  Bachand also said the province will immediately start
auctioning oil and gas licenses, matching systems already in
place in provinces such as Alberta and Newfoundland and
Labrador. No new licenses will be issued until auction
mechanisms are in place, Bachand said. Fees associated with
existing licenses will climb from C$1 million annually to C$5
million in 2014-15, he said.  Royalties from mining will amount to C$365 million in the
fiscal year ending March 31, Bachand said. Quebec expects to
receive C$4 billion in mining royalties during the next decade,
14 times more than in the prior 10 years, he said. Royalties
from all natural resources will amount to C$1.2 billion this
year, almost double the average of C$681 million from 2006 to
2010.  Quebec will also cut refundable tax credits for mining and
oil and gas exploration companies by about one-quarter amid a
boom in the industry.  “The current rush to engage in exploration in Quebec leads
us to believe that the prospects for gain mean these tax
benefits are not as important as before,” Bachand said.  Luring Investment  Bachand also highlighted various infrastructure projects
that may help lure companies to northern Quebec. The government
will pay for part of a feasibility study by Montreal-based
natural gas distributor  Gaz Métro (VNR)  on a proposed C$750 million
gas pipeline to the province’s Cote-Nord region. Quebec’s
contribution will be temporary and repayable, Bachand said.  Hydro-Quebec (HYQU) , the provincially owned electric utility, will
begin studies this year on extending its power transmission grid
to the Nunavik region. The Montreal-based company will invest as
much as C$10 million on the project in 2012-13, Bachand said.  Bachand also said that Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec, the provincially owned pension-fund manager, is working
with Montreal-based  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  on a project
to build a rail line linking the port town of Sept-Iles and the
Labrador Trough region.  Quadruple Shipments  The proposed 800-kilometer (500-mile) long line would
probably cost about C$5 billion, with  Canadian National 
contributing two-thirds of the amount, Benoit Poirier, an
analyst at Desjardins Securities in  Montreal , said today in a
note to investors. The link could open as soon as 2017, helping
Canadian National to quadruple iron ore shipments and add about
C$1.3 billion in annual revenue, Poirier said, citing estimates
by the company.  “This would be enormous growth opportunity for CN,”
Poirier said in a telephone interview. “They are very excited
about the project.”  The budget details give “clarity” to the earlier Plan
Nord announcements, said Francois Dupuis, chief economist at
Mouvement Desjardins, Canada’s largest credit union. “They are
fine-tuning the framework for resources,” Dupuis said. “This
is a very long-term project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Quebec City  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  