-- Randstad Says North America May Become Firm’s Top Market
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-03-20T08:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/randstad-says-north-america-may-become-firm-s-top-market.html
Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the world’s
second-largest staffing provider, said  North America  may become
the company’s biggest market this year because of an acquisition
and faster economic growth in the U.S. than in  Europe .  Hiring of professionals in the information-technology,
engineering, and accounting industries has been increasing the
fastest, enabling the company build on its eight consecutive
quarters of U.S. sales growth, Chief Executive Officer Ben Noteboom said yesterday in an interview at Randstad headquarters
in Diemen,  Netherlands .  “We are almost back at the previous peak,” Noteboom, 53,
said. “There is no sign that the rise in penetration will
stop” as companies seek to grow while remaining flexible enough
to match sudden changes in the economy.  Randstad, whose two biggest markets last year were  France 
and the Netherlands, almost doubled its presence in the U.S.
after  buying   Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based SFN Group Inc. for
$771 million last year. Companies in the country have slowed the
pace of firings and are expanding workforces as sales rise and
the threat of financial contagion from a European sovereign-debt
default diminishes.  Job growth in the U.S. in February capped the best six
months since 2006, and the  unemployment rate  stayed at a three-
year low of 8.3 percent, according to Labor Department figures
released earlier this month.  “Structurally you see the biggest growth in the
professional segment,” said Noteboom, who has led the company
since 2003. “Our most important stake is the IT market in the
U.S.”  Industry Ranking  Randstad, which ranks second in the global temporary-
employment industry to Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based  Adecco SA (ADEN) ,
derives 39 percent of its North American sales from providing
temporary professional workers and 52 percent from placing non-
professional temporary employees, including figures from SFN,
the company said in July.  North American non-professional segment revenue rose 13
percent in January from a year earlier, while sales gains from
placing professional workers accelerated to 15 percent from an
average of 10 percent in the fourth quarter. SFN sales increased
6 percent. Revenue in France that month dropped 3.5 percent and
Dutch sales fell 2 percent, the company  said  Feb. 16.  Integration Schedule  Randstad, which provided an average 576,800 temporary
workers daily in 40 countries  last year , plans to start
combining its North American professionals business with SFN in
May. The integration is “going very well,” Noteboom said. “We
haven’t had any accidents so far.”  In contrast to the declining U.S. unemployment figures, the
 jobless rate  among euro-area countries rose to 10.7 percent in
January from 10.6 percent in December, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said March 1. The region’s
economy shrank in the fourth quarter as governments stepped up
budget cuts, undermining hiring and consumer demand.  Dutch temporary-placement industry sales fell 3 percent in
the first four weeks of 2012 as total hours worked declined 5
percent from a year earlier, according to the ABU Dutch
association of staffing companies. The Lijnden, Netherlands-
based trade group is scheduled to publish February figures at 10
a.m.  “It won’t be an increase, I guess,” Noteboom said, adding
that Randstad makes up about 40 percent of the ABU figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  