-- Rangers Gain NHL Playoffs in Fight-Marked Win Over Devils
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-20T14:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/rangers-earn-nhl-postseason-place-with-4-2-win-against-devils.html
The  New York Rangers  reached the
National Hockey League playoffs for the sixth time in seven
seasons with a 4-2 home win against the  New Jersey Devils  in a
game that started with a brawl and left blood on the ice.  Brandon Dubinsky, Dan Girardi, Mats Zuccarello and Derek
Stepan scored for New York at Madison Square Garden last night
as the Rangers became the first team from the Eastern Conference
to book a postseason place.  “We’ve worked really hard all year for this opportunity,”
Dubinsky said after the game. “We said from the get-go that
playoffs weren’t our goal. We want home-ice advantage, we want
to put ourselves in a good position going into the playoffs.”  The victory followed back-to-back defeats for the Rangers
(45-20-7, 97 points), who had lost five of their seven prior
games. The Rangers have 10 regular-season games remaining, one
fewer than the  Pittsburgh Penguins , who are three points behind
New York in second place in the  Atlantic Division .  In the conference standings, where the top three places are
held by division leaders regardless of their point totals, the
Rangers lead the race for the top seed by 10 points over the
Boston Bruins (42-27-3, 87 points), who routed the Toronto Maple
Leafs 8-0 last night.  The only other team to reach the playoffs so far is the  St.
Louis Blues , who lead the Western Conference with 100 points.  The Devils (41-27-5, 87 points) are in sixth place in the
Eastern Conference.  Early Fight  Three seconds after the opening face-off, six players
started fighting, with the Devils’ Ryan Carter bleeding after
being taken to the ice by the Rangers’ Stu Bickel. Officials
assessed a total of 40 minutes in penalties for the brawl,
including a 10-minute misconduct call against the Devils’ Bryce
Salvador for trying to pull Bickel off Carter.  Dubinsky put the Rangers ahead after 1 minute, 11 seconds.  “I see the juice in our team after that and we ended up
scoring a big goal pretty quickly after it,” Rangers coach John
Tortorella said. “Whether I agree with it or disagree with what
happened at the beginning of the game, I like the way our team
handled themselves through it.”  In the second period, Girardi made it 2-0 and Patrik Elias
got a goal for the Devils before Zuccarello scored on a power
play to restore  New York ’s two-goal lead. Petr Sykora cut the
deficit again before Stepan sealed the win with his 16th goal of
the season 70 seconds from the end of the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 