-- Transocean Holders’ Suits Over Rig Explosion Dismissed by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/transocean-investors-suits-over-rig-explosion-tossed-by-judge.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the oil
rig leased to  BP Plc (BP/)  that exploded and spewed millions of
gallons of oil into the  Gulf of Mexico , won dismissal of
investor claims that the company failed to disclose repeated
safety failures.  Transocean shareholders can’t make a case that Chief
Executive Officer Steven Newman made “materially false and
misleading statements” about the company’s safety record in
violation of federal securities laws, U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in New York concluded yesterday.  Some shareholders contend Newman made statements on calls
with analysts in 2009 and 2010 that were designed to mislead
investors about Transocean’s pattern of safety violations and
artificially inflate its share price. The suits also allege the
CEO failed to disclose problems that later were linked to the
fatal explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig that led to the
largest offshore spill in U.S. history.  “To allow lead plaintiffs’ claims to proceed because
certain undisclosed safety issues may have contributed to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster would be to permit a claim based on
fraud by hindsight,” Buchwald said in her 46-page ruling.  “We are very pleased with the order and the result,” Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, said in an e-mailed statement.  Both Transocean and BP were sued by investors as part of a
wave of litigation generated by the April 2010 spill from the
Macondo Well off the coast of  Louisiana . Many of the cases have
been consolidated before a judge in Houston.  $7.8 Billion Accord  BP, based in  London , said March 2 it would pay at least
$7.8 billion to resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic
loss, property damage and injuries. The settlement, to be paid
from a $20 billion trust for spill victims set up in 2010,
doesn’t resolve federal and state government environmental
damage claims or investors’ fraud suits.  BP has set aside $37 billion to cover spill costs. The
company may face as much as $17.6 billion in civil pollution
fines under the U.S. Clean Water Act, based on the government’s
estimate of barrels spilled.  Yesterday’s ruling covers at least two securities cases
against Transocean that were consolidated before Buchwald in
federal court in  New York , according to an October 2010 court
filing.  Investors alleged in both cases that Transocean officials
“disseminated false or misleading information related to safety
protocols, design issues, and the company’s operating and safety
record” in violation of securities laws, according to the 2010
filing.  After reviewing investors’ allegations about Newman’s
statements on the analyst calls, Buchwald found disgruntled
shareholders couldn’t prove the CEO intended to mislead them.  ‘No Bearing’  “We hold that lead plaintiff has failed to state a claim
of  securities fraud  against Transocean and its current and
former CEOs,” the judge wrote.  “We once again caution that this holding has no bearing on
whether Transocean has substantive liability for the Macondo
accident,” Buchwald added. “Despite lead plaintiff’s attempts
to conflate the two issues, they are wholly separate.”  A federal judge in  New Orleans  is set to meet with lawyers
for BP, Transocean and federal and state governments behind
closed doors May 3 to discuss how to proceed with the spill case
in the wake of BP’s settlement with private plaintiffs.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  may decide to proceed with
a trial of the governments’ environmental claims against London-
based BP and other companies involved with the Macondo Well if a
settlement of those suits isn’t reached.  The securities case is Foley v. Transocean Ltd, 10-cv-5233
(NRB), U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (New
York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 