-- Raytheon’s $621 Million Halted by U.S. on Missile Delays
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-20T15:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/raytheon-s-621-million-halted-by-u-s-on-missile-delays.html
The Air Force is withholding $621
million in payments to  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the biggest U.S. maker of
missiles for the U.S. military, citing chronic delays in
delivering the most advanced air-to-air missile for the service
and the Navy.  Raytheon’s Missile Systems unit, based in Tucson,  Arizona ,
was 193 missiles behind schedule as of Feb. 29, according to Air
Force data. The Air Force notified Raytheon on March 3 that it
was withholding $419 million in fiscal 2010 payments, the
service said in an e-mail. That’s in addition to $202 million
the service was already withholding for 2007 to 2009.  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , Raytheon’s subcontractor, “has
had difficulty for the past year consistently producing rocket
motors to specification,” according to the Air Force.  The  missiles  are the newest version of the Advanced Medium-
Range Air-to-Air Missile. These missiles are intended for
deployment to Air Force fighter wings and Navy aircraft carriers
once testing is done and they are declared combat-ready in
fiscal 2013, the service said. The missile has been bought by
more than 33 U.S. allies, including Jordan, Morocco and  Kuwait .  “The government believes the suspension of payments is an
appropriate and measured response to incentivize Raytheon
contract compliance,” Lieutenant Colonel Jack Miller, an Air
Force spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Payments will
resume after consistent delivery of functional missiles. The
government is actively engaged in a joint industry-government
team production improvement effort.”  Alliant’s ‘Top Talent’  Raytheon Missile Systems spokesman  John Patterson  declined
to comment on the withheld money. Raytheon’s missile unit had
$5.59 billion in 2011 net sales, the largest of the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based company’s six units, according to filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Alliant Techsystems has “committed top talent and
resources to identify and implement actions necessary to quickly
return to full-rate production,” Steve Cortese, a spokesman for
the Arlington, Virginia-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We’ve made significant positive progress as evidenced by
recent rocket motor tests,” Cortese said. “We look forward to
resuming deliveries to Raytheon in the near future.”  Miller said the Air Force defined “consistent delivery”
as demonstrating a “steady growth in rocket motor production”
and Raytheon “achieves a maximum rate of 125 deliveries per
month.” Raytheon delivered its highest number, 33, in November,
according to service data.  ‘We’ve Grown Them’  Raytheon has been building the missile for more than 25
years, William Swanson, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said during an October 27 analyst call.  “Every year we’re asked to deliver AMRAAMs,” he said.
“We’ve grown them from model A to model D, and if you look at
it, the government looks to us to give them increased capability
and to be able to do that at a lower price.”  Since January 2011, Raytheon has met or exceeded planned
monthly delivery goals three times, according to  Air Force  data.  The delivery delays last year prompted House and Senate
budget negotiators to cut $190 million, or about 38 percent from
the Air Force fiscal 2012 request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  