-- Trayvon Martin Shooting Shows Perils of Lax U.S. Gun Laws
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/trayvon-martin-shooting-shows-perils-of-lax-u-s-gun-laws.html
The  Justice Department  opened an
investigation this week into the killing of Trayvon Martin, a
17-year-old high school student who was shot dead on Feb. 26 in
Sanford, Florida.  Martin was returning to the home of his father’s girlfriend
from a 7-Eleven, armed with a package of Skittles and an iced
tea, when he was killed. George Zimmerman -- a self-appointed
neighborhood watch captain, according to news reports -- had
called 911 and proceeded to follow Martin, even after the
dispatcher advised him not to. Soon after, Zimmerman told
police, he shot Martin.  Crime is a problem in the U.S. So are guns. According to
the local police chief, Zimmerman, 28, had a permit for a
concealed weapon, which is easily obtained in  Florida . He also
had a penchant for calling the police, having made  46 such calls 
in the past 13 months to report suspicious behavior. Based on
news reports, it appears that Zimmerman believed he had much to
fear from crime. As things turned out, Martin had much more to
fear from Zimmerman’s gun.  Martin didn’t have a lot of protection from the law,
either. Florida’s “ Stand your Ground ” law allows people to use
deadly force -- even before an unarmed person -- provided they
“reasonably believe” it’s necessary to defend themselves.
It’s a shockingly low standard, but it’s not inconsistent with
the highest law of the land.  Scalia’s Opinion  Writing for a bitterly divided  Supreme Court  in 2008,
Justice  Antonin Scalia  brushed past the ambiguous language of
the Second Amendment and the convoluted history of gun rights in
the U.S. to establish or affirm (depending on your point of
view) a right of individuals to own guns. Yet in his 5-4  opinion 
in  District of Columbia  v. Heller, even Scalia maintained that
the right is not unlimited. “We do not read the Second Amendment
to protect the right of citizens to carry arms for any sort of
confrontation,” Scalia wrote.  The question, then, is what public policies are
constitutionally justified to prevent the wrong “sort of
confrontation”?  At present, it seems, not many. Since the Heller decision,
which overturned  Washington ’s strict gun law, controls have been
crumbling across the nation. In  Oklahoma , lawmakers appear
poised to enact an “open carry” law, allowing residents to
display firearms in public. The  National Rifle Association  and
other lobbyists for gun manufacturers are pushing for loaded
guns to be allowed in college classrooms and dormitories.
 Legislation  proposed in Congress would force states to allow
holders of concealed weapons permits from other jurisdictions to
carry guns where it’s otherwise illegal.  Dissolution of Order  A  ruling  this month in  Maryland  seems emblematic of the
dissolution of order. U.S. District Judge Benson Everett Legg
overturned a state law requiring that residents show a “good and
substantial reason” to carry a gun on the grounds that such a
standard was unconstitutional.  Activists are now insisting that race played a role in
Martin’s death. Perhaps it did. (In a recording of Zimmerman’s
 911 call , it sounds as if Zimmerman mutters a racial epithet.)
On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office for Brevard and Seminole
counties announced that a grand jury would investigate the
shooting.  A racial motivation would push the case toward criminal
terrain, and justly so. But racism is not the only way a mind
can be distorted and its judgment impaired. There is nothing in
Florida law, for example, to prevent people whose perceptions
are distorted by fear from owning a gun -- or an arsenal of them
-- and carrying a concealed and loaded weapon on the street.  This is one obvious flaw in the mad rush to arm America,
which we hope statehouses, courts and Congress will belatedly
factor into their thinking. Guns ever at the ready will be used,
with tragic results.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 