-- Asia Seen Holding Rates as Australia Cites Less Risk
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-03-20T04:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/rba-saw-less-downside-risk-in-march-rate-pause-minutes.html
Thailand and  Taiwan  may keep
 interest rates  unchanged this week, joining  Australia  and most
Asia-Pacific economies in holding fire to gauge the extent of
China’s slowdown, inflation risks and the European crisis.  Thailand will maintain its benchmark  rate  at 3 percent
tomorrow after two previous cuts, according to 19 of 21
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, while all 10 economists
in a separate survey said Taiwan may leave its key  borrowing
cost  at 1.875 percent on March 22. Australia kept its  rate 
unchanged on March 6 as a mining investment boom intensified and
risks from Europe eased, minutes released today showed.  “Regional central banks mostly are still in this wait-and-
see mode,” said Sylvia Chiu, an economist at SinoPac Financial
Holdings Co. in Taipei. “Although the economic outlook is
getting better as the U.S. economy is slowly coming out of the
woods, it’s still uncertain whether it’s strong enough to drive
a rebound in exports in  Asia .”  Central banks from  Malaysia  to  South Korea  refrained from
cutting rates this month as higher energy costs boosted
inflation risks, reducing the scope for monetary stimulus to
counter a Chinese slowdown and Europe’s slump. International
Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min said yesterday
that China is “heading for a soft landing,” while a report
last week showed an improving U.S. labor market.  A weakening in Chinese demand would hurt Taiwan’s growth,
while surging  oil prices  would risk igniting inflation, Chiu
said. Signs the U.S. economy is improving don’t dispel risks
that include rising gasoline prices and a weak housing market,
Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York President William C. Dudley
said yesterday.  Shares Fall  Asian shares dropped today after  China  increased gasoline
and diesel prices for the second time in less than six weeks, a
move that may raise concern growth in the region’s largest
economy will slow further, according to Dai Ming, a fund manager
at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. in
Shanghai. The Australian dollar declined on speculation China’s
expansion will slow, damping demand for exports.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  lost 0.6
percent as of 12:29 p.m. in  Tokyo  and the Shanghai Composite
Index slid 0.8 percent. Australia’s dollar lost 0.4 percent to
$1.0563 at 2:04 p.m. in Sydney after climbing 1.5 percent over
the past three days.  In the region today, Taiwan may report export orders
rebounded in February after two months of declines, climbing 13
percent from a year earlier, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  European Prices  In  Europe ,  Germany  may report producer price gains eased in
February, while the U.K. is forecast to say inflation slowed
last month, other surveys showed. The U.S. Commerce Department
may say builders broke ground on 700,000 homes in February at an
annual pace, the most in three months, economists predict.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, probably
climbed 0.6 percent last month from January, a separate survey
showed.  IMF head  Christine Lagarde  on March 18 cautioned policy
makers against a false sense of security, highlighting elevated
oil prices, debt levels in developed nations and the risk of
slowing growth in  emerging markets .  Weaker export growth and consumer spending may hurt
Taiwan’s expansion this year, central bank Governor Perng Fai-
nan said last week. The statistics bureau on Feb. 22 revised its
GDP forecast for 2012 to 3.85 percent from an earlier projection
of 3.91 percent, and said inflation this year may be 1.46
percent, compared with a previous estimate of 1.29 percent.  ‘More Neutral’  The worst floods in almost 70 years and Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis have hurt Thai manufacturing and  exports , and Bank
of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last week there
are no plans to raise rates now, as the central bank isn’t too
concerned about inflation. Still, the monetary authority may
revise its 2012 growth forecast to 6 percent from an earlier
prediction of 4.9 percent after a slower-than-expected expansion
last year, Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said last month.  “Many Asian central bankers can afford to be more neutral
now from a very easing bias earlier,” said Santitarn
Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Rising oil prices may not be a serious issue now, but
central bankers always need to be forward looking.”  ‘Downside Risk’  The Philippine central bank may pause after reducing the
benchmark interest rate at both of its meetings so far this year
as elevated oil prices threaten to spur inflation, Governor
Amando Tetangco signaled this month. Crude oil prices have
gained about 4.5 percent so far this year, and the Southeast
Asian nation imports almost all its requirements.  Australia held the benchmark rate for a second month at
4.25 percent on March 6 after central bank Governor  Glenn
Stevens  and his board reduced borrowing costs twice late last
year. In the minutes released today, officials said the  U.S.
economy  had emerged from its “soft patch” and there were signs
of stabilization in Europe in early 2012 after a contraction
last quarter.  “Members noted that while this downside risk could still
materialize, this seemed somewhat less likely than a few months
ago,” minutes released by the Sydney-based Reserve Bank of
Australia showed. “So long as inflation remained well
contained, there would be ample scope for the bank to ease
policy in such a scenario.”  ‘More Upbeat’  The  European Central Bank  is flooding the banking system
with cheap money in a bid to avert a credit crunch after the
market for unsecured bank debt seized up last year and funding
from U.S. money markets disappeared.  The improvement in the global economy prompted investors to
pare bets on an RBA rate cut next month to 18 percent, according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG Index.  Policy makers “appear more upbeat, noting in particular a
pick-up in U.S. activity and firm Chinese growth,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker. “There is no
real change in their view on the domestic economy, which they
see at trend overall. The most likely policy outcome, with that
backdrop, is rates on hold for some time.”  Growth in Australia is being driven by China, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, which is buying up iron ore, coal and
natural gas as millions of people in the world’s most populous
nation move to urban centers.  “Despite data on the Chinese economy being more difficult
to read than usual owing to the early timing of the Lunar New
Year, it appeared that the Chinese authorities had been
successful in slowing growth to a more sustainable pace,”
policy makers said in the minutes.  Still, “the clearest downside risk to the outlook for
Australia remained a sudden worsening in the situation in Europe
and its flow-on effects to the rest of the world through trade,
financial and confidence channels,” the minutes showed.
“Members noted that a sharp slowdown, particularly in east
Asia, would have significant implications for commodity prices
and demand for Australian exports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  