-- RBS to Shut Some Units in Korea, Indonesia and Singapore
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-03-20T09:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/rbs-to-shut-some-units-in-korea-indonesia-and-singapore.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest state-owned lender, will shut some operations
in South  Korea ,  Indonesia  and  Singapore  after failing to find a
buyer for the businesses.  The U.K. lender will today begin closing the cash equities,
equity capital markets and corporate finance units in Korea, as
well as the cash equities operations in Indonesia and Singapore,
Yuk Min Hui, a spokeswoman for RBS in Hong Kong, said in an e-
mailed response to queries. About 70 people will be affected.  RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs at the
investment-banking unit and sell or close unprofitable
divisions. The bank is in talks to sell some Asia-Pacific assets
to Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  It also sold the Hoare
Govett U.K. corporate broking unit to Jefferies Group Inc.,
transferring about 50 jobs. The bank hasn’t found buyers for the
rest of the U.K. equities business and last month eliminated as
many as 300 posts.  “It was our goal to sell all of these APAC businesses
together,” Hui said today. The Edinburgh-based lender has since
determined that certain assets won’t be included in the sale to
CIMB because of “commercial reasons,” she said, without
elaborating.  RBS will continue to operate its debt financing,
transaction services and risk-management businesses in Korea,
Indonesia, Singapore and eight other Asia-Pacific countries,
according to Hui.  Shares (RBS)  of RBS fell 1.9 percent to 28.61 pence by 9:40 a.m.
in  London , narrowing their rise this year to 42 percent.  Pan-Asian Ambitions  CIMB, based in Kuala Lumpur, and RBS signed a memorandum of
understanding to negotiate the sale of the businesses in the
region, the Malaysian lender said in a filing to the local stock
exchange on March 1. CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak ,
who is seeking to build a pan-Asian financial-services provider,
said Feb. 27 that his bank is also in talks to acquire a stake
in Manila-based Bank of Commerce.  Banks and brokerages in the Asia-Pacific region are joining
global rivals that have cut more than 200,000 jobs since the
beginning of 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis triggers a slowdown in
the region.  The government owns 82 percent of RBS after injecting 45.5
billion pounds ($72 billion) of public money into the lender at
the height of the financial crisis, making it the costliest
bailout of any bank in the world.  RBS CEO Stephen Hester said last month that restructuring
the bank was like defusing “the biggest time bomb in history.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  