-- Treasury Momentum Signals Yield Boost: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-20T14:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/treasury-momentum-signals-yield-boost-technical-analysis.html
Indicators of Treasury 10-year note
yield  momentum , including the surge above of the 200-day moving
average, signal the advance will extend for another few weeks,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The yield on the  10-year Treasury note  increased 27 basis
points last week and touched 2.39 percent yesterday, the highest
level since Oct. 28. The yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.35 percent at 10:05 a.m. New York time.
The yield breached its 200-day moving average on March 14 for
the first time in eight months. The moving average was then
2.2119 percent and is now 2.1981 percent.  The break above the 200-day moving average last week
“suggests that we have another two to three weeks of higher
rates and Treasury yields moving another 10 or 20 basis points
higher,” Terry Belton, global head of fixed-income and foreign-
exchange research at JPMorgan in New York, said in a video
message e-mailed to clients yesterday. “The selloff was
originally driven by fundamentals. That included better
stability in  Europe , an improving labor market in the U.S. and
weak foreign participation in the Treasury market. Now the
momentum is really being driven by technicals that suggest we
are going to get some follow-through.”  Yields on U.S. debt securities rose last week after the
 Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the economy, reducing
demand for the relative safety of government debt. Comments in a
statement following the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on
March 13 also led traders to cut bets that the central bank will
embark on a third round of asset purchases known as quantitative
easing and shorten the period of time before they predict the
central bank will lift  interest rates .  JPMorgan Outlook  JPMorgan forecasts the 10-year Treasury note yield will
increase to 2.50 percent by the end of June. The firm is
advising clients to focus Treasury sales on notes with five- or
six-year maturities.  The  moving average convergence-divergence  indicator, among
devices used to gauge momentum, is at the largest in more than a
year. The indicator is derived by subtracting a 26-day
exponential moving average from the 12-day average. A positive
difference signals the momentum of a move higher is increasing.
The MACD for the 10-year note was 0.0924 today, the largest
since February 2011.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  