-- Record Cotton Harvest Seen Cutting Prices for Gap: Commodities
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-20T19:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/record-cotton-harvest-seen-cutting-prices-for-gap-commodities.html
Record  cotton  crops from India to
Brazil are exceeding demand by the most in more than two
decades, driving prices lower for Gap Inc. and Abercrombie &
Fitch Co.  Farmers will reap 123.6 million 480-pound bales in the 12
months ending in July, exceeding demand by 15 million bales and
expanding stockpiles by 32 percent to the second-biggest on
record, the U.S. government estimates. Futures will extend this
year’s 4.2 percent retreat in New York by a further 15 percent
to 75 cents a pound by Dec. 31, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices rose to $2.197 a year ago after cold weather and
floods from China to  Pakistan  ruined crops, the highest since
America was recovering from the Civil War more than a century
earlier. Farmers worldwide planted more acres, creating a glut
that the  International Cotton Advisory Committee  in  Washington 
says may increase by a further 12 percent next season.  “Cotton is a cub right now and can grow into a fully-
fledged bear,” said Sterling Smith from  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based Country Hedging Inc., a unit of CHS Inc., the largest U.S.
farmer-owned co-operative. “We’re going to have exceptional
production next season, and that will weigh on prices
significantly.”  Hedge Funds  Prices tumbled 56 percent to 87.9 cents on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in the past 12 months, making it the worst
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 raw
materials. That measure was little changed, while the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities fell 1.4 percent. Treasuries
returned 6.8 percent in the past year, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows.  Hedge funds  are the most bearish in three years, widening
their net-short  position , or bets on lower prices, by 63 percent
to 9,628 futures and options in the week ended March 13,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Speculators were
bullish every week last year as U.S. farmers faced the worst
crop conditions since the dust bowl era of the 1930s. Harvests
expanded fast enough in other countries to more than compensate
for the 13 percent  drop  in U.S. output.  The 6.1 percent gain in global production predicted by the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  will combine with a 5.2 percent
drop in demand, the biggest slump since the global recession.
The ratio of stockpiles to consumption will rise to 60 percent,
the most since 1999, at the end of the next season which begins
in August, according to ICAC, a group of producing and consuming
countries founded seven decades ago.  Abercrombie & Fitch  Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, told investors in
February it expected lower costs in the second half.  Abercrombie
& Fitch (ANF) , the operator of its namesake and Hollister teen-
clothing stores, told analysts on March 7 it will benefit from
declining prices.  Demand is weakening amid slowing global growth. The world
economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, from 3.8 percent in
2011, the  International Monetary Fund  has said. Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  announced an annual growth target of 7.5 percent on
March 5, the lowest since 2004.  Japan  contracted 0.7 percent in
the fourth quarter and the 17-nation euro region’s economy
shrank 0.3 percent, government data show.  China, which uses about 40 percent of the world’s cotton,
will import 18.5 million bales this season, the most in six
years and 54 percent more than a year earlier, the USDA
estimates. Shipments are rising as the government diverts
domestic supplies to state reserves that may represent 25
percent of global stockpiles by July, according to ICAC.  Million Bales  India , the second-biggest exporter after the U.S., may also
slow sales after the government said it isn’t accepting new
export registrations after partially lifting a ban March 12. The
nation already shipped about 9.5 million 170-kilogram bales this
season, more than the 8.4 million-bale surplus forecast by the
government. Prices jumped 4.5 percent in New York on March 5
after the Commerce Ministry announced a halt to sales.  Declining prices and the curbs on exports may also
encourage India’s farmers to sow less cotton in the planting
season that begins next month. The area given over to the crop
will decline 6 percent from a record 12.19 million hectares
(30.1 million acres) a year earlier, ICAC estimates.  Consumption may exceed estimates because there are signs
that growth is accelerating in some economies. Claims for U.S.
jobless benefits fell to match a four-year low and consumer
confidence rose to the highest level since 2008, government
figures and data compiled by Bloomberg showed March 15. Retail
sales advanced the most in five months in February, Commerce
Department data on March 13 showed.  Chinese Inflation  Inflation (CNCPIYOY)  in  China  fell to a 20-month low in February,
increasing expectations the government will loosen monetary
policy to shore up growth. The effect on cotton may be muted
because sales from official stockpiles are likely, said Peter Egli, a Chicago-based director of risk management at Plexus
Cotton Ltd., which advises the industry.  “For the international market, that means that China will
become very quiet after April,” Egli said. “China will not be
able to remain the buyer of last resort for another season, at
least not to the degree they were this season.” ICAC expects
imports to drop 14 percent to 3.51 million tons next season.  Weaker Chinese demand will come at a time when U.S.
production is anticipated to rebound. While farmers will plant
about 7 percent fewer acres this season, improved growing
conditions mean output will probably increase 32 percent,
Informa Economics Inc., a research company based in Memphis,
Tennessee, reported March 9.  Australian Bureau  Shipments from  Australia , the third-largest exporter, may
climb to a record in the next season after flooding boosted
water supplies, the government’s Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences estimates.
Sales may reach 1.075 million tons in the 12 months beginning
July 1, from 955,000 tons a year earlier.  Gap, (GPS)  based in  San Francisco , is “fairly confident that
average unit costs will improve in the second half,” Chief
Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said on a conference call Feb.
23. The company, whose shares rose 41 percent this year, will
report a 1.6 percent gain in profit to $846 million this year,
the mean of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Abercrombie & Fitch, based in  New Albany ,  Ohio , anticipates
that “in the first quarter of 2013 and some degree in the
second quarter, we’ll still be benefiting from the year-over-
year cotton cost reduction,” Chief Financial Officer Jonathan
Ramsden said on a conference call March 7. Shares of the company
rose 6.7 percent this year.  “Cotton is overvalued given its fundamentals,” said  Paul Deane , an agricultural economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne . “It’s going to come under
pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Madelene Pearson in Melbourne at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  