-- Record China Bank Profits to Be Overshadowed by Bad Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T02:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/record-china-bank-profits-to-be-overshadowed-by-bad-loans.html
China ’s  biggest banks , set to post
record profits for a fifth year, may report 2011 results marred
by an increase in bad loans as an economic slowdown and
faltering  property market  trigger  defaults  by borrowers.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
most profitable lender, and its four biggest local rivals may
post a 15 percent increase in combined fourth-quarter net income
when they report this month, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Their non-performing loans rose for the
first time since the third quarter of 2008, the banking
regulator said last month.  China’s efforts to bolster banks’ risk buffers and curb
inflation following a two-year, $2.7 trillion  credit boom  have
pushed up funding costs, slowed the economy and triggered
defaults, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to warn March 12 that a
jump in bad loans may curb profitability. Fresh evidence of
mounting defaults may clip the average 42 percent rally in
shares of the banks in  Hong Kong  over the past five months.  “It’s time to take profits off the table,” said May Yan,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., who cut her
rating on the industry to “neutral” last month, citing
weakness in the economy and banking sector. “The rebound of
NPLs is not temporary. It’s the beginning of a worrisome
trend.”  Rising Bad Loans  Non-performing loans at Hong Kong-listed Chinese banks,
which include Beijing-based ICBC, China Construction Bank Corp.
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , may rise an average 40
percent in 2012, Yan forecast. The bad-loan ratio at the five
biggest banks could climb to about 1.9 percent in 2013 from 1.1
percent in 2011, she said.  The economy expanded 8.9 percent last quarter, or at the
slowest pace in 2 1/2 years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
export demand and the property market weakened. The slowdown has
extended into this year, with factory output in the first two
months rising the least since 2009, while  home prices  posted the
worst performance in a year, data showed this month.  Still, China’s 3,800 banks had fourth-quarter net income of
$35.4 billion, a third more than the total earnings of 7,357 U.S.
lenders including Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.,
data from the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. showed. The five largest Chinese
banks accounted for 139.5 billion yuan ($22 billion) of profit,
according to the analysts’ estimates.  Roads, Bridges  The earnings have been driven by accelerated loan growth
after China’s government unveiled a 4 trillion-yuan  stimulus
package  to bolster the economy following a slump in global
equity and credit markets in 2008. That triggered an explosion
in credit to local governments and property developers, and a
surge in investments in infrastructure such as roads and bridges.  A year after the boom ended in 2010, defaults began to
climb. Bad loans at China’s five largest banks rose to 299.6
billion yuan as of Dec. 31, from 287.9 billion yuan at the end
of September, according to data from the  regulator  in February.
The non-performing loan ratio remained at 1.1 percent, it said.  The actual increase in defaults is probably higher than the
official data because lenders write off the worst assets at the
end of the year, China International Capital Corp. analysts Mao Junhua and Luo Jing wrote in a note last month.  Missed Repayments  Mountain China Resorts Holdings Ltd., a partner of Club
Mediterranee SA in China, said last week that it failed to repay
30 million yuan of bank loans on time. Shandong Helon Co., the
fiber maker that in December became China’s first company to
lose its investment-grade  credit rating , missed 397 million yuan
in loan payments in January.  Publicly traded Chinese banks’ bad loans may jump 26
percent this year as the economy slows, while profit growth will
be cut by almost half, to 15 percent, and the average net
interest margin may shrink 4 basis points from last year’s 2.7
percent, CICC forecast. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We are monitoring the NPL trend very, very closely, but
it’s far from the stage of sending everybody into a panic,”
said Yang Jianxun, a Shenzhen-based  fund manager  at Dacheng Fund
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $12.7 billion.
“The problem will be contained and banks’ valuations are still
attractive from a long-term perspective.”  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001) , the first Chinese lender to
report full-year earnings, posted a 26 percent increase in
fourth-quarter non-performing loans following increased lending
to smaller businesses, which have higher default rates,
President  Richard Jackson  said on March 8.  Bankruptcies, Suicides  Among its branches, the ratio is the highest in  Wenzhou ,
reflecting the difficulties faced by entrepreneurs in the
coastal city, the bank said. More than 80 indebted businessmen
in the small exporters’ hub disappeared, committed suicide or
declared bankruptcy from April through September because of
loans due to informal lenders, the official Xinhua News Agency
said in October.  Property companies listed in China and Hong Kong face a
worse cash shortage this year than in 2008, when China’s house
prices fell for the first time since people were allowed to own
homes, CEBM Group Ltd., a Shanghai-based investment advisory
firm, said in January.  Residential prices will need to see a “meaningful
correction” by falling 20 percent to 30 percent from last
year’s peak before the government relaxes property rules,  Qu Hongbin , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said on March 19.  May Avert Crash  Prices may post a “single-digit” decline this year,
billionaire developer Vincent Lo, chairman of Shui On Land Ltd.,
said in an interview in Beijing on March 8. The market won’t see
a crash, he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao , who this month pared the 2012 economic
growth target to 7.5 percent, said  home prices  remain far from a
reasonable level and relaxing restrictions on sales could cause
market “chaos.”  While Chinese banks’ bad debt have increased, total lending
is growing faster. The ratio of non-performing loans to total
credit should be “stable” after lending grew 15.8 percent last
year, Morgan Stanley predicted in a March 7 note.  Agricultural Bank, the nation’s third-largest lender, may
report tomorrow that fourth-quarter profit rose 16.6 percent to
28.84 billion yuan, according to a Bloomberg  survey  of analysts.  Construction Bank, the second-largest, is set to report a
29 percent gain on March 25. ICBC may say on March 29 that
earnings rose 14 percent while  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , ranked No. 4,
will probably post a 2 percent increase in profit. The four
banks are all based in Beijing.  Lower Valuations  Shanghai-based Bank of Communications Co., the fifth-
largest lender, may post a 6.9 percent increase in net income on
March 28.  The five banks are trading at an average 6.1 times their
estimated earnings in 2012, compared with 9.5 times at New York-
based JPMorgan and 13.8 times at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s warned last week that China’s banks could
face a slump in earnings growth in 2012 due to a slowing economy,
falling property prices and the challenges of refinancing
“sizable” local government debt.  The banks’ reported bad-debt ratio tied to local government
financing vehicles is “not possible” unless they’re rolling
over debt, said Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based S&P analyst. He
estimated last year that as much as 30 percent of loans to such
entities may sour without central-government support, and will
probably be the biggest source of non-performing assets for the
industry.  Local Governments  Yunnan Highway Development & Investment Co., a financing
vehicle of the southwestern province, in April told creditors
including  Construction Bank (939)  and ICBC that it wouldn’t be able to
make principal payments on about 100 billion yuan of loans,
Caixin Online reported in June. The provincial government later
promised to assume payment.  In northern Liaoning province, about 85 percent of local
government financial vehicles didn’t have sufficient income to
pay principal and interest payments on debt due in 2010, Caixin
said in September, citing a speech by the head of the provincial
audit office.  China’s first audit of  local-government borrowing  showed 80
percent of their 10.7 trillion yuan of debt at the end of 2010
was bank loans and more than half will mature in 2011- 2013.
More than 35 billion yuan of money borrowed for local
development went into the stock and property markets or
prohibited projects, the audit showed.  The credit boom also sapped lenders’ finances. BoCom said
last week it plans to raise 56.6 billion yuan in a private
placement to boost its core capital adequacy ratio above the 9.5
percent minimum required under the new capital rules.
Agricultural Bank’s core capital ratio at 9.36 percent as of
Sept. 30 was also below the mandatory minimum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  