-- Regus Drops Most in Seven Months on ‘Challenging’ Economy
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-03-20T17:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/regus-drops-most-in-five-months-on-tough-economy-london-mover.html
Regus Plc (RGU) , the world’s largest
operator of serviced offices, declined the most in more than 7
months in London trading after saying that the business
environment is “challenging.”  Regus fell 8.8 pence, or 7.8 percent, to 104 pence, the
largest decline since Aug. 18. The Luxembourg-based company
reported annual net income of 37.9 million pounds ($60 million),
up from 1.5 million pounds a year earlier, according to a
statement today.  “Whilst in the near term we foresee the general business
environment remaining challenging at a macro level, we remain
optimistic about the long term growth prospects and strategy of
the business,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Dixon said in a
statement.  The comments and earnings that matched most analysts’
estimates persuaded some investors to sell shares that had
 rallied 82 percent  from Oct. 15 to March 15, said Hector Forsythe, an analyst at Oriel Securities in London, who has a
buy recommendation on the stock. That compared with a 17 percent
gain for the  FTSE All-Share index (ASX)  in the same period.  “It’s a  red day for the market , Regus is in focus and it
didn’t surprise on the upside with the numbers,” he said.
“They were a good set of results and I didn’t see anything to
cause too much anxiety.”  Dividend Increase  Regus increased its  dividend  to 2.9 pence a share from 2.6
pence for 2010. It reported a 4.3 percentage-point increase in
profit margins for its mature centers last year on higher
revenue and reduced expenses.  In today’s statement, Regus said it will open about 200
offices this year as part of a plan to increase the total to
2,000 by 2014. The company had said in November that the
“uncertain” economic outlook might lead it to slow its
expansion.  “We were slightly more cautious about the global economy
in November because the crisis in the euro zone was in full
flow,” Dixon said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 