-- Republicans Expand Complaints of Energy Loans Beyond Solyndra
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-20T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/republicans-expand-complaints-of-energy-loans-beyond-solyndra.html
House Republicans  will open a new
line of attack against President Barack Obama’s energy loan
program by focusing on two solar projects that won about $1.6
billion in U.S. backing.  The Oversight and Investigations Committee yesterday
released e-mails that Republicans said suggested the projects,
developed by Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , weren’t
sufficiently innovative or different from one another to receive
the guarantees. Democrats said Republicans cherry-picked from
the thousands of pages of Energy Department e-mails to score
political points in an election year.  A committee hearing today shifts the Republican focus
beyond Solyndra LLC’s $535 million loan guarantee to the
department’s broader loan program funded by the 2009 economic
stimulus. It also extends the use of Obama’s energy policies as
a line of attack for Republicans, who have sought to tie Obama
to rising gasoline prices.  “It is now clear that the  Department of Energy  has spent
the last three years supporting projects that have yet to
deliver on innovation, accountability or  job creation ,”
Representative  Darrell Issa , a  California  Republican and
chairman of the oversight committee, said in a statement.  Solyndra, a Fremont, California-based solar-panel maker,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September, two years after
winning the loan guarantee.  Chu To Testify  Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who defended Solyndra’s loan
in a November appearance before a House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel, is expected to testify at the hearing today.  Chu said in his prepared testimony, released yesterday,
that the agency put in place “an aggressive monitoring system
to ensure that the department and its grantees spend Recovery
Act funds wisely and that taxpayers get the value they
deserve.”  Critics were selectively releasing e-mails to invent a
“false and misleading controversy” surrounding the loan-
guarantee program,  Damien LaVera , a department spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  “The department backed loans for two innovative solar
projects that will support hundreds of jobs and provide clean
power to tens of thousands of homes,” LaVera said.  Antelope Solar  The two projects under scrutiny are Antelope Solar Valley
Ranch in California and Agua Caliente in  Arizona .  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,
based in  Chicago , bought Antelope, and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  in
Princeton,  New Jersey , purchased Agua Caliente immediately after
First Solar won the awards.  The projects, which will use solar panels produced by First
Solar, are different than Solyndra, which won the loan guarantee
to build a manufacturing plant. The First Solar loan guarantees
are to build a solar field to produce electricity and already
have utilities signed on to buy the power.  Projects tied to utilities carry less risk of default than
Solyndra, according to an analysis of the loan guarantee by
 Herbert Allison , a former Treasury Department official. The
Obama administration ordered the review amid Republican
criticism of the Solyndra award.  “From the outset of the Obama administration’s energy loan
programs, red flags were raised about the risk to taxpayers, and
a process open to mismanagement, abuse and missed opportunities
-- with taxpayers underwriting the risk and paying the bill,”
Issa said.  Carbon Copy  In one e-mail cited by Republicans, which will probably be
discussed at the hearing today, Dong Kim, the loan program’s
technical director, said the Antelope project’s use of single
axis tracker wasn’t innovative. The technology allows the solar
panels to track the sun throughout the day.  “The record will show that we did not grade this as
innovative during intake review,” Kim wrote in the June 23 e-
mail.  Jonathan Silver , then the executive director of the loan
program, in an e-mail dated Feb. 1, 2011, referred to the
projects as alike in design.  “Where are we with antelope valley?” Silver asked energy
official David Frantz. “Isn’t that a carbon copy of agua
caliente?”  “It is,” Frantz responded.  An Energy Department rule states a company can only submit
one application using a particular technology, Republicans said.  ‘Unprecedented Size’  Dan Leistikow, an Energy Department spokesman, said on a
blog posted on the department’s website that Kim, who was
responsible for judging a loan applicant’s technical merit,
found that Antelope as a whole met the innovation standard.  Kim said in an Aug. 4, 2010, e-mail released by the
department that the technical team concluded Agua Caliente
included “new and innovative components” and that Antelope was
sufficiently different to be eligible for a loan guarantee.  The projects were “unprecedented in size and scale,”
according to Ted Meyer, a spokesman for First Solar, the world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar panels.  They can provide enough power for 175,000 homes and
displace 360,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide each year, the
equivalent of taking 70,000 cars off the road, Meyer said in a
statement.  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the senior
Democrat on the oversight committee, said the Republican-led
investigation hasn’t backed up allegations from Issa that the
loan program was a “broad scandal.”  “The committee has identified no evidence that the
department’s decisions were the result of political favoritism
or corruption,” Cummings wrote in letter to Issa yesterday.  ‘Freakish Missive’  Democrats also noted Republicans have supported the
projects now being scrutinized.  Jeffrey Solsby, a Republican spokesman for the committee,
said in a statement that Cummings mischaracterized the
committee’s work.  Sending “this freakish missive on energy loans speaks
volumes about his own deficiencies as a congressional
investigator,” Solsby said.  Michael McKenna , an oil-industry lobbyist, said he
anticipates more such exchanges as investigations into the loan
program move forward. Congressional investigations may help
Republicans say Obama hasn’t lived up to his 2008 campaign
pledge to change the culture of  Washington , McKenna said.  “We’re going to spend more time on it for sure, because
there is more out there,” McKenna, president of MWR Strategies
Inc. in Washington, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  