-- Ringgit Leads Drop in Asian Currencies as Regional Stocks Fall
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-20T09:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ringgit-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-as-regional-stocks-fall.html
Malaysia’s ringgit and the
Philippine peso led declines in Asian currencies, tracking
losses in regional equities, on concern higher energy costs will
hurt the region’s economies.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Excluding Japan  Index (MXAPJ)  of shares fell
for a fourth day as China raised fuel prices, sparking concern
growth in the world’s fastest-growing major economy will slow.
 Thailand  and  Taiwan  may keep borrowing costs unchanged this week
as costlier oil heightens inflation risks, Bloomberg News
surveys of economists show.  “When stocks are down, it’s hard to buy Asian
currencies,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “The market is also waiting for an
outcome from the central bank policy reviews, keeping currencies
in a tight range.”  The ringgit fell 0.6 percent to 3.0730 per dollar as of
5:11 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  and the peso dropped 0.4 percent to
43.068, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s
won and  India ’s rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 1,124.90 and
50.33, respectively. Thailand’s baht lost 0.1 percent to 30.76.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index’s 60-day
historical  volatility  climbed to 3.46 percent from 3.43 percent
yesterday. The rate reached 3.3 percent on March 12 and March
13, the lowest measure of price swings since August.  China, the world’s largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second time in less
than six weeks after crude oil in  New York  gained more than 8
percent this year.  China Fuel Prices  Costs will rise by 600 yuan ($95) a metric ton starting
today after the three crude grades tracked by the National
Development and Reform Commission climbed more than 10 percent,
according to a statement on the planning agency’s website
yesterday. Refiners will charge 7 percent more for gasoline and
7.8 percent more for diesel, the biggest price increases in more
than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The won weakened as the  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of shares retreated 0.2
percent from the highest closing level since Aug. 3.  “The won is moving within a range as it has become
difficult to predict a direction for the currency, and not many
investors are betting on one position,” said Kim Seong Soo, a
Seoul-based currency trader at Kyongnam Bank.  The baht halted a two-day gain before the central bank
reviews borrowing costs tomorrow. Nineteen of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the rate will be held at 3
percent, while two predict a 25-basis point cut.  ‘Still Worried’  Taiwan’s dollar weakened for the first time in three days
as foreign funds cut holdings of the island’s assets on concern
slowing growth in  China  will hurt demand for exports. The local
dollar declined 0.1 percent to NT$29.558 versus the greenback.  Global funds sold $93 million more Taiwanese shares than
they bought in the past two days, according to exchange data.
China cut on March 5 its target for annual economic expansion to
7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005. Taiwan’s
central bank meets to decide on borrowing costs on March 22,
with all 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicting the
benchmark rate will be held at 1.875 percent.  “Investors are still worried about growth in China,” said
Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in
Taipei. “The central bank will probably keep  interest rates 
unchanged.”  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained 0.2 percent to 9,158
per dollar and China’s yuan was little changed at 6.3241.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 