-- Rongsheng Heavy Tumbles After Profit Decline: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-21T10:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/rongsheng-heavy-profit-misses-expectations-on-vale-ship-delays.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the biggest Hong Kong-listed shipbuilder,
fell the most in two weeks in the city after second-half profit
plunged 59 percent because of delivery delays.  The shipyard dropped 8.1 percent, the most since March 6,
to HK$2.17 at close of trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
fell 0.2 percent.  Second-half profit tumbled to 504 million yuan ($80
million), from 1.2 billion yuan in the first six months, based
on annual results announced yesterday, after the shipyard only
delivered one mega-commodity vessel to  Vale SA. (VALE3)  The Shanghai-
based company also predicted that the shipbuilding market will
remain “weak” this year as overcapacity in the global fleet
damps demand for new vessels.  The second-half “profit collapse is the story,” Barclays
Capital analyst  Jon Windham  said in a note to investors. “The
existence of better capitalized, cheaper peers makes  China 
Rongsheng ‘a pass’ for us at the current levels.”  The shipyard may even have had a second-half loss, assuming
a 1.2 billion yuan subsidy booked in the annual results was
evenly divided across the year, Windham said.  The company plans to issue as much as 3.6 billion yuan of
three-year notes in China, it said in a separate  statement 
today. It will sell 2 billion yuan of debt in the first tranche
to raise working capital and repay some loans.  Cash and cash equivalents were 6.3 billion yuan as of Dec.
31, down from 10.4 billion yuan a year earlier, the company
said. Short-term borrowings rose to 15.4 billion yuan from 9.5
billion yuan as at the end of 2010.  Sea Trials  Rongsheng also plans to deliver as many as ten 400,000
deadweight-ton ships to  Vale (VALE)  this year, Chief Executive Officer
Chen Qiang told reporters in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The first of
these will be handed over soon and the next is under going sea
trials, he said.  The shipbuilder’s full-year net income rose 0.1 percent to
1.72 billion yuan, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange
filing. Its shares have plunged 69 percent in the past year,
compared with a 8 percent drop for the Hang Seng Index. The
company expected to deliver eight VLOCs last year, according to
its 2010 initial public offering prospectus.  Rongsheng won orders for a total of 16 VLOCs from  Vale  and
Oman Shipping Co. The ships were part of Rio de Janeiro-based
Vale’s plans to pare the cost of shipping  iron ore  to China, its
biggest customer. The miner has so far only made one delivery to
China with a VLOC amid opposition from Chinese shipowners
contending with slumping rates. The government has also
tightened rules for ports handling VLOCs, citing safety
concerns.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said on a
conference call last month that the delays are mainly being
caused by “technical restrictions” and the company expects to
eventually gain access to Chinese ports.  Calls to Vale’s China spokeswoman Carolyn Tang today went
unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  