-- Ruble Falls 1st Time in Six Days on Signs of Slowing Oil Demand
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-03-20T16:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ruble-strengthens-for-sixth-day-versus-dollar-on-tax-payments.html
The ruble weakened for the first
time in six days and bond yields rose as signs of slowing oil
demand in the U.S. and  China  hit prices of Russia’s chief export
earner.  The currency fell as much as 0.5 percent before paring its
decline to 0.1 percent at 29.2425 per dollar at the close in
Moscow, its first depreciation since March 12. The country’s
$3.5 billion of Eurobonds due 2020 dropped for the first time in
three days, pushing the yield up four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.947 percent.  Crude futures dropped 1.4 percent to $106.62 per barrel in
 New York  before a U.S. government report tomorrow which may show
supplies rose to a six-month high last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. China raised fuel prices by the most in
two years and the nation’s vehicle sales may miss industry
targets, an official from the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said.  “We’re seeing good bids from international banks” against
the ruble, Andrew Mishko, head of foreign exchange at Nomos Bank
in Moscow, said by e-mail. “All equities and commodities are in
correction.”  The ruble retreated 0.4 percent to 38.71 per euro and 0.3
percent to 33.5029 against the central bank’s target dollar-euro
basket. The 30-stock Micex index slid 1.8 percent to 1,558.65,
led by consumer service companies.  “The ruble liquidity deficit on the market, which is
provoked by the forthcoming tax period,” is helping stem the
Russian currency’s losses, Alexander Yakovenko, head of foreign
exchange at Ellips Bank in  Nizhny Novgorod , said by e-mail.  Tax Payments  Russian companies may be selling $3 billion to $4 billion
this week to meet their tax requirements, Dmitry Sinitsyn, head
of foreign exchange in Moscow at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by
e-mail yesterday. A total 900 billion rubles ($31 billion) may
be due in taxes this month, Alexei Moiseev, chief economist at
VTB Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail today.  Exporters convert revenue from abroad into rubles to pay
the government in the second half of every month, boosting the
Russian currency.  “The main reason for the ruble falling today is oil and
the Russian central bank’s interventions,” Igor Akinshin, a
currency trader at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by e-mail. “But
it’s just profit taking, not a change in trend. I’m pretty sure
the trend in the ruble will continue and only a big wave of
negativity can change it.”  Bank Rossii manages the ruble within a so-called “floating
corridor” against a basket of dollars and euros to limit swings
that erode exporters’ competitiveness. The current level against
the basket implies the bank may be buying about $200 million a
day in other currencies against the ruble, Akinshin said.  Bonds Rise  Russia’s Eurobonds due 2015 rose, pushing the yield down
four basis points to 2.281 percent. The yield on dollar-
denominated notes maturing in the same year issued by OAO
Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, fell six basis points to
3.493 percent, while the yield on state gas monopoly OAO
Gazprom’s 2015 Eurobonds was steady at 3.343 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps advanced six basis points
to 166 basis points, down from last year’s peak of 338 on Oct.
4, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  