-- Russia Asks Syria for Daily Stop to Fighting for Medical Aid
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-20T08:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/russia-asks-syria-for-daily-stop-to-fighting-for-medical-aid-1-.html
Russia asked  Syria  to ensure a
daily pause in fighting to allow humanitarian access for the
International Committee of the  Red Cross  amid a mounting a death
toll in the Middle Eastern country’s yearlong conflict.  The Russian Foreign Ministry joined the Red Cross in asking
both sides in the Syrian fighting to agree “immediately” to
the daily cessation in hostilities, according to a statement
posted on its website late yesterday.  The Geneva-based body’s president, Jakob Kellenberger, met
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  in Moscow yesterday to raise
concerns about the inability to provide aid and medical
evacuations in conflict areas. The Red Cross asked for a daily
two-hour halt in fighting.  A year of violence in Syria since President Bashar al-Assad
started a crackdown on an anti-government uprising has claimed
more than 8,000 lives, according to United Nations estimates.
Veto-wielding UN Security Council members Russia and  China  have
blocked Western and Arab demands for Assad’s resignation,
arguing for talks between the Syrian leader and his opponents.  France today distanced itself from calls by Saudi Arabia
for arming Syria’s rebels, which French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said would accelerate a civil war in the country.  “I don’t think it’s the right thing to do and a large part
of the Syrian opposition is opposed as well,” Juppe said in an
interview on France2 television.“It’s a profoundly divided
country. What we need is a cease-fire, humanitarian aid, and a
political process.”  Representatives of Syria’s opposition groups are prepared
to hold talks in Moscow and are negotiating the timing of a
possible meeting with Russian embassies in Paris and Damascus,
Interfax reported today, citing an unidentified Russian Foreign
Ministry official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  