-- Ryan Budget to End Health-Care Law While Keeping Tax Revenue
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-20T21:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ryan-budget-to-end-health-care-law-while-keeping-the-tax-revenue.html
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget
proposal counts on more than $400 billion in tax revenue from
the 2010 health-care overhaul he and other Republicans want to
repeal.  Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, in the plan
unveiled today calls for repealing the health-care law while
setting a revenue target that assumes the tax increases remain
in place. The Wisconsin Republican’s budget plan seeks to
collect $37 trillion over the next decade -- the amount the
government would raise if the health-care law’s taxes take
effect and some expiring tax cuts are extended.  House Republicans’ proposal to reduce the deficit by
repealing the health-care law would work only by retaining the
law’s higher tax revenue, said Jim Horney, a senior fellow at
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . The Washington
research group advocates policies benefiting low-income
families.  “Otherwise, they wouldn’t be saving any money,” Horney
said. “They’re certainly not clear in the documents that they
put out.”  A House Budget Committee aide said the budget wouldn’t
retain the tax increases in the health-care law. Instead, the
same amount of revenue would be generated by a tax-code overhaul
envisioned by Ryan, said the aide, who spoke on condition of
anonymity to describe the rationale behind the proposal.  $2 Trillion Less  Even with the revenue called for under the health-care law,
Ryan’s budget would raise about $2 trillion less over the next
decade than the blueprint from President  Barack Obama . Ryan’s
plan would collect taxes averaging 18.3 percent of gross
domestic product, while Obama’s budget assumes 19.4 percent.  The budget plan uses what is known in Washington as a
current-policy baseline, which assumes that policies now in law
will remain in effect. That baseline includes the  tax revenue 
that would be raised by the health-care law, meaning budget-
writers could replace it with other revenue without calling it a
tax increase.  The 2010 health-care law included taxes on the wages and
unearned income of the top 2 percent of taxpayers, along with
fees affecting the health insurance, prescription drug and
medical device industries. Most of the levies are scheduled to
go into effect in 2013.  Cost of Repealing  When the law was enacted, the congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation estimated it would raise $409.2 billion over the
next decade. The cost of repealing them is likely higher now,
because the earlier estimate included a time period in which the
taxes hadn’t yet taken effect.  Ryan’s budget calls for a tax-code overhaul that follows
principles outlined by Republicans on the House Ways and Means
Committee. That group, led by Representative  Dave Camp  of
 Michigan , would lower rates and broaden the base with
unspecified reductions in tax breaks.  They want two individual tax brackets -- at 10 percent and
25 percent -- and a repeal of the alternative minimum tax. That
framework would reduce the number of brackets to two from six
and would drop the corporate rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.  Republicans could lower taxes in the health-care law and
replace them with elements of the restructured tax code.  The Republicans will need to find about $4.6 trillion in
tax base broadening to reach their revenue targets, according to
an analysis by the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research
group in  Washington .  The analysis makes some assumptions about the budget plan,
including an estimate that the break point between the 10
percent and 25 percent brackets would be where the 25 percent
bracket starts now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  