-- San Francisco Gasoline Drops a Second Day as Tesoro Plant Starts
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-20T21:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/san-francisco-gasoline-drops-a-second-day-as-tesoro-plant-starts.html
California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  tumbled for a second day as  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  started units
at the  Golden Eagle (TEMTCRUD)  oil refinery in Northern  California .  The 170,000-barrel-a-day plant near Martinez, California,
was starting the 50 Unit yesterday after work that began in
January, a notice filed with county regulators shows. The unit
separates crude feedstock into gasoline, diesel and other
products. The plant was also returning two heavy distillate
units and other equipment, separate filings showed.  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  Carbob declined 7.62 cents to a discount of
9.5 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:18 p.m. in New York, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel dropped 6.38 cents
yesterday after Tesoro reported the 50 Unit startup.  Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail that the refinery
“continues planned maintenance” on units and doesn’t expect
the work to affect deliveries to customers. The plant reported
an unplanned shutdown of the alkylation unit at 6:38 a.m. local
time, according to county regulators.  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  Carbob dropped 7.12 cents to a 7.5 cent
discount to futures.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is operating a light-ends unit at the
 Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  refinery in  Southern California  after a valve
malfunction,  Bill Day , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters
in San Antonio, said by e-mail. The 135,000-barrel-a-day plant
reported a sulfur oxide release after a “valve issue” on the
unit, which separates and recovers hydrocarbon fractions from
light products such as propane and butane.  CARB Diesel  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
fell 0.5 cent to a 12.5-cent premium against Nymex heating oil
futures.  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  CARB diesel climbed 1 cent to a premium
of 12.5 cents a gallon versus heating oil futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , rose
for the fourth straight day, by 3 cents to a premium of 9.5
cents a gallon against gasoline futures. That’s the highest
level for the fuel since Feb. 27.  Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are conducting
maintenance turnarounds at their refineries in  Washington  that
are expected to last into April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  