-- Sanford McDonnell, Former CEO of McDonnell Douglas, Dies at 89
-- B y   E d   D u f n e r
-- 2012-03-20T23:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/sanford-mcdonnell-former-ceo-of-mcdonnell-douglas-dies-at-89.html
Sanford “Sandy” McDonnell , whose
career spanned from the World War II Manhattan Project to build
the first atomic bomb to running the aerospace company that bore
his family name, has died. He was 89.  McDonnell died March 19, according to a statement yesterday
by  Boeing Co. (BA) , which acquired McDonnell Douglas Corp. in 1997.
He was diagnosed in late 2010 with pancreatic cancer and died at
his home in Clayton,  Missouri , the St. Louis Today website
reported, citing his family. He retired from McDonnell Douglas
in 1988.  “Sandy’s commitment to his colleagues and customers, his
country, and his community during his 40-year career and
throughout his lifetime, was extraordinary,” Boeing Chief
Executive Officer Jim McNerney said in the statement.  McDonnell became McDonnell Douglas president in 1971, CEO
in 1972 and chairman in 1980 as the company grew after the 1967
Douglas Aircraft Co. merger, converted the Douglas DC-10 into
the military refueling tanker still in use today and unveiled
the twin-engine jetliner that became the workhorse MD-80 for
carriers such as  American Airlines (AMR1) .  Under his watch, the McDonnell Douglas Skylab was launched
into orbit in 1973 as the first U.S. space station. He remained
on the McDonnell Douglas board until 1994.  Sanford N. McDonnell was born in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , in
1922. His father, William A. McDonnell, was a financier,
according to a Boeing  profile . His uncle, James S. McDonnell,
was founder of McDonnell Aircraft Corp.  Manhattan Project  Sandy McDonnell’s engineering work began in the U.S. Army,
when he was stationed in  New Mexico  for the top-secret Manhattan
Project that built the world’s first nuclear weapons, according
to an  account  on Boeing’s website.  “As a lowly G.I. Technician Third Grade I can’t say that
anything I did was that ‘notable,’” McDonnell wrote in a
personal history on the website of the Atomic Heritage
Foundation. “Perhaps helping develop a successful vacuum
casting process for uranium-238 was my most significant
contribution.”  He earned degrees from  Princeton University , University of
 Colorado  and  Washington University  in  St. Louis  and joined
McDonnell Aircraft in 1948. His development credits included the
F-101 Voodoo and F-4 Phantom II jet fighters in the generation
of Cold War planes that stretched the limits of that era’s
performance and technology.  McDonnell was named vice president-general manager of all
combat aircraft at McDonnell Aircraft, and in 1966 he was named
president of McDonnell Aircraft. His civic roles included
serving as national president of the Boy Scouts of America from
1984 to 1986.  In 1946, McDonnell married Priscilla Robb. They had two
children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  