-- Sanusi Says Nigeria’s Budgeted Spending Increase Not Significant
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-03-20T16:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/sanusi-says-nigeria-s-budgeted-spending-increase-not-significant.html
Nigerian Central Bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi made the following comments after a meeting of the
bank’s monetary policy committee in Abuja today.  On lawmakers’ decision to raise budgeted spending:  “We don’t think it’s significant. At a time there was
pressure to increase the benchmark from $70 to $80. It moved to
$72, what is less than we had in 2011.  ‘‘The increase as I understand it, is principally in
capital expenditure and not recurrent or revenue expenditure.  ‘‘And the increase as I understand it, is being funded by
some new sources of revenue such as signature bonuses in the oil
industry so it does not significantly increase the  budget
deficit .  ‘‘Having looked at the total effect, we think that the
impact is not significant enough at this point in time to
warrant a change in monetary stance.  ‘‘However we will look at what actual spending is down the
year and what it does to inflation, and what it does to exchange
rate before we take a decision.’’  On adding Chinese currency to reserves:  ‘‘The Chinese have started executing changes to export laws
that allows companies to settle transactions in renminbi and
also receive payment in renminbi.  ‘‘It makes a lot of sense to have access to renminbi as a
currency and so we have partly moved in there for the liquidity
to allows us provide renminbi for companies who are importing
from  China .  ‘‘But also, we’re diversifying the sources of loans and the
sources of investment from the West and getting some from China,
some from Asian countries.  ‘‘If you’re able to borrow money from the Hong Kong capital
market, it will be good to have some renminbi cash flows that
would hedge against the  currency risk .  ‘‘There’s no harm having renminbi, there’s no harm selling
oil to China and receiving renminbi payments and then going to
borrow in renminbi to finance infrastructure needs from China.  ‘‘It is not a new thing. Many countries in the world
( Malaysia ,  Brazil ) have done it but we’re the first African
country to do it that is why it looks strange.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  