-- Sator-Palladio Plan Fondiaria Merger with Milano Sale of Assets
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-03-20T16:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/sator-palladio-plan-fondiaria-merger-with-milano-sale-of-assets.html
Sator Capital Limited and its
partner, Palladio Finanziaria SpA, will seek to merge  Fondiaria-
SAI SpA (FSA)  with its  Milano Assicurazioni SpA (MI)  unit and sell assets
if they can overcome rivals and succeed in their plan to control
 Italy ’s second-biggest insurer.  Sator, a private-equity fund run by former Capitalia SpA
Chief Executive Officer Matteo Arpe, and Palladio say their plan
will allow Fondiaria to post net income of more than 420 million
euros ($556 million) in 2015. The merger would be followed by
the sale of Banca SAI and the company’s Liguria, ATA Hotel amd
real estate units, according to a slide presentation released
today in Milan.  The two investment firms last month offered to invest as
much as 450 million euros to gain control of  Premafin
Finanziaria SpA (PF) , the holding controlling Fondiaria, challenging
a bid made by  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA. (UNI)  Sator and Palladio
said their offer is less risky for investors because it excludes
a merger between Fondiaria and Premafin.  Unipol, a Bologna-based insurer, signed a letter of intent
on Jan. 13 to buy control of Premafin through a 400 million-euro
capital increase and merge it with Fondiaria and Milano
Assicurazioni.  Under Arpe’s plan, Fondiaria’s combined ratio, or claims
and expenses as a percentage of premiums, is expected to be 97
percent at the end of 2015, indicating profitable underwriting,
according to the presentation.  “The Sator-Palladio solution aims to free Fondiaria from
bad governance and a worse transaction,” they said in the
presentation. “It creates an independent, financially strong
challenger in the Italian non-life business.”  The plan also includes the conversion of Fondiaria and
Milano saving shares into ordinary shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  