-- Saudi Arabia Can Raise Output 25% If Needed, Naimi Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-20T23:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/saudi-arabia-can-increase-oil-output-25-if-needed-naimi-says.html
Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD)  can increase crude
production by as much as 25 percent immediately if needed, the
country’s oil minister said, seeking to allay the concern over
supplies that has driven prices to the highest in three years.  Brent crude has gained 15 percent in  London  this year to
about $124 a barrel. Iran has threatened to shut the  Strait of
Hormuz  at the entrance to the  Persian Gulf , a transit point for
a fifth of the world’s traded oil, in response to sanctions on
its crude exports imposed over its nuclear program.  “If you believe Hormuz will be closed, I will sell you the
Empire State or the Egyptian pyramids,” Ali al-Naimi said in a
briefing with reporters in Doha, Qatar today. “I want to assure
you that there is no shortage of supply in the market. OPEC is
supplying what it needs, we have capacity, additional reserves
of 2.5 million barrels” a day.  Saudi Arabia  increased production to 10.047 million barrels
a day in November, the highest in at least three decades. The
kingdom, the world’s biggest crude exporter, has the capacity to
produce 12.5 million barrels a day and will pump about 9.9
million barrels a day this month and in April, al-Naimi told
reporters at the Ritz Carlton hotel in the Qatari capital.  Saudi Arabia has excess capacity of 2.5 million barrels a
day, the minister said, which makes up the bulk of spare
capacity in the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries.
As much as 1 million barrels a day of exports from Iran, the
second-biggest OPEC member, may be lost as embargoes enforced by
the U.S. and  Europe  hinder consumers from buying its oil, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a report last week.  Spare Capacity  Brent crude reached a record $147 a barrel in 2008 as
unused capacity in OPEC narrowed. As prices rose that year,
Saudi Arabia said it could potentially raise output capacity to
15 million barrels a day, from 12.5 million barrels a day, using
new  oil fields  if needed. Al-Naimi met with ministers from
producing and consuming nations last week at the International
Energy Forum in  Kuwait .  “When I met with the ministers in Kuwait, every one of
them mentioned the economy, and the impact of current prices,
and the fear that we will have a repeat of 2008,” al-Naimi
said. “The situation is completely different today to 2008. It
is definitely not the same. There is plenty of supply, there is
readiness to supply, and the demand is really not the one that
is pulling.”  Brent crude  dropped 1.3 percent to $124.12 a barrel on
London’s ICE Futures Europe today.  Market is Oversupplied  The global market is  oversupplied  by as much as 2 million
barrels a day and inventories are rising, the minister said.
Stockpiles in nations belonging to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, were at 58.5 days worth of
consumption last month and may reach 60 days this month, the
Saudi minister said.  Oil supply disruptions in Yemen, Sudan and  Syria  are
located in “miniscule” producers and total no more than
500,000 barrels a day, al-Naimi said. At the same time, OPEC
members are boosting capacity.  Libya  will probably restore daily
output to about 1.7 million barrels “very soon” and  Iraq  has
commissioned facilities to export 900,000 barrels, he said.  In addition, Saudi Arabia’s overseas crude tanks are full
and total about 10 million barrels, while local stockpiles are
“significantly higher,” he said.  “Our inventories both in Saudi Arabia and worldwide are
full,” the minister said. “Our Rotterdam inventory is full,
our Sidi Kerir is full, our Okinawa is full. 100 percent full.”  U.S. and European sanctions cutting off transactions with
 Iran ’s banking system intend to pressure the Islamic republic to
abandon any nuclear weapons program. Iran says its atomic plans
are for civilian purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Doha at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  