-- Scene in D.C.: Nancy Pelosi, Enda Kenny, Patrick Leahy
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-20T15:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/scene-in-d-c-mancy-pelosi-enda-kenny-patrick-leahy.html
Senator Robert Casey, a Democrat
from Pennsylvania, decided it was time to come clean.  “I have a confession to make,” Casey said when asked how
many times he had been to Ireland, the birthplace of his
ancestors. “I’ve never been there.”  Casey and Wisconsin Republican Representative  Paul Ryan 
were honored last night for their public service and their Irish
roots at the American Ireland Fund’s 20th Annual National Gala.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  was there with members of
Congress, lobbyists and diplomats at the Ronald Reagan Building
and International Trade Center. The American Ireland Fund is the
U.S. branch of the World Wide Ireland Funds, which have raised
more than $90 million for over 300 Ireland-based charities.  The honorees were working the crowd at “Cooley’s Pub,” a
green-tented area where the VIPs could down Irish spirits and
nibble on appetizers before joining the more than 700 guests in
the atrium for the dinner and program.  Casey gallantly introduced his mother, Ellen, the former
first lady of  Pennsylvania , who wistfully recounted her own
trips to the old sod.  It was a family kind of night. Norah O’Donnell, the CBS
White House correspondent and master of ceremonies, came with
her mother, who’s also named Norah O’Donnell and whose parents
were both Irish immigrants.  Holding court by the bar, Ryan stayed with water while
Representative Timothy Murphy, a Pennsylvania Republican,
sampled the Irish whiskey.  Corned Beef  Ryan said his St. Patrick’s Day consisted of his family’s
recipe for corned beef and cabbage cooked in Jameson whiskey,
mustard and brown sugar.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, showed attorney
Joe Hassett mobile-phone pictures of U2 frontman Bono, a close
pal of Leahy’s whom his grandchildren call “Uncle Bono.”  Leahy also chatted up Luke Russert, the young journalist
son of the late “Meet the Press” anchor and proud Irish-
American, Tim Russert.  Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  caught up with Alex Attwood, the minister of the environment from  Northern Ireland 
and Colm O’Comartun, the executive director of the Democratic
Governors Association.  Before sitting down to dinner, House Democratic Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , in an elegant Thierry Mugler jacket and pearl
choker, huddled with Kenny and Irish businessman  Denis O’Brien ,
while the Irish ambassador to the U.S.,  Michael Collins , made
sure his table guests from both sides of the Atlantic were
properly introduced. Pelosi was the American Ireland Fund’s 2007
honoree.  Irish ‘Wealth’  Peter Westmacott, Britain’s new ambassador to the U.S., sat
nearby with his wife, Susie Nemazee.  In his remarks before the dinner crowd, Kenny spoke of the
“unprecedented challenges” facing the Irish economy, but said
the Irish people have a “wealth” of priceless qualities, such
as their “warmth and culture.”  Washington ’s lobbying community was represented by Thomas
Quinn, a partner with  Venable LLP (1214L) , Deborah Dingell, vice
chairman of the General Motors Foundation, and Erik Huey, senior
vice president for government affairs of the Entertainment
Software Association.  After a dinner of shrimp and asparagus salad and beef
entree, guests retired to “Cooley’s Pub,” which was
transformed into a dessert and coffee bar.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 