-- SEC Urges Congress to Amend Dodd-Frank’s Swap-Data Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-21T15:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/sec-urges-u-s-congress-to-amend-dodd-frank-s-swap-data-rules.html
Congress should amend the Dodd-
Frank Act to remove barriers to global regulators sharing data
about the $708 trillion swaps market, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s head of international affairs  said .  The 2010 law requires regulators from other nations to
indemnify so-called swap-data repositories and U.S. regulators
against litigation costs before accessing the data. The
requirement may undermine regulators’ access to data kept in
repositories such as the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. as
they seek to enforce new rules designed to reduce risk and
increase transparency.  The requirement “interferes with access to essential
information” because most foreign governments lack authority to
provide indemnification, Ethiopis Tafara, the SEC’s head of
international affairs, said in testimony prepared for a  House
Financial Services subcommittee hearing today . “In removing the
indemnification requirement, Congress would assist the SEC, as
well as other U.S. regulators, in securing the access it needs
to data held in global trade repositories,” he said.  The House subcommittee, controlled by Republicans, is
considering legislation that would repeal the indemnification
requirement. Dodd-Frank, enacted after largely unregulated swaps
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis, is intended to increase
transparency of the  derivatives market  by requiring price and
trade information to be reported to data repositories.  Legislative Fix  “Previous attempts by the U.S. agencies to ‘fix’
indemnification through regulation did not work,” Craig Donner,
a DTCC spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail statement. “The
only viable solution to prevent data fragmentation is a straight
legislative fix that removes the provision from the law.”  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , which is required
to write derivatives rules alongside the SEC, is working on
guidance on the issue, Dan Berkovitz, the CFTC’s general
counsel, said at the hearing. “We believe we have authority to
address this issue,” he said.  The CFTC may seek comment on the guidance within the next
few weeks, he said. The CFTC hasn’t decided whether the bill
before the committee is necessary to resolve the concerns,
Berkovitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  