-- Senate Plans Vote on House-Passed Insider Trading Bill
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-03-20T22:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/senate-democrats-plan-vote-on-house-passed-insider-trading-bill.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said the Senate will vote on a House-passed measure to bar
insider stock trading by members of Congress and other
government officials, which would speed a final bill to
President  Barack Obama .  Reid said the Senate will take up the version passed by the
House Feb. 9 on a 417-2 vote, rather than try to negotiate
differences between the competing measures. The Senate passed
its version of the congressional ethics legislation Feb. 2.  Though members of Congress aren’t exempt from existing
federal insider-trading laws, the Constitution’s protection of
their speech and debate may complicate investigations of
potential violations under existing law.  Leaders in both chambers are seeking to pass legislation at
a time of record-low public approval ratings of Congress.  “It’s my hope we can resolve this matter expeditiously,
thereby making clear Congress’s intent to prohibit  insider
trading  by members of Congress,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said
today as he set up a vote that may allow passage within days.  Earlier today, Reid expressed frustration to reporters
about his unsuccessful efforts to start negotiations to iron out
differences on the legislation, S. 2038. He said he was looking
at “other ways” to move the measure forward.  ‘Same Rules’  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said the measure will “ensure the public knows that the same
rules apply to elected officials as everyone else.”  CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported in November that some members
of Congress, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , bought stock in
companies while measures that might affect those businesses was
being debated. Both said they did nothing wrong.  The House measure in some ways goes further than the Senate
bill. It would extend to senior executive branch officials,
federal judges and senior judicial employees an existing rule
requiring disclosure when they are in negotiations about a
possible new job.  The House measure includes what Republicans call a “Pelosi
provision” to prevent lawmakers from participating in initial
public stock offerings that aren’t available to the general
public. Some Democrats accused House Republican leaders of
including the IPO provision to cause embarrassment to Pelosi.
Her husband’s purchase of stock in  Visa Inc. (V)  during a 2008
initial public offering was highlighted by “60 Minutes.”  Political Intelligence  At the same time, the House version omits a requirement in
the Senate bill that would extend some lobbyist disclosure rules
to cover people involved in so-called political intelligence.
The House bill instead would order a study on political
intelligence, defined as communication with members of Congress,
congressional staff or executive branch employees to obtain
information later sold to clients who use it in making
investment decisions.  The sponsor of the Senate provision, Republican Senator
 Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , expressed frustration today that it
won’t be in the final version.  “I won’t blame Senator Reid as much as I would blame
people in the House,” Grassley said, noting that a provision
similar to his had 289 House co-sponsors. “So when a handful of
people stick their thumb in the eye of 289 people in the House,
I think it’s a sad day.”  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, said he was disappointed the House measure
doesn’t include Senate language that would have tightened rules
on public corruption while stiffening fines.  “I am disappointed that there are now objections to going
to conference to restore this important anti-corruption
provision,” Leahy said.  Obama has urged lawmakers to send him a final measure for
his signature.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  