-- Shell Signs First Chinese Shale Gas Production Deal With CNPC
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-20T19:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/shell-signs-first-chinese-shale-gas-production-deal-with-cnpc.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  signed
 China ’s first shale-gas production sharing contract as the
world’s second-largest economy seeks to unlock resources similar
to those that sparked the U.S. natural gas boom.  Shell and  China National Petroleum Corp (CNPZ) ., the state-
controlled parent of  PetroChina Co. (857) , agreed to explore, develop
and produce shale gas in the Fushun-Yongchuan block in the
Sichuan basin, an area covering about 3,500 square kilometers
(1,350 square miles), London-based Shell said in a statement on
its website yesterday.  Hydraulic fracturing, the technology behind shale gas that
breaks open underground rocks, allowed the U.S. to become the
world’s biggest gas producer. China may have 50 percent more
shale gas reserves than the U.S., according the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  “We are delighted about this new milestone in our
strategic cooperation with CNPC,” Shell Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said in a statement. “China has huge shale gas
potential and we are committed to making a contribution in
bringing that potential into reality.”  Shell Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said last month
that the company invested more than $400 million in shale
projects with CNPC in China last year and that they plan to
drill as many as 25 wells this year.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable gas, or 12 times the country’s
conventional natural-gas deposits, according to a U.S. Energy
Information Administration report published in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  