-- Ship Owners Losing After $11.4 Billion Battle for Boxes: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ship-owners-losing-after-11-4-billion-battle-for-boxes-freight.html
After a quarter in which companies
selling space on container lines doubled rates, the amount the
owners of the ships are being paid is the least in two years.  Operators, who charter vessels and then charge shippers per
container, are demanding $1,379 for a 20-foot box on the China-
to- Europe  trade route, up 97 percent this year, according to
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest shipbroker. A measure of how much
they’re paying ship owners fell 4.2 percent since the start of
January, data from the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association show.  The gap is growing because operators are leaving vessels
idle or hiring fewer ships, driving down how much they pay
owners, while restricting supply and boosting box rates. RS
Platou Markets AS and Fearnley Fonds ASA, units of  Norway ’s
biggest shipbrokers, recommend selling shares of  Seaspan Corp. (SSW) ,
a Hong Kong-based owner, and buying those of  Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd. (316) , which manages vessels from the city.  “Whatever increase operators are getting is driving them
to profitability,” said Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst
for Platou whose recommendations returned 17 percent in the past
six months. “Owners are in no way benefiting and are unlikely
to benefit.”  The operators had previously spent 14 months in a price war
on the biggest trade routes, losing about $11.4 billion of
revenue, according to SeaIntel Maritime Analysis, a research
company in Copenhagen. Orient Overseas will report this year its
first gain in annual  profit  since 2010, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. West Coast  Box rates fell 50 percent last year from  China  to Europe,
the second-biggest international route, reflecting a glut of
ships rather than contracting demand. The capacity of the global
fleet rose 77 percent to a record since the end of 2005, data
from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay show. Trade gained 44
percent to an all-time high, London-based Clarkson estimates.  Operators’ earnings are also improving from China to the
U.S. West Coast, the world’s biggest trade route, with a 40
percent gain to $1,992 since mid-December, Clarkson data show.  The amount of idled capacity will probably expand to the
equivalent of 1.1 million boxes by the end of 2012 from 595,000
at the start of the year, according to Alphaliner, a Paris-based
industry consultant. Operators won’t renew leases for some ships
when they expire, said Fotis Giannakoulis, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in  New York . The Hamburg association’s index, a gauge of
costs across six types of container ship, fell to a 21-month low
on Feb. 28.  Slowing Growth  Operators may have to idle even more capacity to sustain
the gains because global trade in goods and services will
advance 3.8 percent this year, down from 6.9 percent in 2011 and
almost 13 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary Fund 
predicted in January.  Efforts by operators to raise rates on the Asia-to-Europe
route failed in eight of the past nine attempts, according to
data from Alphaliner. Orient Overseas is confident the latest
increase will be successful, Stanley Shen, a spokesman for the
company in Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mail.  China will target annual expansion of 7.5 percent, the
lowest rate since 2004, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a state-of-
the-nation speech March 5. The economy gained 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, the slowest pace in 10 quarters, and exports
fell 0.5 percent in January, the first drop in more than two
years, government data show.  The nation’s trading partners are also weakening, with the
17-member euro region expected to contract 0.4 percent this
year, according to the median of 18 economist estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fuel Costs  Rising fuel costs may erode earnings even if higher rates
stick this time. Prices in  Singapore , the largest refueling
port, averaged $734.21 a metric ton last month, the most in at
least nine years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A 10-
year-old, 5,000-unit container ship sailing at 22 knots consumes
124 tons of fuel a day, according to Morgan Stanley.  Analysts anticipate a jump in earnings for operators.
Orient Overseas, which manages  Hong Kong ’s largest container
line, will report net income of $201.7 million for this year,
compared with $181.6 million in 2011, the mean of 22 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares rose 16 percent
to HK$52.60 this year, and 20 of 26  analysts  covering the
company recommend buying or holding the stock.  Seaspan will report  earnings  of $113 million for this year,
compared with $123.4 million in 2011, the mean of eight
estimates shows. Its shares rose 37 percent this year, and seven
out of 10 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying or
holding the stock. The charters on four of its 72 ships end this
year and should have no effect on profit, Chief Executive
Officer Gerry Wang said in an interview.  Round Table  “Freight rates are increasing like crazy right now, and
there’s tremendous positive sentiment,” Wang said by phone from
 Vancouver  on March 16. “When freight rates are good, charter
rates always come up.”  Owners of other types of vessels are also suffering from
supply gluts. About 90 percent of world trade moves by sea,
according to the Round Table of International Shipping
Associations.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of rates for hauling coal
and iron ore, dropped 43 percent in the past year, according to
the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes costs along
more than 50 maritime routes. Earnings for very large crude
carriers, each carrying about 2 million barrels of oil, averaged
$47,068 last week, down 79 percent from the all-time high
reached December 2007 even after rallying 50 percent this year,
Clarkson data show.  Container Index  A measure of the combined earnings of the 14-member
Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk  Shipping Index (BPG4DBS)  will drop 91 percent
this year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The same gauge for the Bloomberg Tanker Index of the six largest
U.S.-listed owners anticipates they will lose money for a third
consecutive year, the predictions show.  The Lloyd’s List Bloomberg Container Index of the 50
biggest container-shipping companies rose 22 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent advance in the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities. Treasuries lost 1.8 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  The gap between demand and the capacity of the active
container fleet will narrow to 2.2 million 20-foot-equivalent
units by the fourth quarter, from 3 million units in the last
quarter of 2011, as trade expands and operators idle vessels or
return them to owners, Platou estimates.  “Operators are now in a mode where ships whose leases
expire will not be renewed,” said Giannakoulis of Morgan
Stanley. “Their strategy of fighting during 2010 and 2011 led
to huge losses. All the liner companies realize a price war is
not to the benefit of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  