-- Shipping Targets for Bears Dwindling After $99 Billion Plunge
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-03-20T08:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/shipping-targets-for-bears-dwindling-after-99-billion-plunge.html
The shipping industry is offering
fewer targets for investors betting on declining share prices
after its 80 biggest listed companies lost $99 billion of market
value in four years, hedge-fund managers said.  Naftilia Asset Management Ltd. stopped making so-called
short sales in shipping stocks in the second half of last year
because prices had dropped too far, said George Elliot, managing
director of the fund overseeing $250 million of assets. Finding
shares to borrow for such trades can be more difficult after a
slump, said Andreas Vergottis, the research director of Tufton
Oceanic Ltd., which manages about $1.4 billion.  The combined market value of the largest publicly traded
shipping companies tumbled 44 percent in the past four years
after a glut of capacity across container lines,  oil tankers  and
dry bulk carriers drove charter rates lower. Vessels ordered
before the rout are still leaving yards now, prolonging the
surplus and hurting the value of owners’ existing fleets.  “Many  shares  are just penny stocks now,” Athens-based
Elliot said by phone. “They’ll never return to the peaks we saw
in 2007 and 2008.”  The combined value of the 80 largest shipping companies was
$127 billion on March 16, compared with $226 billion on March
19, 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. China Cosco Holdings
Co., controlled by the state and the nation’s biggest listed
shipping company, led the declines with a 78 percent slump that
erased about $28 billion of market capitalization.  Borrowed Shares  “Facing the current downturn cycle of global shipping, our
commitment to shareholders remains consistent, and we are
dedicated to do our best to maximize  China Cosco (1919) ’s operating
profit, corporate value, and shareholders’ return,” Cosco said
in an e-mailed statement. It’s not the company’s policy to
comment on its share-price performance, the statement said.  Short sellers seek to profit by selling borrowed shares and
buying them back later at a lower price to return to the lender.  “When you are at the peak of the market, it makes more
sense to short than after the market has  fallen badly ,” Hong
Kong-based Vergottis said in an e-mail. “Finding stock to
borrow can also become difficult.”  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) , the New York-based
operator of a fleet of 117 tankers, had 51 percent of its stock
that’s available to trade freely on loan as of March 19,
according to figures from  Data Explorers , a London-based
research company. The cost of borrowing the shares rose to 7,
compared with 2 in March, according to a Data Explorers scale
that peaks at 10. Helen Harris, a spokeswoman for OSG in Tampa,
 Florida , declined to comment.  Shares Peaked  Short interest in  Excel Maritime Carriers Ltd. (EXM) , which
operates 47 ships hauling dry bulk commodities, was at 25
percent as of March 15, with borrowing costs assessed at 8 on
the Data Explorers scale. An official speaking by phone from
Excel’s headquarters in  Athens  declined to comment, asking not
to be named in line with company policy.  Shares of OSG rallied 19 percent to $12.97 in New York
trading this year, still 86 percent below the record $91.49
reached in July 2007. Excel jumped 54 percent to $2.24 since the
start of January. The shares peaked at $81.99 in October 2007.  Shipping industry executives are meeting this week for the
Connecticut Maritime Association’s annual conference in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , which runs until March 21.  Crude Carriers  Thirteen of the 51 marine-transportation companies listed
in the U.S. went public since the start of 2006, using equity
markets to finance new ships, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The capacity of the global container fleet jumped 55 percent to
a record since the end of 2006, according to data from Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay. The combined capacity of oil tankers
rose 26 percent and that of bulk carriers 64 percent.  Rates for Capesizes, carrying  iron ore  and coal, peaked at
$234,000 a day in 2008 and were last at $5,188, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in  London . Very large crude carriers, hauling 2
million barrels of oil, earned $229,000 a day in December 2007
and now get $47,068, estimates Clarkson Plc, the biggest
shipbroker. Box rates from  China  to the U.S. West Coast, the
biggest international trade route, fell to $1,992 from as much
as $2,833 in July 2010, Clarkson data back to June 2010 show.  “Shipowners finally need to take some tough decisions,”
Elliot said. “2012 is going to be a cleaning-up year.”  The collapse in freight rates triggered by the worst global
recession since World War II spurred sales of new stock to raise
capital. Companies increased the amount of shares outstanding in
2009 and 2010, Angeliki Frangou, the chief executive officer of
Piraeus, Greece-based Navios Maritime Holdings Inc., said in an
interview in November, citing an internal study.  ‘No Money’  Bankruptcies, vessel sales and financial reorganizations
are poised to increase in 2012, said Harry Theochari, the
London-based head of transportation at law firm Norton Rose LLP.  “There will be more blood on the table,” he said.
“Companies have come to a point where there’s no money, and the
market isn’t getting any better.”  Thirteen shipping companies sought U.S. bankruptcy
protection in the past 18 months and they were “the tip of the
iceberg,” according to Tony Rice, a London-based partner at law
firm Holman Fenwick Willan LLP.  General Maritime Corp. (GMR) , the second-biggest U.S. oil-tanker
owner, and Omega Navigation Enterprises Inc. were among those
filing for bankruptcy in the U.S. last year. Frontline Ltd.,
once the world’s biggest operator of VLCCs, split in two in
January after the company said in November it risked running out
of cash. Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. said March 15 it was in talks
with banks to reorganize its finances.  The crisis in shipping “isn’t yet over,” said Wolfgang Driese, the Frankfurt-based chief executive officer of DVB Bank
SE, which lends to the  transportation industry . “2012 and a
good part of 2013 will be challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  