-- Solar 15% Returns Lure Investments From Google to Buffett
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-21T00:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/solar-15-returns-lure-investments-from-google-to-buffett.html
U.S. solar developers are luring
cash at record rates from investors ranging from  Warren Buffett 
to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and KKR & Co. by offering returns on projects
four times those available for  Treasury securities .  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  together with the biggest
Internet search company, the private equity company and insurers
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and John Hancock Life Insurance Co. poured more
than $500 million into renewable energy in the last year. That’s
the most ever for companies outside the club of banks and
specialist lenders that traditionally back solar energy,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Once so risky that only government backing could draw
private capital, solar projects now are making returns of about
15 percent, according to  Stanford University ’s center for  energy
policy  and finance. That has attracted a wider community of
investors eager to cash in on earnings stronger than those for
infrastructure projects from toll roads to pipelines.  “A solar power project with a long-term sales agreement
could be viewed as a machine that generates revenue,” said
Marty Klepper, an attorney at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP, which helped arrange a solar deal for Buffett. “It’s an
attractive investment for any firm, not just those in energy.”  Jim Barry, the chief investment officer on Blackrock Inc.’s
renewable energy team, joins Pensiondanmark A/S Managing
Director Torben Moger Pedersen in assessing infrastructure
finance in a panel discussion hosted by New Energy Finance in
 New York  today.  Predictable Cash  With 30-year Treasuries  yielding  about 3.4 percent,
investors are seeking safe places to park their money for years
at a higher return. Solar energy fits the bill, with predictable
cash flows guaranteed by contract for two decades or more. Those
deals may be even more lucrative because many were signed before
the cost of solar panels  plunged  50 percent last year.  Buffett’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. agreed to buy the
Topaz Solar Farm in California from  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  on Dec. 7.
The project’s development budget is estimated at $2.4 billion
and it may generate a 16.3 percent return on investment by
selling power to PG&E Corp. at about $150 a megawatt-hour,
through a 25-year contract, according to New Energy Finance
calculations. It will have 550 megawatts of capacity and is
expected to go into operation in 2015, making it one of the
world’s biggest photovoltaic plants.  ‘Free Fuel’  “After tax, you’re looking at returns in the 10 percent to
15 percent range” for solar projects, said Dan Reicher,
executive director of Stanford University’s center for energy
policy and finance in California. “The beauty of solar is once
you make the  capital investment , you’ve got free fuel and very
low operating costs.”  The long-term nature of solar power-purchase deals make
them similar to some bonds. And because a solar farm is a
tangible asset, these investments also function much like those
for infrastructure projects, with cash flows comparable to toll
roads, bridges or pipelines, said Stefan Heck, a director at
McKinsey & Co. in New York who leads their clean-tech work.  Once a project starts producing power, investors can earn a
return that’s “higher than most bonds,” he said. “There are a
lot of pension funds with long-term horizons that are very
interested in this space.”  Governments remain the biggest backers of the solar
industry, and President Barack Obama’s administration suffered
criticism for investing in  Solyndra LLC (SOLY) , a solar manufacturer
that went bankrupt last year.  Biggest Investors  Worldwide, the U.S. Treasury’s Federal Financing Bank was
the biggest asset-finance lender for  renewable energy  companies
in the past year, arranging 12 deals worth $11.2 billion,
according to New Energy Finance. The Brazilian development bank
BNDES, Bank of America Corp. and Banco Santander SA followed.  In 2009, solar technology was so unfamiliar that few banks
would back projects that required billions in upfront investment
and wouldn’t begin producing revenue for years, Klepper said.
The biggest financiers for the industry that year were Madrid-
based Santander, HSH Nordbank AG of Hamburg and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA of Bilbao,  Spain , New Energy Finance said.  That year, the U.S. Energy Department began funding a
program to guarantee loans for solar farms and other renewable
energy projects that supported almost  $35 billion  in financing
before winding down in September.  The government’s endorsement assuaged investors’ concerns
and built up a bigger community of people who understand how to
make money from solar deals, said Arno Harris, chief executive
officer of Sharp Corp.’s renewable power development unit
Recurrent Energy.  ‘Bankable’ Solar  “Solar is now bankable,” Harris said. “When solar was
perceived as more risky it required a premium,” and now it’s
“becoming part of a much broader  capital market .”  Long-term power-purchase contracts are the key to making
solar a reliable investment, Harris said. Utilities in sunny
states such as  California , Arizona and  Nevada  have agreed to pay
premiums for electricity generated by sunshine.  In California, where the largest plants are beginning to
produce power, regulators  approved  contracts in 2010 for
utilities to pay $161 to $232 a megawatt-hour for solar energy.
That’s at least four times the $40 average wholesale price in
Southern California at the time. Most such contracts are
confidential to promote competition.  Beyond Specialists  Solar investing isn’t just for specialist banks any more.
MetLife on Feb. 29 said it purchased a stake in  Texas ’s largest
photovoltaic project, a 30-megawatt plant with a contract to
sell the output to Austin’s municipal utility for 25 years. The
insurer has put more than $2.2 billion in clean power.  Google has allocated about $1 billion to renewable energy,
including $94 million in December for a portion of four
California solar farms and a 37.5 percent stake in a project to
build a $5 billion transmission system for wind farms off the
mid-Atlantic coast.  Google plans to invest in the wind project during the
development phase, said Parag Chokshi, a spokesman for the
company. He said the total renewable energy investment is likely
to be short of $1 billion, though costs will fluctuate during
the work.  KKR acquired the remainder through SunTap Energy, a fund it
formed in December to invest in solar projects. It committed $95
million to the venture and will use some of that for its share
of the four California projects.  KKR, Google, MetLife,  John Hancock  and MidAmerican each
declined to comment on the returns from their renewable energy
investments, citing company policies.  ‘More Investors’  “We’re going to see more and more investors entering this
sector,” said Todd Foley, senior vice president of the American
Council on Renewable Energy in  Washington . “There’s a great
opportunity here for institutional investors, insurance
companies and pension funds as an alternative to bonds.”  There’s a finite supply of solar projects that make for
good investments, Harris said. Recurrent and other top
developers have plans for about 5 gigawatts to 6 gigawatts of
projects with power-purchase agreements that guarantee a long-
term revenue stream. Smaller developers have another 4 gigawatts
to 5 gigawatts of projects that may be traded, he estimated. A
gigawatt is enough to power about 800,000 homes.  A solar farm is “a nice cash-flow instrument,” said Nat Kreamer, chief executive officer of Clean Power Finance in  San
Francisco , which bundles solar projects to create investment
products. “Private equity firms are all over it but you’re also
starting to see utilities and insurance companies that want to
own the whole thing.”  Wal-Mart Inc. (WM)  is the second-biggest buyer of electricity
from renewable sources and is also considering buying projects.
The steady returns from solar farms may meet the retailer’s
threshold, said Greg Pool, Wal-Mart’s renewable energy director.  “There may come a time when Wal-Mart decides to enter the
market as an investor on projects with returns in line with our
return requirements,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  