-- Solteq Climbs Most in Six Years on Software Buy: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-03-20T17:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/solteq-climbs-most-in-six-years-on-software-buy-helsinki-mover.html
Solteq Oyj (STQ1V) , a Finnish developer of
software for the retail industry, jumped the most in 6 1/2 years
after announcing plans for the acquisition of  Aldata Solution
Oyj (ALD1V) ’s Finnish unit today.  Solteq advanced as much as 19 percent, the largest intraday
gain since August 2005. Shares of the Tampere, Finland-based
company climbed 4.6 percent to 1.14 euros at the close in
Helsinki. Solteq, which has added 16 percent this year, was
today’s fourth-biggest gainer on the OMX Helsinki all-share
index.  “The deal adds growth potential for Solteq as its product
portfolio expands deeper into the client’s value chain,” Petri Kajaani, an analyst at Inderes Oy in Helsinki, said in an e-
mail. The company is “rolling up its sleeves” to grow as it
buys a more profitable company at a relatively low price ratio.  Solteq agreed to pay 8.3 million euros ($11 million) for
Aldata’s Finnish unit. It amassed funds to pay for the deal by
selling its offices, agreeing on a 3.1 million-euro directed
share issue and taking a  bank loan , according to a statement.
Pension Fennia and Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Co. will own
14.7 percent and 4.3 percent of the company’s shares
respectively after the issue.  The funding structure is “positive” as it forms a long-
term mutual dependence between Solteq and Fennia, which bought
the  office space , Kajaani said.  Solteq sees synergy benefits of as much as 1 million euros
at the end of 2013, according to the statement. Solteq’s staff
will increase by a third to 286 people as it takes on 74
employees from Aldata. The deal is expected to close this week,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  