-- Rand Snaps 3-Day Rally on Commodities; Yields Hit 3-Month High
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-20T13:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/south-africa-yields-hit-two-month-high-on-rates-rand-declines.html
The rand depreciated for the first
time in four days on speculation raw material prices will fall
as  China ’s economic growth slows, damping demand for currencies
linked to commodities. Bond yields rose to a three-month high.  South Africa’s currency retreated 1 percent to 7.6208 per
dollar as of 2:17 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the
nation’s 65 billion rand of 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 climbed
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.95 percent, the
highest since Dec. 15.  The currencies of other commodity-producing countries
including  Australia  and New Zealand also declined after BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, and Rio Tinto
Group, the third-biggest, signalled slowing growth in China. The
country is South Africa’s biggest trading partner, buying 14
percent of the nation’s exports.  “The commodity-based  emerging markets  are not as well
poised as they were previously,”  Brigid Taylor , head of
institutional flow sales at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said by phone. “The momentum of inflows into  South Africa  has
slowed down, and the dollar-rand is looking bottomish.”  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials dropped
for the first time in three days and an index of global
 emerging-market stocks  retreated to its lowest level in more
than a week. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  declined for a
second day, led by commodity exporters including Anglo American
Plc and BHP.  The dollar advanced against all 16 most-traded currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. The rand’s three-month implied
volatility versus the dollar climbed to 15.81 percent today,
from 15.6 percent yesterday, indicating options traders see
wider price swings in the currency in coming months.  Interest Rate  Investors are adding to bets South  Africa ’s central bank
will raise its benchmark repo rate after leaving it at 5.5
percent for 16 months to aid growth in Africa’s biggest economy.
Forward-rate agreements starting in December gained one basis
point today to 6.01 percent, indicating traders expect a 50
basis point rate increase this year. The rate has climbed from
5.62 percent on Jan. 2 and is at its highest level since August.  South African spending growth accelerated the most in more
than a year in the fourth quarter as the nation’s current
account deficit unexpectedly weakened, the central bank said
yesterday. Inflation is becoming “more generalised” as demand
picks up, Governor Gill Marcus said on March 15.  “The cyclical recovery will be stronger than either the
 Reserve Bank  or consensus economists foresee,”  George Glynos ,
an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments today. “Local short-term interest rate
expectations are likely to continue to trend higher from here.
Local bond yields may rise.”  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 jumped five basis points to 4.34 percent. The premium
investors demand to hold the debt rather than  U.S. Treasuries 
widened nine basis points to 198 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  