-- Spitzer Tells Judge Free Speech Protects Against Libel Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-03-20T20:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/spitzer-tells-judge-free-speech-protects-against-libel-suit-1-.html
Lawyers for  Eliot Spitzer , the
former New York governor, asked a federal judge to dismiss a
libel suit over an article he wrote, claiming it was accurate
and protected by the Constitution’s First Amendment.  Spitzer’s lawyers argued before U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken today in Manhattan that the article he wrote for the
online magazine Slate didn’t libel former  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) 
executive William Gilman.  “These sentences can’t be about Mr. Gilman,” Lee Levine,
a lawyer for Spitzer, told the judge, referring to the part of
the article Gilman claims defames him. “The piece doesn’t say
Mr. Gilman’s verdict was vacated but he was guilty anyway.”  Oetken said he will rule later on the motion.  Gilman, who worked at Marsh & McLennan from 1976 to 2004,
was indicted in 2005 after an investigation by then-Attorney
General Spitzer over practices in the  insurance industry . He and
other executives were charged with a conspiracy to fix prices
and rig bids on insurance contracts. The state had filed a bid-
rigging lawsuit against Marsh in 2004. Gilman was fired by the
company, according to court papers.  After an 11-month trial without a jury,  New York  Supreme
Court Justice James Yates found Gilman and co-defendant Edward McNenney guilty of one count of restraint of trade and
competition. Yates vacated that verdict in July 2010 after
ruling that certain evidence wasn’t disclosed by the prosecutors
to the defense. In January 2011, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  declined to retry the men and dropped the charges
against them.  Newspaper Editorial  In August 2010, the Wall Street Journal ran an editorial
critical of Spitzer’s investigation of Marsh & McLennan. In
response, Spitzer wrote the piece for  Slate  the same month. In
it, he noted that Marsh & McLennan agreed to pay $850 million to
customers for reimbursements of premiums in connection with the
investigation. He also said that unnamed Marsh executives
“pocketed” increased fees and kickbacks.  “This wasn’t journalism,” Jeffrey Liddle, a lawyer for
Gilman, told the judge. “This was an attempt to justify one
person at the expense of another.”  Gilman sued Spitzer and Slate Group LLC in August 2011.
Slate is owned by  Washington Post Co. (WPO)   ‘Clear From Context’  “Mr. Spitzer indicates that Mr. Gilman is guilty of
crimes, even crimes he was never accused of, despite the fact
that his conviction has been vacated,” Gilman’s lawyers wrote
in the complaint. While noting that Spitzer hadn’t named him in
the article, Gilman’s lawyers said, “It is clear from the
context that Mr. Spitzer is referring to Mr. Gilman.”  Gilman is seeking $60 million in damages.  “Mr. Spitzer’s one-sentence summary of the Marsh-related
cases his office initiated was substantially accurate as regards
the contour of the criminal charge against Mr. Gilman that was
pending in August 2010 when the piece was published,” Spitzer’s
lawyers said in their motion for judgment.  The case is Gilman v. Spitzer, 11-05843, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  