-- Meat Loaf’s Meltdown Bested by Dylan Tribute
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-03-20T00:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/springsteen-s-anger-outdoes-sinead-cds.html
Meat Loaf is angry, and he doesn’t
care who knows it.  The singer, born Marvin Lee Aday, isn’t mellowing
gracefully on his latest CD, “Hell in a Handbasket.” At 64,
he’s telling the world in interviews that this is “the most
honest album I’ve ever made.”  That sounds right, with “All of Me” listing his woes.  “I caught a glimpse of myself today -- wasn’t a pretty
picture, I must say,” he opens. Soon the guitars are roaring,
drums crashing and he’s declaring “This is my anger, this is my
shame, these are my insecurities, that I can’t explain.”  The kid who got picked on in school and the singer who was
laughed at for his large size gets the last laugh, with a record
that yet again reprises much of “Bat Out of Hell,” which has
sold more than 43 million copies.  This record works well enough without the lyrical spark of
Jim Steinman. Still, its sturm und drang attack quickly grows
wearying. As the bats flutter around Meat Loaf’s heavy-metal
belfry, you wish he’d turn it down just a little. Rating: **.  This week is the 50th anniversary of  Bob Dylan ’s debut
album -- a collection now mainly of interest for revealing his
roots. There’s the Woody Guthrie folk fixation, covers of
traditional songs such as “In My Time of Dyin’” and only a
couple of originals. Dylan’s great work was to start with the
next LP, “The Freewheelin’ Bob Dylan.”  Those wishing to mark 50 years of Dylan might do worse than
pick up the four-CD tribute “Chimes of Freedom.” The artists
range from Miley Cyrus, 19, to Pete Seeger, 92, who performs
“Forever Young” with a children’s chorus. Rating: ***.  Paul Weller  has much of the Meat Loaf madness and
Dylanesque longing for eternal youth on his latest, the
appallingly spelled “Sonik Kicks.”  The silver-haired rocker dons a gangster’s double-breasted
suit for the cover. Rather than acting his age (he’s 53), Weller
plays down his role as a rock elder statesman. He comes across
as an enfant terrible, who simply does what he feels like.  This results in indulgences such as “Study in Blue,”
where he veers off into freeform jazz. That song is a duet with
his new wife, Hannah -- almost 30 years his junior -- who has
just given birth to twins named John Paul and Bowie. Really.  This CD isn’t always an easy listen and hasn’t the
consistency of his past two releases, “22 Dreams” and “Wake
Up the Nation.” Still, it’s a fine piece of work. Rating: ****.  Emeli Sande’s “Our Version of Events” is an excellent
debut by a former medical student from Glasgow,  Scotland , who
has evolved into a songwriter and R&B/soul singer.  The single “Heaven” is a standout, and there’s also a
version of “ Read All About It ,” which she wrote with rapper
Professor Green and was a hit under his own name.  Breathless posts and blogs have drawn comparisons between
Sande and  Aretha Franklin . While that’s going too far, this is a
confident start and she deserves to become a star. Rating: ****.  The Meat Loaf and the early Dylan recordings are on Sony,
priced about $9. The Dylan tribute is on  Amnesty International 
for $20. The Weller and Sande CDs are both in import to the
U.S., with release dates of March 27 for Weller on Yep Roc, and
June 5 for Sande on Virgin. Download fees vary across services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 