-- Star Dancer Diana Vishneva Hammers Slippers: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/star-dancer-diana-vishneva-hammers-slippers-interview.html
Kicking off high-heeled clogs,
Diana Vishneva sits down to try on a new pair of ballet
slippers.  “See how they feel,” says her manager, Gaia Danilian of
Ardani Artists Management, and so she does.  In two lightning-fast steps, she’s en pointe, transformed
into an impossibly graceful goddess.  Once back on her heels, she rummages through a box of
chocolates while speaking in rapid-fire Russian.  Vishneva, 35, began her spring season in  New York  as a
guest star with the Martha Graham company. She’ll spend April in
 St. Petersburg  and Moscow before returning to  Manhattan  to dance
in “Giselle” and “La Bayadere” with the American Ballet
Theatre.  We talked between rehearsals with the help of a translator
at City Center.  Tarmy: How many ballet shoes do you go through a week?  Vishneva: I average around a pair a day -- the British
pointe shoes last a bit longer, maybe a day and a half, but
those are around $70 dollars a pair.  Her Hammer  Tarmy: And when you get them, you can just slip them on?  Vishneva: Not at all. I have to soften the soles with a
hammer first, which always causes problems at airports. Customs
officials never understand why a ballerina is traveling with a
hammer in her carry-on bag.  Tarmy: You’re constantly touring. Does all of that time in
the air affect the way you dance?  Vishneva: Of course. After every flight I need to take some
time to recover. But I make sure to fly business class -- that
way I can move around and keep my muscles from tightening up.  Tarmy: What’s the best classical ballet company in the
world?  Vishneva: I’d probably say the Paris ballet, because they
have such a huge budget. And when you have a huge budget like
theirs, you can put on extremely ambitious productions.  Plus, the conditions to be a dancer at the Paris Ballet are
ideal -- if you become the “etoile,” it’s like a tenured
position. When you do decide to step down, you continue to
receive a salary until you die.  The Bolshoi  Tarmy: But I heard that  Russia  just spent close to a
billion dollars renovating the Bolshoi Theatre.  Vishneva: That’s politics, not art. They certainly don’t
spend that kind of money on the actual artists.  Tarmy: How has ballet in Russia changed since the fall of
the  Soviet Union ?  Vishneva: During the Soviet Union, as a star ballerina you
were given certain privileges: an apartment, a car, a dacha in
the countryside. But they were just for your use -- you didn’t
actually own them.  Today, no one gives you anything, but you get paid much,
much more money. It used to be a situation where the West paid
much more than Russia, but now it’s the reverse. Russian ballet
companies understand that they need to spend money to compete.  And I benefit from that level of competition because it
means that I can afford to dance at home, in front of audiences
who love me.  ‘Black Swan’  Tarmy: Did you watch “ Black Swan ?”  Vishneva: They actually asked me to go to a casting call
for it, but I was dancing in  Japan . And after seeing the film,
I’m glad I couldn’t make it.  I enjoyed watching it, but it had nothing to do with real
ballet. And certainly nothing to do with how you prepare for a
role.  Tarmy: When you stop dancing, do you want to do
choreography?  Vishneva: When I’m done dancing, I’m going to have kids.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 