-- States Shielded From Medical-Leave Suits by U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-20T16:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/states-shielded-from-medical-leave-suits-by-u-s-high-court-2-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court shielded
states from claims that they illegally denied medical leave to
workers, dividing along ideological lines in a clash about the
federal government’s power over the states.  The justices, voting 5-4, ruled against  Daniel Coleman , a
Maryland state court employee who was fired after requesting
medical leave. The majority said states can’t be sued for
damages for violating the sick-leave provisions of the U.S.
Family and Medical Leave Act.  The decision marks a shift for the court, giving new life
to a line of rulings in the 1990s that bolstered states’ legal
immunity and split the nine justices. That movement came to a
halt in 2003, when the court said state workers could seek
damages for violations of other provisions in the federal
family-leave law.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy,
 Antonin Scalia ,  Samuel Alito  and  Clarence Thomas , all appointed
by Republican presidents, formed the majority in today’s
decision.  “As a consequence of our constitutional design, money
damages are the exception when sovereigns are defendants,”
Kennedy wrote for four justices in the court’s lead opinion.  The decision prompted Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  to take
the unusual step of reading a summary of her dissent from the
bench.  Family Leave  The 2003 case focused on provisions in the 1993 law that
let workers take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a
new child or a family member with a serious medical condition.
The six-justice majority in that case said Congress was
exercising its power under the Constitution’s 14th Amendment to
address gender discrimination.  Kennedy said the sick-leave provision was different because
it didn’t address gender bias.  “Without widespread evidence of sex discrimination or sex
stereotyping in the administration of sick leave, it is apparent
that the congressional purpose in enacting the self-care
provision is unrelated to these supposed wrongs,” he said.  Ginsburg said from the bench that the family-leave law
“advances women’s economic opportunities and supports a more
egalitarian relationship at home and at work.” She added that
“self-care leave is a key part of Congress’s endeavor to make
it feasible for women to work and have families.”  Damage ‘Contained’  Ginsburg was one of four Democratic appointees in the
minority, joining Justices Stephen Breyer,  Sonia Sotomayor  and
 Elena Kagan .  The decision affects only public employers and doesn’t
apply to companies. “At least the damage is contained,”
Ginsburg said.  The 14th Amendment authorizes Congress to enforce its
provisions, including the rights to equal protection and due
process.  Scalia wrote separately to say he would put sharper limits
on Congress’s 14th Amendment power in contexts other than racial
discrimination. Beyond that, Congress can address only “conduct
that itself violates the 14th Amendment,” he said, adding that
the medical-leave provision “does not come close” to meeting
that standard.  Coleman’s lawyer, Michael Foreman, said the ruling “really
frustrates Congress’s ability to deal with something that
seemingly everybody recognizes, with the exception of Justice
Scalia.”  The case is Coleman v. Court of Appeals of  Maryland ,
10-1016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  