-- Stifel to Pursue Claims Against RBC After Settling With Schools
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/stifel-financial-settles-schools-suit-sets-stage-for-rbc-clash.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , sued by
five Wisconsin school districts over collateralized debt
oligations, said it will pay them $13 million and plans to join
them in pressing claims against  Royal Bank of Canada .  The payment may convert Stifel from a defendant to a
plaintiff in a lawsuit the districts filed against Toronto-based
RBC in 2008. The St. Louis-based financial services firm cited
“numerous misrepresentations, omissions and conflicts of
interest” contained in CDOs created by the Canadian bank and
sold to trusts set up by the districts for $200 million with
money they raised by issuing asset-backed notes.  “The CDOs were collateral for the notes and those CDOs are
now worthless,” Stifel said yesterday in a statement issued
jointly with the districts.  RBC issued a statement yesterday calling Stifel’s claims
“preposterous.”  “We vehemently deny their allegations,” the bank said.  The original complaint was filed in state court in
 Milwaukee  by school districts in Kenosha, Waukesha, West
Allis/West Milwaukee, Whitefish Bay and Kimberly. Stifel and the
schools said they need court permission to file their amended
complaint.  ‘No District’  “No district, if it had known what we now know about the
product that RBC actually sold us, would have made this
investment,” Kenosha schools Superintendent Michele Hancock
said in the joint statement.  RBC said in its statement that Stifel unilaterally designed
this investment, and had represented to the bank in writing that
the CDOs were suitable for the schools’ objectives.  RBC said it blamed Stifel for “misrepresenting and selling
the product, whose risk it compared to treasury notes.”  As part of the accord announced today, Stifel said it
relieved and released the districts from $154 million in moral
obligations to repay trust obligations arising under the notes,
which were initially owned by  Depfa Bank Plc (DEP)  and acquired by the
St. Louis firm last year.  Stifel said it will also post a $9.5 million standby letter
of credit for the schools, payable when it settles related U.S.
Securities and Exchange litigation.  “The settlement also provides the potential for the school
districts to obtain significant additional damages,” Stifel
said.  The case is Kenosha Unified School District v.  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY)  Europe Ltd., 2008-cv-013726, Milwaukee County,
Wisconsin Circuit Court (Milwaukee).  -- With assistance from Michael Marois in  Sacramento . Editors:
Peter Blumberg, Michael Hytha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  