-- Strabag to Spend 300 Million Euros for Wind-Turbine Foundations
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-20T12:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/strabag-to-spend-300-million-euros-for-wind-turbine-foundations.html
Strabag SE (STR) , the biggest builder in
 Central Europe , plans to invest more than 300 million euros
($396 million) on a factory in Germany to make foundations for
offshore  wind turbines  and the vessels needed to install them.  Strabag, based in Vienna, is seeking to make 80 foundations
a year at the site in Cuxhaven, according to Gerald Zangl,
managing director at the Strabag Offshore Wind GmbH unit.  The plant, servicing the German market, will cost more than
100 million euros and produce enough foundations for one wind
farm a year, with the rest of the investment going toward ships,
Zangl said yesterday in a phone interview from Stuttgart.  Strabag’s planned German investments follow proposals by
the country to build 10 gigawatts of turbines at sea by 2020, up
from about 200 megawatts now.  Germany ’s program may require
about 2,000 turbines and their foundations, which will sit in
waters 40 meters (130 feet) to 50 meters deep. The company is
also studying the U.K. offshore wind market, Zangl said.  Strabag won approval to use its “gravity” foundations at
its 50-megawatt Albatros 1 project in the  North Sea , it said
yesterday. It’s the first time the Federal Maritime and
Hydrographic Agency, known as BSH, approved constructions in
concrete instead of steel for use in deeper waters, Zangl said.  “There is a major ecological advantage with the gravity
foundations,” he said, with the drilling required to install
steel foundations creating underwater noise that can be harmful
to marine life. The concrete gravity foundations are placed on
prepared ground, producing fewer disturbances, Zangl said.  Albatros 1 will use 10 turbines, each with a 5-megawatt
capacity, made by XEMC Darwind BV, the Dutch turbine making unit
of China-based Xiangtan Electric Manufacturing Co. Ltd. Albatros
1 is part of the 79-turbine Albatros offshore project. Windkraft
Fit GmbH, a unit of Strabag, acquired the rights from Northern
Energy OWP Albatros GmbH to install the 10 units.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  