-- Subprime Revives in U.K. as Apollo Collects on Debt: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   P i e r r e   P a u l d e n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-20T13:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/subprime-revives-in-u-k-as-apollo-collects-on-debt-mortgages.html
Subprime mortgages that helped fuel
the U.K. housing boom are making a comeback in the  bond market 
even with Prime Minister  David Cameron  cutting spending by the
most since World War II and the jobless rate at a 16-year high.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sold bonds backed by more than 340
million pounds ($540 million) of non-conforming home loans last
week in the first deal of its type since May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Apollo Global Management LLC, which
acquired the mortgages in 2010, is using its servicing business
Lapithus Group to help collect on the loans and will keep the
riskiest part of the transaction, meaning it’s in line for the
highest possible returns, according to an investor presentation.  Apollo and the bondholders are betting homeowners will make
debt payments as the  Bank of England  holds rates at a record-low
0.5 percent, while economic growth slows and property prices
fall in most of the country. Investors are seeking riskier,
higher-yielding securities in Europe and the U.S. after the
European  Central bank  extended more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of loans to banks to avert a credit crunch.  “Even second-row asset-backed bonds like non-conforming
are starting to become interesting for investors with huge
amounts of cash available in the market,” said Alexander Fagenzer, a  fund manager  at Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt
which oversees 120 billion euros. “Losses on non-conforming
mortgages have been mild so far” and “even though it may get
worse, a senior portion is a safe place to bet on that market.”  Banks create residential mortgage-backed bonds by packaging
home loans into securities of varying risk and return that are
sold to investors.  Yield Premiums  Senior bonds backed by non-conforming loans are paying 315
basis points, or 3.15 percentage points, more than lending
benchmarks, the smallest premium since June, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The spread has narrowed from
440 basis points in December as investor concern eased that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will destabilize the banking system and
from a peak of 1200 in June 2009.  British homebuyers who didn’t qualify for standard
mortgages because of a poor credit record or an unreliable
income such as the self-employed took out the mortgages,
according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders. The market
ballooned to about 25 billion pounds in 2006 from 1 billion
pounds a decade earlier as  home prices  rose. The CML estimates
that in 2007, mortgages to credit adverse people accounted for
as much as six percent of gross  mortgage advances .  ‘Led to the Crash’  That helped prolong an expansion of home ownership that
should have ended in 2005, according to  Savills Plc (SVS)  residential
research director Lucian Cook.  “The free availability of mortgage finance drove the
housing cycle for two more years,” Cook said. The growth in
non-conforming mortgage lending was “one of the factors that
led to the crash,” he said.  Apollo (APO)  jumped into the U.K. housing market in 2007 when it
paid 1 billion pounds for Countrywide Plc, at the time the
U.K.’s largest residential real-estate broker. Prices were
rising at the fastest pace in almost four years, according to
researcher Hometrack Ltd. That followed its $6.6 billion
purchase of  Realogy Corp. (3362726Q) , which also held the top position in
the U.S.  Non-conforming lending, which includes stated income loans
in which homeowners weren’t required to document their earnings,
has largely dried up. Home prices have retreated 11.6 percent
since the U.K. market peaked in November 2007, with the biggest
declines, of 20 percent, in the northwest of  England , Savills
estimated. Prices nationally are forecast to decline 2 percent
in 2012, Savills said in a February report.  Forecasted Losses  That’s not dissuading investors from buying mortgage bonds
as they grow more confident that the debt is priced to withstand
potential declines.  Fitch Ratings  forecasts EUR29.1 billion of non-conforming
mortgage bonds will have losses of 6.5 percent of their original
balance compared with cumulative losses of 25 percent on U.S.
subprime bonds issued in 2007.  Delinquencies of more than 90 days on loans packaged inside
the bonds declined to 16.7 percent in November 2011 from a peak
of 21 percent in June 2009, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Repossessions have declined to 0.9 percent from 3.6
percent in February 2009.  Apollo Buys from GMAC  About 75 percent of Credit Suisse’s Alba 2012-1 transaction
is linked to borrowers with interest-only mortgages, 25.9
percent are self-employed and 22.4 percent have self-certified
income. More than 11 percent have properties in the northwest of
England.  The mortgages were originated by GMAC-RFC, the former
financing unit of General Motors Co. that exited the business in
2007 after losses on  U.S. subprime  mortgage debt infected the
global financial system and froze credit markets.  Apollo, led by Chief Executive Officer  Leon Black , bought
them in 2010 as it scooped up nonperforming loans and mortgages
from across Europe as banks collapsed or exited lending.  The New York-based private equity firm now owns 20,000
residential  mortgage loans  in the U.K., said Marc Rowan, a
senior managing director at the Citibank Financial Services
Conference in  New York  on March 8.  It’s a “great market: island, restricted land policy,
generally not overbuilt, overpriced,” said Rowan, who cofounded
Apollo with  Joshua Harris  and Black in 1990.  The investment firm can earn percentage returns in the
“high teens’ to low 20s without using borrowed money “by
buying defaulted mortgages, going through a collection process
and selling on the back end,” he said.  Brother of Centaurus  The Alba transaction provides Apollo’s investors with
financing linked to the mortgages to potentially increase
returns.  Apollo set up Lapithus, the name of a character in Greek
mythology who was a son of Apollo and brother of Centaurus, to
oversee and collect on loans after raising 1.3 billion euros for
its European Principal Finance Fund. Lapithus is directly
servicing 54,000 loans secured by more than 19,000 commercial
and residential properties, according to an Apollo regulatory
filing.  The investment firm, which went public last year, fell 10
cents to $14.32 as of 9:42 a.m. in New York. The shares have
declined 25 percent since its initial public offering last year.
Black said last month his firm had “miserable” timing for its
offering as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled market
volatility.  Raising Second Fund  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo in New York,
declined to comment on Alba or the firm’s investments. Apollo is
collecting commitments for a second European non-performing loan
fund and raised $200 million by the end of December, the filing
shows.  Fitch assigned a ranking of AAA to the safest 180 million
pound portion of the Alba transaction, a week before it said
Britain risks losing its top investment grade because of its
limited ability to deal with shocks.  The U.K. economy will grow 0.45 percent this year,
according to the median of 14 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, down from 0.9 percent last year, as the U.K.
government cuts spending to erase by 2017 the bulk of a  budget
deficit  that equals 9 percent of gross domestic product.  U.K. jobless claims rose more than economists forecast in
February, and a broader measure of  unemployment  remained at the
highest level in 16 years, according to data released March 14
by the Office for National Statistics in  London .  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will say in the
budget this week that Britain will escape recession this year
after a strong-than-expected first quarter. While the growth
outlook may improve, the Office for Budget Responsibility, the
non-partisan body that prepares Osborne’s forecasts, is likely
to report little improvement in the labor market.  ‘Less Loved Assets’  The top-ranked Alba notes were sold at 95.78 pence on the
pound and have a coupon of 225 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, according to a person with knowledge of
the transaction. A 53.6 million pound portion pays 1.5 percent
fixed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Renewed interest in non-conforming mortgage bonds is part
of increased demand for residential mortgage securities globally
after Greece negotiated a debt restructuring and the U.S.
economic recovery strengthens.  Investors are “switching to risk on mode” after the
sovereign outlook improved, according to Flavio Rusconi, a
JPMorgan bond analyst in London. “This is benefiting less loved
asset classes, including U.K. non conforming mortgage-backed
securities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 