-- Russia Seeks Daily Pause in Fighting as Syria Shells Cities
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-20T12:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/syria-forces-shell-cities-as-russia-calls-for-pause-in-fighting.html
Russia  called for a daily pause in
violence in  Syria  to allow access for humanitarian aid, as
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad shelled cities in the
center of the country.  The Russian Foreign Ministry joined the  International
Committee of the Red Cross  in asking both sides to agree
immediately to the daily cessation in hostilities, according to
a statement posted on its website late yesterday. The  Red Cross 
is seeking a two hour pause each day to allow access to food and
medicines for those caught up in the violence.  The Red Cross “is hopeful that meetings like this will
lead to concrete results,” the Geneva-based organization said
on its website. “The decision on its call for a daily cessation
in the fighting remains in the hands of the Syrian authorities
and the Syrian opposition.”  Assad’s forces have intensified attacks against rebel
strongholds this month to try and extinguish a yearlong uprising
that has cost more than 8,000 lives. Government forces were
struck by a series of explosions in Aleppo and Damascus over the
weekend which left at least 30 dead, state media said. Fighting
yesterday spread to a neighborhood of Damascus that houses a
number of embassies and homes of security officers.  Syrian gunners continued the shelling of rebel areas today,
killing at least 15 people in Homs, Hama and the capital
Damascus, according to an e-mail from the opposition Local Co-
Ordination Committees.  ‘No Time to Lose’  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the international
community needs to act quickly to stem the bloodshed.  “We have no time to waste, no time to lose,” Ban told
reporters in the Indonesian city of Bogor today. “Just one
minute, one hour delay will mean more and more people dead.”  Western countries on the United Nations  Security Council 
are continuing to push for international action today following
the blocking of two resolutions by permanent members Russia and
 China .  The council is set to adopt a statement backing its envoy,
 Kofi Annan , who is leading efforts to broker peace in Syria,
according to Mark Lyall Grant, British ambassador and current
president of the 15-member body. Russia is prepared to back
action to support Annan’s mission, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said today in Moscow.  ‘Regime Change’  Last year’s Western military action in Libya, sanctioned by
a UN resolution, left Russia and China with a “sour taste,”
the  Royal United Services Institute  said in a report published
yesterday.  “The manner in which the initial Security Council
resolution was contorted out of all recognition from the
protection of civilians to, in effect, outright regime change”
in  Libya  has made the two countries more willing to use UN
vetoes to block action on Syria, according to the London-based
institute’s report.  Different UN statements, one drafted by  France  and one by
Russia, are circulating among diplomats at the organization’s
headquarters in  New York . Any statement would require unanimity
and would represent the strongest world response to the crisis
so far.  Representatives of Syria’s opposition are prepared to hold
talks in Moscow and are negotiating the timing of a possible
meeting with Russian embassies in Paris and Damascus, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified Foreign Ministry official.  International Pressure  Russia, which sells weapons to Syria, is facing growing
international pressure to sever ties with a Soviet-era ally.
Russia’s only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  is a
naval maintenance and supply center in the Syrian port of Tartus
on the  Mediterranean Sea .  Meanwhile,  Human Rights Watch , in a public letter to
opposition groups, said elements in Syria’s armed opposition
have carried out kidnappings and tortured members of Assad’s
security forces and pro-government militias, called shabeeha, as
well as government supporters.  The New York-based group also said it has also received
reports of executions by armed opposition groups of security
force members and civilians.  “The Syrian government’s brutal tactics cannot justify
abuses by armed opposition groups,” said Sarah Leah Whitson,
the group’s  Middle East  director. “Opposition leaders should
make it clear to their followers that they must not torture,
kidnap, or execute under any circumstances.”  In a message to the UN Security Council, Syria’s Foreign
Ministry said “regional and international sides” were backing
“terrorists” in the country with money and weapons, the state-
run SANA news agency reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  