-- U.K. Finance Firms Rely on Basic Non-Compete Clause, Survey Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-03-20T17:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-finance-firms-rely-on-basic-non-compete-clause-survey-says.html
Almost 60 percent of U.K. financial
services companies use standardized non-compete agreements in
employment contracts, making it difficult to prevent workers
from taking clients with them when they leave, according to a
law firm survey.  Faegre Baker Daniels LLP (1217L)  said 83 percent of respondents
used some form of restrictive covenant, with 59 percent using a
standardized contract.  The report , released March 16, surveyed
116 businesses in the U.K., including banks, brokers and
insurers.  “A significant number of employers are using off-the-shelf
covenants and that is when they are going to run into
difficulties,” said Alex Denny, a lawyer at the firm’s London
office, referring to the narrow scope of the basic agreements.
“They understand the importance of having covenants but may not
have given much thought beyond that.”  Non-compete agreements, known as restrictive covenants in
the U.K., are used to block an individual, or group of
employees, from taking business with them to a new job. They are
often enforced when large teams, with strong client
relationships, move to a competitor.  Just under 30 percent of respondents to the survey said
they thought any breaches of non-competition clauses went
unchallenged by employers.  “Many companies threaten to enforce restrictive covenants,
but legal action can make a company look weak because the claim
emphasizes the importance of the person leaving,” said Ronnie Fox, the principal at Fox Law. “On the other hand, in the case
of a big team move that could cause real damage to the company,
legal proceedings make good sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  