-- U.K. Conservatives Come Up Short in Austerity Experiment
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-conservatives-come-up-short-in-austerity-experiment.html
Since 2010 Britain has been a
laboratory for an important experiment in economic policy. The
question: When economies slump and public borrowing soars, can
fiscal restraint speed the recovery? Preliminary findings: No,
and whatever made you think it could?  The unemployed weren’t asked whether it was all right with
them, but Britain was a good place for the experiment. For a
start, its government actually controls fiscal policy. On
Wednesday, Finance Minister  George Osborne  will set out his new
budget in the House of Commons and, strange as it seems in
 Washington , that will be that. Osborne won’t call for Parliament
to change tax rates or urge it (perhaps seriously, perhaps not)
to do one thing or another. He will set policy, period.  As a place for this test, Britain had another advantage.
Like the U.S. but unlike France or  Germany , it has its own
currency and runs its own monetary policy. Osborne doesn’t have
to frame his budgets knowing, as governments in the euro area
know, that  interest rates  will be set somewhere else according
to somebody else’s needs.  Sharp Break  Britain therefore had a lot of freedom to get fiscal policy
right when the recession bore down in 2008. The Labour
government then in power let automatic fiscal stabilizers work
unimpeded and added a moderate amount of discretionary stimulus
on top. Public borrowing  surged . The Treasury said it was
suspending its fiscal-policy rules until the economy was back at
full strength.  In opposition, the Conservatives called this reckless. When
they came to power in 2010, they announced a sharp break. To
help restore financial confidence, the government would tighten
fiscal policy at once. The idea was that austerity, done
correctly, would promote growth. It would remove the threat of
fiscal collapse. With public borrowing in check and confidence
improved, the private sector would take up the slack.  It didn’t happen. Britain’s households aren’t spending, and
its businesses, despite running big financial surpluses, aren’t
investing. For the past 18 months output has been essentially
 flat , still well below its level when the recession began.
Official forecasters think output won’t regain its 2008 level
until 2014 -- a  slower  pace of recovery than Britain experienced
after the Great Depression.  In one way, the figures flatter the Tories’ fiscal
experiment, because the  Bank of England  has been more forceful
than the  Federal Reserve  in supporting the economy with
quantitative easing (where the central bank buys debt to
increase the  money supply ). The Bank of England persisted in
this approach despite high inflation, which peaked at more than
5 percent last year, against the Bank’s  official target  of 2
percent. Without such aggressive loosening of monetary policy,
the economy would be in even worse trouble.  Together, though, monetary and fiscal policy are still
doing too little to support demand. Inflation has fallen in
recent months and, according to the Bank, is on track to drop
below the 2 percent target. Some of last year’s inflation surge
was due to an increase in value added tax, which will drop out
of the numbers. Expectations of inflation have stayed well under
control -- a tribute to the Bank’s ability to explain itself --
and, crucially, with unemployment still very high, there’s no
sign of wage inflation.  Unavoidable Austerity  The Bank can do more QE if need be, but looser fiscal
policy can and should be part of the mix. Unfortunately, the
government is unlikely to admit its mistake and concede that
fiscal policy has been too tight. The budget is about politics
as well as economics, and one of Osborne’s tasks on Wednesday
will be to divert attention from that larger issue.  So expect the usual bundle of tweaks to the tax system. The
Tories and their coalition partners have been arguing about
whether to trim the highest marginal rate of income tax,
currently 50 percent, to curb  tax avoidance . This might be done
alongside a new rule to set a minimum overall tax for the rich -
- akin to the Buffett rule that the Obama administration has
proposed for the U.S. -- and higher taxes on the sale of
expensive houses. The Treasury has also been trailing measures
to spur corporate investment and a new initiative on privately
financed infrastructure spending.  There’ll be no great change in the overall course of fiscal
policy. By making far too big a deal of it in 2010, the
government locked itself into “austerity is unavoidable.” This
line, carried to excess, not only limits the scope for necessary
short-term fiscal easing but can also undermine longer-term
fiscal control. Indeed, the government’s new hopes for privately
financed infrastructure are a classic case in point.  The idea is to get private companies to build new roads and
recover the costs later through tolls or other fees. In
principle, charging users for infrastructure is a fine idea --
especially if congestion pricing is used to restrict peak
demand. But it’s crazy to finance what is public investment in
all but name through private borrowing when the government can
borrow long-term for almost nothing. Britain does need to spend
more on infrastructure. Now is the perfect time to finance this
through higher public borrowing. Not only would it spur demand,
but in the end it would cost much less.  Criticism of  David Cameron ’s government from Labour and its
allies on the left is overdone. The fiscal tightening after 2010
wasn’t as sudden or severe as they say. Cameron invited this
line of attack by portraying his change of policy as brave and
radical. Britain still has a big  budget deficit  and rising
public debt. The Tories are right that longer-term fiscal
consolidation is necessary: Public debt cannot rise without
limit, even for a country that can print its own currency. And
it’s not easy for a government to commit itself credibly to
“austerity tomorrow” without making some kind of down payment.  Nonetheless, a milder and longer-delayed fiscal adjustment
than the one Cameron and Osborne devised was possible, and would
have been smarter. A less boastful presentation of the policy
when the Tories took office would have made later midcourse
correction easier, and it would have been less apt to steer
policy toward private financing of public investment and other
fiscal absurdities. British governments have a lot of
flexibility in their conduct of fiscal policy. They should
conserve it, so they have it when they need it.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 