-- U.K. Inflation Stays Above BOE Limit on Alcohol, Food: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-20T10:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-inflation-slows-less-than-forecast-on-alcohol-food-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed less than
economists forecast in February as higher alcohol and food costs
helped keep consumer-price gains above the  Bank of England ’s
upper limit.  Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the
least since November 2010, compared with 3.6 percent in January,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The
median estimate of 36 economists was for a reading of 3.3
percent last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The pace of the slowdown in inflation may be curbed by
rising oil costs, which have surged in the past six months.
While the Bank of England has forecast that price growth will
ease to its 2 percent goal this year, policy maker  Martin Weale 
said last month there is a “risk that there may be more
persistence to inflation.”  One can “expect further declines in inflation to be more
modest going forward,”  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in an e-mailed note. “The key question
remains where consumer price inflation settles. We think it will
be higher than Bank of England forecasts at year-end.”  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
data were released. It traded at $1.5866 as of 10:56 a.m. in
London, down 0.2 percent from yesterday. Gilts fell, leaving the
yield on the 10-year bond little changed at 2.42 percent.  Hard Liquor  The largest downward effect on the 12-month inflation rate
in February was from housing and household services, the
statistics office said. The largest upward effect came from
tobacco and alcohol.  Prices for spirits rose 2.6 percent in February from
January, compared with a decline of 5.8 percent in the same
month in 2011. The ONS said retailers' discounting of alcohol in
different months creates volatility in the price changes for 
these products. Vegetable prices rose 3.3 percent on the month,
while soft drinks increased 4.3 percent.  From the previous month, consumer prices rose 0.6 percent
in February, exceeding the median forecast of a 0.4 percent gain
in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 economists.  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, slowed to 2.4 percent in February,
the least since November 2009, from 2.6 percent in January.  Consumer Squeeze  Retail-price inflation , a measure used in wage
negotiations, slowed to 3.7 percent in February from 3.9
percent, the lowest rate since February 2010. The retail-price
index excluding mortgage-interest payments rose an annual 3.8
percent, down from 4 percent.  While inflation is cooling, it’s still outpacing wage
growth, squeezing consumers. Total pay growth slowed to 1.4
percent in the three months through January from 1.9 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011, data last week showed. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said his annual budget tomorrow
will include changes “for lifting low-income people out of
tax.”  The economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, its
first contraction in a year, while unemployment is at the
highest in 16 years.  Premier Foods Plc (<PFD>) , the maker of Hovis
bread, said yesterday the consumer environment “will remain
challenging with continued high levels of promotional activity
and ongoing cost inflation.”  Oil Prices  Crude- oil prices  have increased about 25 percent in the
past six months on concern that tension in the  Middle East  could
disrupt supplies. U.K. producer prices rose 0.6 percent in
February from the previous month, the most since April. The
annual rate of factory inflation accelerated to 4.1 percent from
4 percent.  German producer prices rose 0.4 percent from January, when
they gained 0.6 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts was for an increase of 0.5 percent. From a year
earlier, prices rose 3.2 percent.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  forecasts that
inflation will slow this year, partly as the government’s sales-
tax increase in January 2011 drops out of the annual comparison.
In February, the central bank forecast that consumer-price gains
would slow to below their 2 percent goal this year after a peak
of 5.2 percent in September.  The central bank’s 50 billion-pound ($79 billion) round of
bond purchases announced on Feb. 9 will be completed in early
May, when the bank will release the results of its subsequent
forecasting round.  Thailand, Australia  Central banks in Thailand and  Taiwan  may keep  interest
rates  unchanged this week, joining  Australia  and most Asia-
Pacific economies in holding fire to gauge the extent of  China ’s
slowdown, inflation risks and the European crisis.  Thailand  will maintain its benchmark rate at 3 percent
tomorrow after two previous cuts, according to 19 of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, while all 10 economists
in a separate survey said Taiwan may leave its key borrowing
cost at 1.875 percent on March 22. Australia kept its rate
unchanged on March 6 as a mining investment boom intensified and
risks from  Europe  eased, minutes released today showed.  Separately, the U.S. Commerce Department may say builders
broke ground on 700,000 homes in February at an annual pace, the
most in three months, economists predict. Building permits, a
proxy for future construction, probably climbed 0.6 percent last
month from January, a separate survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  