-- U.K. Economy Will Escape Recession in 2012, Osborne to Say
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-economy-will-escape-recession-in-2012-osborne-to-say.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will say in the budget this week that Britain will
escape recession this year after a stronger-than-expected first
quarter.  Economists at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  forecast gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent between
January and March, putting the economy on course for growth in
2012 of about 0.8 percent. In November, the Treasury’s fiscal
watchdog predicted first-quarter growth of 0.1 percent and said
the economy would expand 0.7 percent this year.  “The economy is looking marginally better: the euro area
crisis has receded and the surveys seem to have got a bit
better,” said  Ross Walker , chief U.K. economist at RBS in
 London . “You could easily get 0.3 percent or 0.4 percent in the
first quarter despite some uncertainty around the construction
data.”  Surveys this month indicate that the U.K. economy returned
to growth in the first quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction
in the last three months of 2011. Reports from Markit showed
manufacturing and services continued to expand in February,
while GfK NOP’s consumer confidence index held at the highest
since June.  Still, the euro-area debt crisis remains a threat, with
Bank of England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean saying on Feb. 21
that the agreement on a second bailout for  Greece  may not be
enough to end the turmoil. The euro crisis “represents the
biggest downside risk” to the U.K., he said.  Rising Unemployment  While the growth outlook may improve, the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , the non-partisan body that prepares Osborne’s
forecasts, is likely to show little improvement in the labor
market with jobless claims seen reaching 1.75 million people
this year.  Data last week showed claims rose more than economists
forecast in February to 1.61 million and a broader measure of
unemployment remained at the highest in 16 years, underscoring
the weakness of the labor market.  Osborne is also likely to show that the  budget deficit  has
improved, analysts say. Public-sector net borrowing will be
about 125 billion pounds ($200 billion) in current fiscal year
that ends this month rather than the 127 billion pounds forecast
by the OBR in November, according to a survey of 27 analysts
compiled by the Treasury last month.  “Recent news has been encouraging suggesting that the
deficit could be somewhat lower than the OBR was forecasting
three months ago,”  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in a research note.  Less Borrowing  Morgan Stanley (MS)  says the deficit is likely to improve next
fiscal year to about 120 billion pounds. Osborne says warnings
from rating companies that Britain risks losing its top grade
reinforce the need to stick to his budget-cutting plans, which
aim to eliminate the bulk of a deficit of 9 percent of economic
output by 2017.  Fitch Ratings  said last week that Britain has limited
ability to deal with shocks and changed its outlook to
“negative” from “stable,” indicating a “slightly greater”
than 50 percent chance that the AAA rating will be reduced
within two years  Moody’s Investors Service said last month that Britain
risks losing its top-level rating if the economy deteriorates.
 Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said on Feb. 29 that the
Moody’s warning was a “perfectly reasonable” assessment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  