-- U.K. Manufacturers’ Output Expectations Surge, CBI Survey Shows
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-manufacturers-output-expectations-surge-cbi-survey-shows.html
An index of U.K. manufacturers’
expectations surged this month and inflation pressures
increased, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  The gauge of expected output for the next three months rose
to 24, the highest in a year, from 15 in February, the London-
based employers’ group said in a report today. While a gauge of
 factory orders  in March slipped to minus 8 from minus 3, that’s
up from minus 23 at the end of 2011.  Bank of England  policy makers expanded stimulus last month
to help the recovery after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in
three months through December. While Britain probably avoided
another contraction in the current quarter, the economy may only
strengthen “gradually,” the central bank has said.  “The recovery in the manufacturing sector seems to be
building some momentum,” said  Ian McCafferty , the CBI’s chief
economic adviser. “However, expectations for output price
inflation have also moved higher, most probably reflecting the
recent rise in oil prices.” A further increase “would be a
significant concern given the additional cost burden this would
place on manufacturers and the knock-on effects it could have on
the nascent recovery.”  A measure of export orders fell to minus 11 in March from
minus 2 in February, the CBI said. An index of stocks increased
to 17 from 15. Within the expectations gauge, the outlook among
consumer goods manufacturers was at the highest since the survey
began in 1998.  The CBI’s gauge of expected  selling prices  for the next
three months jumped to 24, the highest since June, from 10.
Crude- oil prices  have risen about 25 percent in the past six
months, and data on March 9 showed U.K. factory output prices
rose 0.6 percent in February from the previous month, the most
since April. The annual rate of price growth accelerated to 4.1
percent from 4 percent.  The CBI conducted the survey of 436 manufacturers between
Feb. 22 and March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  