-- U.K. Stocks Drop Amid Chinese Growth Concern; BHP Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-20T17:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-k-stocks-drop-amid-chinese-growth-concern-bhp-falls.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled by the most in
two weeks as concern about slowing growth in China, the world’s
second-biggest economy, sparked a selloff in metal producers.  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  dropped more than 4
percent after executives from both companies warned of a
slowdown in China and as copper inventories rose in Shanghai.
 Debenhams Plc (DEB)  paced advancing shares after the retailer reported
a pickup in sales growth.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  fell 1.2 percent to 5,891.41 at the London
close, the biggest drop since March 6. The gauge yesterday slid
from an eight-month high after Chinese house price data recorded
the worst month in at least a year. The FTSE-All Share Index
lost 1.2 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.9
percent.  “The Chinese government is trying to manufacture a
moderate slowdown,” said  Keith Bowman , an equity analyst at
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London. “For the time
being, investors will take that with a pinch of caution. News of
rising fuel prices in  China  on the back of falling house prices
may have damped investor sentiment.”  China, the world’s largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
yesterday increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second
time in less than six weeks after crude last month gained the
most in a year. Earlier this month the Chinese government cut
its target for annual economic growth this year to 7.5 percent
from a previous forecast of 8 percent.  Rio, BHP Billiton  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
dropped 4.2 percent to 3,464.5 pence as a  gauge of U.K. metal
producers  lost 3.6 percent to below its 200-day moving average.  “The rate of GDP growth in China is more immediately
slowing,” Rio’s  David Joyce , managing director of expansion
projects, said at a conference in Perth, Australia. “We remain
confident on the basis of the figures we have seen, of a soft
landing, with solid growth for this year.”  Larger rival BHP slid 4.1 percent to 1,965 pence after the
company said China’s steel production is slowing as the country
shifts its focus away from large building projects to consumers.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  fell 2.5 percent to 940.5 pence,  Antofagasta
Plc (ANTO)  slid 3.6 percent to 1,201 pence and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) 
retreated 4 percent to 1,361 pence.  Copper slid by the most in two weeks on the London Metal
Exchange amid rising stockpiles in China.  Inventories at bonded warehouses in Shanghai climbed to
530,000 tons last week, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of traders and analysts. This compares
with about 200,000 tons in the fourth quarter, said Qu Yi, an
analyst at CRU International Ltd.  Glencore, Hochschild  Glencore International Plc slid 1.6 percent to 413.8 pence
after the largest publicly traded commodity supplier agreed to
buy Viterra Inc. for C$6.1 billion ($6.15 billion) to add grain
assets in Canada and Australia.  Hochschild Mining Plc (HOC) , a producer of precious metals in
Peru and Argentina, tumbled 5.2 percent to 462.9 pence even as
the company reported a 42 percent rise in full-year profit
today.  The shares fell with the price of gold amid concern that
demand will drop in India and China, the world’s biggest buyers.  India’s demand may plunge 35 percent this year after the
government increased the gold-import tax, according to the
Bombay Bullion Association.  Debenhams Store Sales  Elsewhere, Debenhams climbed 1.1 percent to 76.55 pence as
the U.K.’s second-largest department-store company reported a
2.4 percent rise in sales at stores open at least a year in the
eight weeks to March 3. Growth for the 26 weeks to that date was
0.3 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp said the retailer is
“comfortable” with the outlook for the year.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  jumped 8.9 percent to 38
pence after Dow Jones reported Tata Communications Ltd. is close
to making a formal cash bid for the company.  Vodafone Group Plc, which may also make a formal offer for
C&W Worldwide, rose 2.1 percent to 170.80 pence. The deadline
for both companies to submit an official offer is March 29.  Separately, India’s Supreme Court reaffirmed its earlier
dismissal of a $2.2 billion tax claim on Vodafone after the
government last month petitioned it to reconsider its decision.  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  slid 0.9 percent to 126.5 pence. The
shares earlier climbed to a six-month high after the  Daily Mail 
reported it may be acquired by a financial-services company,
without saying where it got the information.  The  fund manager  said on Feb. 29 that clients pulled 6.4
billion pounds of assets last year and warned of an
“uncertain” outlook for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  