-- U.S. Judge Allows Cuban Spy to Return Home to See Ailing Brother
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-03-20T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-s-judge-allows-cuban-spy-to-return-home-to-see-ailing-brother.html
A Miami judge allowed a Cuban spy
on parole in the U.S. to visit his ailing brother in Cuba for
two weeks, raising the prospect that the communist authorities
will soften their approach to a U.S. government subcontractor
jailed on the island.  Rene Gonzalez, one of five convicted Cuban spies lauded as
national heroes by the communist government, was granted a court
request late yesterday to temporarily visit Cuba on humanitarian
grounds. Gonzalez will be kept under close supervision before
returning to the U.S. to serve out his sentence, the judge said,
according to the state-run Gramna  news agency .  Gonzalez and the other convicted spies have been a
celebrated case for the communist nation, with officials saying
that they were trying to prevent terrorist attacks by monitoring
the activities of Cuban exiles in Miami. Cuba’s government has
rejected exchanging the spies as part of a deal to free American
contractor Alan Gross, said Philip Brenner, a professor of
foreign policy at American University.  “It’s a start,” Brenner said in a phone interview from
 Washington  today. “But it’s more important for Cuba that
Gonzalez serves out parole on the island” rather than in the
U.S.  Cuban President  Raul Castro  has rejected calls by the U.S.
to free Gross after a court found the contractor guilty of
“acts against the independence and territorial integrity of the
state” and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. The U.S. says
Gross was trying to help Cuba’s Jewish community stay in touch
with relatives abroad.  Castro Petitioned  Gross’s lawyer, Peter J. Kahn, petitioned Castro in March
to release his client for two weeks to visit his ailing mother
in the U.S., saying in a letter that Gross would return to Cuba
after spending what could be his mother’s last birthday. There
has been no official reply as yet.  “I empathize with Rene Gonzalez’s need to visit a dying
family member and am pleased that he has been granted permission
for a temporary visit,” Gross’s wife, Judy, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “I now hope that President Castro will grant
Alan’s request to visit his ailing mother Evelyn who is
suffering from inoperable  lung cancer . Evelyn’s final wish is to
see her son one last time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 