-- U.S. Sets Duties as High as 4.73% on China Solar Equipment
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-20T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-s-sets-duties-of-as-much-as-4-73-on-china-solar-gear-imports.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration imposed preliminary duties of as much as 4.73
percent on solar-energy equipment imported from China, a rate
that an analyst said may have little impact on the industry.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, was told to pay a 2.9 percent tariff and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
will pay 4.73 percent to make up for subsidies they received
from China’s government, the Commerce Department said today in a
statement. All other Chinese solar-equipment firms were told to
pay 3.61 percent. The duties are retroactive for 90 days before
the ruling.  “This could have been a lot worse,” said Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC, who said some people expected a
tariff as high as 10 percent. “The tariffs were totally
expected, but this is at levels that are much lower than
expected.”  Shares of Chinese solar companies surged in  New York , with
Suntech Power, Yingli Green Energy Holdings and Trina Solar Ltd.
each up more than 12 percent today. The decision may have a
bigger impact on trade talks between the world’s two biggest
economies than on the renewable  energy industry , though it may
prod Chinese manufacturers to make more of their solar products
abroad, said  Anthony Kim , solar analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  ‘Symbolic’ Fight  “The tariff won’t have an effect on Chinese-sourced
modules” which are 10 percent cheaper than similar products
made elsewhere, said at a New Energy Finance conference in New
York. “At this point, that tariff is more symbolic of the fight
against Chinese imports.”  Of the major Chinese suppliers,  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) ,
which makes solar cells, may be the most affected by tariffs,
said Jesse Pichel, an analyst with Jefferies Group Inc.  “We believe JASO is most exposed to the duty, as its cell
customers will shift cell purchases to  Taiwan  for U.S. export,”
Pichel said today in a research note. “JASO will need to expand
production lines outside China to avoid the duty.”  The size of these tariffs probably won’t affect prices
significantly, said Paula Stern, a former commissioner with the
International trade commission.  “With so many other moving parts, including distributors
in  South Korea  and Taiwan, I don’t think it will have a very
large market impact,” she said in an interview today at the
conference in New York. “It could get wiped out in an exchange-
rate shift.”  SolarWorld’s Complaint  The case was brought by the U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  and
six other domestic producers. The U.S. producers said
competitors in China benefit from unfair government subsidies.  “This is a clear statement, going forward, there was not
free trade happening,” Gordon Brinser, president of
SolarWorld’s Hillsboro, Oregon-based U.S. unit, said in an
interview. “We support free trade without government
intervention, and clearly there have been illegal Chinese
government interference.”  Brinser declined to comment on any impact on sales or
whether the duties were less than expected.  Trade between China and the U.S. has become an issue in the
U.S. presidential campaign. The trade deficit with China widened
to $295 billion last year and U.S. leaders have called for a
harder line on the Asian nation to drive down the 8.3 percent
U.S. unemployment rate.  Suntech rose 44 cents, or 14 percent, to $3.57; Trina
increased 61 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $8.38; and Yingli jumped
46 cents, or 12 percent, to $4.27 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  December Decision  The quasi-judicial U.S. International Trade Commission
unanimously agreed in December that domestic producers have been
hurt by Chinese imports of solar panels that turn sunlight into
electricity. The probe was then turned over to the Commerce
Department to determine the punishment.  Opponents, such as the Washington-based Coalition for
Affordable Solar Energy, say duties would increase prices and
cost U.S. jobs.  Obama along with the EU and  Japan  on March 13 filed a
complaint in the  World Trade Organization  over  China ’s export
limits on rare earth minerals. Earlier this year, he signed an
executive order creating a panel to probe unfair trade practices
by nations including China, and the U.S. has urged the Asian
nation to allow its undervalued currency to appreciate.  Prices Decline  The prices of solar modules, or panels, fell 50 percent
last year, largely as a result of the cheap Chinese imports,
Timothy Brightbill, an attorney for SolarWorld said before the
decision.  The solar companies claim the Chinese companies are selling
products at a loss in an effort to drive out U.S. competitors.
The Commerce Department has put off a determination on that
allegation until May 17.  In its complaint, SolarWorld and the other domestic firms
asked for 100 percent tariffs to counter the alleged dumping.
They didn’t specify a remedy for the countervailing duties
accusation.  The Chinese government uses cash grants, raw-materials
discounts, preferential loans, tax incentives and currency
manipulation to boost exports of solar cells, according to
SolarWorld’s Oct. 19 complaint to the trade commission and the
Commerce Department.  Renewable-Energy Challenge  Representatives of Chinese companies told the commission
Nov. 8 that tariffs sought by U.S. competitors would make it
more difficult to expand the use of renewable energy. China and
the U.S. are among nations encouraging use of alternative energy
sources, driving costs down across the board, so it would be
unfair to penalize China, they told the panel.  China responded to the initial probe by saying it would
begin its own investigation into American state support for
renewable energy. China’s  Ministry of Commerce  will consider the
stimulus programs of the states of Washington, Massachusetts,
Ohio and  California , and two others in  New Jersey , it said Nov.
25.  Attorneys for Suntech and Trina, two of the biggest China-
based makers of crystalline silicon panels, told the trade
commission Nov. 8 that added tariffs would increase the cost of
solar panels, which would then be passed on to the consumer.  In a related complaint, the Commerce Department this year
may impose penalties after U.S. firms said the Chinese imports
are being sold for under market value, or dumped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  