-- PGA Tour Changes Golf Schedule, Player Qualifying Format
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-20T19:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-s-pga-tour-changes-golf-schedule-player-qualifying-format.html
Golfers seeking to play on the U.S.
 PGA Tour  will have to earn a spot by competing on the sport’s
top developmental tour instead of solely going through a six-day
qualifying school.  The change, to begin with the 2013 season, was announced
today by PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem as part of several
modifications to the tour’s format.  While many competition details must be worked out, the tour
will begin its calendar in October, two weeks after the season-
ending Tour Championship in Atlanta, instead of in January,
Finchem said. The change will make tournaments after the FedEx
Cup playoffs more meaningful and attract stronger fields. The
exact start date or tournament hasn’t been determined, Finchem
said. The European PGA Tour has begun its season in November.  “We still have a lot of details to figure out and a lot of
the nitty gritty,”  Jim Furyk , a member of the tour’s four-
player Policy Board, said in an interview at the  Arnold Palmer
Invitational  in  Orlando ,  Florida . “Now that we’ve approved what
we have, we can start getting more feedback from the other
players.”  A final decision probably won’t be made until after the
next Policy Board meeting during the AT&T National tournament in
June, Furyk said.  Under a new qualifying plan, also still to be finished,
players will no longer be able to advance to the main U.S. tour
solely through qualifying school, a three-stage series of events
culminating with a six-round tournament. The top 25 players,
plus ties, in qualifying school along with the top 25 players on
the developmental Nationwide Tour had earned main tour
privileges the next season.  Better Prepared  Furyk, a former U.S. Open champion who reached the PGA Tour
by playing on the developmental circuit, and Finchem said it’s
more beneficial for players to compete on the lower tour than
get thrust onto the main circuit before they are ready.  “Our statistics show that guys who have come out of the
Nationwide Tour have fared better on the PGA Tour than guys that
have come out of Q School,” Furyk said. Neither Furyk nor the
tour offered supporting figures.  In the new qualifying format, players who finish the
regular season between No. 126 and No. 200 on the tour’s money
list will join the top 75 players on the developmental tour
money list in a three-tournament series. The top 50 players at
the end of those tournaments will qualify for the PGA Tour. The
rest will play on the developmental tour the following season.  With more emphasis on the developmental tour, the changes
might also help attract a new title sponsor to replace
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., Finchem said. The company
decided not to renew its title sponsorship after 2012.  “I wouldn’t say that’s the main reason, but it certainly
helps,” Finchem said. The tour is in discussions with several
companies about possibly becoming the new title sponsor, Finchem
said without disclosing the names of interested companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  