-- U.S. Exempts Japan, 10 EU Nations From Iran Oil Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-21T08:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/u-s-exempts-11-nations-from-iran-oil-sanctions-on-banking.html
The Obama administration is sending
a message to major buyers of Iranian oil, in particular China,
 India  and  South Korea , that they can avoid new U.S. sanctions
by curtailing their imports of Iranian crude by the end of June,
U.S. officials said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced yesterday that
an “initial group” of countries, comprising Japan and 10 European
Union nations, have “significantly reduced” their Iranian oil
purchases and thus qualified for an exemption from sanctions for
a renewable period of 180 days under the law.  The U.S. didn’t grant waivers to  China (CCCIIQIR) , the leading
importer of Iranian crude in the first half of last year, or to
India and South Korea, which were the third- and fourth-largest
buyers, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Clinton praised the EU and  Japan , which the Energy
Department lists as the No. 2 importer of Iranian oil in the
first half of last year, for taking actions that “were not
easy” to cut back Iranian oil imports. “They had to rethink
their energy needs at a critical time for the world economy and
quickly begin to find alternatives to Iranian oil, which many
had been reliant on for their energy needs,” she said in a
statement.  Under a law enacted Dec. 31, countries have until June 28
to demonstrate they have “significantly reduced” the volume of
their Iranian crude purchases -- or their banks that settle oil
trades with Iran may be cut off from the U.S. financial system.  Reducing Uncertainty  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, said in an interview that
the Obama administration’s action yesterday “begins to reduce
some of the uncertainty in oil markets over how the
administration will apply oil market sanctions.”  “It gives Japan, in particular, which needs to keep buying
Iranian oil, a clear pathway to continue those purchases without
putting their financial institutions at risk,” said Dubowitz,
who has advised the administration and Congress on sanctions.
“It also establishes an early precedent that puts pressure on
South Korea, India, China,  Turkey ,  South Africa  and other major
buyers of Iranian oil to also comply with U.S. law.”  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan today downplayed
yesterday’s action, saying the government in Seoul is “talking
with the U.S. and the talks are going well” regarding cutting
Iranian oil shipments. Japanese counterpart Jun Azumi said his
government “welcomed the U.S. announcement,” and intends to
“keep reducing oil imports at a certain pace.”  15 Percent Cut  The U.S. hasn’t defined what counts as a significant
reduction. Obama administration officials, speaking on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said
they’re looking for reductions of about 15 percent or more,
depending on each nation’s circumstances.  President Barack Obama’s administration announced the
exemptions to signal that the EU and Japan are being rewarded
for their efforts in the hope that other countries will follow
suit before the deadline, according to U.S. officials who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. officials said that, unlike previous sanctions,
these allow the president little leeway in applying the law, so
he’ll be forced to sanction  China , India, South Korea, Turkey or
other buyers if they don’t make substantial cuts in time.  Yesterday’s decision means Japan may continue buying some
Iranian oil after U.S. sanctions take effect without exposing
Japanese banks to penalties.  Japan cut its imports of Iranian oil by 15 percent to 22
percent in the second half of last year, according to public
data, during a difficult time when it was reeling from an
earthquake and subsequent nuclear disaster, and its energy needs
were high, one U.S. official said.  Japan’s Imports  Japan got 10 percent of its crude imports from Iran from
January through June of last year, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  In addition to Japan, all EU nations that purchased Iranian
oil in the past year -- Belgium, the  Czech Republic ,  France ,
 Germany ,  Greece ,  Italy , the Netherlands, Poland,  Spain  and the
 United Kingdom  -- cut back or halted their imports in order to
qualify for the exemption, U.S. officials said.  The EU imported 450,000 barrels a day of Iranian oil in the
first half of last year, about 3 percent of the region’s needs,
according to the International Energy Agency in Paris. The EU
collectively accounted for 18 percent of  Iran ’s oil exports in
that period, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The European Union decided two months ago to embargo
Iranian oil imports effective July 1, so EU nations would not be
buying Iranian crude or affected by U.S. sanctions in any case.  Sanctions Law  Under the sanctions law, the president must cut off U.S.
bank accounts of any foreign financial institution that
transacts petroleum-related business with Iran’s central bank --
unless its home country receives an exemption.  The sanctions are part of a coordinated campaign by the
U.S. and the EU to ratchet up economic pressure on Iran’s
leaders to persuade them to abandon any illicit aspects of their
nuclear program.  U.S., European and Israeli officials have accused Iran of
seeking the capability to build a nuclear weapon. United Nations
inspectors, in a report released Nov. 8, raised questions about
possible military dimensions of Iran’s program. Iran says its
program is solely for civilian energy and medical research.  Iran is the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, and earns more than half of its government
revenue from oil sales, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Proponents of sanctions say pinching Iran’s oil revenues
is the best way to deny Iran funding for any illicit nuclear or
weapons-related activities.  Oil Prices  Oil yesterday dropped the most in more than three months in
 New York  as Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude-exporting
country, said it can boost output immediately to stave off
shortages.  Oil for April delivery fell $2.48 to settle yesterday at
$105.61 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
biggest one-day decline since Dec. 14. Futures are up 6.9
percent this year. The April contract expired yesterday. The
more actively traded May futures declined $2.49, or 2.3 percent,
to $106.07 a barrel.  “The sanctions are working,” said Senator Bob Menendez, a
New Jersey Democrat and co-author of the sanctions law, in an
interview. “Since President Obama signed the National Defense
Authorization Act on December 31, we have seen Iran’s currency
plummet and oil shipments in February fell to a 10-year low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  