-- UN Urges Kenya to Resettle Internally Displaced Before Next Vote
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-20T14:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/un-urges-kenya-to-resettle-internally-displaced-before-next-vote.html
Kenya should resettle as many as
16,800 people still internally displaced by post-election
violence four years ago so they don’t become “easy targets”
for ethnic attacks at the next vote, the  United Nations  said.  Allegations of vote-rigging during the last general
elections in December 2007 sparked ethnic violence that left
1,500 people dead and forced 300,000 people from their homes,
agricultural land and businesses.  The fighting stopped after President Mwai Kibaki, a member
of the most-populace Kikuyu group, entered a coalition
government with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , a Luo by
tribe who became prime minister of  East Africa ’s largest
economy. The peace accord promised to empty the displacement
camps, provide assistance and land to resettle victims, and give
trauma counseling to those who needed it.  Displaced people “are easy targets,” Rebeca Grynspan,
associate administrator for the UN Development Programme, said
in an interview in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, today. “If
tensions arise, this situation could then fan the flames of
violence.”  Some of the displaced are members of the ethnic minority in
the communities where they now reside, posing a risk in a
country where tribal alliances influence politics, Aeneas Chuma,
UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, said in an interview.  “They could be vulnerable if there is a perception they
are supporting a different candidate,” Chuma said.  Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta and three other
Kenyans have been ordered to stand trial by the  International
Criminal Court  on charges of crimes against humanity over their
alleged role in orchestrating the clashes. Kenya’s electoral
commission has set March 4, 2013 as the date of the next
presidential and parliamentary elections.  In a December survey, 60 percent of Kenyans said the
government was performing “somewhat badly” in resettling
internally displaced people, according to a report released
today by a panel set up to monitor the implementation of Kenya’s
peace accord. It did not give a margin of error or sample size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 