-- Uniform-Rental Stocks Rise as Play on Rally in U.S. Jobs Market
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/uniform-rental-stocks-rise-as-play-on-rally-in-u-s-jobs-market.html
Companies are renting more uniforms
as hiring in industries such as manufacturing and food service
outpaces the  U.S. economy ’s best six-month streak of job growth
since 2006.  Hiring for uniform-clad workers grew 59,000 last month
following a 96,000 gain in January, according to an index
created by Robert W. Baird & Co., a Milwaukee-based financial-
services company. Payrolls at these businesses rose 2.3 percent
from a year earlier to 30.7 million, the highest since March
2009 and more than the 1.6 percent gain for all employees on
nonfarm payrolls, the Baird index and Bureau of Labor Statistics
data show.  “What we’re seeing now is a pretty good resurgence in
hiring in uniform-wearing industries,” said Andrew Wittmann, an
analyst with Baird in  Milwaukee . Gains in these types of jobs
have exceeded the total market for more than a year, even amid
the broader improvement, he said.  The  unemployment rate  held at  8.3 percent  in February, a
three-year low, while the economy added 734,000 jobs between
December and February, the biggest three-month increase since
May 2010, based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Widespread employment gains are “encouraging signs of
sustainable improvement,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit .  One such sign is the Bureau of Labor Statistics’
employment-diffusion index, which was  57.9 (EMDINP1M)  last month following
70.3 in January, the highest since 1997. A reading above 50
indicates more industries are hiring than firing, Price said.  Rising Stocks  An improved labor market is helping to drive up shares of
the publicly-traded players in this industry --  Cintas Corp. (CTAS) ,
UniFirst Corp. and  G&K Services Inc. (GKSR)  -- which have risen 16
percent, 5.8 percent and 15 percent since Dec. 30, 2011. This
compares with a 12 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 13 percent for the Russell 2000 Index.  These stocks are attracting investors because improving
results from uniform companies are representative of gains in
the economy, said  Lawrence Creatura , who helps oversee $369.7
billion as a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII)  “When growth is good, unit demand increases.”  G&K Services’ rental business -- which makes up about 92
percent of its total revenue -- is benefiting from more
customers, Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Wright said at a Feb.
29 conference hosted by Baird. This segment grew 6 percent
organically, before the impact of exchange rates and
acquisitions or disposals, during the quarter ended Dec. 31 from
a year earlier, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company said
Jan. 31.  ‘Sweet Margin Business’  About 10 percent of Americans wear rented attire to work
each day, so when these industries increase headcount, that’s
relevant for the U.S. economy, said Andrew Steinerman, an
analyst in New York at JPMorgan Chase & Co. This is “sweet
margin business” for the uniform-rental companies because the
garment comes out of a warehouse and already has been
depreciated, he said.  As business picks up and an auto-shop hires another
mechanic, for example, Cintas, UniFirst and G&K Services need to
drop off an extra uniform each week for that employee,
Steinerman said. That’s considered an “add,” whereas a
“stop” is when a customer lays off a worker, he said.  The so-called “add-stop” metric of net customer hiring
has been “slightly positive” for Cintas, Chief Financial
Officer William Gale said on a Dec. 20 conference call. “There
are some pockets of adds of uniform wearers,” which include
jobs in health care. The Cincinnati, Ohio-based company is
scheduled to report third-quarter earnings today.  Larger Market Share  Cintas is attractive to investors who want exposure to this
industry because it has a larger market share and is more liquid
than its competitors, said Wittmann, who maintains an
“outperform” recommendation on the stock. He has the same
recommendation on Wilmington, Massachusetts-based UniFirst and
on G&K Services, which also will benefit from further job gains.  Even as these companies raised fiscal 2012 revenue guidance
in their most-recent earnings reports, growth is more likely to
come from new contracts, which creates a “huge margin
headwind,” Steinerman said. If add-stops “kick in more,” this
will be favorable for these stocks, he said. He has an
“overweight” recommendation on Cintas and is “neutral” on
UniFirst and G&K Services.  The industry still is very sensitive to the macroeconomic
environment and if recent gains in the labor market deteriorate,
this could hurt these companies, Wittmann said. Gross domestic
product will expand 2.2 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It
rose 1.7 percent in 2011, Commerce Department data show.  ‘Slightly Positive’  UniFirst’s wear base was “slightly positive” for the six
months ending March 3, as some areas of the U.S. remain “in a
negative state,” President and Chief Executive Officer Ronald Croatti said at Baird’s Feb. 29 conference. The company gets
about 65 percent of its revenue from uniforms, while ancillary
businesses -- including floor mats and towels -- “add
balance,” because UniFirst hasn’t seen “what we call a trend
of steady improvement,” Chief Financial Officer Steven Sintros
said that day.  The jobless rate has “declined notably in recent months
but remains elevated,” the  Federal Reserve  said March 13 in a
statement following its March meeting. Unemployment was less
than 5 percent before the 18-month recession began in late 2007.  ‘Gain Momentum’  Applications for unemployment-insurance payments fell by
14,000 to 351,000 in the week ended March 10, matching a four-
year low, Labor Department data show. The total has remained
below 400,000 for nine weeks, a  threshold  the economy had
trouble breaking as the labor market started to “gain
momentum” in 2010, Price said.  Now that the economy has broken this level on a sustained
basis and there are signs hiring has been broad-based, Price
said he’s more optimistic about further improvement. He
forecasts the jobless rate will be 8.2 percent at year-end.
“We’re finally petering out on some of the job cuts.”  Improvement in the labor market will translate to continued
momentum in Cintas’ rental business, which grew across all
categories in the quarter ended Nov. 30, Vice President and
Treasurer Michael Hansen said Dec. 20.  “If we can see some pickup in the hiring from our
customers, we should see even more improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  