-- Unilever Unveils Online Forum to Attract Outside Innovation Help
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-03-20T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/unilever-unveils-online-forum-to-attract-outside-innovation-help.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-
biggest consumer-products maker, unveiled a website to gather
and assess ideas from outside the company as it looks to bolster
sales from new products and improve environmental practices.  The  site  will focus on sustainable business ideas, such as
technologies to lower the cost of providing safe drinking water,
Roger Leech, Unilever’s open innovation scouting director, said
in a March 15 interview. Unilever will solicit ideas from
universities, engineering and design companies, and
environmental groups around the world, he said.  By opening up the process to outsiders, Unilever follows
rivals such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , which now seeks to generate
$3 billion in sales annually from products developed jointly.
The program is part of Unilever Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman’s 2010  pledge  to cut the environmental footprint of its
products by 50 percent.  “We were conscious that we didn’t disclose those key areas
of opportunity we wanted to engage with in an open manner,”
Leech said in the interview. “It seemed like a timely
opportunity to stamp those areas with a Unilever identification
and be open with them.”  Since Unilever established a so-called open innovation unit
to work with outside partners in 2009, the share of external
ideas that are adopted by the company’s business units has
increased from 25 percent to 60 percent, Leech said. Before
that, the company worked informally with universities in the
U.K. and the Netherlands.  Low-Temperature Detergents  Other areas where  London  and Rotterdam-based Unilever will
look for outside inspiration include laundry detergents that
work at lower temperatures and use less water, lower-sodium
foods, and ingredients for cleaning products that kill viruses
without using bleaches, strong acids or alcohols. Last year the
company collaborated with more than 500 partners.  For example, the Pureit water purifier involved  India ’s
 National Institute of Design  and its  National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute , Tata Group’s Tata Elxsi
engineering subsidiary and Ernst & Young LLP. The device is sold
in India, Bangladesh,  Indonesia  and  Sri Lanka .  Yet2.com, a closely-held intellectual property consultancy
in  Boston , will help Unilever judge ideas from outside the
company, Leech said. He declined to specify any goals for the
program. Polman has said that more than 30 percent of the
company’s sales comes from products introduced in the past two
years. P&G has  said  that more than 50 percent of its innovation
is now sourced externally.  Unilever has also said all agricultural raw materials will
be produced in a sustainable manner by 2020, and it will  shift 
to buying only sustainable  palm oil  by 2015. Unilever is one of
the world’s largest buyers of palm oil, used in margarine, ice
cream and soap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  