-- United Nations Expresses Alarm at Mogadishu Mortar Attacks
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-03-20T15:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/united-nations-expresses-alarm-at-mogadishu-mortar-attacks-1-.html
The  United Nations  said it’s
alarmed by the resumption of mortar attacks in the Somali
capital, Mogadishu, in which at least four internally displaced
people were killed.  Two children are reported to be among those who died in the
shelling, the first such attack since August 2011 when anti-
government forces withdrew from most of the districts in the
city, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said today in an e-
mailed statement from Nairobi, the capital of neighboring  Kenya .
Officials blamed the attack on al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-linked
militia.  “The UNHCR calls on all parties to the conflict in Somalia
to cease attacks targeting civilians and humanitarian agencies,
or where there is a high risk of harm to civilians located near
the intended target,” the UN agency said.  Al-Shabaab has waged an insurgency against the UN-backed
transitional administration of Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed since 2007. It withdrew its forces from Mogadishu
in August following advances by African Union-backed government
soldiers and pledged to carry out guerrilla attacks in the
capital.  At least seven mortars were fired by the insurgents last
night, three of which were aimed at the presidential palace,
said Mohamed Mohamud Mohamed, deputy district commission of the
central Mogadishu district of Wardhigley. One of the shells
landed in Wardhigley, he said.  In a separate attack, at least two suspected members of al-
Shabaab militia were killed when government security forces
repelled an ambush by the fighters in Yaqshid, in the northeast
of the city, Mohudin Hassan Jurus, the district commissioner,
said in a phone interview.  “They attacked the police station and my home at midnight,
but our forces repelled them and we killed two” al-Shabaab
fighters, Jurus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 