-- Turkey’s Political Health Hinges on Erdogan’s
-- B y   A t i l l a   Y e s i l a d a
-- 2012-03-20T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/turkey-s-political-health-hinges-on-erdogan-s.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is a true Cinderella story, a back-street kid who went
from playing semi-professional soccer to become the country’s
most powerful leader in decades.  Women love him, so do investors and so does the Arab
Street. A recent opinion poll found that he was more popular
among Turks than even Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the republic’s
founder and military savior. And yet, Erdogan is mortal.  Twice this year, Turkey’s 58-year-old prime minister has
checked into hospital to undergo surgery on his abdomen,
triggering a maelstrom of rumors that he was suffering from
cancer. For a few months, Turks’ two favorite pastimes --
speculating on which soccer team will win the Turkish league and
what will happen in the next episode of “Magnificent Century,”
a costume soap about Suleiman the Magnificent -- have taken a
back seat to discussing Erdogan’s health.  A foreign institutional investor living in Ankara recently
told me he had spoken to as many as 20 different Turks who swore
to know either a nurse or a physician present at Erdogan’s
operation, each with a different story. The daily Taraf
newspaper this month ran a front-page article about a leaked
internal e-mail by analysts at Stratfor, the self-proclaimed
global-intelligence company. The e-mail quoted a classmate of
Erdogan’s doctor saying the prime minister had only two years to
live.  Centralized System  The Taraf story was roundly denied by Erdogan and his
physician. I’m no doctor and I don’t claim to know anyone who
operated on the prime minister, but Erdogan looks full of vim
and vigor to me. He’s back to making his trademark tirades
against political opponents, even if he’s traveling less. Still,
the uproar has commentators and markets alike wondering about
not just Erdogan’s mortality, but that of the tightly
centralized system that he has built around him.  That system, whatever its democratic merits, has
contributed to an unusual period of political stability and
economic growth for  Turkey . As a result, the question of what
happens if Erdogan leaves or weakens is a big one. Since the
rumors surfaced, all but one of the foreign clients I have met
have asked me about Erdogan’s health. The one exception had
better sources than mine -- perhaps they, too, knew someone who
knew Erdogan’s nurse or physician.  If you look at Erdogan’s two mandatory sick leaves as trial
runs for what would happen in his absence, you can understand
the concern. His first trip to the hospital on Nov. 26 coincided
with a proposal to amend Turkish laws that criminalize soccer
match fixing, reducing the severity of sentences. This was a
life-and-death matter for fans of Turkey’s most successful team,
Fenerbahce, whose chairman was at the time behind bars, awaiting
trial on a host of match-fixing charges. Turkish President
 Abdullah Gul , Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc and all who
were authorized to speak for the ruling Justice and Development
Party spoke out against each other on the bill, showing rare
public dissent within a normally disciplined party.  Erdogan cut his convalescence short to whip parliament’s
confused majority party into shape. He ordered the bill’s
ratification by parliament, overriding Gul’s presidential veto.  The second operation, on Feb. 11, coincided with a crisis
over the Turkish intelligence services. This was triggered when
a special prosecutor for cases involving terrorism summoned
Turkey’s intelligence chief, Hakan Fidan, and three of his
colleagues for questioning on connections they had made -- on
Erdogan’s instructions -- with members of the outlawed Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, better known as the PKK. When Fidan declined the
invitation, an arrest warrant was issued. The episode sent shock
waves through Turkey because the special prosecutors involved
were widely believed to belong to the powerful  Fethullah Gulen 
religious movement, hitherto a close ally of the government. Was
this the start of a power struggle?  Officials Reassigned  Once again, Erdogan had to stir himself to corral his
forces to pass an act in parliament that forbade any
investigation of intelligence-service members, without prior
approval from the prime minister. The special prosecutors and
several top police officials, also widely assumed to be close to
Fethullah Gulen, were reassigned.  All this got people to thinking: What happens if Erdogan
runs for president in 2014? Failing a switch of constitutional
powers from the prime minister to the president, Erdogan might
then have to share power. He might no longer be able to crack
the whip over the Cabinet, or rule economic policy. What happens
if he gets more ill?  Currently, Erdogan has the undisputed final word on
Turkey’s economic policy. He has some very able economic
managers in Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy Ali Babacan
and Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek , technicians who understand
the global economy and markets. Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan
heads a wing of old-fashioned industrialists who think Turkey
can sustain growth rates of 6 percent or 7 percent a year, even
with a gaping current-account deficit. And then there is a
strong zero-interest-rate lobby, which on religious grounds
believes that earning interest is wrong and central-bank rates
should therefore be zero.  Erdogan listens to these factions and then calls the shots.
His policy choices may look odd sometimes, if you happen to
believe in basic economic theory. But the devotion of his
followers to execute Erdogan’s decisions and his extraordinary
ability to market any policy to the nation have so far made up
these weaknesses.  In a potential succession struggle, though, it isn’t clear
which economic-policy faction would win. With the current-
account deficit running at about 10 percent of Turkey’s gross
domestic product, the economy’s extraordinary recent growth
record is fragile. The effect of a zero-interest-rate policy on
Turkey’s ability to finance its balance-of-payments deficit, for
example, doesn’t bear thinking about.  Common Hatred  The  Justice and Development Party  is a coalition of
religious conservatives, liberals and others who were brought
together by Erdogan’s charisma and a common hatred for Turkey’s
old, military-dominated political system. Some of the glue that
held this coalition together has now gone, a victim of the
ruling party’s success in breaking the military’s political
power.  Erdogan has sidelined anyone with the political and
organizational skills to challenge him. Regardless of his state
of health, it would make sense for Turkey’s strongman to start
giving rope to the more talented people in his team, to let them
prove their mettle and carve out their own political
constituencies. He should also institutionalize a well-defined
succession process within the party.  Otherwise, should Erdogan depart, or weaken for whatever
reason, the party behind the so-called Turkish model, which
seeks to marry Islamic conservatism with a secular state and
free market, may not survive to win a fourth election.  (Atilla Yesilada is country adviser for Turkey at
GlobalSourcePartners. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Atilla Yesilada at  yesila@superonline.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 