-- Lira Weakens to Two-Month Low on Interest Rate Cut Speculation
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-20T16:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/turkish-lira-depreciates-second-day-head-for-two-month-low.html
The lira weakened for a second day,
declining to its lowest level in almost two months, on
speculation central bank Governor Erdem Basci may reduce
 interest rates  at a meeting later this month.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 1.8212 per
dollar by 5:41 p.m. in Istanbul, the most since Jan. 20. The
decline brings the loss this month to 4 percent, the second-
biggest fall among  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. Yields
on the two-year debt increased 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 9.56 percent, the biggest rise in two
weeks.  “The hints from the central bank that it may further
narrow the interest rate corridor is hurting the lira,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at HSBC Bank AS in Istanbul, said in a
not  The bank may cut its rate by 50 basis points, Gizem Oztok
Altinsac, an economist at Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said
in an e-mailed report.  Turkey ’s monetary policy is executed via a interest rate
corridor. Basci lowered the upper end of this band to 11.5
percent from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21, while keeping the lower
end unchanged at 5.75 percent. Yields have risen 56 basis points
and the lira weakened 3.7 percent against the dollar since Basci
announced trimmed the rates’ range.  The lira has depreciated past a 100-day moving average of
1.8179 per dollar, a key technical level. Crossing this
threshold and remaining above it is an indication the currency’s
move is sustainable.  “What matters for us is the closing level,” Henza Tukel,
a currency trader at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed
comments. “If the lira closes past this critical level, it
won’t be good at all.”  The lira slumped 18 percent in the biggest decline
worldwide last year on concern the debt crisis would ignite a
recession in  Europe , which buys roughly half of Turkish exports,
and further widen the country’s current-account deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  