-- USDA Excluding Rural Home Loans From Environmental Reviews
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-20T17:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/usda-excluding-rural-home-loans-from-environmental-reviews-1-.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
will continue to exempt rural housing loans from environmental
reviews that may slow expansion of oil and natural-gas drilling.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said he will authorize a
notice today affirming that rural housing loans are
“categorically excluded” from reviews under the National
Environmental Policy Act, which requires some transactions to be
examined for their affect on soil, air and water.  “As indicated in previous statements, USDA will not make
any policy changes related to rural housing loans,” Vilsack
said today in an e-mailed message.  President  Barack Obama  in his State of the Union address in
January said natural-gas production from techniques including
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, would support 600,000 jobs by
the end of this decade. Environmentalists say the process can
contaminate drinking water and pollute the air.  The USDA decision is “regrettable,”  Kate Sinding , senior
attorney at the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in  New York ,
said in an interview. As fracking revives oil fields near
populated areas in the Eastern U.S., more people will be exposed
to potential contamination, increasing health risks and the
possibility of legal action against the government, she said.  Falling Prices  Natural-gas prices, which have fallen 44 percent in the
past year as production rose, are already low, Sinding said.
“Why not take the time to evaluate the risks?”  Adam Schultz, an attorney representing the Independent Oil
and Gas Association of New York, said Vilsack’s statement
“removes uncertainty” for farmers and rural residents who may
be applying for USDA loans. Adding a federal review to state
environmental tests would be redundant, said Schultz.  Fracking involves injecting water, sand and chemicals
underground to break up shale-rock formations and release
trapped gas. Texas is the largest U.S. natural gas-producing
state, followed by  Wyoming , Louisiana, Oklahoma and Colorado,
according to the Energy Department.  The USDA offers loans and loan guarantees as part of its
mission to develop housing and business in less populated areas.
It has an active rural-development portfolio of more than  $165
billion  of loans and loan guarantees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net . 