-- Verizon to the Cable Industry: Let’s Be Friends
-- B y   S u s a n   P .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/verizon-to-the-cable-industry-let-s-be-friends.html
Three months ago, Verizon
Communications Inc. and three major cable companies announced a
$3.6 billion joint  marketing deal . Today, Congress is getting
around to the question of whether it’s a good idea.  The Subcommittee for Antitrust, Competition Policy and
Consumer Rights of the Senate Judiciary Committee will hold  a
hearing  titled, “The Verizon/Cable Deals: Harmless Collaboration
or a Threat to Competition and Consumers?” A better question
might be: Why isn’t the American public paying closer attention?  Consider the context for the deal. The three cable
companies are Bright House Networks LLC, Time Warner Cable Inc.
and Comcast Corp. (Disclosure: Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, petitioned the FCC in 2010  to deny  Comcast’s
acquisition of  NBC Universal .) Comcast is the largest wired
distributor of data, news, entertainment and sports in the U.S.,
 dominating markets  in  Chicago , Miami, Philadelphia and  San
Francisco , among other cities.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  has said that in its
geographic footprint Comcast has just one competitor for these
high-speed wired distribution services: Verizon FiOS. (The major
cable incumbents -- Comcast, Time Warner, Cablevision Systems
Corp. and Cox Communications Inc. -- never enter one another’s
territories.) Right now, Verizon FiOS is available in just 15
percent of Comcast’s market.  No Competition  When it comes to high-speed wired data distribution --
America’s critical information infrastructure -- Comcast and the
other cable incumbents have won the battle for subscribers and
face neither oversight nor competition.  Although the deregulation of the communications sector over
the last few years was premised on the notion that competition
among platforms -- wired, wireless and satellite -- would
protect consumers and businesses from price surges, the laws of
physics have gotten in the way: Lower-capacity (but mobile)
wireless services are complementary to the high-capacity (but
stationary) wires Comcast sells.  According to  a TechNet report , 83 percent of those with
smartphones also have wired high-speed  Internet access  at home.
Very few Americans are substituting wireless access for a wire
when it comes to data, and no one would start a business relying
on a wireless connection. (Satellite access, slow and expensive,
never posed a real competitive threat.)  On the wireless side, the powerhouses are Verizon and AT&T
Inc., which collectively accounted for 65 percent of all
wireless subscribers and 71 percent of all net new subscribers
in 2011; of the two, Verizon is larger. When it comes to the
crucial issue of spectrum licenses,  Verizon Wireless  already
holds approximately 43 percent of all 700 MHz spectrum in the
nation (nicknamed “beachfront” spectrum for its favorable
propagation characteristics) and 48 percent of cellular
spectrum. These are the two most suitable (and valuable) bands
for mobile data transmission services.  To be sure, most of AT&T’s and Verizon’s assets are still
wires. Their only growth area these days, however, is wireless.
Both companies are backing off from continued investment in
wires, as the cable industry’s overwhelming cost advantage in
building high-speed wired distribution networks becomes clearer.
The reason: The cable guys don’t have to install a second
network to sell high speeds over their existing pipes. The phone
guys have to dig up the streets to replace their low-capacity
metal phone lines with a new fiber optic network.  Common Cause  In December 2011, these two giant complementary industries
-- wired and wireless data distribution -- retreated to their
separate corners and made  common cause . Comcast, controlling
about two-thirds of a joint venture with Time Warner called
SpectrumCo, said it would sell spectrum licenses it had bought a
few years ago to Verizon; Cox, the third largest cable company
in the country (after Time Warner and Comcast) similarly agreed
(in a separate deal) to assign spectrum licenses to Verizon. The
companies also agreed to sell each other’s cable and wireless
services and carry out joint research and development.  By buying more spectrum -- frequencies it  arguably doesn’t
need  -- Verizon Wireless is pushing Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-
Mobile USA Inc. further to the margins. At the same time, by
selling all of its spectrum, the cable industry is foreclosing
any possible foray into wireless services. Verizon will have
zero continuing incentive to expand FiOS now that it’s reselling
the cable guys’ wires. Both industries are tacitly acknowledging
that they don’t intend to compete in the future.  Like water and electricity services, these are natural
monopoly businesses characterized by crushing advantages of
scale, high upfront investments and sharply declining costs for
additional customers. Unlike other utilities, however, the
wireless guys and the cable companies are essentially
unregulated.  Both the Federal Communications Commission and the  Justice
Department ’s antitrust division are looking at these deals.
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Bernstein Research,  says the
transactions  “amount to nothing short of a complete reordering
of every facet of the telecom landscape in the  United States .”
Now we have evidence that competition is not going to protect
Americans from the depredations of either the cable guys or the
wireless guys.  Comcast Executive Vice President  David Cohen , who is
responsible for the company’s government relations, has said
that this deal will have no effect on the competitiveness of
either video or wireless access in the United States. He may be
right. Most Americans already have only one choice -- their
local cable incumbent -- when it comes to high-speed wired
distribution of information and entertainment.  He may also be right when he says that the transaction will
have no bearing on the cable industry’s decision to go into the
wireless business: Verizon and AT&T already had such a lead in
wireless that it didn’t make sense for the cable companies to
attempt to compete.  Cohen has also said that the FCC and the  Department of
Justice  have no power to review the joint venture agreements
among Verizon, Comcast and Time Warner. On that issue he may be
right as well -- and that’s a problem.  (Susan P. Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  