-- Verizon to Tell U.S. Comcast Deal Causes No Consumer Harm
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-21T15:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/verizon-to-tell-u-s-comcast-deal-causes-no-consumer-harm.html
Verizon Wireless plans to tell a
congressional panel vetting its proposed $3.6 billion purchase
of airwaves from cable companies led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  that the
deal would solve a critical need without reducing competition.  “No customer will see fewer choices or increased prices as
a result,” Randal Milch, general counsel of Verizon parent
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , said in testimony submitted to a
Senate antitrust panel for  a hearing  today.  Verizon Wireless agreed to share marketing with
Philadelphia-based Comcast, the largest cable provider, and
other sellers of unused airwaves, a group that includes  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest operator, and closely held
Bright House Networks LLC.  Opponents said yesterday the accord announced Dec. 2 would
result in less competition and higher prices. The  Justice
Department  and Federal Communications Commission are examining
the deal, and a similar $315 million agreement between  Verizon
Wireless  and  Cox Communications Inc. (COX)  Both agencies must approve
the transactions before they can close.  The Justice Department probe is focused on whether the
transactions concentrate too much control of airwaves in
Verizon’s hands and whether the marketing agreements between
Verizon and the cable companies could hurt competition, a person
familiar with the investigation said in December.  Spectrum Sale  The FCC, which regulates airwaves use, said on March 8 it
will consider the marketing agreements. Verizon officials
earlier said the agency’s review should be limited to an
analysis of the spectrum sale.  Today’s session before a Senate antitrust subcommittee led
by Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat, carries the title,
“The Verizon/Cable Deals: Harmless Collaboration or a Threat to
Competition and Consumers?”  Kohl urged regulators last year to prevent the second-
largest U.S. wireless provider,  AT&T Inc. (T) , from buying the
fourth-biggest,  T-Mobile USA Inc. (166783Q)  AT&T abandoned the deal after
the Justice Department sued to block it.  Verizon Wireless said the spectrum purchase will bring it
airwaves needed to meet demand that’s soaring as consumers buy
more smartphones and data-hungry tablet computers such as Apple
Inc.’s iPad.  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless is
55 percent-owned by Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, U.K.  ‘Every Incentive’  The marketing agreements let Verizon Wireless and cable
companies act as sales agents for each other’s services. Verizon
Communications will have “every incentive” to compete against
cable companies with its FiOS high-speed wired service, Milch
said in his testimony.  More than 85 percent of households served by the cable
companies aren’t in areas reached by FiOS, he said.  The deal would create an “unchecked monopoly by the
nation’s largest cable and wireless companies,” the
 Communications Workers of America  and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers said yesterday in a statement.
The unions said they obtained 75,000 signatures on an online
petition opposing the deal.  “This lucrative deal will kill Verizon’s incentive to
compete with cable and end FiOS development to new areas,” the
unions said. Cities bypassed by Verizon FiOS such as Boston and
Baltimore, as well as Buffalo, Albany and Syracuse in New York
State, and any rural areas will never get the network, the
groups said.  ‘Divide the Market’  The deals would let Verizon and the cable companies
“divide the market for at-home wireline broadband,” or high-
speed Internet service, the policy group Free Press said in
written testimony.  “Allowing for further consolidation in this marketplace
will only drive prices higher, reduce consumer choice, and have
drastic consequences on the rate of innovation as the companies
involved are freed from competition,” according to the
testimony by Joel Kelsey, Free Press policy adviser.  Comcast plans to tell lawmakers the deal benefits
consumers, according to prepared testimony by Executive Vice
President  David Cohen .  The marketing agreements “give the cable companies a path
to quickly and efficiently offer wireless services” in
competition with bundles offered by AT&T and  DirecTV (DTV) , Cohen said
in his written remarks.  “They also enable Verizon Wireless to offer its customers
new options for subscribing to wired video, voice and high-speed
Internet services,” Cohen said.  Wireless Networks  The cable companies decided not to build wireless networks
before the agreements, and Verizon decided not to expand FiOS
before the deal, Cohen said. One-time marketing fees to Verizon
Wireless for signing up a new Comcast customer “would not come
close” to the continuing revenue from a new FiOS customer,
preserving incentives for Verizon Communications to compete with
cable companies, Cohen said.  The transaction will concentrate too much spectrum in
Verizon’s hands, said Steve Berry, president and chief executive
officer of the Rural Cellular Association, which represents more
than 100 wireless providers, including rural and regional
carriers.  “If the deal is approved as proposed, Verizon will add
even more spectrum to its warehouse while competitive, spectrum-
starved carriers are left behind,” Berry said in his prepared
testimony. He called for regulators to impose conditions
including spectrum divestitures if they decide to approve the
deal.  Tim Wu, a law professor at  Columbia University , agreed in
his testimony that putting more spectrum in Verizon’s hands
would affect “the very competitive structure of the
communications market,” raising the specter of a “creeping
duopoly” of Verizon and AT&T.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  