-- Wal-Mart Gears Up Online as Customers Defect to Amazon
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-03-20T15:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/wal-mart-gears-up-online-as-customers-defect-to-amazon.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  customers
were latecomers to online shopping. Now increasingly they’re
trolling for deals at  Amazon.com Inc., (AMZN)  putting pressure on Wal-
Mart to fix its lagging e-commerce operation.  Five years ago, the world’s largest retail chain didn’t
have to worry much about the world’s largest online mall. After
all, only about a quarter of Wal-Mart customers shopped at
Amazon, according to data from the research firm Kantar Retail.
Now half say they do.  That’s changing as two trends converge: Wal-Mart’s
traditional customers -- bargain hunters making less than
$50,000 a year -- are getting more tech savvy, and less-strapped
shoppers who began frequenting Wal-Mart during the recession are
now rediscovering Amazon, said Bryan Gildenberg, a Kantar
analyst based in Glen Ridge,  New Jersey .  “Amazon has moved from being this unusual niche competitor
for Wal-Mart to a force that can reinvent the industry,”
Gildenberg said in a phone interview. “Young people are tech
savvy and they’re unemployed, too. The affluent shopper is
trading back out of Wal-Mart and Amazon is a bigger part of
their life than before.”  The changing habits of Wal-Mart’s customers and Amazon’s
growing clout have Wal-Mart executives and e-commerce managers
focusing on the Seattle-based giant as never before.  “Amazon is always in our sights,” said  Jeremy King , hired
in July as chief technology officer of @WalmartLabs, the
retailer’s e-commerce skunkworks in Silicon Valley. “In the
U.S., Amazon is a very big competitor. My biggest issue is
playing a catch-up game.”  Lagging Operations  For years, Wal-Mart’s online operations have lagged behind
those of its brick-and-mortar rivals. In the past decade, Wal-
Mart has tried hiring outside firms to develop its Web store and
deployed a rotating cast of executives to find a solution. Yet
last year online sales amounted to less than 2 percent of
revenue, according to Kantar.  Meanwhile, Amazon is on the march, successfully moving into
merchandise that Wal-Mart traditionally has sold, from diapers
to vacuum cleaner bags.  In its last fiscal year, Amazon posted 41 percent revenue
growth compared with 8 percent at Wal-Mart. Amazon shares have
advanced 15 percent in the past 52 weeks, while Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart has increased 18 percent.  Last year, Wal-Mart was the No. 1 destination for holiday
shoppers with 53 percent of consumers shopping there, down from
59 percent in 2009. The percentage of consumers doing holiday
shopping at Amazon.com rose to 46 percent from 38 percent in the
last three years, according to Kantar research.  Shopping Destination  By next year, Amazon, now the No. 2 holiday shopping
destination, may be No. 1, said Anne Zybowksi, a Kantar analyst.  Wal-Mart is “going crazy over this,” Zybowski said.
“Wal-Mart is doing a lot with dot-com but they haven’t figured
it out yet.”  Now Wal-Mart is doubling down. Since May, it has spent more
than $300 million acquiring Web-related companies to build the
talent base and expertise at @WalmartLabs. They include Kosmix,
a social-media firm, and iPhone app creator Small Society. The
retailer has hired more than 200 people and is upgrading its Web
platform.  Internally, Wal-Mart has a new motto, “Anytime,
Anywhere.” Soon it will be the online marketing slogan,
Walmart.com U.S. President Joel Anderson said in an interview.  Anytime Anywhere  Eventually, Wal-Mart consumers will be able to shop for
anything that’s available online or in stores, using smartphones
or traipsing the aisles. Wal-Mart, like other retailers, aims to
use its stores as pickup centers, said Venky Harinarayan,
@WalmartLabs’ senior vice president of global e-commerce, a
former Amazon executive who worked at Kosmix.  While Amazon has a pricing advantage on some items partly
because it charges no  sales tax  in many states, Wal-Mart’s same-
day, in-store pickup gives the retailer an edge, executives
said. Already, online shoppers pick up more than half their
purchases at a store, according to Anderson.  “Price has been a key component of our strategy, but it’s
not the only thing,” he said.  Next month, Walmart.com is starting “Pay With Cash,”
aimed at the 20 percent of Wal-Mart customers who can’t shop
online because they don’t have bank accounts or credit cards.
Using the new program, these core Wal-Mart customer can reserve
products online and pay cash at their nearest store. Wal-Mart is
reaching out to more affluent customers by piloting WiFi in some
stores and by selling more expensive items -- high-end Sony and
Samsung televisions, for example -- only online.  Scan Items  Wal-Mart’s physical stores and huge inventory also can work
against it. It has become commonplace for shoppers at many
retailers to scan items with phones or look them up online and
then buy elsewhere. Wal-Mart calls this “scan and scram.”  To battle the scan and scram phenomenon, Wal-Mart is
working on a pilot concept called “Endless Aisle.” If
consumers locate an item in the apparel department, say, and the
store doesn’t have the desired size or color, they can order it
when they want on a smart phone.  “It’s going to be hard to live in such a world,” said
Harinarayan. “You can’t ask people to leave their phones at the
door. So you have to give them value and an experience.”  Wal-Mart hasn’t yet figured out exactly what suite of
online features and phone apps will make its Internet site the
go-to place for consumers, Harinarayan said. At the same time,
no one else has, either.  “There is no dominant business model,” he said.  Matching Wal-Mart’s online technology to the emerging needs
of customers is still a ways off, King said. The company needs a
whole new online infrastructure to manage the global sales
volume and host new features and apps, he said. King is
currently hiring 87 engineers and coders to get the job done.  From Scratch  “We’re starting from scratch to build a foundation,” said
King, who spent several years at  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  “Ideally, we’d have
this platform built a couple of years ago.”  At first King wasn’t keen on joining Wal-Mart, telling
recruiters Wal-Mart was “nowhere” in online retailing. Only a
conversation with Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  persuaded
him management was behind the effort.  “I said, ‘You guys aren’t even in this game,’” King said.
“I talked to Mike Duke. He said he will double down, or even
triple down on this. He said we’ll be in it to win it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  