-- Williams Rises After $2.5 Billion Pipeline Deal: Dallas Mover
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-03-20T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/williams-rises-after-2-5-billion-pipeline-deal-dallas-mover.html
Williams Cos. rose after the
partnership it controls,  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , agreed to buy a
natural-gas pipeline system in the Marcellus Shale for $2.5
billion in cash and stock.  Williams, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , climbed 2.9 percent to
$31.30 in  New York . Williams Cos. owns 72 percent of Williams
Partners, the third-biggest U.S. pipeline partnership. Williams
Partners fell 3.3 percent to $59.02.  The acquisition from closely held Caiman Energy LLC of
pipelines, two processing plants and a gas-liquids fractionator
prompted Williams to raise its earnings forecasts for 2012 and
2013 and target a 2012 full-year dividend of $1.20, up 55
percent from last year, according to a statement yesterday.  “We intend to be the number-one or number-two player in
the very large Marcellus basin and this moves us another step in
that direction,” Williams Chief Executive Officer Alan
Armstrong said in a conference call today. “I’m also excited
about the follow-on opportunities we hope to be announcing
around this transaction in the future.”  Excluding some items, Williams Cos. forecast a midpoint
profit of $1.35 a share in 2012 and $1.55 in 2013. That compared
with 12 analysts’ average estimate of $1.52 and $1.66,
respectively, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Adjusted
2011 profit was $1.23 a share.  Caiman Energy  Caiman, based in  Dallas , has agreements with 10 producers
to gather and process gas and petroleum liquids from wells
drilled across 236,000 acres in  West Virginia (WMKMX) , Ohio and
 Pennsylvania . Williams Partners may be handling as much as 5
billion cubic feet of gas a day from the Marcellus by 2015,
Armstrong said on the call.  The partnership will fund the transaction with $1.78
billion in cash and will issue Caiman about 11.8 million
Williams Partners units, valued at about $720 million, according
to the statement. Williams Cos. will make an additional
investment in Williams Partners of $1 billion to help fund the
acquisition.  Caiman’s assets will help Williams expand into the liquids-
producing areas of southwest Pennsylvania, where Williams also
is planning an extension of its Texas-to-New York Transco
pipeline, said  Bradley Olsen , an analyst with Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. in Houston.  10 Times Earnings  “Williams, even before this deal, had kind of a chokehold
on the dry-gas area of the Marcellus, but they didn’t really
have any liquids-rich areas,” Olsen said in a telephone
interview. He rates Williams Partners a hold and owns none of
its units.  Williams is paying about 10 times the Caiman unit’s
earnings before interest, taxes, deductions and amortization,
Olsen said.  Caiman began building the system in 2009, said William
Lemmons, a managing partner at EnCap Flatrock Midstream, a
private-equity firm backing Caiman. Williams, with its deeper
pockets, can continue to expand the system, he said.  “They’ve got a very long runway for investments,” Lemmons
said. “There are literally thousands of well sites to be
drilled.”  Williams Partners said it will form a joint venture with
Caiman Energy to build more pipelines and processing plants in
the Utica Shale, which abuts the Marcellus Shale.  Marcellus and Utica  The Marcellus Shale may hold as much as 141 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to Bloomberg Industries. The Utica Shale
may hold as much as 5.5 billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion
cubic feet of gas, according to the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources.  Both fields rely on horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, which blasts high-pressure water and chemicals
underground, to produce oil and gas.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and  UBS AG (UBS)  acted as financial advisers
to Williams Partners on the Caiman transaction and  Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP (1128L)  provided legal counsel. UBS also arranged a loan
for Williams Partners to help finance the acquisition.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  provided financial advice to Caiman
Energy, while  Vinson & Elkins LLP (1133L)  acted as legal counsel.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP)  are the biggest U.S. pipeline partnerships.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  