-- Wind Industry Should Mull Tax Credit Phase-Out, Baucus Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-20T20:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/wind-industry-should-consider-tax-credit-phase-out-baucus-says.html
The  wind energy  industry should
think “very seriously” about backing a proposal to phase out a
tax credit for building more energy-generating turbines, U.S.
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said today.  The Montana Democrat said in an interview that phasing out
the tax credit might be the most realistic way to keep it from
expiring altogether at the end of the year. Companies that
invest in wind energy include  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in
Fairfield,  Connecticut , and Denmark’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) .  “The industry needs a little boost, but that boost can’t
last forever,” said Baucus, the Senate’s chief tax writer.
“The more the industry can figure out a way to proceed by
cutting back, phasing out, the better it’d probably be.”  Baucus said his office has been talking with industry
representatives about backing a phase-out approach.  The production tax credit provides an incentive for
installation of  wind turbines , based on the number of kilowatt-
hours generated. For wind, the credit will cost the government
$1.3 billion in fiscal 2012, according to the congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation. Similar credits are available for
energy produced from other renewable sources.  Given the tight budget outlook, the idea of phasing out the
wind credit rather than extending it has drawn support from
Republican senators.  ‘Glide Path’  “I’ve talked to the industry about that,” Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership,
told reporters today. “If you can demonstrate a glide path to
getting where you don’t need the credit any more, phasing it out
over time, I think it’s going to be a lot more palatable
politically to try to get an approach like that through.”  The industry hasn’t endorsed a phase-out of the credit.
 Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the  American Wind Energy
Association , a trade group, said, “A full one-year extension in
the first part of this year remains the wind industry’s top
priority.” Bode added that the group “is committed to looking
at a variety of options for the tax credit in the future.”  Because turbines must be placed in service by the end of
2012 to qualify for the credit, the industry and its advocates
in Congress say action is needed soon to prevent investment from
drying up.  Expiring in Spring  “As a practical matter, wind is going to expire really in
the spring of this year,” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican who has proposed a two-year extension of the credit,
told reporters March 13. “They’re going to shut down all the
component manufacturing because you aren’t going to manufacture
for inventory if you don’t think they’re going to be used.”  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat who supports
the tax credit, said March 15 in an interview that he would
“want to see the specific proposal before reacting to it.”  “We are making great progress at getting wind to be almost
viable without help, but we’re not there yet,” Conrad said.
“So the devil would be in the details.”  Another Finance Committee member, Senator  Ben Cardin , a
Maryland Democrat, said he would prefer to extend the current
credit.  “It would be, I think, ill-advised to start talking about
a finite policy on wind without knowing how it affects the other
sources of energy,” Cardin said today in an interview. “So I’m
for a straight extension. I think that gives us the time to try
to come up with a rational  energy policy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  