-- Wine Lovers on Horseback Canter, Slurp in Bordeaux
-- B y   A n n e   S w a r d s o n
-- 2012-03-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/wine-lovers-on-horseback-canter-slurp-on-bordeaux-excursion.html
First, we drank a glass of sweet
fermented bernache, pink and bubbly, with our lunch appetizer of
warmed chestnuts. Then a local  Cotes de Bourg , to accompany the
chicken, salad and pate. As we moved onto the cheese course,
another Cotes de Bourg appeared, this one from the Bordeaux
chateau on whose grounds we were picnicking.  A winetasting followed at the chateau itself: two roses and
three reds.  We then saddled our horses to trot, canter and gallop for
two hours through the vineyards of western France toward our
next destination. Despite the liquid lunch, everyone stayed on.  So the days went on my weeklong riding-and-winetasting trip
around the Bordeaux region. Not for the weak of back or delicate
of liver, horse tourism proved to be an unexpectedly fresh way
to sample the best of what  France  has to offer in scenery,
exercise and refreshment.  We galloped across the hilltops of Sauternes, loaded our
nervous horses onto a car ferry to cross the Gironde River,
clattered across a cobblestone bridge to the Citadelle de Blaye
and crossed over busy highways and truck-filled bridges. Our
ability to ride -- and to eat and drink -- was stretched to the
limit.  While the outfit that guided us, the  Ferme Equestre “Les
Abrons,”  organizes rides all over France throughout the year,
this is the only one designed especially to appeal to wine
lovers. Ours took place during the harvest season; Bordeaux
rides also are offered in the spring.  Jockey Days  The group consisted of me, my childhood friend Sue Sheridan
and a German couple. Our guide, Pierre Chemineau, has
accompanied travelers across France for many years and has been
involved with horses since his days as a jockey four decades
ago. His assistant, Sarah Dubreuil, who drove the truck and
trailer, did some guiding and prepared the lunches, made up the
rest of the team.  Chemineau, eschewing such niceties as helmets and riding
breeches, proved to be an expert on horses, wine and tourism. As
we walked through vineyards, he would point out how each new
kind of soil we passed affected the wine produced, or explain
why the vines’ roots had to be covered with dirt after harvest
(to protect from freezing).  Medieval Tourism  He recited the history of France from the Gauls up to the
Capetians, and he told us why Saint-Emilion is famous for its
religious history, not just its grapes. (The town built an
underground church in the 11th century to lure pilgrims from the
nearby San Juan de Compostela trail, one of the earliest
examples of marketing to tourists.)  Chemineau also explained why he was going on his regularly
scheduled ride across the Perigord region the following week
even though he had only one customer.  “To me, it’s like running a grocery store,” he said as we
rode through the flat vineyards of the Pomerol region. “Even if
all my sales are on Wednesday and Saturday, I have to be open
all week long. That’s what a business is. Besides, I love going
across the country on a horse.”  When one of the German riders was unable to go out one
morning, Chemineau recruited a young man from a migrant-worker
encampment we passed to mount the spare steed -- based only on
the fellow’s assertion as we walked through that he loved
horses.  “How did you know he could ride?” I asked Chemineau
later.  “I didn’t,” he said. “But I didn’t want to keep leading
that extra horse and I liked the look in that guy’s eye.” He
proved to be an excellent rider.  Happy Finns  And then there were the horses. We met them the first
morning, after an introductory dinner in our starting town of
Listrac-Medoc the night before that also included nine Finnish
ladies who had just done the same circuit in reverse. From their
ruddy complexions and enthusiastic wine consumption it appeared
all had gone well.  My mount was Ankou, a dark-brown, 23-year-old Anglo-Arab
mare who was a pro with plenty of zip. We set off and
immediately were in the vineyards of Medoc, walking through
field after field of red-turning leafy vines. Some fields had
been harvested already, others still had luscious bunches of
blue grapes clustered at the bottom.  Rain was falling, though not hard, and we were in full rain
gear (Note to those who might want to do this ride, or any horse
tourism: get all the equipment the website recommends, and know
how to ride well before you arrive.).  French Picnic  We continued on through more vineyards and small roads and
eventually came to the ferry across the Gironde River, near
Lamarque (where the British had built a chateau to guard the
region during the Hundred Years War.) There, Sarah had parked
the van and trailer and laid out a picnic.  It was French-style: kir and peanuts for starters, then
carrot soup (heated on a burner) and tomato, corn, carrot and
cheese salad. Plus a jar of incredible pate. By then we were
into the Bordeaux, of course. I was thinking I couldn’t eat or
drink any more when she brought out the cheese course.  After lunch, what else? A visit to a local wine chateau,
accompanied by tasting. As Sue said, “After all, it has been 20
minutes since we had any wine.” So Sarah drove us to the
 Chateau Maucaillou , where we got a tour and downed an overly
heavy Medoc.  Other days followed the same pattern, though as the weather
warmed and the sun came out there was often time for a nap on
the soft grass of a winery, and a visit to its sales office. The
cases of Pomerol I had ordered arrived later at my Paris
apartment, and the wine was just as smooth without a cross-
country gallop first.  Trips organized by Ferme Equestre “Les Abrons” in France
range from 290 euros ($384) for two riding days and one night to
1,460 euros for eight days and seven nights, including food,
lodging, horses and in the case of Bordeaux, the tasting
sessions. Information:  http://www.les-abrons.com .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Anne Swardson at 
 aswardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 