-- Myanmar Army Fires on Kachin, Rapes Women, Rights Group Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-20T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/myanmar-army-fires-on-kachin-rapes-women-rights-group-says-1-.html
Myanmar’s army has displaced 75,000
ethnic Kachins since last June in an area along the Chinese
border,  Human Rights Watch  said today, in a conflict that may
threaten efforts to convince Western nations to lift sanctions.  Myanmar soldiers fired at civilians, raped women and forced
children as young as 14 to work as porters on the front lines,
New York-based Human Rights Watch said today in an 83-page
report. The offensive, which snapped a 17-year ceasefire, runs
counter to President Thein Sein’s emphasis on ending ethnic
conflicts since he took office a year ago, it said.  “There’s still a long way to go before the people of
Burma, particularly those in conflict areas, benefit from recent
promises of reform,” Elaine Pearson, deputy  Asia  director at
Human Rights Watch, said in a statement, referring to Myanmar by
its former name. “The international community should not become
complacent about the serious human rights violations still
plaguing  Burma .”  Fighting between government troops and Kachin rebels stands
in contrast to Thein Sein’s progress toward peace deals with
other ethnic armies as he aims to reconcile with political
enemies. Senator  John McCain  said earlier this year that U.S.
policy makers would rely on reports from independent groups like
Human Rights Watch when assessing whether to lift sanctions that
have been in place for more than two decades.  Human Rights Watch said it had written to both the Myanmar
government and the Kachin Independence Organization with
questions about specific allegations and hadn’t received any
response. Calls to embassy officials in Bangkok and Ye Htut,
director-general of Myanmar’s Information Ministry, went
unanswered.  Candidate Suu Kyi  U.S. and European nations have pledged to review sanctions
after April 1 by-elections involving dissident leader  Aung San Suu Kyi . U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  during her
December visit to Myanmar cited improved ties with ethnic groups
as a condition for easing sanctions against the nation of 64
million people that is among Asia’s poorest.  “In Kachin State, the violence is sticking out and is
inconsistent with a trend toward dialog in confidence-building
toward national reconciliation,”  Derek Mitchell , a U.S. special
envoy to Myanmar, told reporters in Yangon on March 15,
according to a State Department transcript. The U.S. pledged
$1.5 million to the  United Nations ’ refugee agency to assist
those displaced by the fighting, he said.  Kachin, bordering China and  India , is the northernmost of
Myanmar’s 14 provinces and home to natural resources including
precious gems, jade, copper and gold, Human Rights Watch said.  Kachin Christians  The Kachin, who are predominately Christian Baptists and
Roman Catholic, took up arms against the military government in
1961, and the group’s Kachin Independence Army has grown to
become Myanmar’s second-largest non-state ethnic armed group,
according to Human Rights Watch. The Kachin Independence
Organization, the army’s political wing, maintains a civilian
administration that acts as a parallel state, the group said.  Clashes between government troops and Kachin rebels in the
past year have occurred close to oil and gas pipelines being
built by China National Petroleum Corp. and  China Power
Investment Corp. (CPIZ) ’s $3.6 billion hydropower project that  Thein
Sein  suspended last year because of environmental concerns,
Human Rights Watch said. In a  statement  last year, the
government said Kachin rebels attacked Chinese staff working at
hydropower projects in the northern state.  ‘Most Serious Threat’  Myanmar has more than 30 armed ethnic minority groups that
have resisted central government control since it gained
independence from Britain in 1948. The Kachin fighting, which
resumed around the time of the 2010 election when the government
voided a 1994 ceasefire, “is the most serious threat to peace
in Myanmar,” the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group   said 
in November.  Human Rights Watch called for an independent international
probe into the alleged abuses and for aid to reach displaced
people in about 30 camps on the border with  China . Abuses in the
past year included soldiers shooting at women and children in
villages, and the gang-rape of women taken from villages, it
said.  The group also called on Kachin rebels to stop using child
soldiers and anti-personnel mines.  “The Burmese army is committing unchecked abuses in Kachin
State while the government blocks humanitarian aid to those most
in need,” Pearson said. “Both the army and Kachin rebels need
to act to prevent a bad situation for civilians from getting
even worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  