-- Yuan Forwards Weaken on Speculation PBOC to Tolerate Volatility
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-20T10:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/yuan-forwards-weaken-on-speculation-pboc-to-tolerate-volatility.html
China ’s yuan-forward contracts fell
by the most in a week on speculation policy makers will allow
two-way movements in the currency.  The People’s Bank of China has set the currency’s fixing
lower on eight days this month and raised it on six occasions.
The yuan may be near an “equilibrium” and policy makers will
allow greater exchange-rate volatility, Premier Wen Jiabao said
on March 14. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  traded on ICE Futures in  New York 
rose 0.1 percent, snapping three days of declines.  “Policy makers are trying to display more two-way
volatility in the currency,” said Daniel Hui, a senior currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “What seems clear
is that the dollar is helping drive near-term volatility.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.16 percent
to 6.3360, after rising as much as 0.14 percent earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan fell 0.01 percent to 6.3241 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s fixing 0.08
percent stronger at 6.3029 per dollar, a third consecutive day
when the rate was set higher. The yuan is allowed to move as
much as 0.5 percent of either side of the fixing.  China needs steady economic development, a stable financial
system and strong regulation to achieve full convertibility of
the yuan, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told company executives in Beijing
yesterday.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was steady at 2.5 percent. In Hong
Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.06 percent to 6.3255.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  