-- Ziggo Jumps After IPO Raises $1.1 Billion at Top End
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-21T17:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-20/ziggo-raises-1-1-billion-in-share-sale-at-top-end-of-forecast.html
Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable company
owned by Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., rose 15 percent on
the first day of trading after its initial public offering
raised 804 million euros ($1.1 billion) with shares sold at the
top end of its  price range .  Shareholders of Ziggo sold 43.5 million shares at 18.50
euros each, the Utrecht, Netherlands-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Ziggo rose as much as 3.45 euros to 21.95
euros a share in Amsterdam trading before retreating to close at
21.25 euros. The IPO is the biggest in Europe so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Today’s movement reflects the strong demand for the cable
industry,”  Nick Brown , a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said by phone. “There were obviously some
disappointed investors that weren’t able to get as many shares
as they would have liked in the IPO, or any at all. This bodes
well for any future placings.”  Warburg and Cinven are taking advantage of Ziggo’s above-
average profitability, and the cable company plans to pay 220
million euros in dividends this year to entice new investors.
The company said on March 9 the new stock would be priced at
16.50 euros to 18.50 euros a share.  Cinven is making about 2.2 times its investment in the
share sale, less than the 3.5 times that  Warburg Pincus  made on
its money because it invested earlier, according to people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the process is private.  Cable Merger  Warburg Pincus bought the Dutch cable company Multikabel
for $625.7 million in 2005, and later merged it with rivals
Casema and Kabelcom, which Cinven helped Warburg buy for a
combined enterprise value of $5.9 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. The result of the merger, Ziggo, is now valued
at about 7.5 billion euros ($9.95 billion) including debt,
according to Bloomberg data. Officials at Warburg and Cinven
declined to comment on returns.  Ziggo is the largest cable-television operator in the
Netherlands with an estimated network coverage of 56 percent of
the country’s easily connectable homes at the end of last year,
according to its prospectus. It offers TV, digital pay TV, high-
speed broadband internet and telephone services. Its main
strategy is to offer packages of services at a lower price than
customers would pay for the individual service subscriptions.  Regional Operators  “We identified the Dutch cable market as an attractive and
growing industry and then created a new national market
leader,” Joseph Schull, head of Warburg Pincus in Europe, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We also supported
significant  capital investment  and an ambitious growth
strategy,” he said.  Growth is expected to come from Ziggo’s entrance on the
Dutch mobile market, planned for 2013, and from the corporate
market where the company plans add-on acquisitions, chief
financial officer Bert Groenewegen said in an interview today.
This year, the company expects to see similar growth drivers to
2011, including a strong demand for triple play - television,
phone and internet - and an increasing share in the corporate
market, he said.  Ziggo, which competes with  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  in the Netherlands
and  Liberty Global (LBTYA) ’s UPC, increased the amount of stock in the
offering to 43 million shares from 35 million shares originally
planned, and added a 15 percent over-allotment option. If the
over-allotment option is exercised in full, the IPO will
represent 25 percent of the total issued share capital of Ziggo,
the company said yesterday.  “This has been a classic ‘consolidate and build’
investment, with Ziggo expanding revenues and margins whilst
delivering significant innovation to customers,” David Barker,
a partner at Cinven, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  European IPOs  The share sale is the first IPO on the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange in more than two years. Trading in the shares will
start today.  Ziggo is among European companies seeking to sell shares as
the region’s stock markets rebound. While the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index retreated yesterday, the gauge has still gained 10 percent
this year as the  European Central Bank  disbursed 1 trillion
euros to the region’s lenders.  On March 19, DKSH Holding Ltd., a Swiss company that helps
clients expand in Asian markets, raised 821 million francs ($900
million) through an IPO in Zurich.  Ziggo’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 835 million euros last year, or 56.5
percent of sales. That ratio, a gauge of profitability known as
Ebitda margin, is 43.6 percent at  Kabel Deutschland (KD8)  and 52.5
percent at  Telenet , controlled by Liberty Global Inc., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ziggo won’t get any proceeds from the offering, according
to the original IPO prospectus. Besides its private-equity
owners, some executives and employees also planned to sell
shares in the offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were managing the
IPO, alongside  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  