-- 
‘App-Crazy’ U.S. Banks Follow Customers to iPads, Smartphones

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/-app-crazy-u-s-banks-follow-customers-to-ipads-smartphones.html
As consumers manage more of their
lives with smartphones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads, financial-
services companies are trying to ensure they don’t get lost in
the electronic shuffle.  “The industry right now is app-crazy,” says James
McGovern, vice-president for consulting services at Corporate
Insight, which monitors how banks communicate with customers.  “We’re just going where the customers are,” says
Christopher Larkin, E*Trade Financial Corp.’s senior vice
president for active trading.    Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s online brokerage, Merrill Edge, is
even exploring the idea of face-to-face teleconferencing between
clients and advisers through the mobile apps it unveiled on
March 9, says Alok Prasad, who heads the division, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports.  Forrester Research Inc. estimates that more than 10 million
Americans use mobile-banking technology and that the number
could rise to 50 million by 2015. About 75 percent of those
using the technology now are members of generations X and Y,
according to Forrester.  While many of those consumers are comfortable using mobile
apps to check their balances, companies need to work themselves
more deeply into a mobile customer’s financial life or the work
that goes into developing all of these mobile apps may wind up
being “another cost center,” says  Gartner Inc. (IT)  analyst Stessa
Cohen.  ‘Smart Decisions’  The “real potential” for mobile personal-finance apps may
come from linking investments and savings with spending in real
time, says Ron Shevlin, senior analyst at the research firm Aite
Group. Apps could track consumers’ spending and investments
while offering “personal finance management” by maintaining
budgets and helping consumers “make smart decisions about how
to
finance a purchase,” he says.  To do that, financial outfits have to get in on the front
end of spending decisions. Lenders including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America have been
testing mobile-payment systems using smartphones in a small
number of cities across the country.  In December, Wells Fargo started a pilot with 200 employees
in  San Francisco , where its headquarters are located. After a
similar pilot last year, Bank of America on March 28 will start
a mobile-payment test with customers in New York, Atlanta, and
San Francisco. Just as they would swipe a  credit card , shoppers
hold phones up to special readers to complete purchases.  Coupons, Promotions  In addition to offering a convenient way to pay through
credit- or debit-card accounts, mobile phones could deliver
instant coupons and other promotions to shoppers, says Arah
Erickson, head of Wells Fargo’s retail mobile banking division.  If closer connections with financial institutions make it
easier for consumers to see where their money goes, that could
be a big positive, says Meir Statman, a professor at Santa Clara
University, who specializes in behavioral finance.  Such knowledge “really bolsters their self-control” when
they’re shopping, says Statman, author of “What Investors
Really Want.”  Another outcome could be less positive, though.  “People are more likely to trade more if it’s made
easier,” Statman says. “What we know from studies is the more
you trade, the more you are likely to lag behind people who buy
and hold investments.”  Thus far, 11 percent of investors use their brokerages’
mobile offerings and about a quarter of those users trade
through mobile platforms, says Forrester.  Options Trading  E*Trade says about 3 percent to 4 percent of its trades are
placed through mobile devices, and it will soon add trading of
futures and mutual funds to its current lineup of stocks and
options. TD Ameritrade has seen increased trading activity due
to its mobile app, particularly in options trading, says Nicole
Sherrod, managing director of the firm’s trader group.  Nevertheless, she adds, the main goal is to attract
customers and position the firm for future growth, not to boost
trading immediately. TD Ameritrade will introduce its second
iPad app in late April, she says, with this one aimed at long-
term investors rather than traders.  Forrester analyst Bill Doyle doubts mobile offerings will
stimulate much extra trading overall, though he does expect
customers to shift holdings to companies with better mobile
offerings.  “Mobile devices are changing consumers’ perceptions of how
convenient financial transactions should be,” says Wells
Fargo’s Erickson. “Today, convenience means the PC is across
the room, and I don’t feel like booting it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Steverman in  New York  at 
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Suzanne Woolley at 
 swoolley2@bloomberg.net  