-- 
‘Biblical Exodus’ From Africa Feeds Anti-Immigrant Rhetoric

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/-biblical-exodus-from-africa-feeds-anti-immigrant-rhetoric.html
As boats carrying hundreds of
Africans set sail for a better life in  Europe , they were met on
Italy’s Lampedusa island with two words by a 5-foot, 8-inch
blonde: go away.  “They cannot be allowed on the shore,” Marine Le Pen, the
42-year-old leader of  France ’s anti-immigration National Front,
said in a March 15 interview in Rome after a three-hour visit
the previous day to Lampedusa. “Send boats out to feed them.
But they must not set foot on land.”  The island, a speck in the Mediterranean Sea closer to
Tunisia than Sicily, is experiencing first-hand an immigration
surge poised to spread to the rest of Europe and drive a deeper
wedge in a north-south divide already tested by the sovereign-
debt crisis.  “It’s evident that  Italy  has been abandoned by Europe,”
Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said in Brussels on
March 10 after a meeting with his European Union counterparts.
“We can’t be the policeman of Europe.”  The month-long civil war in Libya between Muammar Qaddafi’s
regime and rebel forces in the oil-rich east has left 6,000
people dead, driven crude prices to a 2 1/2-year high and
unleashed what Italian Interior Minister Roberto Maroni, the
country’s most popular politician, called a “biblical exodus.”  North of Rome, a backlash has already begun as Italy warns
its neighbors that 70 percent of Africans washing up on its
shores are headed to France and  Germany  to seek work.  Back on Boats  One solution proposed by Chantal Brunel, a lawyer of French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Union for a  Popular Movement , was to
“put them back on their boats.” While she apologized for her
March 8 remarks, her stance reflects the will of governments
outside the Mediterranean rim to keep refugees at bay.  “We are ready to help in economic terms, but I don’t see
the future in having us expand legal immigration,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Brussels on March 15.  For Italy, the financial toll comes after the Europe’s
fourth-biggest economy promised 11.6 billion euros ($16 billion)
in spending cuts to trim its deficit with EU limits. Italy’s EU
partners have ignored a request for 100 million euros to help
Silvio Berlusconi’s government with the crisis.  Since Jan. 15, more than 9,000 people -- twice the number
in 2010 -- have crossed 110 kilometers (70 miles) in boats from  Tunisia  to Lampedusa, inhabited by less than 6,000 people, the
Italian  Interior Ministry  said.  Italy and Malta face the prospect of an influx of Libyans
after severing ties with the former colony.  ‘Become Black’  Last December, Qaddafi warned EU leaders that their region
may “become black because millions want to come to Europe.”  As part of a reparation deal with Italy worth $5 billion,
Qaddafi agreed in 2008 to tighten border controls. That led to
the number of Libyan migrants to Italy falling to fewer than
3,000 in 2010 from a record 37,000 two years earlier. In Malta,
the influx dropped from a 2008 high of 84 boats bringing 2,775
people to 2 boats carrying 47 in 2010.  Since mid-February, almost 225,000 people have fled  Libya ,
with about 115,000 going to Tunisia and 102,000 to  Egypt , the
Geneva-based  United Nations  High Commission for Refugees said on
March 10. About 2,000 went to Niger and 5,500 to  Algeria .  The distance between Valletta and Tripoli, 220 miles, is
the same as that of Paris and  London . That makes Malta, which
joined the euro region in 2008, an entry point for those
escaping the unrest in Libya.  Malta  While arrivals to Lampedusa are shipped to the Italian
mainland, immigrants arriving in Malta are held in detention
centers for as long as 18 months. More than half of Malta’s 2.5
million-euro military budget goes to food and shelter for the
refugees.  Since the turmoil in Libya began on Feb. 15, Malta has
received about 26,000 people evacuated by ship from the North
African country by their governments and repatriated to their
countries of origins.  More than 3,000 kilometers away, on the 22nd floor of a
Warsaw skyscraper is Frontex, the EU agency charged with border
security. It has no ships or helicopters of its own, nor any
autonomous decision-making power. Contributions are entirely
voluntary, meaning those most affected by immigration flows bear
the brunt of the costs.  On Feb. 20,  Frontex  launched operation Hermes, named after
the winged Greek god, to assist the authorities in Lampedusa.
Italy is providing the most equipment: two patrol boats and a
plane.  “Frontex does not replace the border-control activities of
members states as these are performed by, and remain the primary
responsibility of the latter,” said Frontex spokesman Michal
Parzyszek.  No Problem in Finland  Founded in 2005 with a staff of 300, Frontex is run by a
Finn, Ilkka Laitinen. The agency’s ability to act quickly in
emergencies is hobbled by having to negotiate with 27
governments that grow increasingly impervious to immigration
concerns the further north they are located.  “Italy and Malta have taken a hit recently, but we haven’t
seen massive flows yet,” Finnish Foreign Minister Alexander Stubb said on March 10.  Interior ministers from six EU countries near the  Mediterranean Sea  called on member states last month to back the
creation of a special fund that will help them cope with an
“uncontrolled” influx of immigration from Libya. Their appeal
has gone nowhere.  Holiday Island  In the summer, Lampedusa is  brimming  with tourists while
simultaneously coping with a wave of immigration that occurs in
the hottest months, when it’s safer to travel. Many of the
island’s inhabitants move to Sicily in the winter, leaving
Lampedusa virtually deserted.  January’s first wave of immigrants to Lampedusa was put up
in local hotels before the island’s own detention center was
forced to re-open after two years. The facility, which is meant
to house a maximum of 100 people, often detained four times as
many immigrants and was shut due to health and hygiene concerns.  For a half-dozen new arrivals, there was a silver lining to
getting to a holiday island out of season, according to
Bernardino de Rubeis, Lampedusa’s mayor. He said six Tunisians
last month broke into the villa of Italian  pop star  Claudio
Baglioni, where they crashed for the night, drank wine and ate
foie gras before leaving at dawn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Rome  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  