-- 
‘Too Big to Fail’ Survives Beyond TARP Successes, Watchdog Panel Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/-too-big-to-fail-survives-beyond-tarp-successes-panel-says.html
Taxpayer-funded bailouts left the
U.S. with a legacy of moral hazard even while giving financial
markets “critical support” during the 2008 crisis, a
congressional watchdog said in its final report.  Bailouts of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
“extended the ‘too big to fail’ guarantee and its associated
moral hazard to non-financial firms,” the Congressional
Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said in a
report today. “The implication being that any company can
receive a government backstop, so long as its collapse would
cost enough jobs or deal enough economic damage.”  The report is the last to be issued by the oversight board,
which dissolves six months after the October 2010 expiration of
TARP’s authority. The panel, led by former Senator Ted Kaufman,
frequently complained that the Treasury Department wasn’t
transparent enough in its work and criticized government housing
initiatives as ineffective.  Treasury officials responded to the report by defending the
program. “Where we are today shows that the program by any
reasonable, objective measure was a success,” Tim Massad, the
Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
said in a conference call with reporters yesterday. TARP and
other government actions during the crisis “broke the back of
the panic,” he said.  Foreclosure Prevention  The Treasury’s foreclosure-prevention programs “have
largely failed to get off the ground,” according to the
oversight panel report. “TARP will cost less than expected in
part because it will accomplish far less than envisioned for
American homeowners.”  In a separate call with reporters yesterday, Kaufman said
“there was a heck of a lot more attention paid to  Wall Street 
than Main Street.”  The  Congressional Budget Office , which initially projected
that TARP would cost taxpayers $356 billion, has lowered that
estimate to $25 billion.  “Treasury deserves credit for lowering costs through its
diligent management of TARP assets and, in particular, its
careful restructuring” of GM, Chrysler and insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , according to the report.  TARP “provided critical support to markets at a moment of
profound uncertainty,” the report said. The program showed that
the U.S. “would take any action necessary to prevent the
collapse of its financial system.”  The cost of a “too big to fail” legacy can’t be counted
in dollars, the panel said.  Height of Crisis  At the height of the crisis, 18 large financial firms
received $208.6 billion in TARP money “almost overnight,” the
report said. “Credit-rating agencies continue to adjust the
credit ratings of very large banks to reflect their implicit
government guarantee. Smaller banks receive no such adjustment,
and as a result, they pay more to borrow relative to very large
banks.”  Kaufman, a Democrat from  Delaware , replaced  Elizabeth Warren , who stepped down in September to lead the Obama
administration’s efforts to build the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Under Warren, the panel’s reports included criticism that
TARP failed to help small businesses and that the Treasury
inadequately collected information about lending trends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  