-- 
ABB Buys 35% of Germany’s Novatec Solar With Option to Buy All

-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-16T15:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/abb-acquires-35-stake-in-germany-s-novatec-solar-with-option-to-buy-all.html
  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest
power-grid supplier, agreed to buy 35 percent of the
concentrated sun-power technology developer Novatec Solar with
an option to acquire the rest of the German company.  ABB also agreed to cooperate with Novatec on solar power
projects, the Zurich-based company said today in a statement. It
did not give a price. Concentrated solar systems reflect
sunlight, usually with mirrors, to heat liquids and produce
steam to generate electricity.  ABB’s acquisition “comes at the tail end of a couple of
years of strategic consolidation in the solar thermal industry
through acquisitions by major power equipment companies,” said
Jenny Chase, solar analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Siemens AG acquired Israeli parabolic trough leader Solel
Solar Systems and a 45 percent stake in Italian receiver maker
Archimede Solar Energy in 2009.  Areva SA (CEI)  bought the U.S. Linear
Fresnel CSP firm Ausra Inc. in 2010 and  Alstom SA (ALO)  took a stake
in the tower and heliostat technology and project developer
BrightSource Energy Inc. in 2010, Chase said from Zurich.  “Strategic consolidation makes sense for solar thermal
companies as they get bankable support for their performance
guarantees, and for power equipment companies as it gives them a
renewable energy growth option related to their core
competences,” Chase said. “There are not many independent
solar thermal companies left.”  The investment “brings us closer to solar power based on
CSP technology and supports ABB’s focus on renewable energies,
complementing our own power generation offering,” Peter Leupp,
head of ABB’s Power Systems division, said in the statement.
“The technology’s simplicity, financial viability as well as
minimal water and land requirements are factors that make it
particularly attractive in emerging markets.”  Novatec, of  Karlsruhe, is currently building the world’s
first commercial 30-megawatt Linear Fresnel power plant in  Spain , ABB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  