-- 
Abbas Says He’ll Visit Gaza Strip to Restore Relations With Hamas Movement

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   T a n y a   H a b j o u q a
-- 
2011-03-16T13:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/abbas-says-ready-to-go-to-gaza-to-end-palestinian-division-with-hamas.html
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he plans to visit the Gaza Strip for the
first time since 2007 in a bid to end a split with the Islamic
Hamas movement that controls the territory.  Abbas told the Palestinian National Council he expects to
travel to the area “within four days.” Hamas welcomed the
initiative and said it would prepare for his arrival, movement
spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said in an e-mailed statement.  “I have asked Haniyeh to meet me at the entrance of Gaza
with all the factions,” Abbas told the council in the West Bank
city of  Ramallah  today, referring to Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh. “I am not talking about more negotiations. It is time
we reached an agreement.”  The initiative, the first serious move toward
reconciliation in months, comes amid spreading popular uprisings
across the Arab world calling for increased democracy. Thousands
of Palestinians in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  rallied
yesterday in support of efforts to resolve the divide.  “This is what the people want,” said Mahdi Abdul Hadi,
director of the Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of
International Affairs in Jerusalem. “Tunis and  Egypt  are
contagious and  Palestine  is no exception. We used to be the
pioneers for uprising and revolt and now we are the followers.”  Uprisings have toppled Tunisia’s leader, Zine El Abidine
Ben Ali, and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , and threatened
the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where anti-regime protests
have escalated into civil war.  Partnership Government  The division between Abbas’s Fatah movement and Hamas dates
back to 2007, when Hamas ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza a year
after winning parliamentary elections, ending a partnership
government with Fatah and leaving Abbas in control of only the  West Bank .  Abbas’s Palestinian Authority in February said it plans to
hold parliamentary and presidential elections by September, the
first polling in more than five years. At the time, Hamas said
it wouldn’t participate.  “We need to move forward to put elections in place in the
next six months,” Abbas said today. He also told the council he
has no plans to run for re-election, a statement he has made
before.  Abbas said the sides have agreed on reconciliation points
that were raised in talks mediated by Egypt and only formal
approval of the document is required. In the past, Palestinian
Authority officials said reconciliation talks failed because of
Hamas’s refusal to officially accept a non-violent policy
regarding  Israel .  Israeli Airstrike  Two Palestinians were killed today in an Israeli airstrike
on a security position in the Gaza Strip, Hamas official Adham
Abu Selmeya said in a phone interview. Israel said it launched
the attack in response to the firing of a rocket from Gaza into
Israel. Hamas, which refuses to recognize Israel or any peace
agreements signed with it, is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Peace negotiations with Israel broke down in September when
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month partial construction freeze in West Bank settlements
and Abbas said he wouldn’t talk without a total halt to
building.  Abdul Hadi said Palestinian reconciliation would rule out a
resumption of peace talks with Israel in the immediate future.  “This is the people talking about putting the Palestinian
house in order,” he said. “Netanyahu can just sit and watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in  Jerusalem  at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net 
Tanya Habjouqa in Jerusalem at 
 thabjouqa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 