-- 
Abbas to Visit Gaza in Bid to Heal Four-Year Palestinian Split With Hamas

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   T a n y a   H a b j o u q a
-- 
2011-03-16T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/abbas-to-visit-gaza-in-bid-to-heal-four-year-palestinian-split-with-hamas.html
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  plans to visit the  Gaza Strip  in a bid to heal a
nearly four-year divide with the Islamic Hamas movement that has
forced repeated delays in plans to hold elections.  Abbas told the Palestinian National Council yesterday that
he expects to travel to the area “within four days.” Hamas
welcomed the announcement and said it would prepare for his
arrival, spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said in an e-mailed statement.  The initiative, the first serious move toward
reconciliation in months, comes amid spreading popular uprisings
across the Arab world calling for increased democracy. Thousands
of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip rallied
yesterday in support of efforts to resolve the divide that has
Hamas in control of Gaza and Abbas’s Fatah movement ruling the
West Bank.  “This is what the people want,” said Mahdi Abdul Hadi,
director of the Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of
International Affairs in  Jerusalem . “Tunis and  Egypt  are
contagious and  Palestine  is no exception. We used to be the
pioneers for uprising and revolt and now we are the followers.”  Uprisings have toppled Tunisia’s leader, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , and threatened
the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where anti-regime protests
have escalated into civil war.  Naji Shurab, a political scientist at Gaza’s al-Azhar
University said Abbas’s visit would just be for show as the
sides still must resolve many disagreements.  No Excuses  “Abbas’s decision to visit Gaza was in order not to give
Hamas any excuse to say later that it invited Abbas and he
refused,” Shurab said in a phone interview.  Ismail Haniyeh, the Hamas leader in Gaza, yesterday called
for reconciliation in a televised address. “We can discuss all
issues and obstacles with dialogue and meet the demands of the
people,” he said.  The division between Abbas’s Fatah movement and Hamas dates
back to June 2007, when Hamas ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza a
year after winning parliamentary elections, ending a partnership
government with Fatah and leaving Abbas in control of only the  West Bank .  Abbas’s Palestinian Authority in February said it plans to
hold parliamentary and presidential elections by September, the
first polling in more than five years. At the time, Hamas said
it wouldn’t participate.  Partnership Government  “We need to move forward to put elections in place in the
next six months,” Abbas said today. He also told the council he
has no plans to run for re-election, a statement he has made
before.  Abbas said the sides have agreed on reconciliation points
that were raised in talks mediated by Egypt and only formal
approval of the document is required.  Israel has said the rift between Hamas and Fatah
complicates peace talks as any agreement with Abbas would only
be relevant in the West Bank.  “Israelis are not going to be happy with any form of
reconciliation,” said Bashir Bashir, a political scientist at
Hebrew University.   Israel  has always excused itself by saying
Hamas is out of the game.”  Peace negotiations with Israel broke down in September when
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month partial construction freeze in West Bank settlements
and Abbas said he wouldn’t talk without a total halt to
building.  Palestinian reconciliation would rule out a resumption of
peace talks with Israel in the immediate future, said Abdul
Hadi.  “This is the people talking about putting the Palestinian
house in order,” he said. “Netanyahu can just sit and watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net 
Tanya Habjouqa in Jerusalem at 
 thabjouqa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 