-- 
Abortion Foes Run Into Tax Obstacle in Bid to Curb Funding

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-16T21:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/abortion-foes-in-congress-run-into-tax-obstacle-in-attempt-to-curb-funding.html
House Republicans’ efforts to limit
government funding for abortion are bumping up against their
emphasis on tax cuts, underscoring potential tensions between
the party’s social and fiscal agendas.  A Republican bill that would cut taxpayer funding for
abortion aims to prevent women from using itemized medical
deductions, certain tax-advantaged health-care accounts or tax
credits included in last year’s health-care law to pay for
abortions or for insurance plans that cover the procedure.  Under common Republican definitions, limiting a tax benefit
is viewed as a tax increase -- which is anathema to the House
majority.  “I understand the point they’re trying to make through the
tax code, saying abortion is not health care,” said  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for  Tax Reform , a Washington-
based advocacy group that says 237 House members have signed its
 no-tax-increase pledge . “We’re just concerned that policy,
however well-intentioned or virtuous, not ever mask a net tax
increase.”  The  Congressional Budget Office   released a report  yesterday
saying that the bill would have a “negligible” effect on  tax
revenue , which means it wouldn’t be viewed as a violation of the
pledge.  Increased Revenue  That estimate assumes that increases in revenue generated
by the bill would be balanced by increased deductions taken for
medical care because more pregnancies would be carried to term,
Thomas Barthold, chief of staff of the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation, said during a House Ways and Means
subcommittee hearing today.  “Negligible’s fine,” Norquist said in an interview
yesterday after hearing about the revenue estimate. “Zero’s
better, so there needs to be an offset.”  In a letter sent to the subcommittee today to clarify the
group’s position, Norquist wrote that negligible and zero are
“synonymous” for budget purposes.  “The bill has no net tax change whatsoever, and is
therefore not legislation at all relating to the Taxpayer
Protection Pledge,” he wrote. “Attempts to claim otherwise are
not based on reality, but on mere political gamesmanship of the
lowest order.”  Complying With Pledge  Norquist said he has been discussing the tax issue with
bill sponsors and committee staff members. They have assured
him, he said, that the bill will comply with his group’s pledge.  “As the sole House committee that generates  tax policy , we
speak with a lot of groups that are mindful of how specific
legislation may impact the code and taxpayers alike, and ATR is
one of those groups,” said Ways and Means spokeswoman Michelle Dimarob. The purpose of today’s hearing, she said, was to give
Congress “the information it needs to ensure that the
provisions are administrable and operable.”  The bill, sponsored by Representative Christopher Smith, a
New Jersey Republican, also prohibits government funding for
abortion and forbids federal health-care facilities to offer
abortion services. The bill provides exceptions for abortions
performed to save a woman’s life or to end pregnancies resulting
from rape or incest. The House Judiciary Committee approved the
measure March 3.  Cutting Spending  Most congressional Republicans support cutting spending for
abortion. The 2011 budget bill the House passed last month
included a ban on funding for Planned Parenthood, and some
lawmakers have been pushing to include similar language in the
short-term spending measures that are funding the federal
government until lawmakers devise a longer-term plan.  Spending provisions in Smith’s abortion bill, which expand
and make permanent previous restrictions, fit with the party’s
stated agenda of reducing government expenditures.  The tax provisions raise a complex question because they
would generate more money for the government. If a woman can’t
use the itemized medical deduction -- which is available for
expenses exceeding 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income -- for
an abortion, she would pay more in taxes than she would have
otherwise.  The bill would attempt to apply the same logic to health
savings accounts and flexible spending accounts by removing
abortion from the list of eligible medical expenses, said David
Christensen, senior director of congressional affairs at the
 Family Research Council , a Washington-based group that advocates
religious values in public policy.  Abortion Incentive  “We think that the IRS should not be incentivizing
abortion through the  tax code ,” he said.  Changing the tax treatment of abortion is a “very
different concept” that could lead to other social policy
changes through the tax code, said Donna Crane, policy director
at  NARAL Pro-Choice America , an abortion-rights group in
Washington.  “There’s a lot of policies that can be enacted and changed
that are super-creepy,” she said.  The bill isn’t designed to affect the two largest tax
breaks for health care: allowing employers to deduct the cost of
health insurance for employees and letting employees receive
employer-sponsored coverage without paying taxes on the value of
the benefits.  Christensen said his group would support examining those
tax provisions as well.  Some of the language in the bill is ambiguous, making it
hard to tell how it would affect individuals and businesses in
some cases, Barthold said.  Causing Split  As Congress pursues broader tax changes, similar provisions
could cause fractures between fiscal conservatives who don’t
want taxes to increase and social conservatives who want to use
economic policy as a tool.  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat,
suggested that death penalty opponents could use similar logic
to seek to deny deductions to pharmaceutical companies that
produce drugs used in executions.  “The tax code can be an extremely powerful tool to
accomplish a policy goal, including social policy,” he said at
today’s hearing. “But it can also be a very blunt instrument.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  