-- 
Macquarie’s Chairman Clarke Resigns After Cancer Battle, McCann Appointed

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T05:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/macquarie-chairman-clarke-resigns-on-health-mccann-appointed.html
  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  Chairman  David Clarke , the longest serving member of Australia’s biggest
investment bank, has resigned due to ill health, 19 months after
returning to the post following cancer treatment.  The Sydney-based company’s lead independent director Kevin McCann, 70, today replaced Clarke, 69, Macquarie said in an e-
mailed statement. Spokeswoman Paula Hannaford declined to
disclose the nature of Clarke’s illness in a telephone
interview.  McCann, who sits on the boards of Origin Energy Ltd. and
BlueScope Steel Ltd., will oversee a firm expanding in the U.S.,  Canada  and Latin America. The company, which last month cut its
second-half earnings forecast, risks being caught in an
unsustainable position as it’s “squeezed” between Wall Street
giants and smaller advisory firms, UBS AG said last month.  Clarke is one of  Australia ’s “great business leaders” and
helped turn Macquarie into a global operation with 15,500
employees from its predecessor firm Hill Samuel Australia that
had just 12 staff in 1971, McCann said in the statement. McCann
carried out Clarke’s duties when he took a nine-month leave of
absence starting November 2008 for medical treatment.  “I speak for every board member, past and present, when I
say it was an honor to serve with David to build a successful
global operation from such small beginnings,” McCann said in
today’s statement.  Macquarie shares rose 0.1 percent to A$34.71. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index was little changed.  Vineyards  Clarke was appointed joint managing director of Hill Samuel
in 1972, before being appointed managing director in 1977 and
executive chairman in 1984, Macquarie said in the statement. He
held the post of executive chairman of Macquarie from 1985 to
March 2007, when he ceased executive duties.  In 1988, Clarke formed Poole’s Rock Wines, a wine company
best known for its Chardonnay with vineyards in the Hunter
Valley region of New South Wales. The producer also sells the
Cockfighter’s Ghost and Firestick brands.  Clarke’s nephew, Andrew Clarke, is the chef at the
vineyard’s award-winning Rock Restaurant, according to the
company’s website.  Clarke has also been chairman of Macquarie’s philanthropic
arm, the Macquarie Group Foundation, since it was created in
1985, and served on the boards of charities including the
Salvation Army and the Children’s Cancer Institute Australia,
according to a statement from the investment bank.  McCann has been an independent voting director of Macquarie
Group since August 2007, and on Macquarie Bank Ltd.’s board
since December 1996. McCann is Chairman of Origin Energy,
Australia’s largest energy retailer, and a director at
BlueScope, the nation’s biggest steelmaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  