-- 
Madagascan President Rajoelina Reappoints Camille Vital as Prime Minister

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-03-16T12:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/madagascan-president-rajoelina-reappoints-camille-vital-as-prime-minister.html
Madagascan President  Andry Rajoelina  reappointed Camille Vital as prime minister of the
country’s transitional government that aims to end a two-year
political and economic crisis.  Vital was chosen after Rajoelina “thought hard and looked
at all the aspects of the situation,” the president told
reporters today in Antananarivo, the capital. All nominations
for the post from other political parties were taken into
account, he said. One of the main opposition groups described
the appointment as “farce.”  Vital’s government resigned last week after eight of 11
political parties signed an agreement to form a new
administration that will take the country to elections either
late this year or early in 2012. The Indian Ocean island nation
has been in crisis since Rajoelina, then mayor of the capital,
ousted  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the military in 2009,
leading to its suspension from the South African Development
Community and the  African Union , and for donors to stop aid.  The road map, proposed by regional grouping SADC, called
for Rajoelina to stay as president and for him to choose the
prime minister after consulting all parties that agreed to the
pact. Two of the three main opposition groups, led by former
presidents Didier Ratsiraka and  Albert Zafy , refused to agree.
The party led by Ravalomanana, who has been in exile in  South
Africa  for two years, said last week it will probably sign the
agreement.  The appointment deserved the support of the international
community as it followed consultation with all the participating
parties, Vital said in an interview in Antananarivo.  The process to choose the new prime minister was flawed and
showed Rajoelina continued to make unilateral decisions,
Lalatiana Ravalolomanana, a spokeswoman for Ravalomanana’s
party, said by phone.  Madagascar, with a $9 billion economy, is the world’s
largest vanilla grower, while oil, nickel and titanium products
have also attracted investor interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  