-- 
ADS Tactical Plans Debut Debt as Spreads Widen: New Issue Alert

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-16T09:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ads-tactical-plans-debut-amid-widest-spreads-in-8-weeks-new-issue-alert.html
ADS Tactical Inc., a provider of
equipment to the U.S. Department of Defense, is marketing debt
as relative yields on speculative-grade bonds rise to the
highest in eight weeks.  ADS Tactical plans to sell $275 million of seven-year
senior secured notes that will be noncallable for four years,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
will be used to refinance existing indebtedness and to fund an
equity distribution to shareholders, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The issue is
a debut offering, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreads on high-yield corporate debt rose 16 basis points
to 509 basis points, the most since Jan. 19 and the biggest one-
day increase since Nov. 30, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Investors are demanding more yield from
speculative-grade securities after a 9.0-magnitude earthquake
struck off the coast of  Japan , causing a deadly tsunami and
explosions at a nuclear power plant north of  Tokyo .  “The high-yield market is responding to the same concerns
in Japan that the rest of the market is concerned over,” said  Vicki Bryan , an senior bond analyst for Gimme Credit LLC in  New
York . Speculative-grade debt is the “canary in the  coal mine .”  Absolute yields on high-yield debt rose 11 basis points to
7.52 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
That compares with the record low of 7.285 percent reached on
Feb. 22.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Market Shutdown  The market for new bonds in the U.S. shut down yesterday as
volatility rose amid concern over explosions at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima nuclear power plant 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Japan’s capital. CDW Corp., the technology
company purchased by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC in 2007, and
Cleveland-based  Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. (PKOH)  postponed bond
offerings, according to people familiar with the transactions.  Issuers sold $5.57 billion of corporate bonds on March 14
and had issued $6.3 billion a day on average this month before
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Spreads on investment-grade debt widened 4 basis points to
155 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master index. Absolute yields on the securities
rose 2.4 basis points to 3.98 percent.  The following is a description of at least $1.68 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  High Yield  PRETIUM PACKAGING LLC, a plastic container producer
headquartered in Chesterfield,  Missouri , plans to issue $150
million of senior secured notes. The 5-year notes may be sold as
early as this week, said a person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The
notes may be rated B3 by Moody’s and B by S&P, said the person.  ADS TACTICAL, a provider of equipment to the U.S.
Department of Defense, plans to sell $275 million of seven-year
senior secured notes that will be noncallable for four years,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
will be used to refinance existing indebtedness and to fund an
equity distribution to shareholders, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The issue is
a debut offering, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  YANLORD LAND GROUP LTD., a Singapore-based developer of
properties in China, hired HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc for a dollar bond sale,
according to a Singapore stock exchange statement.  EV ENERGY PARTNERS LP plans to offer $250 million in notes
due 2019, the company said in a March 10 release distributed by
Marketwire. Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay
debt under its existing revolving credit facility. The notes
from EV Energy are graded B3 by Moody’s and B- by  Standard &
Poor’s , according to notes from the rating companies.  BOART LONGYEAR LTD. plans to offer $250 million of senior
notes due 2021, the company said in a March 11 statement
distributed by  Business Wire . The company will use proceeds of
the offering to repay its $65 million  term loan  maturing in
April 2012 and to repay $180 million under its revolving credit
facility, according to the statement. The notes will be rated
Ba2 by Moody’s, the ratings company said in a release.  HYVA GLOBAL B.V. plans to sell $375 million of senior
secured bonds, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Standard Chartered Bank are managing the sale,
said the people who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  KV PHARMACEUTICAL CO. plans to sell $200 million of senior
secured notes due 2015 through a private placement, according to
a March 1 statement. Proceeds will be used to pay back
outstanding borrowings under credit agreements with U.S.
Healthcare I LLC and U.S. Healthcare II LLC, affiliates of
Centerbridge Partners, to terminate related future loan
commitments, establish an escrow reserve for one year of
interest payments on the notes and for general corporate
purposes, according to the statement.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.    DELONG HOLDINGS LTD. (DLNG) , a Singapore-listed Chinese
steelmaker, may attempt to sell dollar bonds in the “second
half” if it gets lower  interest rates , Chairman Ding Liguo said
in an interview in Beijing while attending the National People’s
Congress. The company canceled a planned sale of the debt on
Feb. 15 after meeting investors. “We aim to cut the bond’s
coupon rate to 10 percent from 14 percent,” he said. The sale
is “subject to our need for capital in a planned acquisition,”
he said, without saying how much the company wanted to raise.    ASTON RESOURCES LTD. (AZT) , the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between  China  and Russia raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of  Europe ’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by Spain’s Ferrovial SA.  THE PHILLIPINES plans to sell dollar bonds this year as
part of its 2011 borrowing program, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said Feb. 9 in Manila. The country is sticking to a
plan to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product, Purisima said in an interview.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said Siobhan MacDermott, AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/  )  GAIL LTD., a government-run gas distributor in India, may
sell $200 million of dollar-denominated bonds, Finance Director
Raj Kumar Goel said in  New Delhi .  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company which makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  INKIA ENERGY, a unit of Israel Corp., may sell bonds in the
U.S. to finance expansion of its electricity generation
business, according to a spokesman for the holding company. The
company plans to raise $250 million from the sale and is in
discussions with several foreign banks, Calcalist reported Jan.
9, without saying where it obtained the information.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 