-- 
Aflac’s Amos Comfortable With Buybacks Amid Japan Claims

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-16T13:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/aflac-s-amos-comfortable-with-buybacks-amid-japan-claims.html
  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the insurer that gets
most of its revenue in Japan, expects to maintain share buybacks
as the company pays claims tied to last week’s earthquake and
tsunami, Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos said.  “We have had the share repurchase going, we plan on
hitting our number this quarter,” Amos told Betty Liu today on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” program. “We need to
monitor this. I am comfortable, as of today, with what we’re
doing, but it could change.”  Aflac, which sells life and health policies in Japan, fell
8.6 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in the three trading
days after the earthquake. Columbus, Georgia-based Aflac
restarted a buyback program in 2010 and in February forecast
repurchases of 6 million shares to 12 million shares this year.  The impact of the disaster on Aflac “is still controlled
in terms of our claims,” said Amos, 59. “I still believe we
will make our earnings projections.”  Aflac will probably report full-year operating earnings per
share growth at “the low end” of its 8 percent to 12 percent
forecast, Amos told investors on Feb. 2. The company insures
about one out of every four households in  Japan , Amos said.  Aflac advanced 76 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $51.65 at 9:34
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, headed for
its first advance since the earthquake. Aflac was upgraded to
“buy” from “hold” today by Darin Arita of Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Strong and Steady’  “Aflac’s strong and steady capital generation should help
to offset potential losses from Japan and the investment
portfolio,” Arita wrote.  Arita estimated the company would have $10 million in
losses from life insurance claims in Japan if the death count
climbs to 20,000, based on the company’s market share and
typical policy costs. Aflac often provides secondary coverage in
Japan, meaning costs would be lower than for the primary
insurer, Amos said.  The death toll rose past 3,700, and more than 7,800 people
were missing, the  National Police Agency  said. Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said a reactor containment vessel may have been
breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant,
deepening Japan’s nuclear crisis and increasing the risks of
radioactive leaks.  Under a “more stressful” scenario, where 20 percent of
policyholders in affected areas submit cancer or life claims,
Aflac’s losses could be about $1.1 billion after tax, Arita
said. That is less than half a year of statutory operating
earnings, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  