-- 
Lagarde Seeks G-7 Financial Talks on Japan Crisis Response

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-16T13:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/lagarde-seeks-g-7-meeting-to-discuss-japan-s-post-disaster-financial-needs.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said she wanted to convene Group of Seven talks on the
financial response to  Japan ’s earthquake.  “I’ve asked for a G-7 meeting at the level of finance
ministers and central bankers to see how we can purchase their
bonds and how to respond on the financial level,” she told
reporters in Paris today after a weekly Cabinet meeting.  The authorities may hold a conference call before the end
of the week, two G-7 officials said, declining to be identified
because the arrangements aren’t set.  Japanese efforts to maintain financial stability after the
March 11 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear-radiation crisis got a
boost today as stocks rose in  Tokyo  for the first time in five
days. Damage from the quake alone may lead to insurance claims
of as much as 2.8 trillion yen ($34 billion), according to AIR
Worldwide.  The  Asian Development Bank  says that Japan may enter a
brief recession as a result of the disaster. Moody’s Investors
Service said on March 14 that while the indebted nation may move
“a bit” closer to the tipping point of a fiscal crisis, such
an event is not imminent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 5.7 percent after
tumbling 11 percent yesterday.  The nation’s government debt is set to reach 210 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, the most among nations tracked
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
compared with an estimated 101 percent for the U.S. Japan’s debt
will probably swell to 997.7 trillion yen in the year starting
April 1, the Ministry of Finance said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  