-- 
Aide to Ex-India Minister in Mobile-Phone Scandal Found Dead

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-16T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/aide-to-ex-india-minister-in-mobile-phone-scandal-found-dead.html
A businessman and aide to the
former Indian telecommunications minister being questioned in
jail over the 2008 award of mobile-phone licenses, was found
dead, two weeks before the first charges in the case are due.  The official and residential premises of the dead man, A.M.
Sadhick Batcha, were searched in December by the  Central Bureau
of Investigation  and he was last questioned on Feb. 24. Batcha
was an associate of ex-minister Andimuthu Raja, who was arrested
by the CBI last month over irregularities in the sale of
telecommunications spectrum three years ago.  Batcha was brought dead to a hospital in the southern city
of  Chennai  yesterday, Deputy Commissioner of Police M. Pandian
said by phone. Chennai is the capital of Tamil Nadu state, which
is governed by Raja’s political party. A post mortem has not yet
been carried out, Pandian said.  Alleged irregularities in the allocation of phone licenses
lead to the arrest of ministry officials and a representative of
a private company. The scandal has weakened the government of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , stalling parliament for two
months and forcing him to deny he had become a “lame-duck”
leader.  In November,  India ’s chief auditor reported that second-
generation airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” $2.7
billion when they may have been worth at least 10 times more.  Batcha’s death “will not affect the investigation in the
ongoing 2G spectrum scam as all the evidence has already been
recorded,” Binita Thakur, a spokeswoman of the CBI, said by
phone. The demise of Batcha, “reportedly an associate of the
then telecom minister A. Raja, is unexpected,” Thakur said.  Charges Due  The probe agency will file charges against Raja and company
executives by March 31, the CBI yesterday told the  Supreme Court ,
which is monitoring the investigation. A special court in
India’s capital  New Delhi  will be set up by March 29 to hold
trials linked to the sale of mobile-phone licenses.  Singh’s government last month gave in to three months of
opposition demands and agreed to form a panel of lawmakers to
examine policies and alleged irregularities in the allocation
and pricing of telecommunications licenses and spectrum from
1998 to 2009.  The CBI has argued in court that Raja conspired to benefit
companies including the then Swan Telecom Ltd., now  Etisalat DB
Telecom  India Pvt., and Unitech Ltd. by violating guidelines in
the 2008 license sale.  Raja and Shahid Balwa, vice chairman of  Etisalat DB  are in
judicial custody. Both have denied wrongdoing.  Batcha, who had a masters’ degree in business
administration, had 15 years of experience in the real estate
industry, according to the website of  Green House Promoters  Ltd.,
of which he was managing director.  “There has been no pressure from the CBI on Batcha,”
Thakur said yesterday. “He was cooperating with the CBI.”  A spokesman from India’s main opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party , Ravi Shankar Prasad, said the party’s wants a “proper”
investigation into the death of Batcha.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  