-- 
Alitalia Drops Tokyo, Joining Lufthansa, Amid Radiation Risk

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-16T16:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/alitalia-joins-lufthansa-in-dropping-tokyo-flights-amid-risk-of-radiation.html
  Alitalia  SpA joined  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  in rerouting flights away from Tokyo as nuclear
workers in Japan battle to prevent a meltdown at reactors
damaged by last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Alitalia will divert its 14 weekly trips to Tokyo from  Rome 
and Milan to the southern city of  Osaka , which it already serves
with four weekly flights, the company said in a statement today.  Lufthansa said it’s maintaining the suspension of its
Frankfurt-Tokyo route and sending aircraft to Osaka and Nagoya.
Crews are spending the night in  Seoul  to avoid staying in Japan,
where Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment vessel
may have been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant, increasing the risk of radioactive leaks.  “We’re sticking with the decision communicated
yesterday,” Lufthansa spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said in a
telephone interview. Test for radioactivity on the interior and
exterior of planes returning from  Japan  have proved
“negative,” he said.  Alitalia’s switch to Osaka was motivated by a need “to
guarantee maximum regularity of flights,” the carrier said in a
statement, adding that passengers scheduled to fly to Tokyo will
receive as much as 130 euros ($182) in compensation.  An Alitalia spokesman, who declined to be named, citing
company policy, said he couldn’t coment further on the matter.  ‘Uncertainty, Concern’  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  meanwhile added two extra
flights from Tokyo to  Hong Kong  today, offering 730 seats, and
said its crews will stop overnighting in the Japanese capital.  “We are experiencing rapidly increasing demand from people
wishing to return home,” Chief Operating Officer John Slosar
said in a statement. “We understand the uncertainty and concern
felt by some crew and believe the decision to stop overnight
stays for our crew in Tokyo is appropriate at this time.”  Shanghai-based China Eastern Airlines Corp. is also adding
flights and will use bigger planes on scheduled services to help
repatriate Chinese citizens, a company spokesman said.  Air France is maintaining its two daily Paris-Tokyo flights
while having crews spend the night in Seoul, spokesman Cedric Leurquin said. Prime Minister Francois Fillon yesterday told
lawmakers the carrier had been told to “respond without delay”
to demands from French nationals wanting to leave while advising
those who stay to head for the south of the country.  Finnair Exposure    Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) , the European airline most exposed to Japan,
according to Citigroup Inc., is carrying extra crew on Tokyo
flights so staff who work outbound services can return without
having to rest, spokeswoman Inka Ikonen said. Some 16 percent of
the airline’s capacity operates to Japan, Citigroup estimates.  Australian carrier  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  added Hong Kong
stopovers to six flights serving Tokyo through March 19 so that
it can swap crews there, spokesman Simon Rushton said by phone.  British Airways said it’s continuing with direct Tokyo
services and that staff are also overnighting in the city.
Customers with tickets for travel to and from Japan up to April
10 can rebook if they prefer, spokeswoman Cathy West said.  “We’re monitoring the situation, but as things stand we’re
operating as normal,” West said.  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. is maintaining services and
has relaxed restrictions on travel up to April 10, spokeswoman
Anna Catchpole said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday the danger
of radiation leaks has increased at the Dai-Ichi complex 135
miles north of  Tokyo . About 140,000 people within a radius of 20
to 30 kilometers from the plant were ordered to stay indoors.  Toll Rises  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami five days ago have
led to what Kan has called Japan’s worst crisis since World War
II. The death toll reached 3,771 with almost 8,000 missing, the
National Police Agency said. The number of dead and missing
exceeds the more than 6,400 who died in the 1995 Kobe quake.  The largest U.S. airlines have maintained scheduled flights
to Tokyo, though the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, which
represents workers at 21 carriers, has “significant concerns”
about safety, said Corey Caldwell, a union spokeswoman. Experts
and government agencies have advised that “at the moment, it is
okay to fly to certain places in Japan,” he said.    Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , United and Continental are offering
refunds on tickets for some Japan flights and  American Airlines 
is waiving change fees. The  Federal Aviation Administration  is
advising carriers to reroute flights if needed to meet airspace
restrictions around the stricken Japanese nuclear plant.  Freight operator  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  has resumed
pickups and deliveries in eastern Japan that were halted after
the earthquake. Services to and from the north of the country
remain suspended, spokeswoman Susan Rosenberg by telephone.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  has recommenced shipments of perishables to most
eastern districts, spokeswoman Sally Davenport said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  