-- 
Ambre Energy Drops U.S. West Coast Port Permit After Complaints

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-03-16T14:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ambre-energy-drops-u-s-west-coast-port-permit-after-complaints.html
Ambre Energy Ltd . said it will
surrender a permit to build a coal export terminal in  Washington 
state after opponents said the proposal failed to disclose the
full scope of the project.  Ambre’s U.S. unit, Millennium Bulk Terminals-Longview, will
conduct a more detailed environmental review and reapply for
approval to build the terminal on the Columbia River in
Longview, Washington, the company said yesterday in a statement.  Millennium proposed the terminal on the Columbia River in
Cowlitz County to process more than 5 million tons of coal a
year from western states for export to Asian markets such as
China and Korea. The Seattle-based  Washington Environmental
Council  said internal company plans called for exports of as
much as 80 million tons a year.  “Millennium withdrawing their permit application after the
true size of their proposal was revealed just goes to show how
much they’d misrepresented their intentions,” Becky Kelly,
campaign director with the council, said in a statement.
“Everyone needs to remember Millennium’s deceit when they try
and push through this bad idea again.”  In November, the Board of Commissioners for  Cowlitz County 
approved a shoreline development permit for Millennium, saying
the project wouldn’t have a “significant adverse economic
impact.”  An appeal by environmental groups was scheduled to be
heard next month by the state’s Shorelines Hearings Board.  Millennium is a unit of Ambre Energy, a closely held mining
company based in  Brisbane ,  Australia .  ‘Good Neighbor’  “To show our continued commitment as a good neighbor, we
will do an Environmental Impact Statement to address concerns
that have been raised,” Joe Cannon, Millennium chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “We will also do a site
capacity analysis to evaluate the impacts of proposed bulk
commodities in various amounts -- including coal, alumina and
cement.”  Port capacity hampers efforts to expand shipments of low-
sulfur coal from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and  Montana 
to  Asia . A 5 million-ton a year terminal would almost quadruple
exports from the West Coast from 1.34 million tons shipped in
2009, according to the Energy Department. Coal is sent from
ports including Anchorage,  Alaska ;  Los Angeles  and  Seattle .  In January, St. Louis-based  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the second-
biggest U.S. coal producer, said it acquired a 38 percent
interest in Millennium for $25 million plus additional
consideration tied to meeting project milestones.  “This transaction gives us a direct stake in participating
in the growth of U.S. coal exports off the West Coast,” Steven Leer, chief executive officer for Arch, said in a statement.
“With our superior operating position in the Powder River Basin
and Western Bituminous Region, we have the capability to service
growing coal demand in Asia, the world’s largest and fastest-
growing coal market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 