-- 
America Movil to Split Stock 2 for 1, Make Dividend Payment

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T01:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/america-movil-proposes-stock-split-dividend-and-to-increase-buyback-fund.html
  America Movil  SAB, the largest
mobile-phone company in the Americas, proposed a 2-for-1 stock
split and a dividend of 36 centavos a share, returning cash to
stockholders after completing a $23 billion acquisition in 2010.  The proposals will be submitted for shareholder approval at
a meeting by April 30, Mexico City-based America Movil said
today in an e-mailed statement. The wireless carrier also plans
to increase its share repurchase fund by 50 billion pesos ($4.18
billion), adding to the 35 billion pesos currently in the fund,
according to company filings.  America Movil is spending cash on dividends and buybacks
after deciding to forgo acquisitions of telecommunications
carriers in Serbia and  Poland . The company’s liquidity, measured
as a ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, stood at 0.84 at the end of year,
below the company’s goal of 1, giving it room to relinquish
cash.  The dividend will be paid in two installments and adjusted
for the effects of the split, America Movil said.  Last year, the company acquired Telmex Internacional SAB,
the South American phone carrier that, like America Movil, was
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . The move gave America
Movil land-line networks in  Brazil , Colombia,  Argentina , Chile,
Uruguay, Ecuador and Peru.  America Movil fell 35 centavos, or 1.1 percent, to 32.75
pesos today in Mexico City trading before the stock split and
dividend proposals were announced. The shares have dropped 7.7
percent this year.  The company has 225 million wireless customers, compared
with 95.5 million for AT&T Inc. and 94.1 million for  Verizon
Wireless , which is co-owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and
Vodafone Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  