-- 
America Movil Plans to Split Stock 2 for 1, Pay Out Dividend

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T20:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/america-movil-plans-to-pay-out-dividend-split-stock-2-for-1.html
  America Movil  SAB, the largest
wireless carrier in the Americas, proposed a 2-for-1 stock split
and a dividend of 36 centavos a share, returning cash to
stockholders after completing a $23 billion acquisition in 2010.  The proposals will be submitted for shareholder approval at
a meeting by April 30, Mexico City-based America Movil said
today in an e-mailed statement. The wireless carrier also plans
to increase its share repurchase fund by 50 billion pesos ($4.18
billion), adding to the 35 billion pesos currently in the fund,
according to company filings.  America Movil is spending cash on dividends and buybacks
after deciding to forgo acquisitions of telecommunications
carriers in Serbia and Poland. The company’s liquidity, measured
as a ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, stood at 0.84 at the end of year,
below the company’s goal of 1, giving it room to relinquish
cash.  The dividend will be paid in two installments and adjusted
for the effects of the split, America Movil said. The split is
the company’s second in its decade as a public company, after a
3-for-1 division in 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Last year, the company acquired Telmex Internacional SAB,
the South American phone carrier that, like America Movil, was
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . The move, part of a $23
billion transaction, gave America Movil land-line networks in  Brazil ,  Colombia ,  Argentina ,  Chile , Uruguay, Ecuador and  Peru .  America Movil rose 20 centavos to 32.95 pesos in Mexico
City trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have dropped
7.1 percent this year.  Largest in Americas  The company has 225 million wireless customers, compared
with 95.5 million for AT&T Inc. and 94.1 million for  Verizon
Wireless , which is co-owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and
Vodafone Group Plc.  America Movil sold $8.6 billion in long-term debt,
including bonds issued in Mexico and internationally, last year
to help fund the acquisition of Telmex Internacional and its
holding company Carso Global Telecom SAB, which also gave it
control of Mexican carrier Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB.  The company is in discussions with banks for two loans of
about $2 billion apiece, an America Movil official who can’t be
identified under company policy said yesterday. Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA, Citigroup Inc. and  Societe Generale  are involved in the
discussions for the loans, one of which would be denominated in
euros, the official said. Reuters reported the discussions
earlier.  Slim and his family own about 43 percent of America Movil’s
shares, including voting shares that give them control of the
company. Dallas-based AT&T also holds a 9 percent stake and a
minority of the voting shares.  America Movil represents about two-thirds of Slim’s $72
billion in publicly disclosed holdings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  