-- 
Americans Without Health Insurance Rise to 52 Million on Job Loss, Expense

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-03-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/americans-without-health-insurance-rose-to-52-million-on-job-loss-expense.html
Unemployment and rising expenses
caused 9 million Americans to lose health insurance during the
past two years, according to researchers backed by a group
advocating access to health care.  Losses of coverage helped swell the ranks of uninsured
adults in the U.S. to 52 million in 2010, according to a study
released today by the  Commonwealth Fund , a New York-based
foundation that says it backs research aimed at expanding and
improving care. An additional 73 million adults had difficulties
paying for health care and 75 million deferred treatment because
they couldn’t afford it, researchers said.  President  Barack Obama ’s health overhaul will provide
access to insurance to almost all of the currently uninsured
through expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor and
through private health plans, said  Sara Collins , a study author.
Federal subsidies and rules on affordability and mandated
benefits will allow many to buy coverage by 2014 when the law is
due to take full effect, she said. The law is being challenged
in court cases questioning its constitutionality.  “The numbers underscore the need for this reform,
particularly for low- and moderate-income families,” Collins,
an economist at the Commonwealth Fund, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “If the law doesn’t move forward, it will
be devastating for these families.”  Estimates Differ  Estimates of the number of uninsured Americans have varied,
partly because of differences in methodology. For the
Commonwealth Fund report, a person was counted as uninsured if
he or she lacked coverage at any time during 2010 according to
self-reporting in a survey whose results were extrapolated to
the nation.  The U.S. Census Bureau said in September that the number of
people without coverage rose to  50.7 million  in 2009 from 46.3
million in 2008.  Forty-nine million Americans reported spending 10 percent
or more of their income on insurance premiums and out-of-pocket
costs last year, according to the Commonwealth Fund study. The
research was based on telephone interviews conducted from July
14 to Nov. 30 with more than 4,000 adults aged 19 or older.  Employer-based insurance expenses rose 43 percent from 2003
to 2009, while deductibles on these plans increased 77 percent,
Collins said.  “The cost is driving the reduction in coverage by small-
business employers, and that’s a big part of the problem that
disproportionately affects poorer families,” Collins said.
“This is precisely the group that will be most helped by
reform.”  Using Savings  Asked about how they paid medical bills, 40 percent of
respondents in the survey said they used all of their savings
while 24 percent said they incurred credit-card debt and 10
percent said they took out a mortgage or another form of loan,
the researchers reported.  An estimated 50 million Americans were without health
insurance in 2007, according to the Commonwealth Fund report.
The U.S. monthly unemployment rate rose from 5 percent in
January 2008 to 9.4 percent last December.  The health insurance law signed by Obama in March 2010 will
make medical insurance and care more affordable by providing
small business tax credits, banning lifetime benefit caps and
requiring a package of essential benefits, Collins said.
Creation of statewide insurance exchanges may also allow
insurers to better spread the risk across a larger and healthier
population, she said.  The law will add as many as 32 million Americans to ranks
of the insured in 2014, according to an estimate last year by
the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 