-- 
Amylin, Takeda Suspend Clinical Activities in Obesity Trial

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-03-16T15:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/amylin-takeda-suspend-clinical-activities-in-obesity-trial-1-.html
  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. suspended an obesity-treatment trial
as they investigate a safety concern from a previous study.  Tests of the therapy, a combination of pramlintide and
metreleptin, are in the second phase of three generally required
for U.S. regulatory approval. The companies halted the study
after a laboratory finding in two patients who had taken
metreleptin in a completed obesity trial suggested the treatment
may lose effectiveness, San Diego-based Amylin and  Osaka , Japan-
based Takeda said in a statement today.  Amylin sank 25 percent on March 3 after reporting its
diabetes drug Bydureon didn’t control the disease better than
Novo Nordisk A/S’ Victoza in a study. The shares also plunged 46
percent in October when the company and its partners were
rebuffed a second time in a bid to gain approval of Bydureon, a
once-weekly version of the diabetes drug Byetta.  “Amylin’s streak of disappointments continues with this
morning’s announcement,” Leerink Swann analyst  Joshua Schimmer 
wrote in a research note today.  Samples from the patients in the earlier obesity study
suggested some neutralizing of the effects of metreleptin may
have occurred, Anne Erickson, an Amylin spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. Neutralizing antibodies can block the effectiveness of a
drug. The significance of the finding is being investigated, she
said.  Elevated Leptin  Obese patients have elevated leptin levels to start with
because of increased fat mass, and if they develop neutralizing
antibodies to the hormone they may end up eating more, Schimmer
said.  “This is obviously not a feature compatible with an
obesity treatment,” he said.  Schimmer said the antibody concern isn’t expected to affect
Amylin’s testing of metreleptin in lipodystrophy, a condition
characterized by abnormalities in fat tissue distribution that
can be associated with diabetes.  Amylin rose 12 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $11.15 at 11:17
a.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
shares had lost 53 percent in the 12 months before today.  “The safety of patients in our clinical programs is of
paramount concern to the companies,” Amylin Chief Medical
Officer Orville Kolterman said in the statement. “We have taken
this precaution so that we can thoroughly investigate this
finding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 