-- 
Manchester Utd.’s Ferguson Banned 5 Games After Comments on Ref Atkinson

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-16T17:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/manchester-utd-s-ferguson-banned-5-games-after-comments-on-ref-atkinson.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  was suspended a total of five matches and fined 30,000
pounds ($48,000) by the Football Association for his comments to
the media about referee  Martin Atkinson .  Ferguson was suspended three games for criticizing Atkinson
in post-match interviews following United’s 2-1 loss at Chelsea
on March 1, the  F.A. said in a statement . A two-match ban was
also invoked, relating to a previous charge of improper conduct
over media comments in October 2009, the F.A. said.  The manager criticized Atkinson for failing to send off
Chelsea defender David Luiz for fouls on Javier Hernandez and
Wayne Rooney after he had already been booked. He then appeared
to question Atkinson’s integrity in a post-match interview by
saying he wanted a “fair referee, or a strong referee anyway,
and we didn’t get that.”  The F.A. charged Ferguson with improper conduct over the
comments and the manager appealed. An independent regulatory
commission met today and handed down the ban.  The ban will begin March 22, the F.A. said. If Ferguson
doesn’t appeal, among the matches he’ll miss will be the F.A.
Cup semifinal against  Manchester City  and a Premier League game
at Arsenal on May 1. United leads the league standings by three
points over Arsenal, which has played one game fewer.  The F.A. said the additional two-match ban stemmed from
Ferguson’s comments about referee Alan Wiley following a match
against Sunderland in 2009. The manager was banned four games at
that time, with two suspended until the end of this season and
only to be enforced if Ferguson was found guilty of a similar
charge.  The F.A. also charged West Ham manager  Avram Grant  with
improper conduct relating to media comments about referee Mike
Jones after the Hammers’ game at Stoke on March 13. Grant has
until March 21 to respond to the charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 