-- 
Arab Spring Uprisings Lose Momentum as ‘Status Quo’ Fights Back

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-16T10:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/arab-spring-uprisings-lose-momentum-as-status-quo-fights-back.html
Bombs and tear gas are threatening
to smother the “Arab Spring” that toppled the leaders of Egypt
and Tunisia and promised to spread democracy in the Middle East.  Already fighting two wars in  Muslim countries , the U.S. 
and Europe were reluctant to engage in a third, enabling  Muammar Qaddafi  to turn the tide against Libyan rebels. In  Bahrain , security forces today used tear gas to drive protesters
from their main rallying point in the capital Manama, two days
after Saudi Arabia sent troops to bolster the ruling family.  “When the guns are all on one side and being used, that
side has a distinct advantage,” said  Cliff Kupchan , a senior
analyst at Eurasia Group, a New York political-risk consulting
firm. “What we’re seeing now is the first really hard pushback
from status quo forces since this year’s unrest in the Middle
East began.”  The crackdowns are tempering optimism about an “Arab
Spring” spreading through a region that holds more than 60
percent of the world’s known oil reserves. While protests have
toppled the regimes of  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and
Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak in the past two months, the west’s
reluctance to take action is emboldening other authoritarian
regimes to resist the push for more democracy.    Oil prices  surged to a 2 ½ year high on March 7 as protests
sweeping the Arab world turned bloody. Refusing to give into to
the popular momentum that toppled Mubarak and Ben Ali, Qaddafi
instead turned his guns on his own people. Just 10 days after
his capital was surrounded by opposition forces, his troops are
now 100 miles (160 kilometers) from Benghazi and more than 400
people have been killed in the eastern part of the country.  Lost Opportunity  France said an opportunity to overthrow Qaddafi’s 41-year
rule had been lost after  Germany ,  Russia  and the U.S. failed to
back a push for a no-fly zone.  “If we had used military force last week to neutralize a
number of air strips and a few dozen of their planes, perhaps
the opposition’s reversal of fortune wouldn’t have happened,”
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said yesterday.  Divisions between the U.S. and its European allies have
enabled the Libyan leader to avert the most serious challenge to
his regime, said Shada Islam, a Middle East and Asia expert at
the Brussels-based Friends of  Europe  policy advisory group.  “The message being sent to Qaddafi is that Western resolve
is weakening and this has emboldened him,” she said. “We’ve
been talking about a no-fly zone for three weeks and if we’d
acted three weeks ago we wouldn’t be where we are now.”  Saudi Supply  Qaddafi’s intensifying campaign comes as Saudi troops,
backed up by forces from the  United Arab Emirates , move into
Bahrain to help stamp out persistent protests led by the Shiite
Muslim majority. The island state, like the other U.S.-allied
Arab Gulf countries, is ruled by Sunni Muslims.  While  Libya  accounts for just 3.3 percent of global
reserves, the risk for investors is that a conflagration on
Saudi’s borders will spark concerns about the security of the
Gulf state’s reserves, keeping prices high.  While democracy in  Egypt  won’t threaten oil prices, “the
situation on the Arabian Peninsula is very different,” said
John Winsell Davies, lead fund partner at Moscow-based, Wermuth
Asset Management, which manages about $315 million in emerging
markets, said by phone. “Our oil-rich vassals in the  Persian
Gulf  are probably sitting on terra firma for now, but with both
the Saudis and Iranians now in potential conflict on the streets
of Manama, oil prices are firmly supported.”  U.S. Rift  The price of crude traded at $98 per barrel at 9:01 a.m. in  London  today. Saudi Arabia holds 20 percent of the world’s oil.  Shiites comprise as much as 70 percent of the Bahraini
population and many retain cultural and family ties with  Iran 
and Shiites in eastern  Saudi Arabia . Bahrain’s ruling family has
close links with its neighbor, which holds 20 percent of global
oil reserves and is Iran’s main regional rival.  The Saudi intervention in Bahrain reflects a rift between
the U.S. and its Gulf state allies over their failure to respond
to the pressure for change, said Simon Henderson, a Gulf expert
at the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters March 12
after meeting Bahraini King Hamad bin Isa  Al Khalifa  that “baby
steps” towards reform would not be enough. Gates received no
indication during that meeting that Saudi forces would deploy 48
hours later, said Marine Corps Colonel Dave Lapan, a Pentagon
spokesman.  Iranian Bulwark  “These states are angry that Washington has let staunch
allies such as President  Hosni Mubarak  of Egypt be forced from
power while doing little to push Qaddafi of Libya from his
position,” Henderson said. Bahrain is host to the U.S. Fifth
Fleet.  Gunfire was heard in Bahrain’s capital today and riot
police fanned out into the city streets after Pearl Roundabout,
the epicenter of month-long protests, was emptied.  As Bahrain unrest intensifies, the U.S. is unwilling to
risk a violent overthrow of such key allies, said Marina Ottaway, director of the Middle East program at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a Washington policy group.  A change in regime might disrupt what the U.S. sees as a
bulwark against Shiite-led Iran’s attempts to expand its
influence in the Persian Gulf, said George Friedman, chief
executive officer of Austin, Texas-based intelligence-consulting
group, Stratfor. It also could trigger severe unrest among
neighboring Saudi Arabia’s Shiite minority in its eastern oil-
producing hub.  Crackdown  In Yemen, where government forces have killed protesters
against President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule, there is
cooperation with the U.S. in fighting al-Qaeda.  “These are countries where we have clear vested interests
in the continuation of the current regimes,” said Ottaway.  Over the next few years, even if Bahrain succeeds in
keeping the lid on unrest, there risks being a long-term
radicalization of Shiite youth in Bahrain that could be
exploited by Iran, according to Kupchan from Eurasia Group.  The crackdown by the region’s authoritarian regimes will
only reinforce anger that has built up for decades at high youth
unemployment and poverty, said Ottaway from Carnegie.  With calls for democracy unlikely to recede and Gulf allies
digging in, the Obama administration may be put in an awkward
position after publicly backing the reform movements in Egypt
and the rebels of Libya.  “What the U.S. wants is to see reforms from the top that
makes these governments more responsible,” said Ottaway. “So
the question is what it is going to do when reform at the top
doesn’t take place. A lot of those countries will see a second
round at some point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 