-- 
Argentine CPI Research Company Halts Reports Following Government Pressure

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-16T21:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/argentine-cpi-research-company-halts-reports-following-government-pressure.html
Argentine economic research company
 Economia y Regiones SA  said it will no longer make public its
reports on consumer prices after facing “unjust persecution”
from the government.  “As long as the unjust persecution we suffer, violating
our freedom of speech, doesn’t stop, Economia y Regiones will
stop making public the reports on prices,” said the Buenos
Aires-based research company in an e-mail statement.  The government last month demanded that private economists,
who calculate inflation is at least double the officially
reported rate, explain their methodology and provide details
about where they collect their data and how many products they
track.  Graciela Bevacqua, a former director of the consumer price
index division at the national statistics institute, who was
fired from her post in January 2007 by then President  Nestor Kirchner , said today in a telephone interview that she had been
fined 500,000 pesos ($124,000) for not complying with the new
government requirement. Orlando Ferreres & Asociados research
company last month received a similar fine.  Bevacqua calculates consumer prices rose 23.1 percent in
February from a year earlier, more than double the 10 percent
increase reported yesterday by the statistics agency. According
to the agency, last month’s annual inflation rate was the
slowest since March 2010.  Phone calls and e-mails sent by Bloomberg News to the
office of Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno weren’t
immediately returned. Alfredo Scoccimarro, spokesman at the
presidential palace, didn’t return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  The government wants to make the research companies’
methodologies clearer, and those who disagree with the fines can
appeal to the corresponding authorities, said an official at the  Economy Ministry  who declined to be identified because he isn’t
allowed to speak publicly on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  