-- 
Stocks Rally After Three-Day Slide; Oil, Commodities Advance, Euro Weakens

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-16T08:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/asian-stocks-jump-for-first-time-in-five-days-after-selloff-oil-rebounds.html
Global shares rallied for the first
time in three days as the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rebounded
from a slump that sent valuations to a 28-month low and
commodities gained. The dollar climbed versus the yen as fires
at a Japanese nuclear plant hampered efforts to avert a meltdown.  The MSCI World Index added 0.8 percent as of 5:15 p.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 surged 5.7 percent, recovering from its
biggest two-day drop since 1987, and the cost of insuring
Japanese corporate and government debt from non-payment sank for
the first time since the record earthquake on March 11. Copper
and nickel jumped more than 2 percent and oil rose 1.3 percent.
The dollar gained to 80.94 yen from 80.72 in  New York  yesterday.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent.  The rout in equities, which has wiped out more than $1.6
trillion of market value globally in the past two days, may be
excessive as there is “little evidence” of any liquidity or
solvency problems, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The advance
today was limited after further temblors struck  Japan  and as
clouds of white smoke started rising from reactor buildings at
the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “Share prices had moved significantly out of kilter with
fundamentals,” said Sydney-based Angus Gluskie, who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. “A growing
percentage of investors are now taking advantage of the low
prices to move into the market as buyers. This process will gain
momentum if we see further evidence of a resolution of the
nuclear-reactor issues.”  Japan’s Rebound  Almost four stocks gained for each that fell on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, which jumped 3 percent, snapping a four-day
loss. The Nikkei 225’s 16 percent tumble over two days drove the
average price of shares on the gauge to 14.7 times estimated
profits, the lowest level since November 2008. Toyota Motor
Corp., which will restart production at seven parts plants in
Japan from tomorrow, jumped 9.1 percent.  The effects on the Japanese economy of last week’s record
magnitude earthquake and tsunami is likely to be temporary, and
Japanese stocks may gain in the medium term, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The Bank of Japan’s liquidity
provisions could stop a strengthening yen, leading to a gain in
share prices by the end of March, UBS AG said.  Radiation levels at the No. 4 reactor in  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co.’s power plant hampered efforts to confirm the fire
that broke out this morning had been extinguished, a day after a
similar blaze at the same structure. A 5.7-magnitude aftershock
hit 139 kilometers from Tokyo, while a 6.1-magnitude quake
struck southwest of the capital last night.  Bond Risk  Five-year swaps on Japan’s sovereign debt declined 15 basis
points to 105 basis points, according to Citigroup Inc. The
contracts jumped to a record yesterday. The Markit iTraxx Japan
index of corporate borrowers fell 22.5 basis points to 132.5
basis points, Citigroup prices show. That’s its biggest drop
since May 26, according to data provider CMA in New York.  The yen traded at 113.02 per euro from 112.99, after
earlier dropping 0.4 percent. The BOJ doubled its asset-purchase
program to 10 trillion yen ($124 billion) on March 14, when it
poured a record 15 trillion yen into the financial system in
one-day operations. It added 8 trillion yen yesterday and pumped
in 5 trillion yen today.  The euro slipped to $1.3962 from $1.3998.  Portugal ’s long-
term debt rating was cut two steps to A3 from A1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited a “subdued” growth outlook,
risks to implementing the government’s deficit-reduction plans,
and a possible need to recapitalize its banks.  Metals, Oil  Copper rose 2.1 percent to $9,309 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange on speculation that reconstruction needs
in Japan will boost demand in three to six months. Zinc gained
1.8 percent, nickel jumped 2.5 percent and tin increased 1.4
percent.  Oil for April delivery rallied to $98.47 a barrel in New
York after tumbling 4 percent yesterday, the most in almost five
months, to settle at $97.18. Bahrain declared a state of
emergency as a second contingent of troops from Gulf nations
poured into the kingdom, while forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  moved against rebels.  Bahrain’s stock exchange suspended trading today. The
country’s five-year default swaps surged 44 basis points
yesterday to 359.37, surpassing Lebanon for the first time since
July 2009. Bahrain’s swaps have increased the second most in the
world this year after  Pakistan , prices by CMA in London show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 