-- 
Asian Stocks Climb First Time This Weeks as Quake Selloff Deemed Excessive

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-16T06:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/asian-stocks-climb-first-time-this-weeks-as-quake-selloff-deemed-excessive.html
Asian stocks rose for the first
time this week on speculation selloffs since Japan’s worst
earthquake have been excessive.  Sony Corp., an electronics maker, leapt 8.8 percent in  Tokyo . Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker by sales,
gained 3.9 percent after plunging 10 percent in the previous two
days following last week’s earthquake that raised fears of a
nuclear meltdown at damaged reactors.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s No. 1 mining company, advanced 1.4 percent in Sydney as
some commodity prices rebounded.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 5.7 percent after
tumbling 11 percent yesterday, driving valuations to a 28-month
low.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.7 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 1.8 percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  fell 0.3 percent.  “Share prices had moved significantly out of kilter with
fundamentals,” said Sydney-based Angus Gluskie, who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. “A growing
percentage of investors are now taking advantage of the low
prices to move into the market as buyers. This process will gain
momentum if we see further evidence of a resolution of the
nuclear-reactor issues.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index rose 3 percent to 128.68 as of
3:34 p.m. in Tokyo, the most since Nov. 30, 2009. More than
three times as many stocks advanced as fell and all of the 10
industry groups on the gauge rallied. The index yesterday
dropped more than 10 percent from its Jan. 19 peak, a level some
investors consider a correction.  U.S. Futures  Stocks in the Asia Pacific index were valued at 12.6 times
estimated earnings on average as of yesterday, compared with
13.3 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.7 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.1 percent today. The index
declined 1.1 percent yesterday in  New York , rebounding from a
2.7 percent slump earlier, as Japanese officials made progress
in stabilizing nuclear reactors damaged by last week’s
earthquake, and after the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy 
is improving.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  closed 18 percent below its average level
from the past 50 days yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gap since November 2008, two
months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
New York.  Sony leapt 8.8 percent to 2,528 yen. Fujitsu Ltd., which
this week said it halted operations at 10 factories due to power
outages and damage from the earthquake and tsunami, added 3.7
percent to 444 yen.  ‘Relatively Cheap’  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 1 publicly
traded bank, which slumped 8.8 percent yesterday, added 4.4
percent to 381 yen today in Tokyo. Honda gained 3.9 percent to
3,090 yen, while Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
carmaker, rose 9.1 percent to 3,345 yen.  “Japanese stocks are at a relatively cheap level,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. “The U.S. economy is recovering and the
economies of  China  and other emerging countries aren’t
deteriorating.”  A fire and aftershocks struck the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant today, as officials battling to prevent a
nuclear meltdown said fuel rods at two reactors may have been
damaged.  Fuel Rods  Clouds of white smoke or steam started rising from reactor
buildings at 10 a.m. and moving westward inland.  Japan  Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation levels at the plant
rose at that time, but have since fallen. About 70 percent of
the uranium-plutonium fuel rods at the plant’s No. 1 reactor and
a third of the No. 2 reactor’s fuel may have been impaired,
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  “We are currently investigating the cause,” of the smoke,
Edano said at a press conference in Tokyo. “While this may or
may not have been related, the level of radiation near the
(Fukushima) main gate has been fluctuating significantly, and is
within parameters that may have an effect on humans.”  Radiation levels at the No. 4 reactor hampered efforts to
confirm a fire that broke out this morning had been extinguished,
a day after a similar blaze at the same structure. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan , facing a nation reeling from its strongest
earthquake on record six days ago, said yesterday the danger of
further radiation leaks has increased at the nuclear complex,
135 miles north of Tokyo.  BHP, Rio  In Sydney,  BHP Billiton  advanced 1.4 percent to A$43.57 and
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company by
sales, rallied 2 percent to A$78.94 after some commodity prices
rebounded. Zinc climbed as much as 2 percent in  London  today and
copper gained as much as 1.8 percent.  In Hong Kong, Hong Kong & China Gas Co., the pipe-fuel
supplier controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, climbed 2.3
percent to HK$17.96 after posting a 5.9 percent increase in
full-year net profit.  The Hang Seng’s declines were paced by retailers over
concerns about Europe sovereign debt after Portugal’s long-term
government credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service.
Esprit Holdings Ltd., Asia’s third-biggest clothier by market
value, dropped 1.5 percent to HK$35.40, while Li & Fung Ltd.,
which is Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s biggest supplier, declined 1.5
percent to HK$42.35.  Moody’s downgraded  Portugal ’s rating to A3, four steps from
so-called junk status, citing a weaker outlook for economic
growth, risks to the government’s deficit-reduction plans and a
possible need to recapitalize banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 