-- 
Asian Currencies Halt Drop as Losses in Regional Stocks Deemed Excessive

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-16T03:37:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/asian-currencies-halt-drop-as-losses-in-regional-stocks-deemed-excessive.html
Asian currencies halted losses
after regional stocks snapped a four-day drop on speculation the
sell-off caused by  Japan ’s worst earthquake and damage to
nuclear power plants was excessive.  Indonesia’s rupiah and Malaysia’s ringgit gained, while the
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia-Pacific Index of local currencies traded
little changed at 116.03. The gauge dropped as much as 0.7
percent yesterday as the threat of a radioactive leak damped
demand for emerging-market assets. Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman
of Japan’s Keidanren business lobby, said today the situation in
the country may be stabilizing.  “The regional stock markets are rebounding and that is
leading to some buying of Asian currencies,” said  Tsutomu Soma ,
a bond and currency trader at Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Most markets in the region saw panic selling yesterday and
players probably thought that was too much. A rebound may be
limited because the nuclear issue won’t be easily settled.”  The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 8,785 per dollar as of
10:21 a.m. local time in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier reached 8,831, the lowest level this month.
The ringgit appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.0615. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares climbed 2.2 percent after retreating the
most in more than two years yesterday.  Asian currencies also strengthened after the  Federal
Reserve  upgraded its growth assessment for the world’s largest
economy, helping damp concern devastation from the earthquake
and tsunami will derail the recovery.  U.S. Economy  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement
yesterday the pickup in the U.S. economy “is on a firmer
footing, and overall conditions in the labor market appear to be
improving gradually.”  “The Fed statement is an endorsement that things are
getting better,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior
currency strategist at Scotia Capital, a unit of  Canada ’s third-
largest banking group. “The optimism is there, it’s tempered,
but it should be supportive of Asian currencies.”  Japan was struck by a 5.7-magnitude aftershock and a second
fire at the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant north of  Tokyo 
earlier today as officials battled to cool three damaged
reactors. Chubu Electric Power Co.’s Hamaoka nuclear power
station, about 100 kilometers from the epicenter of the second
quake, was unaffected, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry said in a statement.  South Korea’s won halted a four-day drop that sent it to
the weakest level of the year yesterday, as overseas investors
pumped funds into the nation’s equities. The currency traded at
1,134.98 per dollar in  Seoul , from 1,134.80 yesterday, when it
declined to 1,137.95, the lowest level since Dec. 30.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$29.551
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
The  Thai baht , Philippine peso and  China ’s yuan also traded at
similar levels to yesterday of 30.47, 43.875 and 6.5721,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  