-- 
Massachusetts Calls Fidelity Hearing Over Jobs

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-03-16T23:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/massachusetts-calls-fidelity-hearing-after-firm-moves-1-100-jobs.html
(Corrects title of Edward Johnson in fourth paragraph.)    Fidelity Investments ’s plan to move
1,100 jobs out of Massachusetts has prompted lawmakers to look
into whether they can claw back tax breaks for the second-
largest U.S. mutual-fund company.  Fidelity said this week it’s relocating most of the
employees to  New Hampshire  and Rhode Island. Mark Montigny,
state Senate chairman of the Post Audit Committee, said he
scheduled a March 29 hearing to discuss ways to penalize
companies like Fidelity should they receive state tax breaks and
other subsidies and then move jobs.  “Fidelity has not only benefited from massive tax breaks
and broken the agreement, but there ought to be very significant
clawback provisions for its actions,” Montigny, a Democrat,
said in an interview.  Montigny said he will invite Fidelity Chairman Edward C.
“Ned” Johnson III to explain the relocation of employees. He
also intends to ask state Revenue Commissioner Navjeet Bal to
outline how much money Fidelity has received from the state
since 1996. The state approved a bill that year to create tax
incentives for the mutual-fund industry after Boston-based
Fidelity lobbied for its passage, Montigny said.  As part of the tax bill, fund companies had to create a
certain number of jobs, Montigny said. That requirement ended
after five years.  “We have met and exceeded our commitments to the state and
will continue to do so in the future,” Anne Crowley, a
spokeswoman for Fidelity, said in an e-mailed statement. “All
of the business decisions we have made over the years are with
the intent to keep our company stable, strong and healthy. That
is good for our employees and for  Massachusetts .”  ‘All Facts’  Fidelity, which is closely held, manages about $1.6
trillion in assets. State law doesn’t allow disclosure of the
amount of tax breaks the firm has received, said Robert Bliss, a
spokesman for the  revenue department .  Senate President Therese Murray, also a Democrat, said in a
statement that she wanted “all the facts” of Fidelity’s
decision.  “It is very disappointing to be blindsided by a homegrown
company that has benefited greatly from its long relationship
with the Commonwealth,” she said.  Fidelity is not alone in moving jobs out of the state. In
January, Evergreen Solar Inc. of Marlborough, Massachusetts,
announced it was closing a manufacturing facility in the state.
Of the $58 million in grants, tax breaks and other benefits the
company had received, the state secured a deal to recoup $3
million, the Boston Globe reported Jan. 19.  Job Cuts  Fidelity, started by Ned Johnson’s father in 1946, has
expanded from its fund-company roots into  stock trading ,  retirement plans  and institutional  money management . The company
over the past decade expanded in states including  Florida ,  Rhode
Island  and  North Carolina . Fidelity employs 37,000 people,
including 8,400 in Massachusetts.  The firm suffered from investor withdrawals and declining
assets during the financial market crisis in 2008 and 2009,
prompting it to cut about 3,000 jobs to lower expenses. Vanguard
Group Inc. passed Fidelity last year to become the largest U.S.
mutual fund company by assets, a distinction Fidelity had held
for more than two decades.  Last week the company reported a 17 percent increase in
earnings for 2010. Operating income, which excludes costs such
as interest and taxes, rose to $2.94 billion last year from
$2.51 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/16/ :43 GMT 