-- 
Aston Villa’s Ashley Young to Snub Contract, Seek Move: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-16T10:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/aston-villa-s-ashley-young-to-snub-contract-seek-move-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Young’s Ambition    England  winger  Ashley Young  will reject a new contract at  Aston Villa  as he wants to join a bigger club,  the Sun  reported.  He’s a long-term target of Manchester United and Tottenham,
and has also interested Arsenal, the newspaper added.  Young has told teammates it’s the right time for him to
move to “fulfill his dream” of playing in the Champions
League, the Sun said.  England ‘Farce’  The England captaincy sank into “farce and confusion”
last night as coach Fabio Capello told  Rio Ferdinand  he still
has the role, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Manchester United’s Ferdinand had been angered by Capello’s
signal that the captaincy would return to  John Terry , the Mirror
said. Now Capello has said he meant to say Terry would just lead
England against Wales and Ghana this month, with Ferdinand
remaining first choice for now.  Bendtner for Germany?  Arsenal’s Nicklas Bendtner will turn down Blackburn’s bid
to sign him this summer in favor of a move to Germany, with
Borussia Dortmund and Hamburg both interested in the striker,
the  Daily Mail  said.  Blackburn may offer 15 million pounds ($24 million) for him
as part of “grand plans” for next season, the Mail added.  Taarabt Target  West Brom is interested in Queens Park Rangers forward Adel Taarabt and Crystal Palace striker Wilfried Zaha,  the Mail 
reported.  Taarabt has been central to QPR’s promotion drive and Zaha
is a “bright spark” for Palace in a disappointing campaign,
the newspaper said.  Sorensen Stays    Thomas Sorensen  is ready to sign a new contract this week
for F.A. Cup semifinalist Stoke City, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Dane is negotiating a two-year extension to his current
deal, even though he’s been the No. 2 goalkeeper behind Asmir
Begovic for most of the season. Sorensen has played in F.A. Cup
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 