-- 
Asurion Pulls Biggest Loan Transaction as Prices Drop the Most Since July

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-03-16T15:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/asurion-said-to-cancel-4-64-billion-loan-transaction-to-refinance-debt.html
Asurion Corp., the private equity-
owned provider of wireless handset insurance and roadside
assistance, pulled the biggest loan transaction this year to
refinance debt, according to a person briefed on the deal.  The company, owned by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC,
Providence Equity Partners Inc., Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe
and Berkshire Partners LLC, canceled a $4.64 billion deal due to
market conditions, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  Asurion follows companies including Toys “R” Us Inc., the
world’s biggest toy retailer owned by KKR & Co., Bain Capital
LLC and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , and Fifth Third Processing
Solutions LLC in withdrawing at least $8.38 billion of loans
this week, almost four times the amount last week when two
issuers canceled refinancings for the first time since January
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
fell 0.3 cent to 95.06 cents on the dollar yesterday, extending
three weeks of losses in its biggest drop since July 1. The
benchmark, which tracks the largest leveraged loans in the U.S.
market, has pared its gain for the year to 1.66 percent, losing
1.32 percentage points since Feb. 9, when 2011 returns peaked at
3.02 percent.  Speculative-grade companies have been refinancing bank debt
at a record pace, according to S&P Leveraged Commentary and
Data.  Loan Refinancing Volume  Borrowers have raised $30.5 billion to cut interest
expenses this month as refinancings comprise a record 83 percent
of issuance and trail only last month’s all-time high of $46.6
billion, S&P LCD said. As of March 10, $93.8 billion of loan
issuance was used to replace existing borrowings.  High-yield, high-risk loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Asurion sought to raise a $3.5 billion first-lien  term loan 
due in seven years, $1.02 billion of second-lien debt maturing
in eight years and a $120 million revolving  credit line  expiring
in five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group
AG, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank
AG had hosted a lender meeting on March 10, Bloomberg data show.  Toys “R” Us canceled on March 14 a $1.1 billion loan
refinancing, which included a $400 million new term loan,
according to Bloomberg data. The Wayne, New Jersey-based company
followed Swift Transportation Co., the biggest truckload carrier
in  North America , and Apax Partners LLP-owned Advantage Sales &
Marketing LLC, which pulled loans to replace bank debt last
week.  Fifth Third, the payment-services provider owned by
private-equity firm Advent International Corp. and Cincinnati-
based  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , yesterday shelved a $1.775 billion
deal that would have replaced loans raised in October, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  