-- 
Mauritius Stocks Index Retreats to Two-Month Low on Rate-Increase Concern

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-03-16T11:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/mauritius-stocks-index-retreats-to-two-month-low-on-rate-increase-concern.html
Mauritius’s stock index fell to the
lowest level in almost 11 weeks on concern a likely increase in
the benchmark lending rate will curb investment.  The 37-member SEMDEX Index declined for a fourth day,
losing 0.8 percent to 1,979.27 by the 1:30 p.m. close in Port
Louis, its weakest close since Dec. 31.  Mauritius Commercial
Bank (MCB) , the biggest lender by market value, led the drop,
retreating the 1.2 percent, the most in five months, to 168
rupees.  State Bank of Mauritius Ltd. (SBM) , the second-largest,
declined 1.1 percent to 92 rupees, the lowest since Jan. 5.  The central bank will probably raise its benchmark interest
rate when it announces its next decision, with 22 of 30 analysts
in a PluriConseil-l’Express survey expecting an increase,
l’Express, a Port Louis-based newspaper, reported today. The
country’s inflation rate rose to 6.8 percent in February, the
highest since November 2008, adding to pressure on the central
bank to raise interest rates.  “An increase will negatively impact on investments in the
country and cost of borrowings,” Kishen Nadassen, a senior
research analyst at CIM Stockbrokers Ltd., said in a phone
interview from  Port Louis , the capital of the Indian Ocean
Island nation. “Investors are now in wait-and-see mode pending
the outcome of the monetary policy meeting on March 28.”    State Bank  of Mauritius’s 14-day relative strength index
fell to 27.69 today, below the 30 threshold that technical
analysis indicates is a sign an asset’s price has fallen too far
and is poised to rise. It was last below this level in April.  Stocks of sugar producers declined after raw sugar slumped
to a three-month low yesterday, leading a retreat in
commodities, on speculation that demand will slow as  Japan  tries
to recover from its worst-ever earthquake.  Sugar Producers Drop  Raw sugar for May delivery pared yesterday’s 7.7 percent
drop, adding 2.5 percent to 26.29 U.S. cents a pound in
electronic trading in  New York .    Harel Freres Ltd. (HFRERES) , a producer of the sweetener, fell for a
third day, losing 2.4 percent to 36.8 rupees.  Omnicane Ltd. (MTMD) 
slipped the most in more than a week, losing 1.4 percent to 73
rupees.  Sugar is Mauritius’s main crop, comprising 80 percent of
areas under cultivation and 63 percent of agricultural exports,
according to the Chamber of Agriculture. The crop won’t make up
the delay in growth caused by earlier drought even after
adequate rainfall last month, the Mauritius Sugar Industry
Research Institute said in a report e-mailed March 7.  The drop in output will probably result in the lowest
annual sugar crop in 12 years, according to the Mauritius Sugar
Syndicate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  