-- 
Mayor Bloomberg’s Voter-Approval Rate Tumbles to 39%, Poll Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/mayor-bloomberg-s-voter-approval-rate-tumbles-to-39-poll-says.html
New York City voters disapprove of
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s job performance, 51 percent to 39
percent, his lowest rating since November 2003, a Quinnipiac
University poll said.  The survey is Quinnipiac’s first on attitudes toward the
mayor since a post-Christmas snowstorm left many city streets
unplowed for at least a week, sparking criticism and a City
Council investigation. The mayor and several deputies had been
outside the city for the holiday. In a  Nov. 23  poll, 55 percent
approved of his performance to 35 percent who didn’t.  The mayor, who is unaffiliated with a political party, has
also appeared since then on national television programs, such
as NBC’s  Meet the Press , discussing  gun control , immigration and
the economy, attracting speculation he will run for president.  “Is it the snow, the third-term blahs, the weekends away,
the presidential chatter? Whatever the explanation, Mayor
Michael Bloomberg’s once-upon-a-time stretch of 70-plus job
approval has gone south,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the
 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute , in a news release.  When asked to rate the administration’s handling of snow
removal, 69 percent checked off either “poor” or “not so
good,” 26 percent said “good” and 2 percent, “excellent.”  Weekend Whereabouts  While 72 percent backed Bloomberg’s right to leave the city
on weekends without disclosing his whereabouts, 84 percent said
the mayor should make it clear who’s in charge, the poll said.  Fifty-six percent don’t believe Bloomberg when he said he’s
not interested in running for president, the poll said. Voters
said by 74 percent to 18 percent that he wouldn’t make a good
president, his lowest score yet on this question, the poll said.  Today’s results echoed a Jan. 6 Marist College poll that
found his approval rating had slid to 37 percent, the lowest
Marist had measured for him since he took office Jan. 1, 2002.  Quinnipiac’s highest approval rating for the mayor came
 Oct. 21, 2008 , when 75 percent praised his performance. The
result came after six years in which the mayor had balanced the
city budget while contending with a national recession
exacerbated by the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.  His  November 2003  low, when 51 percent disapproved, came
after he had persuaded the City Council to raise property taxes
18.5 percent, supported construction of a $1 billion convention
facility and football stadium that the  New York Jets  wanted to
pay for on  Manhattan ’s West Side, and had lost a referendum
campaign advocating non-partisan elections for city offices.  Sixty-seven percent of the city’s voters say Bloomberg’s
involvement in national issues is good for  New York , while 28
percent say it distracts him from running the city.  The poll, from telephone interviews with 1,115 registered
voters from March 8 to 14, had a 2.9 percentage-point margin of
error, the institute said in a news release.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  