-- 
Bahrain Shuts Stock Market as Troops Battle Protesters Amid Emergency Rule

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-03-16T14:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bahrain-suspends-stock-market-trading-after-declaring-state-of-emergency.html
Bahrain closed its stock exchange
and the cost of insuring against default by the Persian Gulf
nation held near the highest since July 2009 as clashes between
security forces and anti-government protesters intensified.  The nation’s five-year default swaps dropped 7 basis points
to 352 today after surging 44 yesterday to surpass Lebanon,
whose debt carries a lower  credit rating , for the first time in
more than a year.  Fitch Ratings  cut Bahrain two levels yesterday
as the government imposed a three-month state of emergency.  Clashes between the mainly Shiite Muslim protesters in
Bahrain and forces from their Sunni government injured hundreds
and drew criticism from Shiite-ruled Iran. Bahraini opposition
group al-Wefaq said two of its members were killed when security
forces moved to clear demonstrators from the Pearl Roundabout in
the capital. Bahrain is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet and
its ruling family has close links with Saudi Arabia, an ally of
the U.S. in its attempts to halt  Iran’s nuclear program .  “From a market fear standpoint, the Bahrain situation
really boils down to how  Iran  will react if the military starts
coming down very hard on the protesters,” said Akram Annous,
Middle East and North Africa strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in
Dubai. “Will it just be saber rattling or does it turn into
something more?”  Bahrain will impose a curfew in parts of the country from 4
p.m. till 4 a.m. local time, an army spokesman said on state
television today. The country also banned protests and public
gathering until further notice, he said.  Record Yields  The yield on Bahrain’s 5.5 percent bond maturing in March
2020 fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, today after
soaring 31 to a record 6.91 percent yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fitch cut its rating on the nation’s foreign debt two
levels yesterday to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
citing increased political risk and said another downgrade is
possible.  “The two-notch downgrade reflects further material
escalation in political risk in recent days, following
significant violent domestic protests, military intervention by
Gulf nations and the imposition of a state of emergency,” Purvi
Harlalka, director in Fitch’s Middle East and Africa Sovereign
Ratings Group, said in a statement yesterday.  The ratings company also reduced the grade on Bahrain’s
sovereign wealth fund Mumtalakat Holding Co. two levels today to
BBB.  Lebanon,  Russia   Fitch rates Lebanon’s debt B, five steps below investment
grade. Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated the same as
Bahrain by Fitch, were little changed today at 135 basis points.
Lebanon’s fell 4 basis points to 355.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bond yields and credit risk of governments in the Middle
East surged this year as popular uprisings toppled leaders in
Tunisia and  Egypt , the most populous Arab country where the
bourse has been shut since the end of trading on Jan. 27.  The turmoil has sent the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Persian
Gulf stocks down 7.6 percent so far in 2011.  Bahrain’s benchmark BB ALL Share Index has lost 1.3 percent
this year. The bourse didn’t specify for how long the market
will be closed.  Hundreds Injured  The island-nation’s security forces clashed with protesters
today in the capital Manama and hundreds of riot police were
deployed. Clashes between the protesters and Bahraini forces
escalated on March 13, with more than 100 people injured as
demonstrators demanded democracy through elections. King Hamad bin Isa  Al Khalifa  declared a three-month state of emergency.  “The biggest danger is that Bahrain becomes the
battleground for Saudi Arabia, the U.S. and Iran in the same way
Lebanon has traditionally been the place that geopolitics played
out,” Oliver Bell, London-based senior investment manager at
Pictet Asset Management, said yesterday. “It wasn’t clear
things had escalated inside Bahrain to necessitate the request
for help from Saudi Arabia.”  Saudi Arabia helped broker a peaceful resolution to
Lebanon’s civil war, which ended in 1990. The kingdom, the
world’s top oil exporter, supports Sunni allies in Lebanon
against Hezbollah, a Shiite group backed by Iran.  Political Risk  The outlook for Bahrain’s rating is negative, indicating
that more downgrades may follow, Fitch said. Bahrain’s credit
ratings were lowered Feb. 21 at  Standard & Poor’s .  Bahrain has 2.87 billion dinars ($7.61 billion) of debt
outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Debt equaled 33
percent of gross domestic product in 2010, Fitch said.  “They are not particularly credit constrained,” said
David Zervos, managing director of global fixed income strategy
at Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “There’s credit risk in the
short term with the short-term turmoil. Longer term, these are
probably much stronger bonds than maybe the ratings downgrades
would indicate.”  Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
yesterday “the presence of foreign troops and meddling into
Bahrain’s internal affairs will only further complicate the
issue.”  Bahrain’s king has offered a national “dialogue” toward
limited changes in response to the protests. Along with  Saudi
Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  has sent some 500 soldiers to
Bahrain, U.A.E. Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed al Nahyan
said. The GCC this month agreed to provide Bahrain and Oman,
another country that has seen protests, with $10 billion each
over a decade to promote development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  