-- 
Bahraini Forces Clear Protesters From Manama Rallying Point; Four Killed

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-16T16:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bahrain-call-for-troops-fails-to-end-protests-as-hundreds-hurt.html
  Bahrain  security forces drove
protesters from their rallying point at the Pearl Roundabout in
Manama leaving two demonstrators and two police officers dead.  The military imposed a curfew on parts of the country from
4 p.m. until 4 a.m. and banned protests and public gatherings
until further notice, an army spokesman said on state
television.  Bahrain yesterday declared a three-month state of emergency
after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states arrived to
help quell a month of protests driven by majority Shiites, who
are calling for democracy and civil rights. Some groups have
escalated their demands to include the overthrow of the Sunni
rulers, the Al Khalifa family, and the creation of a republic.  “The regime’s decision to clear the square was largely
symbolic, but it doesn’t change the reality and people will
still take to the streets,” said Toby C. Jones, assistant
professor of history at  Rutgers University  and author of the
book “Desert Kingdom: How Oil and Water Forged Modern  Saudi
Arabia .” “It is an escalation, it’s a further provocation.”  The yield on the kingdom’s 5.5 percent bond maturing in
March 2020 declined 13 basis points to 6.78 percent after
climbing to a record yesterday. Credit-default swaps dropped 8
basis points to 351 today, after surging to the highest since
June 2009. The benchmark  stock index , which has lost 1.3 percent
this year, closed due to the state of emergency. The bourse
didn’t specify for how long the market will be shut.  Military Deployment  The mostly Shiite Muslim demonstrators fled into
backstreets as military vehicles were deployed near the area and
helicopters flew overhead in the operation early today. Gunfire
was heard and the national broadcaster said two policemen were
killed when they were hit by a vehicle. Two members of the
opposition group al-Wefaq were also killed, the group said.  Riot police put out fires with water cannons and fanned out
into the city streets after the roundabout was emptied. There
were no reports of Gulf Cooperation Council soldiers acting
against the protesters.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. finds
the violence “alarming” and that the only way to deal with
unrest is through dialogue.  Call for Restraint  “We have made it very clear to the Bahraini government at
the highest levels that we expect them to exercise restraint,”
Clinton said in an interview with  CBS News , taped in Cairo. “We
would remind them of their humanitarian obligation to keep
medical facilities open and to facilitate the treatment of the
injured, and to get back to the negotiating table.”  Bahraini police opened fire on demonstrators in the village
of Sitra yesterday, the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights
said. At least two people were killed and 250 people injured
during those clashes, Ali Al-Akri, a doctor in the emergency
room of the  Salmaniya Medical Complex , said in an interview.  Opposition groups slammed the involvement of foreign
troops, saying it will make it harder to end the conflict.  “We are sure now that the government isn’t serious about
political change or dialogue,” said Mattar Ibrahim Ali Mattar,
a member of the largest opposition party, Al-Wefaq, in a phone
interview. “The situation is much worse than before. The
government chose force and violence.”  King Hamad has offered a national dialogue and Crown Prince Salman has said he’s committed to talks to address demands
including a parliament with full authority, a government that
represents the will of the people and fair voting districts.  Clashes Escalate  “I don’t know if a political solution is possible now,”
Ebrahim Sharif, head of the opposition National Democratic
Action Society, said in an interview. Sharif said two floors of
his party’s headquarters were set on fire last night.  Clashes between protesters and government forces escalated
on March 13, with more than 100 people injured.  The rallies have fueled Saudi fears that unrest may spread
to the kingdom, which holds about 20 percent of global oil
reserves and, like Bahrain, has a Shiite community which
complains of discrimination. Crude for April delivery rose as
much as $2.06 to $99.24 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Fitch cut its rating on Bahrain’s foreign debt two levels
yesterday to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, citing
increased political risk and said another downgrade is possible.
The ratings company reduced the grade on Bahrain’s sovereign
wealth fund Mumtalakat Holding Co. two levels today to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade.  Shiite Links  Bahrain’s Shiites make up about 70 percent of the
population and many retain cultural and family ties with  Iran  as
well as with Shiites in Saudi Arabia, who are a minority of
about 10 to 15 percent.  Saudi Shiites have been holding protests every Thursday and
Friday for the past few weeks in towns and villages a short
drive from the Bahrain causeway connecting the two countries.
They have demanded the release of Shiite prisoners held without
public trial since 1996.  Troops from the GCC, including Saudi Arabia, moved into
Bahrain March 14, the first cross-border intervention since a
wave of popular uprisings swept through parts of the Arab world.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said the deployment
was bound to fail, al-Jazeera television reported today.  “The presence of foreign troops and meddling into
Bahrain’s internal affairs will only further complicate the
issue,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in
Tehran yesterday.  Ambassador Recalled  Bahrain recalled its ambassador to Iran after the
statement, Bahrain’s state television reported.  The GCC forces will protect “vital installations” in
Bahrain, said Jamal Fakhro, the first deputy chairman of the
Bahrain Shura Council, in a phone interview yesterday. He said
that the declaration of a state of emergency followed the
failure of peaceful efforts to find a solution.  Bahrain, a logistical hub and command center for U.S naval
operations in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan , and the  Indian Ocean , is home
to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, which protects oil supply lines
that pass through the  Persian Gulf  and the  Strait of Hormuz .  To help Bahrain finance social spending that would meet
some opposition demands, Gulf states on March 10 said they plan
to provide the country with $10 billion over a decade. Oman,
which has also seen protests, was allocated a similar sum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Bahrain at  gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 