-- 
BofA Board Adds Billionaire Ambani, Boosting Access to India

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-17T03:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bank-of-america-names-india-s-ambani-world-s-ninth-richest-man-to-board.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  picked  Mukesh Ambani , India’s billionaire chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
to join its board as the lender seeks to expand revenue from
outside the U.S.  Ambani, whose Mumbai-based company owns the world’s largest
refining complex, will stand for election at an annual meeting
this year,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America said
yesterday in a statement. The 53-year-old is the world’s ninth-
richest person and the wealthiest in India, with a net worth
estimated at $27 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  The appointment may bolster Bank of America’s efforts to
expand its corporate banking, trading and wealth management
operations in the world’s second-fastest growing major economy.
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, told investors
last week that non-U.S. operations are increasingly vital to
revenue growth.  “Getting somebody like that gives the bank access to
regulators, which gives them an inside track to do things like
finance the multibillion-dollar infrastructure projects that
India has committed to,” said Phillip Phan, a professor at the
Johns Hopkins Carey Business School in Baltimore. “In places
like India, regulation, business and government are very tightly
interlinked.”  More Reach  HSBC Holdings Plc, the U.K. bank that gets most of its
profit from  Asia , in March 2008 named Infosys Technologies Ltd.
co-founder N. R. Narayana Murthy to its board, while New York-
based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. appointed  Lakshmi Mittal , the
billionaire chairman of steelmaker ArcelorMittal, as a director
in June of that year.  Ambani said in the statement that it’s a “privilege and a
great honor” to be the first non-U.S. citizen to join the
bank’s board.  Investors will benefit from Ambani’s “global perspective”
and experience managing a diverse set of businesses, bank
Chairman Charles Holliday said in the statement. Reliance’s
businesses include chemicals, oil refineries, gas production,
pharmaceuticals, clothing and solar energy. The company had $43
billion in annual revenue for the year ended March 2010.  In October, Bank of America helped Reliance arrange a $1.5
billion sale of senior notes in the U.S., after advising the
company on its $1.7 billion purchase of shale-gas assets from
Atlas Energy Inc in April.  Ambani’s Influence  Bank of America also advised Reliance on a 31.9 billion
rupee sale of treasury stock in September 2009.  Adding Ambani gives Bank of America more recognition in
India, the world’s second-most populous country. His influence
extends into international political circles, with memberships
on the Indian Prime Minister’s Council on Trade and Industry and
the Indo-U.S. CEOs Forum, according to the statement. He’s also
co-chair of the Japan-India Business Leader’s Forum and serves
on the Foundation Board of the  World Economic Forum .  “This move adds a lot of credibility, it sends the message
that Bank of America is committed to the area,” said  Jason Tyler , who helps oversee $5.7 billion at Chicago-based Ariel
Investments LLC. “They have done what they can in the  United
States , it’s time for them to look elsewhere for growth.”  Bank of America is No. 8 among investment banks in managing
equity sales in India this year, maintaining its 2010 ranking,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In merger and
acquisition advisory as well, the company is in eighth spot, the
data show.  $1.3 Trillion Economy  Bank of America, which gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue from the U.S., has done business in India for 46 years,  Thomas Montag , head of the firm’s trading and investment-bank
units, said last week at a conference. Montag’s operations,
largely acquired in the 2009 deal to purchase Merrill Lynch &
Co., were involved in the biggest Indian corporate bond offering,
he said.    India ’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1, the fastest pace since
2008, compared with an estimated 8.6 percent gain in the current
year, the  finance ministry  said last month. The economy expanded
8.2 percent last quarter, the fastest after China.  Moynihan has said banks can’t safely grow much faster than
gross domestic product without taking undue risks. In practice,
the bank will increase its U.S. revenue 1 percent faster than
the country’s gross domestic product, which would be about 3.5
percent under a normal scenario, Moynihan said.  Economic Growth  India can become a $5 trillion economy within two decades,
Ambani told bankers and reporters in  New Delhi  on March 4. “How
many countries can have that kind of growth?” he said.  Reliance said Jan. 21 it had cash and cash-equivalents of
318.3 billion rupees as of Dec. 31. The company may get another
$7.2 billion in the year starting April 1 after it completes the
sale of 30 percent stakes in 23 oil and gas fields in India to
BP Plc.    India’s economy  may expand more than  China ’s in the next 10
years if it lifts curbs on foreign investment in retail and
boosts spending on roads and bridges,  Nouriel Roubini , the New
York University professor who predicted the global financial
crisis, said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 