-- 
Barclays’s Knapp Predicts ‘Market Correction’ Later in Year

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-16T20:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/barclays-s-knapp-predicts-market-correction-later-this-year.html
  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Barry Knapp forecast
that the U.S. stock market will dip in the third to fourth
quarter this year, once the  Federal Reserve  starts to unwind its
economic stimulus program.  The Fed is “likely to keep the balance sheet static after
they stop expanding in June,” said Knapp, head of U.S. equity
strategy at Barclays Capital, in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “In the September to
November time frame, they’ll allow it start contracting, and
that will be the necessary condition to trigger an equity market
correction.” A correction is often defined as a 10 percent
decline in benchmark indexes.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 4.9 percent
since Nov. 3, when the Fed announced $600 billion of bond
purchases through June to boost growth in the  U.S. economy . The
benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks has slipped more than 6 percent
since mid-February as revolts in the Middle East and northern
Africa sent oil prices higher and Japan’s biggest earthquake on
record struck the northeast of the country on March 11.    Thomas Lee , equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., and
Mary Ann Bartels of Bank of America Corp. were among analysts
who said this week that the recent slide in the  S&P 500  may be a
buying opportunity. JPMorgan’s Lee predicts the S&P 500 will
advance to 1,425 by the end of 2011.  ‘Much Better Spot’  While the risks from higher oil prices and damaged nuclear
reactors in  Japan  are worse than the circumstances last year
when the market fell 12 percent from April 23 through May 20,
“policy is in a much better spot” now, according to Knapp.
Stocks will likely maintain gains when the Fed exits the so-
called quantitative easing program in June, and will correct in
the September to November time frame, Knapp said.  “We’re likely to have an equity market correction
somewhere during the exit-strategy process,” Knapp said. “We
don’t think it’s right at the point where they stop expanding
the balance sheet. We think it’s when they start letting the
balance sheet contract at least passively.”  The S&P 500 fell 2 percent to 1,256.88 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . Knapp forecasts the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks will
climb to 1,450 by year-end 2011. That compares with the average
estimate of 1,400 by 13 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  