-- 
Battery, Chip-Wafers Among Tech Industries Most Hurt by Quake, Daiwa Says

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-16T02:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/battery-chip-wafers-among-tech-industries-most-hurt-by-quake-daiwa-says.html
Global supply of  lithium-ion
batteries , substrates for chips and power-supply capacitors may
be the worst-hit technology industries following last week’s
earthquake in  Japan ,  Daiwa Securities  Group Inc. said.  Closure of plants at Hitachi Chemical Co., which makes
materials used in lithium-ion cells, Sanyo Electric Co. and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  will affect the supply of rechargeable batteries, Pranab Kumar Sarmah, Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities, said
in a report yesterday.  Japan makes almost 40 percent of the world’s electronics
and audio-visual components, according to Daiwa. Production has
been suspended at some factories in northern Japan because of
the damage caused by the 9.0 magnitude quake and ensuing
tsunami. It could take one to three months for output to recover
fully, the report said.  “We believe the impact on the electronics supply chain
will be substantial,” Sarmah said in the report.  The global semiconductor industry is likely to be affected
if Hitachi Chemical and Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co. suspend
their factories for more than two weeks, the report said.  Nippon
Chemi-Con Corp. (6997) ’s halting of aluminum-capacitor production may
disrupt power-supply manufacturing, it said.  Tokyo-based Hitachi Chemical said yesterday some of its
factories are located within the evacuation zone of Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. The
company is preparing to resume operations at factories located
in Ibaraki and Chiba prefectures, though the shortage of water
and power may cause delays, it said in a statement.  Sony has said it’s halting operations at eight factories,
including those making lithium-ion batteries.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
which controls Sanyo, is suspending operations at some of its
plants located north of Tokyo.  Mitsubishi Gas, which produces chemicals, reported on March
14 it suffered damage to its factories. Nippon Chemi-Con is
suspending some operations at its factories because of
difficulties in transportation, the company said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  