-- 
Bear Stearns Thrives in Wall Street Diaspora Giving 4% to Sheryl Crow Tune

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-16T15:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bear-stearns-thrives-in-diaspora-giving-4-to-sheryl-crow-tune.html
Three years after the collapse of
Bear Stearns Cos., which helped fuel the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, former bond executives of the firm
are running businesses at one-time rivals, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Alumni of Bear Stearns, which has been accused in lawsuits
of building faulty mortgage securitizations, have contributed to
a Wall Street rebound. Profits at broker-dealers totaled $89
billion in 2009 and 2010, the best two years on record,
according to New York state’s comptroller.  “That’s Wall Street,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing
director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York.
“Maybe the rest of the world looks at it negatively, to have
been associated with Bear Stearns, but if we didn’t have these
types of survivors and Wall Street couldn’t reinvent itself, we
as a country wouldn’t survive.”  Others see things differently. Even if former Bear Stearns
employees operated within the rules of the period and lost money
when the company’s shares tumbled 94 percent, their subsequent
good fortune may be resented on Main Street, said Simon Johnson,
a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan
School of Management and a Bloomberg News columnist.  “Bear Stearns was an integral part of how the system
became dangerous,” said Johnson, a former International
Monetary Fund chief economist and author of “13 Bankers: The  Wall Street  Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown.” “I have
no idea whether these individuals did anything wrong, but they
were reemployed quickly, unlike the rest of the real economy, or
the teachers now losing their jobs because of the damage done.
There’s an asymmetry of outcomes here that’s unfair and feeds
into the broader resentment.”  Nierenberg, Verschleiser  Among the most highly placed members of the Bear Stearns
diaspora are Michael B. Nierenberg, 48, who’s now in charge of
Bank of America’s global mortgage and securitized-products
business; Jeffrey L. Verschleiser, 41, who runs mortgage
operations at Goldman Sachs; and Scott Eichel, 36, now Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc’s global head of securitized products and
U.S. credit trading.  The three men, none defendants in mortgage-related
lawsuits, were among a group of former Bear Stearns employees at
a fund-raising event for the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research
Foundation in  New York  in November, where singer Sheryl Crow
performed, according to a person who was there. The party raised
about $3.4 million, a record for the group, whose board
Nierenberg chairs, according to the foundation’s website.  Repackaged Slices  The paths of former Bear Stearns employees often cross at
such gatherings, a legacy of the firm’s requirement that
executives donate 4 percent of pay to charity, said  Scott Buchta , a former senior managing director at Bear Stearns who’s
now head of investment strategy at broker Braver Stern
Securities LLC in Chicago and wasn’t at the dinner.  “Quite often these events become a mini-reunion of
sorts,” Buchta said.  Under Nierenberg, whose family ran a meat company,
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America last year was
the largest underwriter of repackaged slices of U.S. government-
backed mortgage bonds, a business that has thrived as investors
look to protect against potential increases in  interest rates 
from record lows.  Eichel, who joined Bear Stearns after graduating from  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina , in 1997, has turned
Edinburgh-based RBS into the second-largest manager of worldwide
sales for securitizations without government backing, a reviving
business. In December, Verschleiser’s group at New York-based
Goldman Sachs snapped up $6 billion of home-loan bonds that
State Street Corp. was selling.  Second Acts  Nierenberg, who oversaw adjustable-rate debt at Bear
Stearns, and Verschleiser, whose purview included subprime
loans, were co-heads of the New York-based firm’s U.S. mortgage
business until they were promoted in late 2007, when Eichel and
another trader took the posts.  Their second acts echo those of former executives at Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., which during the 1980s helped create an
explosion in high-yield company bonds that later soured, helping
fuel the savings-and-loan crisis of that era. After Drexel’s
1990 collapse, Leon Black, its chief of mergers, founded buyout
giant Apollo Management LP, and Stephen Feinberg, one of the
firm’s traders, went on to start private-equity firm Cerberus
Capital Management LP.  Ally, Macquarie  Other Bear Stearns bond executives landing at rival banks
include its last co-heads of global fixed income, Jeffrey Mayer
and Craig Overlander, both 51. Mayer now runs the North America
region for the securities unit of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , whose sales and trading revenue rose 30 percent last quarter
while five big rivals posted an average 8 percent decline.
Overlander is deputy chief executive officer of  Societe
Generale (GLE) ’s investment-bank division for the Americas.  Thomas Marano, 49, global head of mortgages, rates and
foreign exchange at Bear Stearns, is now CEO of the mortgage
unit of Ally Financial Inc., the auto and home lender rescued by
the U.S. government. Randy Reiff, 40, Bear Stearns’s head of
commercial-mortgage finance and commercial-mortgage securities,
now holds a similar role at Australia’s Macquarie Group.  Japan ’s
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA is relying on Bear Stearns alumni
in corporate bonds, including James Gorman, its managing
director of high-yield capital markets.  The former Bear Stearns executives all declined to comment
directly or through spokesmen for the firms where they now work.  ‘On Their Feet’  “Most of them landed on their feet,” said Alan “Ace” Greenberg, 83, the firm’s CEO until 1993. “No question about it
-- they were talented.”  Greenberg came into the office until the end and became a
vice chairman emeritus at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  after the bank
agreed to buy Bear Stearns with Federal Reserve assistance on
March 16, 2008. He coined the term “PSD” in a 1981 memo to
employees describing Bear Stearns’s preference for scrappy
recruits who were “poor, smart and had a deep desire to become
rich,” according to a book he wrote last year.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bond executives have had a
different experience, according to Branthover. Instead of
dispersing widely to banks, many remained with  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
which bought the firm’s U.S. investment bank after its September
2008 bankruptcy, or joined Nomura Holdings Inc. Bear Stearns’s
early collapse may have been good luck for its employees,
allowing them to land before others began looking, she said.  Bear’s Share  Before the mortgage-securitization market imploded, fueling
$2 trillion of losses at the world’s largest financial
companies, it accounted for the biggest share of business at
Bear Stearns’s most-profitable division, its fixed-income unit,
which generated 45 percent of total revenue, according to the
final report of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission .  Bear Stearns underwrote 10 percent, or $298 billion, of
U.S. home-loan bonds without government backing sold from 2005
through 2007, second to top-ranked Lehman, according to data
from newsletter Inside MBS & ABS. The company issued $167
billion of such debt, which was blamed by the FCIC for fueling
the housing bubble.  Allegations unsealed in January in a 2008 lawsuit by bond
insurer Ambac Assurance Corp. suggested practices at Bear
Stearns that were “dirty beyond my skeptical imagination,”
said Howard Hill, a former Babson Capital Management LLC money
manager who helped start securitized-debt departments at four
firms. Ambac was partly seized by its regulator after housing-
debt losses depleted the company’s capital.  Ambac Complaint  The bank ignored information from employees and mortgage-
review companies showing loans were shoddy, the insurer alleged
in the lawsuit, filed in federal court in Manhattan. It also
went back to originators of mortgages it had packaged into bonds
and sold as securities and demanded refunds when loans quickly
defaulted, according to an amended complaint based on evidence
obtained in discovery. Cash raised from those settlements wasn’t
shared with investors who bought the securities, Ambac said.  In one e-mail to colleagues from March 2007, Verschleiser,
referring to $73 million of new mortgages still in its
inventory, said he “did not understand why they were dropped
from deals and not securitized before,” when the bank could
have demanded refunds from lenders after a single missed
payment, according to the complaint.  Marano, in an October 2007 e-mail to co-workers, vowed to
retaliate against Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  after the credit-rating companies relied on by investors
downgraded some Bear Stearns securities, the complaint said.  “We are going to demand a waiver of fees,” Marano wrote,
according to the complaint. “In the interim, do not pay a
single fee to either rating agency. Hold every fee up.”  A judge last month denied Ambac’s bid to add 10
individuals, including Verschleiser and Marano, to its suit.
Spokesmen at the firms where Verschleiser and Marano now work
declined to comment.  Allstate, Syncora  Buyers and bond insurers suing over mortgage securities
created or sold by Bear Stearns also include  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the
Federal Home Loan Banks of Pittsburgh and Seattle, Syncora
Guarantee Inc., CIFG Assurance North America Inc. and MBIA
Insurance Corp. As a trustee, Wells Fargo & Co. this year sued a
Bear Stearns unit now owned by JPMorgan to force it to turn over
loan files.  Allstate said in a suit filed this year that, based on
credit and tax records, 80.6 percent of borrowers underlying one
2006 securitization planned to live in the properties they
bought instead of the 92.5 percent Bear Stearns claimed. That
was important, the insurer said in its complaint, “because
borrowers are less likely to ‘walk away’ from properties they
live in, as compared to properties being used as a vacation home
or investment.”  ‘Deficient Loans’  Ambac and Allstate are “large, sophisticated insurance
companies that are trying to blame others for risks they
knowingly took and were paid for taking,” said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New York. “We do not
believe their claims are meritorious and intend to defend Bear
vigorously.”  Allstate, a Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer, has sued at
least four other firms over similar mortgage problems. So-called
put-backs, in which a lender or bond issuer repurchases loans
that didn’t comply with contract terms, may cost companies as
much as $90 billion, JPMorgan analysts said in an October
report.  “Bear Stearns is just the tip of the iceberg,” said Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-based consultant and formerly a lawyer
at Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin, where he
represented mortgage insurer PMI Group Inc. Firms in the
industry “all knew they were putting together securitizations
with highly deficient loans.”  Cioffi, Tannin  A Securities and Exchange Commission examination  report 
from November 2005 released by the FCIC reveals regulators were
concerned about Bear Stearns controls. The SEC questioned the
extent to which, in response to agency critiques, “the firm
will establish, document, and maintain a system of internal risk
management controls to assist it in managing the legal risks
associated with its business activities as is required.”  Aside from two former hedge-fund managers, who worked in
Bear Stearns’s asset-management unit, U.S. officials haven’t
sued any of the firm’s employees or executives for wrongdoing in
relation to the mortgage crisis.    Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , who lost $1.6 billion of
investors’ money, were acquitted in a criminal case in 2009. One
juror said she would invest with them if she had the money. A
civil case in which the SEC also alleges that the two lied to
investors is still pending. They deny wrongdoing.  Bear Stearns wasn’t among the top five underwriters of
collateralized debt obligations that repackaged mortgage bonds
and related derivatives. CDOs fueled some of the biggest losses
at rivals and remain a focus of agency investigations, according
to disclosures by banks.  ‘Good Judgment’  Eichel refused to help hedge fund Paulson & Co. create
mortgage CDOs to bet against, as Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank
did. He told author Greg Zuckerman for his book “The Greatest
Trade Ever” that the idea “didn’t pass our moral compass.”
Goldman Sachs later paid a record fine to settle SEC charges
about a CDO it created for Paulson.  Bear Stearns also avoided the market for structured-
investment vehicles, or SIVs, the $400 billion of funds that
relied on short-term paper and whose collapse roiled bond and
money markets, forcing banks to suffer losses on debt kept off
their balance sheets, according to Henry Tabe, co-founder of
Sequoia Investment Management Co. in  London  and author of a 2010
book on SIVs.  “Bear Stearns may have played an important role in the
crisis, but the bank also showed good judgment in some
instances,” said Tabe, a former Moody’s analyst.  Maiden Lane  While Marano was criticized internally for not offloading
$13 billion of adjustable-rate mortgages when markets were first
roiled in the summer of 2007, according to the FCIC report, the
company’s assets are proving less toxic than expected.  The Fed extended a $29 billion loan to a vehicle called
Maiden Lane LLC that bought $30 billion of Bear Stearns assets
to facilitate the company’s sale. JPMorgan offered an additional
$1 billion. As of March 9, the assets of Maiden Lane were valued
at $26.1 billion, with the central bank’s loan paid down to $24
billion, according to Fed  data .  The rise of former Bear Stearns bond executives shows that
other banks agree with Greenberg’s assessment that only “some
people at the top made some bad mistakes.” Greenberg, in his
2010 book “The Rise and Fall of Bear Stearns,” blamed Bear
Stearns Chairman and CEO James Cayne for his decision to let the
firm employ too much leverage.  Cayne, 77, in testimony to the FCIC last year, blamed “the
market’s loss of confidence” in the company, “even though it
was unjustified and irrational.” Cayne didn’t return messages
left at his home seeking comment.  ‘Rough and Tumble’  Many top Bear Stearns executives left shortly after the
firm’s purchase by JPMorgan, which attempted to keep at least
some of them. It named Mayer and Overlander as vice chairmen of
its investment bank before the merger was finished. They left a
month later, even after Mayer reached a verbal agreement to be
paid about $27 million in cash and restricted stock if he had
joined the bank, according to a regulatory filing.  Some may have been turned off by their new employer’s
culture, which was more “big, corporate and soulless” compared
with what had been an “obviously rough and tumble”
environment, said William Cohan, author of “House of Cards,” a
2009 account of Bear Stearns’s collapse.  “It couldn’t be more different than Bear,” said Cohan,
who also worked as a banker at JPMorgan and is a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor.  Cerberus, Credit Suisse  Some former Bear Stearns employees joined Eichel at RBS and
Nierenberg at Bank of America. Others landed at smaller firms
seeking to challenge Wall Street’s largest banks. Dan Hoffman,
who spent 22 years at the company, including a stint as head of
mortgage and rate sales, last year joined broker Amherst
Securities Group LP in New York as head of sales. David Connelly, who ran fixed-income sales in Chicago for 17 years,
last year opened an office in the area for broker Braver Stern.  Investment firms have also hired Bear Stearns alumni. Josh Weintraub, 38, co-head of mortgage- and asset-backed bond
trading with Eichel, now runs that business at Cerberus. Gyan Sinha, 46, who ran Bear Stearns’s research for asset-backed
securities and CDOs, is a portfolio manager at New York-based
hedge fund KLS Diversified Asset Management LP.  Other senior Bear Stearns mortgage analysts have ended up
at banks. Credit Suisse Group AG this year hired Dale Westhoff
as global head of structured-products research, and Deutsche
Bank last year hired Steve Abrahams as head of securitization
and mortgage-bond research.  ‘They’re Everywhere’  “They’re everywhere,” said Paul Norris, a senior
portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management Co. in Burlington,
Vermont, who said it would be “unfair” to overstate Bear
Stearns’s role in the crisis. “The bond-trading guys that I
knew were very talented and very good at their markets, so it’s
not surprising that they’ve filtered around.”  Ruhi Maker, a lawyer at the Empire Justice Center in
Rochester, New York, who  told  Fed officials at a 2004 hearing
that investment banks were producing such bad mortgages their
survival might be challenged, has a different perspective.  “At a karmic level, I don’t begrudge the folks at Bear
Stearns jobs,” because others in the industry who engaged in at
least “a suspension of disbelief” remain employed too, she
said. “I’m sure they’re smart people and there’s money to be
made. But I worry that until there is a real price to pay for
costing the economy trillions of dollars, and jobs and homes,
people are going to keep doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net  