-- 
Beazer Homes Directors Sued by Teamsters Funds Over Executive Compensation

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-03-16T00:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/beazer-homes-directors-sued-by-teamsters-funds-over-executive-compensation.html
  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) ’s directors
were sued by shareholders who contend the homebuilder’s
executive compensation plan shortchanges investors by rewarding
managers for shoddy performance.  Beazer’s board didn’t act in shareholders’ best interests
when it approved pay raises last year for Chief Executive
Officer  Ian McCarthy  and other executives while the company had
$34 million in losses, lawyers for two Teamsters pension funds
said in a lawsuit filed today in state court in Atlanta.  The raises “violated the company’s pay-for-performance
policy and favored Beazer’s CEO and top executives at the
expense of the corporation,” lawyers for the funds said in the
complaint, filed in Fulton County Superior Court.  Last month, Atlanta-based Beazer reported a $48.8 million
net loss in the first quarter tied to slumping sales of existing
homes and a lack of demand for new construction. That followed a
net loss of $34 million last year, according to the pension
funds’ suit.  Carey Phelps, Beazer’s director of  investor relations ,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Earlier this month, McCarthy agreed to return
$6.5 million in a clawback of compensation he received while the
firm doctored financial statements in the midst of the U.S.’s
housing crisis, according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  McCarthy, 58, failed to reimburse Beazer for bonuses and
other incentive-based pay in the year after the company filed
fraudulent financial statements for 2006, SEC officials said.  Beazer Restatement  Beazer restated financial results for the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, 2006, after the SEC accused the homebuilder of
falsifying reports to increase income, according to court
filings. Michael Rand, Beazer’s chief accounting officer at the
time of the targeted reports, was  indicted  last year on charges
of  securities fraud  and obstruction of justice.  As CEO, McCarthy certified the accuracy of Beazer’s
financial reports and the lack of fraud during fiscal year 2006,
the SEC said. He wasn’t accused of participating in the fraud,
regulators said.  Lawyers for the pension funds noted that Beazer’s board
bestowed pay raises on executives even though the shares fell
more than 17 percent in value. McCarthy got a 7.2 percent pay
increase to bring his salary to more than $6.8 million, the suit
said. Other top executives got pay raises ranging from 37
percent to 150 percent, lawyers for the fund said.  The raises amounted to “windfalls for the Beazer
executives responsible for the company’s 2010” losses, the
lawyers said in the suit.  The funds filed a so-called derivative suit, which would
return any recovery in the case to the company. Insurers
covering board members often provide coverage to settle such
cases.  The case is Teamsters Local 237 Additional Security Benefit
Fund v. Ian J. McCarthy, 2011-CV-197841, Superior Court of
Fulton County (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 