-- 
Belarus Seeks $3 Billion in Loans From Russia, Partners

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-03-16T14:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/belarus-seeks-3-billion-in-loans-from-russia-partners-1-.html
Belarus asked  Russia  and its other
former Soviet partners for loans totaling $3 billion to meet the
country’s financing needs as its foreign-currency reserves
declined.  The country requested a $1 billion loan from Russia and a
$2 billion loan from the anti-crisis fund set up by the Eurasian
Economic Community, a grouping of post-Soviet nations, Russian
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said today in Minsk, following a
meeting with Belarus Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich and
Kazakhstan Prime Minister Karim Massimov.  The request follows  Standard & Poor’s  decision yesterday to
lower Belarus’s debt rating, citing increased “external
vulnerability,” as the nation’s currency reserves are being
depleted. A $3.5 billion loan provided by the  International
Monetary Fund  in 2009 during the global financial crisis has
already expired.  Belarus “has only petty cash left in dollar reserves,”
Barbara Nestor, an emerging-market analyst at Commerzbank AG in
London, wrote in an e-mailed note today. Belarus “seems to be
pressed for time to strike a deal with Russia.”  Any loan from its larger neighbor will come with IMF-style
conditions, such as speeding up an economic overhaul and state
asset sales, according to Nestor.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  also offered Belarus
a subsidy of $4.3 billion this year. Putin also said Russia will
sign a $6 billion nuclear-plant construction credit with
Belarus.  IMF Demands  The Washington-based IMF urged policy makers in Belarus on
March 9 to curb spending, raise  interest rates  and allow the
Belarusian ruble to move more freely to narrow a current account
deficit that reached 16 percent of GDP.  S&P cut its assessment on Belarusian debt one step to B,
five steps below investment grade, from B+. The outlook is
negative, meaning that S&P is more inclined to reduce the rating
further than leave it unchanged. The country has B1 grade from
Moody’s Investors Service, with a stable outlook.  The former Soviet republic’s foreign reserves were at $3.4
billion in December, a decrease of 36 percent from a high of
$5.3 billion in April 2010, according to IMF data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Belarus sold its debut dollar bonds last year, offering a
total of $1 billion, and borrowed $800 million in seven-year
debt in January. The yield on 2018 securities jumped 61 basis
points to a record high 10.636 percent yesterday.  The country’s 2012 bonds denominated in Russian rubles
fell, pushing the yield 49 basis points higher to 9.94 percent,
the highest since the notes were sold in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  