-- 
Benin’s Opposition Blocks Electoral Commission, ORTB Reports

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-16T22:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/benin-s-opposition-blocks-electoral-commission-ortb-reports.html
Opposition party members loyal to
presidential candidate Adrien Houngbedji blocked the doors to  Benin ’s electoral commission in Contonou, the country’s
commercial capital, today to protest against the ruling party’s
claim of victory in elections held March 13, the state-owned
Office de Radiodiffusion et Television du Benin reported.  Supporters of Houngbedji allege widespread vote fraud in
the northern part of the country, the stronghold of incumbent
President Thomas Boni Yayi. A spokesman for Houngbedji, Alain
Adihou, said demonstrations would continue until the electoral
commission invalidates those ballots, according to ORTB.  Marcel de Souza, a spokesman for the ruling party, said
March 14 that Boni Yayi had won the election with 55.8 percent
of the vote. Houngbedji, a former prime minister, disputed those
results and said he would face Boni Yayi in a runoff election.
To avoid a runoff, a candidate must receive more than 50 percent
of the vote.  Official results of the first round of voting are expected
tomorrow or Friday.  In a telephone interview today, de Souza declined to
comment on the demonstrations and urged Joseph Gnonlonfoun, head
of electoral commission, to resist the opposition’s pressure.  Ponzi Scheme  Boni Yayi’s bid for a second term has been marred by the
collapse of a 156 billion CFA franc ($327 million) Ponzi scheme
and opposition threats to boycott the twice-delayed election.
Boni Yayi, who fired Interior Minister Armand Zinzindohoue for
his role in the scheme, has denied any wrongdoing.  During the campaign, Houngbedji, who also ran
unsuccessfully for president in 1991, 1996 and 2001, criticized
the government for failing to protect depositors, calling the
scheme a “crime against the people.”  Boni Yayi had been photographed with officials from ICC
Services, the largest of a group of microcredit lenders that
defrauded 150,000 depositors of the equivalent of 5 percent of
the west African nation’s gross domestic product, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  The country, which borders  Nigeria , Niger, Togo and  Burkina
Faso , was inundated by heavy rains in September and October. The
floods cut the outlook for growth this year to 3.4 percent from
4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda told the Washington-
based IMF in a letter published on the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Growth in 2010 was 2.5 percent, hindered by a slow recovery
from the global economic crisis, the fund said. Inflation was
“subdued” at an average 2.1 percent last year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Porto Novo at 
 zsergedavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/16/ :26 GMT 