-- 
BofA, UBS Say MBIA Suit Dismissal Strips Creditor Rights

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-16T19:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/mbia-suit-dismissal-strips-banks-of-creditor-rights-lawyers-say-in-appeal.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
other financial institutions said a New York appeals court
stripped them of their rights as creditors when it tossed out a
lawsuit challenging MBIA Inc.’s 2009 split into two bond
insurers, according to a brief filed today with the state’s
highest court.  A lower court in January granted MBIA’s request to dismiss
the so-called fraudulent conveyance lawsuit, which claimed the
split -- which New York’s insurance regulator approved -- was a
move to avoid its obligations to pay policyholders and defraud
creditors. The banks are challenging the regulator’s decision
under New York’s Article 78 in a separate lawsuit.  Because the banks’ debtor and creditor claims “cannot be
brought in an Article 78 proceeding challenging the
superintendent’s determinations, the majority stripped
plaintiffs entirely of their” debtor and creditor law and
common law rights, lawyers for the banks argued in papers filed
today with the New York Court of Appeals in  Albany . A five-judge
appellate panel dismissed the suit Jan. 11 in a 3-2 decision.  Former insurance superintendent Eric Dinallo approved the
split in 2009, allowing MBIA to move the company’s guarantees on
state and municipal bonds out of the unit that guaranteed some
of Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage debt. The split, the banks
argue, was intended to defraud policyholders by siphoning more
than $5 billion from its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit into the new
insurer.  Massive Liabilities  “MBIA sought to escape the recent financial crisis that
engulfed every financial guaranty insurer, by making $5 billion
in assets unavailable to satisfy the massive liabilities that
MBIA Insurance owes to plaintiffs,” the banks said in the court
papers.  In a lawsuit challenging the insurance department’s
decision, the banks’ lawyers filed affidavits on March 13 from
four former  New York  state insurance superintendents they hired
as expert witnesses. The ex-regulators said that the split was
unfair to policyholders and that they wouldn’t have approved it.  “As demonstrated by the Banks’ voluminous filing in the
Article 78 proceeding, their rights to challenge the approval of
the transformation are fully protected,”  Kevin Brown , a
spokesman for MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe
that the Court of Appeals will affirm the Appellate Division’s
dismissal of the plenary action and its conclusion that the
pending Article 78 proceeding is the only appropriate forum for
challenging the determination of the New York State Insurance
Department.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state  Supreme Court    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 