-- 
Blackstone Seeks to Sell Universal Studios Florida Holdings

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-03-16T01:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/blackstone-seeks-to-sell-universal-studios-florida-holdings.html
  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  offered to sell
its 50 percent stake in two Universal Studios theme parks in
Florida back to  NBC Universal , triggering the possible
divestment of both partners’ stakes.  The offer was reported in a filing by Universal City
Development Partners Ltd. NBC, controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , has
until June 12 to accept the offer, according to the filing.  “Blackstone’s action could result in a wide range of
potential ownership, leverage and rating outcomes for Universal
Orlando over the next 12 to 18 months,” Moody’s Investors
Service said today in a report.  The move, coming less than two months after Philadelphia-
based Comcast took control of NBC Universal, forces the new
owner to buy out Blackstone’s stake or facilitate a sale of the
theme parks.  “We are studying the proposal and considering our
options,” NBC Universal spokeswoman Cindy Gardner said in a
statement. The New York-based entertainment company is 49
percent owned by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and also operates a film
studio, cable channels USA and Bravo, and the NBC broadcast
network.  Blackstone, the New York-based private equity firm, would
have 270 days to sell the theme parks to a third party if NBC
Universal declined to buy the stake, according to the filing.  Director  Steven Spielberg  has a consulting agreement that
entitles him to a portion of the parks’ revenue.  Spielberg Role  Spielberg may have the right to sell the consulting
agreement to a third-party buyer, Moody’s said. Starting in June
2017, Spielberg has the right to terminate the consulting
agreement and receive a one-time payment for its value or an
ownership interest in the parks, Moody’s said.  Chip Sullivan, a spokesman for Spielberg’s Dreamworks
Studios, declined to comment.  The Orlando theme parks consist of two separate gated
attractions, Universal Studios  Florida  and Universal’s Islands
of Adventure, along with CityWalk, a dining, retail and
entertainment complex.  The parks “benefited significantly” from the opening of a
new ride, “The Wizarding World of  Harry Potter ,” in June 2010,
the partnership said. In 2010, revenue increased by 41 percent
to $1.1 billion, and net income increased to $148.4 million from
$23.5 million the prior year.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, lost 33 cents to
$24.16 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
gained 10 percent this year. GE, based in Fairfield,
Connecticut, fell 31 cents to $19.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  