-- 
Japan’s Cataclysm Can Also Be an Opportunity: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-17T12:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/black-swan-earthquake-catches-geithner-naked-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Japan has faced adversity before.
This is different. But even amid radiation and rubble, it isn’t
hopeless.  At his first press conference, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
called it a crisis, and for an hour or so that felt right. No
nation is immune from tragedy, and the expectation is that
slowly, with the help of friends, people of character dust
themselves off and rebuild.  Then the videos began -- of waters rising with horrible
speed to swallow entire towns. Of shipping containers rolled
like toys. Of roads turned to tofu and nuclear plants wheezing
radiation. As a sense of proportion settled in, crisis rapidly
proved inadequate. What Japan suffered on Mar. 11 -- a 9.0
earthquake followed by a 20-foot tsunami followed by a nuclear
threat that stirred excruciating historic echoes -- was three
crises. A cataclysm unlike any it has faced before.  The death toll is expected to top 10,000, and nearly
400,000 Japanese have been left homeless, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its March 20 issue. The emotional impact of all that
loss and dislocation is incalculable. Markets, though, have
their own calculus, and  Japan ’s Topix index of 1,669 companies
was brutal in its precision. On the first two business days
after the quake, the Topix tumbled to its worst two-day plunge
since 1987. In a country already wracked by nearly 20 years of
stagnation, a decade of deflation, anemic employment, and
competition from an ascendant China, the market’s verdict was
clear: It will be a challenge for the world’s third-largest
economy to remain so.  Empty Gucci Stores  Perhaps the market overreacted. Analysts at Goldman Sachs
and Morgan Stanley suggested there might be a buying opportunity
in the chaos. Yet manufacturers from Sony to Toyota Motor
temporarily closed plants at a time when Japan can least afford
to be idle. The Gucci and Hermès outlets that decorate  Tokyo ’s
glitzy Ginza are empty. Without the nuclear facilities that
provide 30 percent of the country’s power, rolling blackouts
shuttered restaurants, bars, theaters, and mom-and-pop shops.  “Continued stock turmoil and disruptions to production
will drive the economy into an extremely severe state,’’ says
Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan in Tokyo.  Before Mar. 11, Japan was gasping for economic life. Gross
domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent rate in the
three months ended Dec. 31, forcing the  Bank of Japan  to pump 28
trillion yen ($346 billion) into the financial system. Since the
cataclysm, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has doubled planned
purchases of exchange-traded funds, real estate investment
trusts, corporate debt, and Japanese  government bonds  to 10
trillion yen, and launched a program to supply financial
institutions with 30 trillion yen in three- and six-month loans
at 0.1 percent interest. The intent is to support asset prices
while the panic abates, yet the Nikkei 225 index tumbled almost
11 percent on Mar. 15, before bargain hunters led a 5.7 percent
recovery the next day.  Worst-Case Scenario  As difficult as the short term will be, it pales compared
with the worst-case economic scenario: a debt crisis the likes
of which the world has never seen. Investors fretting over
Greece and Ireland will find their fiscal travails quaint if the
nation with the world’s largest public debt hits a wall. Japan’s
debt is about double the size of its $5 trillion economy. It’s
not a question of whether Japan is too big to fail; it’s whether
it’s too big to save.  This is the darkest view at the darkest moment. It could
get significantly worse if the Japanese can’t cool the spent
fuel rods at the Fukushima Dai-ichi Nuclear Power Station.
Gregory Jaczko, chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, testified before Congress on Mar. 16 that the rods
are bleeding radiation into the atmosphere, and the threat of
exposure is far greater than his Japanese peers have admitted.
If true, the present picture will be enviable.  Not Helpless  Still, Japan is not helpless in dealing with whatever
aftermath may come. It is the world’s largest creditor as well
as its largest debtor and has $886 billion worth of dollar
reserves, for example, to help fund a rebuilding effort without
adding to the national debt.  The private sector has a financial surplus that exceeds the
government deficit. Japan prints one of the three genuinely
international currencies, boasts one of the biggest equity
markets, and its  bond market  is the second-largest to the U.S.
in outstanding debt in circulation. An economic meltdown there
will reverberate far and wide, shoulder-checking markets from  Germany  to  Singapore . But a market catastrophe, unlike a natural
one, can be avoided with shrewd management.  Japan’s Debt Secret  Neither the bad-loan problems of the 1990s and early 2000s
nor mushrooming budget deficits over the past 15-odd years
triggered the bond crash that many short-sellers predicted.
Japan’s secret? About 95 percent of public debt is held
domestically, virtually eliminating the risk of capital flight.
Yet the hundreds of billions of dollars needed to rebuild
northeastern Japan could nudge it from stability and into debt
market turmoil.  Mar. 11 “may have shifted such a potential tipping point a
bit forward, unless Japan’s political parties are galvanized by
the crisis to also address the country’s long-term fiscal
challenges,” says Thomas J. Byrne, a senior vice-president at
Moody’s Investors Service in Singapore.  If the days since the quake are any guide, little
galvanizing is under way. A quick chat with the man on the Tokyo
street is all it takes to understand just how disenchanted many
Japanese are with their elected officials.  “There is so much conflicting information, and everything
is said with ‘maybe’ and ‘possibly’ -- nothing specific,”
complains Natsu Hasegawa, a 37-year-old Tokyo hairstylist. Adds
Eri Inutake, a 39-year-old florist in Tokyo: “We have a feeling
that they are hiding something from us. It’s not a great feeling
to lack trust like this.”  Question of Borrowing  If politicians have failed to inspire the confidence of
their constituents, they’ve been even less successful at
addressing the primary concern of investors: how much borrowing
they plan to do to fund rebuilding efforts.  It’s a question no one can yet answer credibly, given the
vastness of the devastation. Goldman Sachs analysts estimate the
total cost of the catastrophe will reach 16 trillion yen, 1.6
times the cost of the earthquake that hit Kobe in 1995.
Rebuilding the Tohoku region, which accounts for about 8 percent
of Japan’s GDP, is one thing. Accounting for output losses
related to power outages is quite another.  Then there’s the radiation factor, which impacts not just
the health of the affected populace and the habitability of land,
but also the national psyche. Other than makers of surgical
masks, duct tape, and bottled water, it’s hard to discern many
economic winners from the threat of irradiation. And even the
manufacturers of emergency supplies are unprepared.  Uncharacteristic Aggressiveness  The scene on Mar. 15 at the 24-hour Don Quijote store in
Tokyo’s Roppongi district provides a case in point. The
multistory general store was mobbed by several hundred Tokyoites
clamoring for flashlights, candles, cooking-fuel cans, and
radios -- all of which were already sold out. The Japanese are
as stoic as their reputation; the near-total absence of looting
and crime in a landscape where houses have been cracked open and
possessions lay on the streets is a testament to the virtues of
the world’s most orderly society.  Still, desperation was in the air as staffers bowed and
apologized for the sudden mismatch between supply and demand.
Shoppers pushed and shoved, and insisted they be told which of
the store’s other locations had their sought-after items (to no
avail). In hyperpolite Japan, it was a scene of rare aggression.  Japan historians often note that major earthquakes in 1855,
1923, and 1995 coincided with, and perhaps caused, significant
national turning points. This is the hope of those who think
Japan must set itself on a new trajectory to compete in the 21st
century, that disaster might be transformative.  Positive Implications  “It’s terrible for the Japanese people in the short run,
but the long-term implications are positive,” says Curtis Freeze, Tokyo-based founder of Prospect Asset Management, which
manages $280 million and has been investing in Japan for more
than two decades. “Think of  New Orleans  on a much bigger
scale.”  Japan in 2011 is not the Japan of 1855, 1923, or even 1995,
yet history provides at least some precedent for measured
optimism. The 1855 quake that destroyed much of what is now
Tokyo came at the twilight of the Tokugawa period, during which
Japan was isolated for two centuries. The aftermath brought on a
headlong drive to import the latest technology and culture and
launch Japan into modernity.  The devastation of 1923 left about 130,000 people dead, set
Tokyo ablaze, and destroyed about 37.5 percent of Japan’s GDP.
It also catalyzed the construction of the sophisticated networks
of trains, roads, parks, and public services that helped Japan
become an economic superpower.  ‘Golden Sixties’  The most famous example of Japanese resilience is the
recovery from the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. From the
ashes of history’s only two nuclear attacks came a new
democratic constitution and a zeal for creating a vibrant
trading economy. The industrialists of the day created such
names as Sony and Honda Motor, paving the way for what Japanese
call the “Golden Sixties,” a period of rapid growth and
internationalism highlighted by the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.  It also gave birth to Japan’s focus on disaster
preparedness. Even as the Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors smoke,
it’s worth noting they were protected by the highest sea walls
in the world. And while the scale of the tragedy prevents us
from celebrating the achievements of Japan’s engineering corps,
no skyscrapers tumbled during the strongest earthquake in a
century. No trains traveling 150 miles per hour derailed. All
the drills and preparations of civil servants, families, and
companies reaped the most precious of all harvests: lives saved.  Emperor Worship  The psyche and character that built modern Japan aren’t
what they used to be. Emperor worship once provided a focus for
society, but Akihito is not Hirohito. (The Emperor Showa may
have had a role in  war crimes , but his surrender speech -- “The
war situation has developed not necessarily to Japan’s
advantage” -- was all it took for the Japanese to accept
occupation.)  The emperor’s subjects are also not as innovative, or as
young, as they once were. The median age in Japan is 44.  China ’s
is 35. And Japan’s population is set to shrink from 127 million
to 125 million by 2014. The country’s leadership is aging, too.
It controls the budget and coddles the elderly to such a degree
that pundits call Japan a “silver democracy.” It’s no mystery
why young Japanese lack optimism. In an October 2010 survey,
Brian Salsberg of McKinsey in Tokyo concluded: “Youth is wasted
on young, goes the old saying, but in Japan the young seem weary
and resigned long before their time.”  Female Workforce  Japan’s political establishment and corporate leadership
have been reluctant to tap its female workforce. Too many
educated women are relegated to the role of tea girl. Goldman
Sachs strategist Kathy Matsui in Tokyo says if Japan’s female
employment rate matched that of males -- one of the highest
anywhere at about 80 percent, according to Matsui -- GDP would
get a boost of as much as 15 percent.  Given that labor shortages could be Japan’s biggest problem
as it strives for recovery, it’s crucial that women and
immigrants, still poorly integrated into Japan’s culture and
workforce, be given a chance to compete. That goes for new
companies, too. Incentives protect national champions at the top
of the corporate food chain at the expense of startups that
would create wealth and jobs at the other end of the economy.  “Japan would gain from a friendlier business environment
for startups, but policy makers remain disinclined to put their
faith in market fundamentalism,” says  Jeff Kingston , a Temple
University professor in Tokyo.  Unknowable Future  When Kan became Prime Minister in June 2010, he talked
about shaking up the economy. He also set his sights on the
phlegmatic bureaucracy standing in his way. Paradoxically, to
succeed he’ll need to stick around for a while. There have been
five Prime Ministers since  Junichiro Koizumi  ended a five-year
term in 2006. None has had the time to pursue a comprehensive
agenda for the future, and none deserved it.  Sadly, Kan will have the benefit of a nation in shock.
While many Japanese are still searching for loved ones and
contemplating an unknowable future, politics and economics will
be far from top of mind. When the country stirs, though, Kan
must be ready to lead.  It’s possible that China’s rapid offer of help and
condolences set the stage for a softening of relations between
Tokyo and Beijing.  Asia ’s two biggest economies putting aside
disagreements over trade, territory, defense, and history would
benefit both populations.  A change in the physical and mental landscape of Japan
could also be a spur to urgency. If it is, the world may
discover that cataclysm can be an opportunity, too.  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  