-- 
Bloomberg Convenes Key Leaders for Brazil Economic Summit

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-16T15:32:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bloomberg-convenes-key-leaders-for-brazil-economic-summit.html

Press Release  Henrique de Campos Meirelles, Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras
Founder David Neeleman, and Equity International CEO Gary
Garrabrant to Examine the Future of  Brazil  as an Economic
Powerhouse  SÃO PAULO -- As Brazil’s growth continues to surge, eliciting
the attention of the global investment community, Bloomberg LINK
will gather private and public sector leaders, finance experts
and top investors for the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit.  The Summit, to be held on Tuesday, March 29, 2011 at Museu
Brasileiro da Escultura (MuBE) in São Paulo, will focus on the
outlook for Brazil’s hottest sectors, including real estate,
energy, finance, technology and commodities. Speakers will also
examine the security challenges that the nation’s new
administration will face this year, the impact of the 2016
Olympics,  interest rates , and potential pitfalls of the public
sector as Brazil’s economy expands.  “Investors are keenly interested in both the current health of
Brazil’s economic growth and its sustainability as the Dilma
administration’s agenda unfolds,” said Robert Bierman, head of
Bloomberg LINK.  “Participants in the Summit will gain critical
perspective on what’s ahead through the eyes of top financial
minds both from Brazil and abroad.”  To debate these topics, Bloomberg will convene key leaders,
including:  - Almir Barbassa, Chief Financial Officer, Petroleo Brasileiro
SA  - Henrique de Campos Meirelles, Former Central Bank Governor,
Brazil  - Guilherme Cavalcanti, Chief Financial Officer, Vale  - Makhtar Diop, Country Director, Brazil,  World Bank   - Gary Garrabrant, CEO, Equity International  - Amos Genish, CEO GVT; Vice Chairman, Vivendi  - Dr. Marcio Rocha Mello, Chief Executive Officer, HRT Oil and
Gas  - David Neeleman, Founder, Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras
Rafael O. Santana, President and CEO, GE Energy Latin America  The conference is being sponsored by UBS and Santander Global
Banking & Markets.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/brazil . Follow us on  Facebook ,
 LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag for this event is
#BBGBrazil.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
