-- 
Bogolyubov Made No Decision on Regent’s Scrapped BC Iron Bid

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-03-16T07:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bogolyubov-made-no-decision-on-regent-s-scrapped-bc-iron-bid-1-.html
Consolidated Minerals Ltd., the
largest shareholder in  BC Iron Ltd. (BCI) , didn’t decide whether to
accept  Regent Pacific Group Ltd. (575) ’s A$267 million ($265 million)
bid for the shares it doesn’t own in the producer before the
offer was withdrawn.  “The company had not made a decision with respect to its
investment in BC Iron because it was awaiting shareholder
documentation from BC Iron, including the Independent Expert’s
Report,” Gennadiy Bogolyubov, the largest shareholder of
Consolidated Minerals, said in an e-mailed statement. “Without
this information, it was not possible for the company to make a
fully informed decision.”  Hong Kong investment company Regent yesterday abandoned the
offer saying Consolidated Minerals “flatly opposed” the deal,
citing a comment from Ukrainian billionaire Bogolyubov that it
said was published Feb. 14 on the  Business Insider  Web site.
Regent had offered A$3.30 cash for every BC Iron share, valuing
Consolidated Minerals’ stake at A$64.5 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BC Iron said yesterday it was “perplexed” by Regent’s
decision. BC Iron shares fell 15 percent to A$2.40 at the close
in Sydney today. Bogolyubov holds 21 percent of BC Iron and
Regent holds 19 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market should be advised by Regent Pacific why it has
purported to withdraw its offer,” Bogolyubov said in the
statement. “All BC Iron shareholders should expect full
disclosure of the circumstances leading to Regent Pacific’s
actions.”  Regent, aiming to become a mid-tier mining house producing
bulk commodities, base metals and gold in the Asia-Pacific
region, was seeking to add iron-ore production to its portfolio.
Steel consumption is predicted to jump 5.3 percent to a record
this year, according to the World Steel Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  