-- 
Bond Sale Failing in Russia as Poland Raises 50% of Target Shows Retreat

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-16T13:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bond-sale-failing-in-russia-as-poland-raises-50-of-target-shows-retreat.html
  Russia  and  Poland  raised less than
50 percent of their targets at government bond auctions today as
Japan’s deepening nuclear crisis, escalating violence in Bahrain
and Portugal’s credit-rating downgrade unsettled investors.  Russia sold 10.2 billion rubles ($356 million) of bonds
known as OFZs that mature in 2016 after seeking to raise as much
as 30 billion rubles, the  Finance Ministry  said today. Poland
issued a combined 1.03 billion zloty ($354 million) of 2021
floating-rate notes and 2023 inflation-linked bonds after saying
it was prepared to offer as much as 2.5 billion zloty of debt.  The auctions came as Japan tried to prevent a meltdown at
the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, clashes
with anti-government protestors in Bahrain escalated and
Portuguese borrowing costs rose following a rating cut by
Moody’s Investors Service. Yields on the ruble-denominated OFZ
due in 2016 fell 2 basis points to 7.61 percent while the zloty
note due in October 2020 rose 1 basis point to 6.274 percent.  “Global cataclysms are overshadowing local market
conditions,” Alexander Dotkin, a bond trader at Bank Zenit, a
Moscow-based investment bank, said in e-mailed comments.   Japan 
without doubt is the main cause of appetite for risk easing, but
the Middle East and North Africa also remain a source of
negative newsflow.”  In Poland, where consumer prices rose a less-than-forecast
3.6 percent in February from a year earlier, the government sold
the smallest amount of securities linked to inflation since
August 2006, data on the Finance Ministry’s website showed. The
median estimate of 24 economists polled by Bloomberg had been
3.9 percent.  Inflation  The government sold 710 million zloty of floating-rate
bonds, the least for this type of debt of a single maturity
since 2004.  Poland’s fixed-rate bonds rose yesterday and investors in
interest-rate derivatives curbed bets policy makers will raise
borrowing costs next month.  “Demand for the CPI linker fell after the inflation report
cut the likelihood of an April rate hike and as Japan’s disaster
fueled global  risk aversion  among investors,” Jaroslaw Janecki,
an economist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from Warsaw.  Russia’s Finance Ministry raised the least funds in almost
two months at its auction. The OFZs were priced to yield at the
upper end of a target range provided by the government. The
notes yielded 7.57 percent on March 14, the day before the
guidance was announced. Russia sold 29.8 billion rubles of 30
billion rubles on offer at a yield of 7.57 percent on Feb. 16.  Belgian, German Sales  Portugal’s borrowing costs increased at an auction of 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of bills due in 2012. The
securities due March 2012 were issued at an average yield of
4.331 percent compared with 4.057 percent on March 2, the
country’s debt management agency said. The bid-to-cover ratio
fell to 2.2 times the amount offered from 3.1 on March 2.  Moody’s reduced  Portugal ’s sovereign credit rating two
steps yesterday to A3, citing the possible need to recapitalize
the nation’s banks.    Belgium  won’t sell bonds due in June 2017 this week because
of “continued market uncertainty,” Anne Leclercq, director for
treasury and capital markets at the Belgian Debt Agency, said in
a telephone interview today. Yields were little changed at 5.19
percent.    Germany  sold almost 5 billion euros of two-year notes
today, attracting bids for 9.375 billion euros of the
securities. The notes were sold at an average yield of 1.53
percent.  Airstrikes  Bahrain closed its stock exchange and the cost of insuring
against default by the Persian Gulf nation held near the highest
since July 2009 after the country declared a state of emergency
and security forces drove protesters from their rallying points.
In  Libya , troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  launched airstrikes
and artillery bombardments against the rebel-held city of
Ajdabiya, the  Associated Press  reported.  In Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a reactor
containment vessel may have been breached at the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, deepening the nation’s nuclear
crisis and increasing the risks of radioactive leaks after the
strongest earthquake on record five days ago and subsequent
tsunami.  -- With assistance from Jack Jordan in  London  and David McQuaid
in Warsaw. Editors: John Kohut, Laura Zelenko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  