-- 
Buffalo Bills’ Employees Will Take Pay Cuts During League’s Labor Lockout

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-16T15:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/buffalo-bills-employees-will-take-pay-cuts-during-league-s-labor-lockout.html
The  Buffalo Bills  said employees
will take pay cuts during the National Football League’s
lockout.  Bills Chief Operating Officer Russ Brandon said in a
statement that the organization planned for the possibility of a
work stoppage and that higher-paid employees will give up a
bigger percentage of their salaries. He didn’t give specifics
except to say there wouldn’t be layoffs.  “We have built a program that focuses on shared
sacrifice,” Brandon said in the e-mailed statement. “Every
employee in the organization will be affected. As you move up
the organization chart the sacrifice increases in absolute and
percentage terms, as it should.”  The NFL shut down last week after players and management
were unable to reach an agreement on a new labor contract
through mediated negotiations.  The NFL declared a lockout after the old collective
bargaining agreement expired. The NFL Players Association
disbanded and filed suit in U.S. District Court accusing the
league and its teams of a “patently unlawful group boycott” by
fixing wages or restricting free-agent movement.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and chief negotiator  Jeff Pash  said they would reduce their annual salary to $1 during the
work stoppage. The  New York Jets  said last month that they’d
begin furloughing employees and the football operations staff
would look to cut its budget by 25 percent.  The Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers said this week
that their cost-cutting measures may include pay cuts to top-
level executives such as team President  Mark Murphy , coach  Mike McCarthy  and General Manager Ted Thompson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  