-- 
Builders in U.S. Probably Started Construction on Fewer Homes in February

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/builders-probably-began-work-on-fewer-u-s-houses-in-february.html
Builders probably began work on
fewer U.S. homes in February, a sign the housing market recovery
is limping along as the rest of the economy improves, economists
said before a report today.  Housing starts dropped 5 percent to a 566,000 annual rate
last month, according to the median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show prices paid
to producers increased in February on higher costs for energy
and food.  Foreclosed homes that have driven down prices and added to
inventories, along with limited job growth, are restraining new
construction. Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday the
housing market “continues to be depressed,” while raising
their outlook for the economy as a whole and affirming their
plan to buy  Treasury securities  to boost growth.  “The housing starts numbers are stuck at the bottom,”
said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The job market has to pick up more
strongly, and once that starts happening, then we’re going to
see all the housing numbers improving.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 537,000 to 638,000.  At the same time, the Labor Department is forecast to
report a 0.7 percent increase in its  producer price index  in
February after a 0.8 percent gain, according to the Bloomberg
survey of economists. Prices excluding food and energy are
projected to rise 0.2 percent, less than half the 0.5 percent
increase a month earlier, the survey showed.  Building Permits  Building permits increased to a 570,000 annual pace, up 1.2
percent from a 563,000 rate, according to the survey median.
Permits slumped 10 percent in January.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during his testimony to
Congress this month that the housing sector “remains weak”
even with “some grounds for optimism” in the economy.  “Many potential home buyers are finding mortgages
difficult to obtain and are also worried about additional
declines in  house prices ,” Bernanke told lawmakers March 2.  Fed policy makers, after their second meeting of the year
yesterday, kept to their plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to “promote a stronger recovery.”  Until more people want homes, “there’s no demand for
construction to build houses and so the  construction industry  is
quite reduced,” Bernanke told Congress. There were 188,000 new
houses on the market at the end of January, the fewest since
December 1967, Commerce Department figures showed Feb. 24.  Builder shares have stumbled over the past year. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has dropped
7.9 percent in the 12 months through yesterday, compared with an
11 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Foreclosure Filings  Foreclosure filings will climb about 20 percent in 2011,
reaching a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac said Jan. 13.
The Irvine, California-based data seller said foreclosures
dropped in February to the lowest level in three years as
lenders under legal scrutiny struggled to process a backlog of
defaults and put new systems in place for home seizures.  A filing surfeit later could add to the surplus of unsold
properties and lead to more declines in home values. Residential
real-estate prices dropped in the 12 months to December by the
most in a year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values. In 20 cities, prices fell 2.4 percent, the biggest year-
over-year decrease since December 2009, the group said Feb. 22.  For housing, employment “is the most important part today
or biggest impediment,” said Larry T. Nicholson, chief
executive officer of  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , a Calabasas, California-
based homebuilder catering to first-time buyers.  Whether potential buyers “have a job and they’re going to
keep their job or whether their hopes of employment are out
there is still the biggest challenge for us today,” Nicholson
said at an investor conference March 8 in  Orlando ,  Florida .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  