-- 
Bulgaria’s Intertrust May Suspend Lead Production on Pollution, Chief Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-16T10:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/bulgaria-s-intertrust-may-suspend-lead-production-on-pollution-chief-says.html
Intertrust Holdings AD, a Bulgarian
metal producer that controls the Kardjali lead and zinc
smelters, may suspend lead production to meet European Union
anti-pollution requirements, said Chairman Valentin Zahariev.  Intertrust’s Olovno Tzinkov Komplex AD will cut lead output
to between 13,000 and 14,000 tons this year from 18,000 tons in
2010, Zahariev said in an interview in Sofia yesterday. The
company may have to close its lead unit later in the year and
lay off 350 workers until it upgrades the plant in southern  Bulgaria  to meet EU environmental requirements, Zahariev said.  “We plan to complete the lead unit modernization in 2013.
It got delayed because of the financial crisis,” Zahariev said,
adding the company will need about $70 million to complete the
work. “I hope we’ll complete loan negotiations in several
months. We have so far focused on overhauling our zinc
production unit.”  Bulgaria is recovering from its first recession in more
than a decade after a three-year lending boom stalled and
foreign investment dried up during the global credit crisis. The
EU’s poorest country in terms of per-capita GDP is counting on
demand abroad for its exports including metals and machinery to
boost growth to 3.6 percent this year after 0.2 percent in 2010.  Bulgaria’s  Environment Ministry  set a limit of 24
contaminating emissions of sulphur dioxide, cadmium and lead for
this year and requested a pollution reduction plan from the
smelter.  Plan Submitted  “We have submitted the plan to the ministry, but we still
don’t know whether it’s been approved,” Zahariev said. “We
won’t be able to meet the pollution limit as we already had 14
emissions since the beginning of the year. If the ministry
orders us to close the lead unit, we’ll do it in stages.”  Intertrust runs five metal, tool and engineering plants in
neighboring  Serbia  and the Gorubso mines in Madan in southern
Bulgaria. The company exports 85 percent of its output, mostly
to  Italy ,  Germany ,  Austria  and  Turkey , Zahariev said. The
company’s biggest competitor in Bulgaria is the Plovdiv-based
KCM lead and zinc producer.  Intertrust is investing 50 million euros to expand its zinc
smelter and plans to put into operation a new electrolyte unit
by the end of the year and re-equip two more zinc production
units next year, Zahariev said. Zinc output will remain at
20,000 tons this year, same as in 2010, he said.  The modernized zinc smelter will increase output to 45,000
tons, while the lead smelter will double output to 60,000 tons
from 30,000 tons after 2013, he said.  London Metal Exchange  All of the six main metals traded on the London Metal
Exchange rose as yesterday’s selloff drew buyers. Lead for
three-month delivery gained 1.3 percent to $2,542 a metric ton
after climbing as much as 1.7 percent. Copper climbed on
speculation that reconstruction needs in  Japan  after last week’s
earthquake and tsunami will boost demand in three to six months.  Intertrust is also building an 80 million-euro galvanized
steel plant near Sofia on the site of an old pipe factory, with
planned output of 600,000 tons of galvanized steel a year, he
said. The company is in talks with a Chinese supplier, Zahariev
said, declining to elaborate.  “The cold-rolled steel unit will be put into operation
next year, and the galvanized steel unit will start in 2013,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  