-- 
Buy RIM Put Options as Shares May Drop, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-16T20:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/buy-rim-put-options-as-shares-may-retreat-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should purchase  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  put options because “negative catalysts” may
hurt the BlackBerry maker’s stock price, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said.  Derivatives strategists Katherine Fogertey and John Marshall recommended buying RIM’s September $60 puts while
selling September $52.50 puts, a strategy known as a spread.
Fogertey and Marshall cited analyst  Simona Jankowski , who is
“bearish,” according to the note, and rates the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company a “sell.”  Sentiment before RIM’s fourth-quarter earnings report on
March 24 is “too positive,” and RIM’s tablet, which Goldman
expects to be introduced in mid-April, may not succeed in the
competition against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, the note said. The iPhone
5, which is expected to be introduced in July, “could again
raise concerns around the competitive landscape,” it said. RIM
dropped 2.1 percent to $59.84.  RIM will report fourth-quarter profit of $1.75 a share
excluding some items, according to the average of 48 analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. It has dropped 14 percent since
its nine-month high on Feb. 18. RIM’s implied volatility, the
key gauge of options prices, for at-the-money contracts expiring
in 30 days rose to 54.22, the highest since November, from 28.57
on Feb. 3.  Goldman last month recommended buying RIM’s April $60 puts
and April $65 calls ahead of the company’s PlayBook tablet
introduction because possible volatility around the launch was
not being adequately priced in, it said.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  