-- 
HTC Jumps to 3-Week High After CEO Says No Material Shortage

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-16T06:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/htc-jumps-to-3-week-high-after-ceo-says-no-material-shortage-1-.html
  HTC Corp. (2498)  rose the most in three
weeks in Taipei after Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou said
the company is not short of materials and is in close contact
with its suppliers in  Japan  after the March 11 earthquake.  “I think everyone’s over-reacting, right now we don’t have
any shortages,” Chou told reporters today in Taipei at a
conference. “For March and April at least, we don’t see any
impact.”  HTC, the world’s largest maker of handsets using Google
Inc. and Microsoft Corp. operating systems, surged 6.7 percent
to NT$1,030 at the close of trading, its biggest advance since
Feb. 25. Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index gained 1.1 percent. HTC
rebounded from a 5.9 percent decline yesterday.  The magnitude-9 earthquake that struck Japan on March 11
left hundreds of thousands stranded and without power, with
disruptions to food and water deliveries sparking panic buying.
Japan makes almost 40 percent of the world’s electronics and
audio-visual components, according to Daiwa Securities Group
Inc.  Global supply of  lithium-ion batteries , substrates for
chips and power-supply capacitors may be the worst-hit
technology industries following last week’s earthquake in Japan,
Daiwa said in a report yesterday.  “Investors find it reassuring and it boosts confidence to
hear the CEO say there’s no shortage of materials,” Allen Pu,
an analyst at Fubon Securities Co., said by telephone in Taipei.
“The stock slumped yesterday because of this concern.”  Demand hasn’t been affected by the earthquake and the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company has no plans to recall employees
from Japan, HTC’s Chou said.  Shipments this quarter will be “better than originally
expected” and sales volume will be even higher next quarter, he
said.  First-quarter shipments may reach 8.5 million units,
compared with 9.1 million the previous quarter, HTC said at its
investors’ conference on Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 