-- 
Californians Back Spending Cuts, Tax Plan to Balance Budget, Poll Shows

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-03-16T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/californians-back-spending-cuts-tax-plan-to-balance-budget-poll-shows.html
A majority of California voters
support a combination of spending cuts and increases in tax
revenue to tackle a $26.6 billion deficit, a poll shows.  The approach is backed by 52 percent of voters, according
to a statewide survey by the  University of California , Berkeley,
and The  Field Poll , released today. Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
proposal to ease the deficit by retaining more than $9.3 billion
of temporary tax increases won support from 58 percent.  “There is no great willingness on the part of voters to
increase taxes as a way of dealing with the huge  budget
deficit ,” Mark DiCamillo and Mervin Field, directors of the
Field Poll, said in a statement. “However, majorities do
support of the idea of extending the temporary tax increases
enacted by the state several years ago.”  Brown wants lawmakers to put a measure on the ballot in
June asking voters to extend the tax increases for five years to
offset additional cuts. The tax extension is at the heart of
Brown’s proposal to eliminate a $26.6 billion deficit through
June 2012. He also seeks to slash spending by $12.5 billion.  Under Brown’s plan, voters would be asked to retain a 0.25
percentage-point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25
percent; an increase in the rate for auto-registration fees of
0.5 percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and
a reduction of the state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Legislature Votes  California lawmakers are scheduled to begin voting on
Brown’s budget plan today. Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, said
yesterday that negotiations continued with Republicans to win
support for a special election on the tax extensions. While
Democrats control the Legislature, they lack the two-thirds
majority needed to authorize the ballot.  Brown said he’ll propose another $10 billion of cuts on top
of those already built into his budget for the fiscal year that
begins July 1 if there’s no agreement on the tax extension.  In the poll, 61 percent prefer calling a special election
that allows voters to decide the tax extension, rather than
leave it to the Legislature.  Fifty-five percent said they aren’t willing to pay higher
taxes to help balance the budget, while 43 percent said they
are.  A majority of those surveyed support spending cuts to
courts and state prisons to reduce the deficit, according to the
results.  The survey of 898 registered voters was conducted in
English and Spanish from Feb. 28 through March 14, and has a
margin for error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Sacramento at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  