-- 
Calpers Board Pledges Ethics Action in Wake of Placement Agent Review

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/calpers-board-vows-to-take-ethics-action-following-placement-agent-review.html
The board of the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  said it will take steps to prevent
investment decisions from being corrupted by middlemen seeking
to do business with the largest public pension in the U.S.  The board stopped short of taking formal action a day after
an 18-month review documented a placement agent’s attempts to
win contracts with the $228.2 billion fund through personal
trips and use of his Lake Tahoe home,  “Let this episode in our history never be forgotten,”
board President Rob Feckner said at a meeting yesterday. “We
are committed to making sure this system stays transparent. We
are going to continue to make sure that we earn the trust of the
taxpayers and the members of this system.”  The 56-page review, produced by a law firm and a consultant
at the request of Calpers, said  Alfred Villalobos , a former
board member who became a placement agent, attempted to trade
personal favors to the then-chief executive officer of Calpers
for business for his clients.  Villalobos also hosted Calpers board members at his home,
and helped pay for their travel, according to the report. He
gave one chips to use at a casino, the review showed.  Some of the board members named called the allegations
overblown; others didn’t return calls for comment. All have left
Calpers. Villalobos, a former deputy mayor of  Los Angeles ,
hasn’t responded to phone calls requesting comment.  Changes Recommended  Philip S. Khinda, a partner in the Washington office of
Steptoe & Johnson LLP who was the report’s lead author, told the
Calpers board that some changes he recommended in December had
already been carried out.  Calpers backed  a 2010 law  requiring placement agents to
register as lobbyists. The law also barred placement agents from
receiving fees based on their success in placing state pension
money with investment firms.  The  retirement plan  now prohibits employees from accepting
gifts from people seeking to do business with Calpers, according
to a statement. It also instituted compliance audits on Calpers
regulations and opened a hotline for employees and others to
report possible corruption.  Khinda recommended adding a deadline for Calpers committees
to consider an ethics policy. He also called for training on
open-meetings laws and “policies to address risks associated
with board member personal financial hardships.”  The Calpers board didn’t set a deadline for adopting the
measures.  “It’s simple,” Anne Stausboll, Calpers’s chief executive
officer, said at the meeting. “The people we serve expect us to
be accountable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  