-- 
Canadian Currency Falls for Third Day as Investors Lose Appetite for Risk

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-16T21:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/canadian-currency-fluctuates-as-crude-oil-advances-while-equities-decline.html
The Canadian dollar fell for a
third day versus its U.S. counterpart, the longest losing streak
in seven weeks, as  Japan ’s deepening nuclear crisis damped
investor appetite for assets linked to global economic growth.  Canada’s currency weakened versus most major peers as crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, pared gains and stocks
dropped. The loonie, as it’s known for the image of the aquatic
bird on the C$1 coin, rose earlier as oil climbed toward a 29-
month high amid violence in Bahrain that fueled speculation
supplies will be disrupted. The currency also had gained after
Canadian factory sales increased.  “The Canadian dollar is better explained by risk aversion
and the pullback in oil,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-
based analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.
“The markets are trading off  risk aversion , that’s the paradigm
of the day.”  The loonie depreciated 0.6 percent to 99.14 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after weakening as much as 1.1
percent and gaining as much as 0.5 percent. It closed yesterday
at 98.59 cents, down 1.2 percent, after declining as much as 2.4
percent, the biggest intraday decrease since May, to 99.74
cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0103. The currencies last
traded on a one-for-one basis on Feb. 1.  Canada’s dollar pared losses against the greenback after
the  Associated Press  reported  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said a
power line that may solve the nuclear crisis at its damaged
facility was almost ready. Sakio Iwamoto, a company spokesman,
said later the timing hadn’t been determined.  Oil Trims Losses  Crude oil for April delivery traded at $98.14 a barrel in
New York, up 1 percent. It earlier gained as much as 2.5 percent
to $99.60 as clashes between security forces and anti-government
protesters in  Bahrain  intensified and the Persian Gulf nation
closed its stock market. Crude touched $106.95 on March 7, the
highest level since September 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 2 percent after
earlier tumbling as much as 2.6 percent.  Canada’s dollar dropped 1.7 percent over the past week in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen gained
6.7 percent, and reached the strongest level versus the dollar
today since World War II, amid speculation Japanese firms and
investors will repatriate funds to help pay for damages from the
nation’s worst earthquake and a tsunami, which struck March 11.  Emergency Meeting  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant. Yukiya Amano, head of the  International Atomic
Energy Agency , is flying to Tokyo to talk with authorities today
and will return for the meeting as soon as possible, he told
reporters in Vienna amid concerns of increased risk of radiation
from the quake-crippled nuclear plant.  “What people are doing, generally, is moving to the
sidelines,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “People
had been establishing a very long Canadian-dollar position that
they’re selling off.” A long position is a wager that a
currency will gain.  Canadian  government bonds  climbed for the third day,
pushing the benchmark 10-year yield down seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.13 percent. The price of the 3.50
percent note due in June 2020 increased 57 cents to C$102.961.
The yield reached 3.12 percent yesterday, the lowest since Jan.
4. The two-year note yield fell 10 basis points to 1.53 percent.  Factory Sales  The loonie rose earlier as  Statistics Canada  data showed
Canadian factory sales in January rose 4.5 percent, four times
faster than economists predicted, to C$47.7 billion ($48.5
billion) from December, the biggest monthly gain since July
2009. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a 1
percent increase. Factory sales were 9.5 percent greater than a
year earlier, Statistics Canada said.  “The market’s going to put an asterisk next to any pre-
earthquake number and say, ‘Is it going to hold up?’” said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .
“But for Canada manufacturing sales, it’s almost surely going
to hold up.”  The gains were tempered by government data that showed
housing starts in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
dropped more than forecast in February. They slumped 23 percent
to an annual pace of 479,000, the slowest rate since April 2009,
while building permits slid to a record low, signs the housing
market recovery is limping as the rest of the economy improves.  ‘Disappointing’ Numbers  “Numbers out of the U.S. were slightly disappointing, and
obviously Canada is extremely dependent upon the U.S.
recovery,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “It goes hand in hand,
more so than the commodity prices.”  Canadian consumer prices rose 2.3 percent in February from
a year earlier, the same as during January, according to the
median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
Statistics  Canada  reports the data on March 18.  The  Bank of Canada  reiterated March 1, as it kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1 percent, that underlying
inflation pressures are “subdued” and that “considerable
slack” remains in the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  