-- 
Nuclear Crisis Delays Public Offerings by ISS, Canal Plus

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-17T17:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/canal-plus-delays-ipo-as-market-plunge-threatens-share-sales.html
  Japan ’s worsening nuclear crisis
sparked a selloff in global stock markets that’s damping demand
for new equity, causing delays in initial public offerings for
ISS A/S and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Canal Plus  France  stake.  ISS, the cleaning-service provider owned by Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB, said today it’s postponing
its IPO after cutting the top end of its price range yesterday.
Lagardere, France’s largest publisher, yesterday delayed the
initial share sale of Canal Plus because of market volatility.  Stocks plunged this week after two nuclear regulators
overseas said fuel rods at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant
may be exposed and could be leaking radiation. The fallout from
Japan’s earthquake, which followed weeks of unrest spreading
across the Middle East, may jeopardize a global recovery in IPOs
that started to take hold in 2010 after the worst two years for
new stock sales since 2003.  “I don’t think anyone’s in a particular hurry to get their
deal out right now,” said Timothy Cunningham, a manager at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees about $78 billion. “Developments in the Middle
East and Japan have created uncertainty, and nobody likes
uncertainty.”  Deal Volume  Last year,  Asia  accounted for 7 of the 10 biggest IPOs and
raised more than any region since Bloomberg began tracking the
data in 1999. Asian companies sold $115 billion of new shares in
2010, compared with $91 billion for the rest of the world,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Top Spring International Holdings Ltd., a Chinese property
developer, raised $200 million in a  Hong Kong  IPO after pricing
shares at the low end of an offer range, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The volume of U.S. IPOs this year has more than tripled to
$13.4 billion from the year-earlier period, while the amount of
initial public offerings in Western Europe has more than
doubled, Bloomberg data show.  The effects of Japan and the Middle East will probably be
temporary, and the global economic recovery may still help IPO
fundraising this year match 2010, said Nick Einhorn, an analyst
at  Renaissance Capital LLC , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO
research and investment firm.  Market Turmoil  “There might be companies who just decide to wait a bit
and see what develops,” Einhorn said in a phone interview. “It
would take a lot more than a few rocky weeks to get companies to
a point where this market is too volatile or down too much to
want to pursue an IPO.”  At least eight companies this week announced plans for U.S.
IPOs, data compiled by Bloomberg show. FriendFinder Networks
Inc., the publisher of Penthouse magazine, revived plans for a
share sale today after postponing an attempt to raise as much as
$240 million last year. Cornerstone OnDemand Inc., the provider
of management-training software for businesses, raised $137
million in its IPO this week, 18 percent more than expected.  Other companies joined ISS and Canal Plus in delaying
plans. Global Market Group Ltd., the Guangzhou, China-based
company that helps domestic businesses make contact with
international customers, postponed its $143 million U.S. IPO.  Japanese drugmaker RaQualia Pharma Inc. said on March 15 it
would put off an IPO. Also that day, Apollo Global Management
LLC postponed releasing the terms of a share sale, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter. Market conditions will
determine when the New York-based private equity firm will
schedule its roadshow to market the sale, the people said.  Cutting Range    TUI AG (TUI1)  may push back an offering of its stake in container
line Hapag-Lloyd, three people familiar with the matter said.  Glencore International AG, the commodities trader that has
been studying a $10 billion IPO, lost $3.4 billion in listed
mining-company investments in the past month. Some investors
said that drop in value may be a setback. The Baar, Switzerland-
based company told banks on Feb. 28 and March 1 it was exploring
a share sale in  London  and Hong Kong, two people with knowledge
of the talks said at the time.  Lagardere, based in Paris, may raise more than 1.35 billion
euros ($1.89 billion) from the Canal Plus France IPO, people
with knowledge of the matter said in February.  Attractive Pricing  “If the crisis is more prolonged, you should expect deals
to get canceled, because the risk capital is just going to dry
up,” said Josef Schuster, the founder of Chicago-based IPOX
Capital Management LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion.  “The longer it continues, the bigger the drag on IPO
issuing activity will be, and the higher the likelihood that the
deals coming to market will need to priced very attractively,”
Schuster said.  Porsche SE, the sports-car maker that plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said today a timetable to sell 5 billion euros in
shares still stands. Topaz Energy & Marine Plc, a Dubai-based
oil and gas contracting company, started its London IPO seeking
to raise about $500 million.  The biggest U.S. IPO since Visa Inc.’s record $17.9 billion
sale in 2008 may also take place this year.  Groupon Inc. has held talks with banks about an initial
public offering that would value the online-coupon company at as
much as $25 billion, according to two people with knowledge of
the discussions.  The  S&P 500  reached its 2011 peak on Feb. 18 before the
biggest daily decline in more than six months as government
violence against protesters escalated in  Libya , the holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves. Crude rose to a 2 1/2-year high
on the unrest.  Greenwich Kahala Aviation Ltd., the Dublin-based leaser of
commercial airplanes, scrapped its plans this month for a $180
million U.S. IPO because of falling stocks and rising oil
prices, Chief Executive Officer Bradley Smith said in a
telephone interview this week.  “There was concern that the stock might trade off
immediately following the IPO,” Smith said. “You really need
the psychology of the market to be bullish, not bearish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 