-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Gains as Japanese LNG Demand to Grow

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-16T16:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/canadian-natural-gas-gains-as-japanese-lng-demand-to-grow.html
Canadian natural gas rose on
speculation that the shutdown of nuclear plants in  Japan  will
lead to higher global demand for power-generating fuels.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of liquefied natural
gas, may have to boost purchases after earthquake and tsunami
damage caused fires and radiation leaks at the Fukishima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power station 135 miles north of  Tokyo .  Germany 
began halting 25 percent of its nuclear capacity for safety
checks.  Alberta gas for April delivery rose 3 cents to C$3.41 per
gigajoule ($3.27 per million British thermal units) as of 11:30
a.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. Northeast, Midwest and West Coast and is priced on
TransCanada’s  Alberta  system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 1.9 cents to $3.922 per million Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9
billion cubic feet as of 10 a.m. in New York, about 378 million
below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, dropped 257
million cubic feet in the past 24 hours.  Flow Rates  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.44 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.7 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.3 billion cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.6 billion cubic feet today, about 55 percent of its
capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.04
billion cubic feet at 10:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 