-- 
CBOE Will Expand VIX-Based Options to Crude Oil ETF, Stocks

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-16T16:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/cboe-will-expand-vix-based-options-to-crude-oil-etf-stocks-2-.html
  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , operator of the
largest U.S. equity derivatives exchange, will offer options on
volatility indexes tied to  Apple Inc (AAPL) , an exchange-traded fund
tracking oil and four other stocks.  CBOE will expand products based on its VIX methodology. The
VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is
known, measures the cost of using options as insurance against
declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. VIX options traded
1 million contracts yesterday for the first time.  The exchange will trade options on the CBOE Crude Oil
Volatility Index, which measures the market’s expectation of 30-
day swings by applying the VIX methodology to the  United States
Oil Fund LP (USO) , pending approval from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The CBOE also asked the SEC to trade
options on volatility indexes created in January for Apple,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “We’ve reached a whole different plateau now with VIX,”  William Brodsky , chief executive officer and chairman of CBOE,
told reporters today at a Futures Industry Association
conference in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  The exchange operator said last month it will begin trading
futures on the CBOE Gold ETF Volatility Index on March 25.
Options will begin trading a few weeks later.  Revenues  “By expanding the set of products in their VIX franchise,
they’re potentially increasing their revenues,” said  Andy Nybo ,
a principal and head of derivatives at New York-based Tabb Group
LLC. “They’re opting for the flavor-of-the-month strategy since  oil prices  have been extremely volatile in recent months and the
stocks selected all have very highly traded options.”  Trading in VIX contracts doubled in the first nine months
of last year compared with the same period in 2009, while
options on the  S&P 500  increased 21 percent, the exchange  said 
on Nov. 12 in a regulatory filing. VIX accounted for 21 percent
of index options volume and 17 percent of the company’s trading
fees for benchmark products in the January-through-September
period, up from 13 percent and 11 percent respectively in 2009.  Options, Futures  VIX and S&P 500 options trade only on the Chicago-based
venue, while VIX futures are on the  CBOE Futures Exchange .
Trading on the CBOE futures market reached a record 790,000
contracts last month, the seventeenth consecutive month of year-
over-year volume increases, the company said on March 1. CBOE
competes with eight U.S. options exchanges.  Futures will be introduced on the volatility-based stocks
and crude-oil ETF products after options trading is approved,
CBOE said today. Executive Vice Chairman Edward Tilly said the
venue may eventually offer volatility options on natural gas.  CBOE handled 29 percent of U.S. trading in 2010, according
to data compiled by  OCC , formerly called the Options Clearing
Corp. Deutsche Boerse AG’s planned $9.53 billion takeover of
NYSE Euronext would give that combined company’s three options
market 43 percent of equity derivatives trading last year.  CBOE said today will also begin calculating volatility
benchmarks for ETFs in six industries including products that
track silver, the emerging markets, China and  Brazil . The ETFs
include the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index,  iShares MSCI
Brazil Index Fund (EWZ)  and Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  