-- 
Chernobyl 25 Years Later Turns Into Japanese Lesson on Meltdown

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-03-16T13:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/chernobyl-25-years-later-turns-into-lesson-for-japan-on-nuclear-meltdown.html
On an icy field at  Chernobyl , a
clattering Geiger counter betrays the legacy of the world’s
worst-ever nuclear accident as the makeshift quarantine for the
burned-out reactor slowly decays.  “The shelter was never meant to last this long,” said
Oleksandr Skripov, the Ukrainian plant’s on-site manager, his
voice muffled by a respirator. Behind him, the sarcophagus,
built in haste in 1986 after the  explosion  in April that year,
was trussed up by scaffolding to keep a wall from collapsing.  As  Japan  tries to avert a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi atomic power plant north of Tokyo following the country’s
biggest ever earthquake, the threat of radiation has sparked
fresh debate about nuclear safety a quarter of a century after
the fallout from Chernobyl rained across  Europe .  European Union and U.S. officials are still struggling to
finance a permanent containment structure over the site as
governments, burdened with debt from the global financial
crisis, balk at spending taxpayers’ money. Ukraine, which relied
on a $15.6 billion bailout last year from the  International
Monetary Fund , said it can’t afford to foot the bill alone.  “For many years there’s been no talk of the issue of
safety in nuclear plants, it’s been entirely economic,” said
Walt Patterson, a nuclear safety expert at  London-based Chatham
House  who wrote a book examining the widening industry in 1976.
“The electorate is going to be a good deal less willing to
invest in nuclear issues.”  Raising Funds    Austria , which has no nuclear facilities, on March 14
called for stress tests on atomic plants, while German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  the same day called nuclear power a
“bridge technology” and suspended a planned extension of
running times of nuclear  power plants  in her country.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the  European Commission  will hold a fund-raising drive in Kiev
on April 20-22 to raise more than 600 million euros ($834
million) to pay for a new sarcophagus from governments. The 110
meter-high arched cover has a 1.55 billion-euro total price tag
and the London-based bank so far raised about 1 billion euros.  Decommissioning a nuclear reactor costs roughly the same as
building a new one, between $2 billion and $2.5 billion in
total, according to Ihor Hramotkin, the director at the
Chernobyl plant. He employs 3,473 people at a facility that
finally stopped production in December 2000.  ‘Mankind’s Mistakes’  “People who come here will see mankind’s mistakes,”
Hramotkin said on Feb. 24. “Chernobyl is the site of the
biggest accident, the most difficult and serious accident in the
history of nuclear energy. But people will also see that people
can cope with such an accident successfully.”    Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the owner of the Fukushima plant,
said today a reactor containment vessel may have been breached
at the crippled facility, increasing the risks of radioactive
leaks. The company suspected damage after an explosion in the
reactor building yesterday. The  International Atomic Energy
Agency ’s Japanese Director General, Yukiya Amano, said he’s
trying to obtain more information from Japan.  Radiation outside the flashpoint at Chernobyl was roughly
50 times more than the peak inside Fukushima, based on
calculations from detected millisieverts per hour in Japan
reported by the IAEA and details of Rontgen equivalent mans, or
rems, from the Ukrainian disaster. In the reactor itself at
Chernobyl, the level was as much as 1,000 times higher than the
blast at Fukushima, according to the data.  Three Mile Island  Levels near the reactor at Chernobyl to this day are
currently about 300 times more than normally in the center of  Kiev , the Ukrainian capital 150 kilometers (93 miles) away,
according to the site’s chief engineer, Andrii Savin.  While two veterans of the Chernobyl disaster headed to
Japan to offer help at the earthquake-damaged plant, the
incident at Fukushima is more a reminder of the accident at
Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania  in 1979, according to
Volodymyr Omelchenko, an energy analyst at the Razumkov  Center
for Political and Economical Studies  in Kiev.  “The Chernobyl reactor was not so protected as the
Japanese reactors are, it did not have the metal protection,”
Omelchenko said. “Also, the explosion was much stronger at
Chernobyl than at Fukushima, the system of protection as well as
system of cooling were worse at Chernobyl.”  Three Mile Island’s  TMI-2 reactor suffered a partial
meltdown because of a cooling system malfunction. Nobody was
killed or injured as a result. At Chernobyl, at least 31 plant
workers and fire-fighters died in the aftermath by July 1986.  Four Reactors  Chernobyl had four reactors and the first started
generating power in 1977. The accident was caused by overheating
at reactor number four, whose commissioning had been completed
in December 1983, according to the EBRD.  The blasts caused the containment roof to cave in and send
radioactive debris, including pieces of rods spewing into the
air and destroying a nearby forest. After the accident, nuclear
power production resumed at the site in October 1986 until a
decade ago, the EBRD said.  The legacy is still a drag on the economy in Ukraine.  The Emergency Ministry said on its  website  that 2.15
million people still live on land with radiation and a 30-
kilometer exclusion zone is in force. Detectors at checkpoints
isolate visitors who may have picked up excessive radiation.  The country, which was part of the  Soviet Union  at the time
of the accident, will spend 728.9 million hryvnia ($92 million)
this year to keep the reactors safe, the ministry said. On top
of that, the government paid 2 billion hryvnia out in social
benefits in 2009 to victims. At the start of 2010, 110,827
people were registered as disabled because of the accident.  Danger to All  “Every day we make decisions that nobody has ever made
before, that nobody ever solved before us,” said Hramotkin.
“Everything around here is very dangerous to people’s health,
not only for those who live in Ukraine but for Europe and for
the whole world. Making it safe is a very expensive undertaking
and everything will depend on financing.”  Work to dismantle Chernobyl, pay victims and protect the
environment for the next 100 years remains incomplete. Officials
say the new sarcophagus, designed by Novarka, a joint venture of
units of French companies  Vinci SA (DG)  and  Bouygues SA (EN) , will be in
place by 2014. As of last month, only the tracks of thick
concrete used to move and anchor the arch are visible.  The old reactor four building looms above the frozen
countryside, the ventilation stack is shrouded in scaffolding to
keep it upright and the adjacent abandoned control room is still
covered in dust and debris, its rusted panels gutted of all
electronics and devoid of any light source.  ‘Burial Ground’  Visitors to the plant during an EBRD-sponsored trip last
month were required to wear two  dosimeters , special clothing and
respirators over their faces.  Outside reactor four, Skripov said bulldozers that are
scraping away land to prepare the skids for the shelter
uncovered a “burial ground” of excavators, trucks and other
contaminated machines that were dumped in holes by rescue crews.  “There were so many places with high radiation,” said
Skripov. “Dismantling the current shelter and removing all the
waste is still needed. Only then will we be able to say that the
problem of Chernobyl will be resolved and will no longer be
dangerous to people and the environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net  