-- 
Fedora Serves $85 Steak With Fried Rice, Egg With Tripe: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/chic-fedora-serves-85-steak-with-fried-rice-tripe-with-eggs-ryan-sutton.html
Ever wake up and say, “Gosh, I
sure would like a hamburger a month from now?”  Probably not. Gabriel Stulman understands that casual
cravings come without warning. That’s why Fedora, his chic
reincarnation of a decrepit grotto haunt in the  West Village ,
has a same-day reservation policy.  This is important in a town where food junkies fill the
books at Minetta Tavern and ABC Kitchen a month ahead of time.  Stulman is familiar with such absurdities, having cut his
teeth running The Little Owl, where diners would battle busy
signals weeks in advance for a plate of meatball sliders.  Then came Joseph Leonard, an uneven diner on Waverly Place
where the policy is walk-ins only. Everyone shows up at prime
time, when the wait can stretch to two hours.  Fedora manages the crowds with a bit more panache. The
phone lines open up at 11:00 a.m. No OpenTable online bookings.
This is when you show off your speed dialing skills.  Once you find it (GPS helps), descend a few steps below
street level into Fedora.  Let’s call it intimate. Tables meant for two seat three.
The communal coat check is self-serve. There’s a tiny restroom
right by the front door.  Sipping Nostalgia  Cocktails recall the Village of old, in the best sense. The
burn of cinnamon and chai adds a late-winter perfume to the burn
of gin; sparkling wine gets the floral treatment with
elderflower, violet and lavender for an early-spring improvement
on the kir royale. A  Manhattan  laced with “barbecue syrup”
(cumin, cloves and paprika) tastes nothing like barbecue but
it’s excellent. Can’t fight through the crowds? The host takes
your drink order herself -- how retro!  Leave it to Stulman to pack a place with skinny pretties
and offer them fatty off-cuts of everything.  Chef Mehdi Brunet-Benkritly, an alum of Au Pied de Cochon,  Montreal ’s famous foie gras and pig’s feet fetisheria, serves
strong Franco-American fare whose flavors holler louder than the
crowd.  Silky avocado contrasts with gossamer slices of cured
mackerel. Beef tartare, typically strewn with capers and
anchovies, gets a dose of tobiko, the crunchy Pop Rocks of the
caviar world.  Meats come head to tail. Round little nuggets of pig’s
head, under the adult supervision of vinegar, dissolve on the
tongue.  Hangover Food  Buttered-toast with an egg and cheddar would be enough
gooey richness for most. Not for this chef; he adds musty stewed
tripe to the mix. Sublime hangover food.  Surf and turf is octopus tentacles with veal sweetbreads,
the textures unexpectedly similar. Fried chicken, with salty,
crispy skin, seems safe. Then you notice the bonus: a fried
rooster foot clenching a pickled cucumber.  There is G-rated fare. Take the cauliflower soup, which
could turn screaming children into fans of the vegetable. The
cauliflower comes as a citrusy cream so thick it’s surely a
custard that forgot to cook itself through. Egg yolk imparts
richness; slab bacon lends smoke. A few crunchy croutons keeps
it all from going too soft.  Striped bass, flaky and moist with an herb vinaigrette, is
topped with a few polenta fries looking like fish sticks.  The $85 cote de boeuf for two is boring on the palate --
until a hint of ponzu sauce and soy butter give the meat an
unexpectedly bright depth of flavor. Very clever.  What further justifies the price are the Sino-American
sides: A mound of pork fried rice sops up the beef jus; a pile
of Brussels sprouts shows off a little black bean sauce -- a
sexy way to fight gout.  The $20 hanger steak hero wants more hot sauce and
horseradish to soften the crusty bread. A dry sandwich is a dead
sandwich.  Pork chop for two? Overcooked with mealy meatballs. No
matter. Hits outweigh the misses. Dunk your hot madeleines into
chilly sabayon and prepare to work the speed dial again
tomorrow. You’ll be back.
Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost: Most dishes $25 or under.  Sound Level: 80-85 decibels when full; somewhat compact
seating means no shouting is necessary.  Date Place: Small tables = footsie.  Inside Tip: Sunday reservations are taken all week.  Special Feature: Outstanding apple tart.  Will I be back? Yes.  Fedora is at 239 W. Fourth St. near W. 10th St.
Information: +1-646-449-9336;  http://fedoranyc.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 