-- 
Chile Peso Falls to Seven-Week Low as Japan Concerns Reduce Risk Appetite

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-16T19:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/chilean-peso-fluctuates-as-copper-crude-oil-gain-u-s-data-disappoints.html
  Chile ’s peso fell to the lowest
level against the  U.S. dollar  in seven weeks as concern that  Japan ’s nuclear crisis will worsen and disappointing U.S.
economic data eroded investor appetite for riskier assets.  The peso sank 0.5 percent to 486.07 per dollar, the weakest
level since Jan. 26, from 483.55 yesterday.  U.S. stocks fell after housing starts decreased more than
estimated and producer prices topped forecasts. The Chicago
Board of Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which
measures the cost of insuring against falls in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, jumped to an eight-month high. Oil climbed
from a two-week low, signaling higher import costs for Chile.  “In an atmosphere of global uncertainty we’ll see some
reversals, but the trend is depreciative,” said Osvaldo Cruz, a
currency analyst at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.
“The VIX reached the highest since July and growing  risk
aversion  outweighs any appreciative pressure from the central
bank.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 2.6 percent
after retreating the previous two days amid concern about the
effects of Japan’s worst earthquake.  Chile’s central bank will raise its benchmark interest rate
by a quarter point to 3.75 percent tomorrow, according to the
median forecast of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Economists have trimmed expectations for interest rate rises
since Japan’s quake.  “Up until last Friday we thought that the rate had to go
up by 50 basis points because of rising inflation expectations
and economic data,” said  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at
Banchile Inversiones in Santiago.  International Uncertainty  “Given the level of international uncertainty, we now
think the bank will raise by 25 basis points,” he said.
“However, it’s highly likely that as more information becomes
available in the next few weeks, the bank will raise by 50 basis
points in April.”  Foreign investors increased bets against the Chilean peso
in the forwards market to $1.7 billion on March 14 from $1.3
billion on March 11, according to the latest central bank data.  Chile’s central bank bought $50 million today at an average
of 485.82 pesos per dollar, according to a statement on its
website. The bank is buying $12 billion to weaken the peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  