-- 
China January Leading Economic Index Rises to 155, Easing Slowdown Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T02:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/china-leading-economic-index-rebounds-easing-concern-of-sudden-slowdown.html
An indicator of  China ’s economic
outlook rebounded, easing concerns that the government’s
campaign to curb inflation and asset bubbles may lead to a
sudden slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The index rose 0.3 percent to 155 in January from the
previous month, The Conference Board, a New York-based research
organization said on its website today, citing preliminary data.
The indicator recorded the first decline since 2008 in December.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week vowed to tame inflation he
described as a tiger that “once set free will be very difficult
to put back into its cage.” The central bank has raised 
interest rates three times and banks’  reserve requirements  five
time since mid-October to rein in liquidity that’s driving up
food and house prices.  “Economic activity remains strong although there is some
moderation in momentum,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based
economist with  Barclays Capital  said before today’s release.
“Policymakers are now confronted with the task of striking a
balance between sufficient tightening and overshooting.”  The Conference Board’s coincident economic index for China,
a measure of current activity, increased 1.4 percent in January
to 200.8, after gaining a revised 0.1 percent in December.  Expectations Stable  China grew 10.3 percent last year, overtaking  Japan  as the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The  International Monetary Fund 
estimates the nation’s expansion may slow to 9.6 percent this
year, more than twice as fast as the world as a whole.  Consumer prices climbed 4.9 percent in January and February,
exceeding government’s 4 percent target for this year. Prices of
new homes rose in January from a year earlier in all but two of
70 cities monitored by the government, the statistics bureau
reported last month.  Inflation expectations are stable, People’s Bank of China
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last week.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley
forecast consumer-price gains will accelerate to more than 5
percent, prompting further increases in  interest rates  and
reserve requirement ratios.  JPMorgan expects inflation this month to be 5.3 percent.
Morgan Stanley estimates consumer prices will climb by more than
5.5 percent by June and expects the central bank to adjust
interest rates twice in the first half of the year.  Rates Delay  Still, the “uncertainty” added to the global economic
outlook by Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis may
prompt officials to delay increases in interest rates and
reserve requirements “on the margin,” Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch economist Lu Ting said in a March 14 note.  The six components of the leading index are loans by
financial institutions, raw-material supplies, deliveries and
new export orders information from the manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index, consumer expectations, and total floor space
started. The central bank publishes the first two components and
the statistics bureau releases the other four.  Two of the six components contributed positively to the
index in January, according to today’s statement.  The Conference Board first published the index in May after
four years of development and says it is designed to capture the
outlook over the coming six months. The organization says that
plotted back to 1986, the index has successfully signaled
turning points in China’s economic cycle.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  