-- 
China Buying Korea TVs, Vietnam Sneakers Spurs Hutchison: Freight Markets

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-16T23:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/china-buying-korea-tvs-vietnam-sneakers-spurs-hutchison-freight-markets.html
Hutchison Port Holdings Trust,
having raised $5.5 billion in the world’s largest initial public
offering this year, expects Chinese consumers to spur inbound
traffic at its traditionally export-focused terminals.    China  needs goods from elsewhere, not just raw
materials,” said Hai Chi Yuet, chief executive officer of the
trust’s manager. “Imports are going to grow strongly.” Units
of the trust will begin trading in  Singapore  at 2 p.m. tomorrow  The trust expects container volumes in Hong Kong, where it
has about 60 percent of the market, to grow as much as 10
percent annually for at least the next five years helped by
Chinese demand for Korean televisions, Indian textiles and
Vietnamese shoes. China imports have already contributed to the
number of containers moving within Asia rising to about equal
the volume sent to Europe and across the Pacific combined.  “Intra-Asia trade will grow significantly faster than the
global average this year,” said Nils Smedegaard Andersen, chief
executive officer at A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, operator of the
world’s largest container line. “Countries in that region are
trading more amongst themselves as the standard of living
increases.”  Maersk’s terminal arm said last year it plans to boost
investments in China, India and  Vietnam  because of rising
regional trade. The company expects global container volumes to
rise as much as 8 percent this year.  Price Range  Hutchison Port Trust, which owns terminals in  Hong Kong  and
neighboring Shenzhen, sold about 5.4 billion units at $1.01 each.
The price range was initially set at 91 cents to $1.08 before
being narrowed to 99 cents to $1.03, according to term sheets.  The trust’s terminals handled a record 21.2 million 20-foot
containers last year, 17 percent more than in 2009. The trust
has room to develop 12 more berths in Shenzhen’s deepwater
Yantian port, with the first three expected to be completed by
2015, Ivor Chow, chief financial officer of the trust’s manager,
said at a Singapore press briefing last week.  Hong Kong and Shenzhen, in China’s  Pearl River Delta , form
the world’s busiest container market, Hong Kong-based  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which is selling the terminals, said in a Jan. 18
statement. Hutchison Whampoa, controlled by billionaire Li Ki- shing, will retain about 25 percent of the trust and manage it.
The company, the world’s largest container-terminal operator,
also invests in drugstores, real estate and mobile-phone
services.  Dubai-based  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  and Modern Terminals Ltd. also
operate terminals in Hong Kong. In Shenzhen, Hutchison competes
with a venture between  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  and China Merchants
Holdings (International) Co.  Paulson, Temasek  Hutchison Port Trust’s IPO won $1.62 billion from
cornerstone investors including Capital Research & Management
Co., Paulson & Co. and Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte,
according to the  prospectus . DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed the sale.  The trust’s yield is expected to be 5.89 percent based on
the final sale price and its 2011 earnings forecast, people
familiar with the situation said on March 11. Cosco Pacific and
China Merchants have projected dividend yields of about 2
percent, according to Bloomberg forecasts. The two companies are
both listed in Hong Kong.  Intra  Asia  Volumes  Hong Kong’s intra-Asia transshipments, or cargo moving from
one Asian port to another via the city, rose 39 percent last
year to 9.07 million 20-foot containers, based on figures from
Hutchison. Overall volumes rose 13 percent to 23.7 million,
according to the  Hong Kong Port Development Council .  Regionwide intra-Asia trade will likely grow more than 10
percent this year, according to both Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.,
owner of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest container line, and Hanjin
Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s largest shipping company. The
companies and Maersk are boosting intra-Asia services because of
the rising volumes, which also include components moving between
factories for final assembly.  Free-trade accords are also helping accelerate regional
container volumes, Hutchison Port’s Chow said. China entered a
free-trade agreement with Association of Southeast Asian Nations
countries last year.  “We see intra-Asia growth to be very strong as China wants
to rely less on the U.S. and  Europe ,” Chow said. “That’s going
to be quite advantageous for Hong Kong.”  Regionwide intra-Asia container volumes totaled 44.1
million 20-foot boxes in 2009, or 41 percent of the global total,
according to Hutchinson. That’s about the same as Asia-Europe
and transpacific routes combined, it said.  China Wages  Higher wages in China are boosting regional trade as
consumers can afford more expensive items made overseas. China’s
number of middle-income and affluent consumers will almost
triple to 415 million in 10 years, Boston Consulting Group Inc.
said in November.  The growing middle class helped China’s imports of
manufactured goods from South Korea rise 31 percent last year to
$1.58 trillion, according to the  Korea International Trade
Association . Shipments of digital televisions jumped 46 percent
to $10.4 billion, while electric-lighting sales increased 64
percent to $3.41 billion. Manufactured goods are typically
shipped from South Korea to China in containers or by air.  Vietnam’s total exports to China rose 49 percent to $7.3
billion last year, according to the Vietnam  government . Footwear
shipments jumped 58 percent to $155 million.  India ’s textile
exports to China are expected to rise 70 percent to $313 million
in the six months ending September, according to India’s
 Ministry of Textiles .  “Asia is becoming a very important market for trade,”
said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“The Chinese are earning more and spending more, and as their
economy expands, so will their appetite to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  