-- 
China Halts Approval of Nuclear Projects In Wake of Japan Reactor Disaster

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T12:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/china-halts-approval-of-new-nuclear-projects-amid-checks-after-japan-leaks.html
  China  has suspended approval of new
nuclear projects and will conduct safety inspections of all
nuclear  power plants  under construction in the wake of the
radiation leaks in Japan, the State Council said.  “Approvals of new plants will be suspended including those
in the pre-development phase until safety and improved long-term
development plans are cleared,” the council said after a
meeting chaired by Premier Wen Jiabao. The country’s nuclear
power plants are all operating safely, the statement said.  China has about 13 operational nuclear power reactors and
is building more than 25, according to a report on the  World
Nuclear Association ’s  website . Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , facing a nation reeling from its strongest earthquake on
record, said yesterday the danger of further radiation leaks has
increased at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi, 135 miles north of  Tokyo ,
which has six reactors.  “We must fully understand the urgency and importance of
nuclear safety and prioritize it in the development of nuclear
power,” the State Council said in the statement. China plans
additional reactors to provide more than a 10-fold increase in
atomic capacity by 2020, according to the World Nuclear
Association’s the report shows.  The magnitude-9 earthquake the struck Japan March 11 left
hundreds of thousands stranded and without power, with
disruptions to food and water. Hundreds of cars streamed south
from devastated areas as a few dozen technicians battled to
contain fires and radiation leaks at the nuclear power station.  ‘No Impact’  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment vessel
may have been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant, deepening  Japan ’s nuclear crisis and increasing the risks
of radioactive leaks.  “The nuclear accident won’t have any serious impact on
China’s nuclear industry and we won’t alter our long-term
development plans,” China National Nuclear Corp. President Sun Qin said in an interview in Beijing on March 14.  China is relying on alternative energy sources such as
nuclear power as it tries to sustain growth and minimize
environmental damage. The nation wants at least 15 percent of
its energy mix to come from non-fossil fuels by 2020 and is
building more atomic plants to help meet that goal.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has put plans to extend the
life of  Germany ’s reactors on hold for three months while the
implications of events at Fukushima are examined. The British
government ordered a review of nuclear safety, and Swiss policy
makers put projects to renew three of their country’s five
nuclear power stations on hold, the Environment Ministry said on
March 14 in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  