-- 
China Mobile May Name 4G Equipment Vendors in Weeks, Alcatel-Lucent Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-16T04:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/china-mobile-may-name-4g-vendors-in-weeks-alcatel-lucent-says.html
  China  Mobile Communications Corp.,
parent of the world’s most valuable phone carrier, may select
equipment suppliers to expand its trial of faster wireless
networks in the “next few weeks,” Alcatel-Lucent SA said.  “All the key vendors are competing for these city
trials,” Rajeev Singh-Molares, head of Asia Pacific at Alcatel-
Lucent, said in an interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The French
company is “doing a lot of work” on TD-LTE, the technology
being used in China Mobile’s fourth-generation trial network, he
said.  Alcatel-Lucent, a supplier for  Verizon Wireless ’s 4G
network in the U.S., faces competition from rivals including
Ericsson AB and Huawei Technologies Co. for orders to roll out
similar high-speed services in China, the world’s biggest phone
market.  China Mobile, which built a trial 4G mobile network for
last year’s  Shanghai  Expo, won government approval in December
to expand the test to six cities including Shenzhen and Nanjing.  China Mobile is preparing to widen its trials for TD-LTE
services, said Rainie Lei, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman. She
couldn’t immediately confirm when the company will select
equipment vendors for the trials.  Alcatel-Lucent’s focus on 4G technology is helping the
company expand its market share for wireless network equipment
globally, Singh-Molares said. The Paris-based company last month
reported profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, and its stock
has surged 71 percent this year.  The French company has a venture, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai
Bell, with the Chinese government.  China Mobile Communications, which owns 74 percent of Hong
Kong-listed  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , won approval from the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology to set up trial 4G networks
in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Xiamen.  The initial six-city trial has been expanded to include
Beijing, China Mobile said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  