-- 
China Mobile Unexpectedly Boosts Annual Spend to $20 Billion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T12:33:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/china-mobile-s-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-rising-data-sales.html
  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest wireless carrier by users, unexpectedly said it will
boost  capital spending  6.5 percent this year to meet demand for
data from users downloading video and music on their phones.  China Mobile aims to spend as much as 132.4 billion yuan
($20.1 billion) in 2011, compared with 124.3 billion yuan last
year, Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said at a press conference in Hong
Kong today. Analysts, including Michael Meng of BOCI Research
Ltd., had expected the Beijing-based company to reduce capital
spending this year.  The company is increasing spending after posting a better-
than-expected net income in the fourth quarter. Wang is
expanding the range of data services China Mobile offers over
its mobile network beyond traditional short message service
texting as he seeks to maintain the lead over rivals China
Unicom   Hong Kong ) Ltd. and China Telecom Corp.  The capital spending guidance “was a negative coming out
of the result,” Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. which rates the stock “outperform,” said
in an e-mail. Soh said she was surprised by the company’s
projection, which was 35 percent more than the 98 billion yuan
she estimated.  Shares Fall  China Mobile fell 1.7 percent to HK$71.05 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong, after earlier climbing as much as
1.5 percent. The stock has dropped 8 percent this year.  BOCI’s Meng had forecast capital spending at China Mobile
may drop to 118 billion yuan this year in a March 9 report. Paul Wuh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co., said
today he’d expected the 2011 expenditure at 98 billion yuan.  “To expand our leading position and further develop high
value-added services, we will increase our capital spending this
year,” Wang told reporters today. “The value-added data
business will be a significant source of future revenue growth
for our company.”  Capital spending will remain above last year’s level in
each of the next two years, Wang said. He projected spending of
130.4 billion yuan next year, and 125.5 billion yuan in the year
after that.  “Free  cash flow  will be hurt,” Samsung’s Wuh said in an
e-mail today. He had projected capital spending to drop to 83
billion yuan by next year. “Some investors had expected to see
a cut in capex and higher dividends.”  Dividend Payout  China Mobile will keep its dividend payout ratio at 43
percent this year, unchanged from last year, the company said.
The wireless carrier is  “still in a position for very fast
growth” and must invest in its networks to accommodate demand,
Wang said.  Data services helped boost net income 3.7 percent to 32.4
billion yuan in the quarter ended Dec. 31, according to figures
derived from full-year earnings reported by the company today.
Profit was expected to be 31.8 billion yuan, according to the
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.
Fourth-quarter sales rose 6 percent to 132.6 billion yuan.  China Mobile had a total of 584 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of last year, including 20.7 million
customers for the high-speed, third-generation service that
smartphones use to surf the Web, the company said in February.  That compares with China Unicom’s 311.3 million total
subscribers and 14.1 million users of its 3G service. China
Telecom was in third place with 90.5 million subscribers.  Higher Subsidy  To continue attracting high-end data users, China Mobile
will increase its subsidy for handsets by 15 percent to 17.5
billion yuan this year, Wang said. Value-added data such as the
mobile music service “was an essential driver of total revenue
growth” last year, accounting for 31 percent of operating
revenue in 2010.  China Mobile has 35 million registered customers for its
mobile applications offerings, who can select from 50,000
applications to download, the carrier said. By the end of last
year, the site had recorded 110 million application downloads,
according to a company statement.  Wang aims to keep China Mobile’s lead with heavy-data users
by rolling out the country’s first fourth-generation network.
The company in December received approval from the Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology  to begin a trial of its 4G
TD-LTE network, and this month it added Beijing to the original
six cities in the program: Shanghai, Hangzhou, Nanjing,
Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Xiamen.  The trials will be primarily focused on high-speed data
cards for  notebook computers  and won’t promote many new handsets
for the system, Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said at today’s
conference.  The trials will include  network equipment  from both Chinese
and foreign suppliers, Li said. Chinese suppliers may include
Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  while overseas companies
may include Ericsson AB, Nokia Siemens Networks and Alcatel-
Lucent SA, he said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 