-- 
Clinton Says Arab League Vote for No-Fly Zone Changed Minds

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-16T18:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/clinton-says-arab-league-vote-for-no-fly-zone-changed-minds-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that since the Arab League backed a no-fly zone
over  Libya  there has been a “sea change” in international opinion
toward favoring the action.  “That has changed the thinking of a lot of people,”
Clinton said in an interview with CBS News, taped in Cairo. “As
we consult in  New York  on the UN resolution” to pursue a no-fly
zone “there is a much greater openness than there was a week
ago.”  She said that “we and others have made it clear that there
must be Arab leadership and Arab participation. How that will be
defined will depend in large measure on what the Security
Council decides to call for.”  Lebanon’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Nawaf Salam,
said he would appeal today to the  Security Council  to authorize
a no-fly zone over Libya, where leader Muammar Qaddafi’s forces
are attacking rebel-held cities, and that Arab nations would
play a “significant” role in its enforcement.  Clinton said it was crucial for the U.S. to act with
allies. “I want to see what we can get out of the United
Nations, because there is no way that the  United States  will
take unilateral action on any of these issues," she told CBS
News. ‘‘We are not going to act alone. There would be unforeseen
consequences to that, that I believe would be detrimental.’’  Russia and  China , who have questioned a no-fly zone at the
UN, are reconsidering after the  Arab League  statement on
Saturday, Clinton said. ‘‘I think they are willing to talk about
what’s at stake here,’’ she said.  ‘Sense of Urgency’  In a separate interview with the  BBC , Clinton said there is
‘‘a sense of urgency that was precipitated by the Arab League’s
courageous stand’’ on March 12. ‘‘We are well aware that the
clock is ticking.’’  In the CBS interview, Clinton urged restraint by
authorities in Bahrain, where security forces drove protesters
from their rallying point at the central Pearl Roundabout in
Manama, leaving two demonstrators and two police officers dead.  ‘‘We find what’s happening in Bahrain alarming,’’ Clinton
said. ‘‘We think that there is no security answer to the
aspirations and demands of the demonstrators.’’    Bahrain  is host to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, raising
administration concerns that a change in regimes might disrupt
the base, a bulwark against Iran’s attempts to expand its
influence in the Persian Gulf.  ‘Humanitarian Obligation’  ‘‘We have made it very clear to the Bahraini government at
the highest levels that we expect them to exercise restraint, we
would remind them of their humanitarian obligation to keep
medical facilities open and to facilitate the treatment of the
injured, and to get back to the negotiating table,” Clinton
said.  Clinton said the U.S. had delivered the same message of
restraint to members of the Gulf Cooperation Council.  “They are on the wrong track,” Clinton said. “The sooner
they get back to the negotiating table and start trying to
answer the legitimate needs of the people, the sooner there can
be a resolution.”  Troops from the GCC, including  Saudi Arabia , moved into
Bahrain on March 14, the first cross-border intervention since a
wave of popular uprisings swept through parts of the Arab world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  