-- 
Clinton Meets With Egypt’s Transitional Leadership, Visits Tahrir Square

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-16T12:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/clinton-visits-tahrir-square-site-of-egyptian-protests-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with Egypt’s transitional leadership and visited
Cairo’s Tahrir Square, the central site of protests that led to
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  “It’s just a great reminder of the power of the human
spirit and universal desire for freedom, human rights and
democracy,” Clinton said as she strolled across the square,
mobbed by dozens of press, security guards and onlookers. A
little girl about 5 years old, held up by her father, called out
“I love you!”  Clinton is visiting Egypt and  Tunisia  for talks with the
new governments after popular uprisings earlier this year led to
the ouster of Mubarak and Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben
Ali. Yesterday in Cairo, the top U.S. diplomat announced a broad
package of economic aid to spur private investment in  Egypt .  Clinton arrived in Cairo after a meeting of Group of Eight
foreign ministers on March 14-15 in Paris that failed to agree
on imposing a no-fly zone on  Libya  to protect the country’s
rebels. Russia and  Germany  opposed the military measure, which
was backed by the U.K. and  France .  Protest  Clinton went directly from Tahrir Square to a meeting with
Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf. In a reminder of the
economic roots of Egypt’s revolution, crowds of men gathered
outside the walls of the prime minister’s office chanting that
they wanted jobs.  Clinton also met today with Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who heads Egypt’s ruling military council.  During an appearance at the U.S. Embassy, Clinton pledged
support for Egypt’s transition and told the local staff that the
pyramids would be “nowhere near as magnificent” an achievement
as their revolution.  She spoke of challenges that remain “to make sure all that
work and all that sacrifice, including the loss of an employee
here, are not in vain.” Clinton was referring to Khairy Ramadan
Aly, an embassy carpenter, who was killed during demonstrations,
while searching for his son.  Egypt must make sure “that no one is permitted to hijack
this revolution, that no one is permitted to turn the clock back
on this revolution, that no one is permitted to claim it for
only one group of Egyptians and try to exclude other
Egyptians,” Clinton said. “That will be the challenge.”  Foreign Investment  Yesterday, Clinton said that the U.S. wanted to help create
jobs, spur small business in Egypt and “encourage foreign
direct investment that will help these businesses grow.”  The aid she announced included $2 billion from the  Overseas
Private Investment Corporation  to encourage private sector
investments in the Middle East and North Africa.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank has also approved $80 million
in insurance cover to support letters of credit issued by
Egyptian financial institutions, on top of $90 million in
previously announced emergency economic aid.  Pending approval by Congress, a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund
would be created with $60 million to stimulate private sector
investment and provide businesses with access to low-cost
capitol.  “I am so looking forward to helping in any way that we can
in this transformation and all the work that needs to be done,”
Clinton said as she greeted the prime minister today. She
acknowledged the amount of work ahead.  ‘Ready to Help’  “I was just saying to one of the ministers that we have an
expression, ‘It’s like drinking from a fire hose,’” Clinton
said. “There is so much to be done, but the  United States 
stands ready to help in every way possible to translate what
happened in Tahrir Square into new reality for Egypt.”  As she met the premier, forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  were closing in on the rebel stronghold of
Benghazi. The embattled Libyan dictator, appearing with a small
group of supporters on state-run television, vowed to fight
rebel “rats” and said “we are going to destroy them.”  Asked whether she was worried about Libya, Clinton said:
“We’ve got a lot of challenges in Libya, but we’re working with
the international community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Cairo at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  