-- 
CO2 Traders Buying Options as Futures Jump, CarbonDesk Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-16T13:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/co2-traders-buying-options-as-futures-jump-carbondesk-says-1-.html
Carbon traders are buying  call
options  to protect against further price increases in
anticipation that Europe will produce less nuclear power,
according to CarbonDesk Ltd.  The London-based brokerage handled 1 million tons of
December options to buy permits at 24 euros ($33) a metric ton
today, Chief Executive Officer Brett Stacey said by phone.
December futures rose as much as 3.2 percent today to 17.76
euros a ton, the highest price since Dec. 2, 2008, on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . They traded at 17.30 euros as
of 12:25 p.m.  “It’s buying some upside protection,” Stacey said. “Ten
days ago you couldn’t find a buyer. All of a sudden we’ve seen a
lot of interest. I think we’ll have a good day.”  E.ON AG, RWE AG and other German utilities need to replace
25 percent of the nation’s nuclear capacity after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  decided yesterday to keep seven reactors offline
during a three-month safety evaluation. Carbon has jumped 12
percent this week after a series of earthquakes damaged reactors
in Japan, prompting the German suspension.  Call options give the buyer the right to purchase at a
certain level known as a “strike price.” Option traders are
probably buying futures as they surge out of a range that held
for the past two years, according to IDEAcarbon.  “It would seem that the sharp rise in outright prices
would lead to considerable demand to cover outstanding shorts in
the options market,” Alessandro Vitelli, director of strategy
at IDEAcarbon in London, said yesterday. “Options traders with
positions at even higher strikes will still be buying as a hedge
against further increases in the price.”  ‘Weak Trade’  The call option with the most open interest is the 20-euro
strike. There were 500,000 tons of those traded each of today
and yesterday, according to data from ICE.  Instead of buying futures for hedging, traders should
consider buying other options, said Sezer Yurtseven, London-
based managing director of Pan Energy Markets Ltd. “There is
the obvious hedge of buying futures, but that’s a weak trade and
doesn’t take full advantage of what I believe is a clear and
strong movement,” he said by e-mail.  The carbon market seems to have momentum, Yurtseven said.
“I think the smart guys out there will see that the problems
and risk of further disruption in  Japan  are high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  