-- 
Cocoa Seen Jumping 14% on Prolonged Ban From Ivory Coast, Biggest Exporter

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-16T11:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/cocoa-seen-jumping-14-on-prolonged-ban-from-ivory-coast-biggest-exporter.html
Cocoa may rebound as much as 14
percent should an extended political standoff in  Ivory Coast ,
the world’s biggest supplier, prolong an export ban into May,
Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  Exports, accounting for 34 percent of global supply, were
banned Jan. 24 by  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of disputed presidential elections. The
decree, combined with a lack of financing and trade restrictions
imposed by the European Union in January, meant a 99 percent
slump in the registration of beans for shipment in the two weeks
ended March 3, the latest port data show.  Cocoa has risen 18 percent since the November elections,
adding pressure to world food prices the United Nations says
reached a record last month. Ouattara this week extended the ban
until the end of the month. Another extension may take it into
the mid-crop, the smaller of two annual harvests that starts in
April.  “Cocoa processors are going to have to continue looking
for alternatives,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie in
London who has covered commodities for 14 years. She correctly
forecast the surge in prices that followed the first extension
of the ban and now anticipates $3,700 a metric ton should the
curbs continue into the mid-crop harvest.  Cocoa for May delivery was little changed at $3,254 a ton
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  at 10:34 a.m. London time,
bringing the gain in the past year to 14 percent. Arabica coffee
futures doubled over the same period, and raw sugar rose 44
percent. Cocoa advanced to $3,775 on March 4, the highest price
since January 1979, before declining on speculation that
consumers have sufficient stockpiles for now.    Hedge Funds   Hedge funds and other speculators have more than doubled
their bets on higher cocoa prices since the start of the year,
according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Their net-long position was 33,243 contracts as of
March 8, up from 13,136 contracts on Dec. 28.  Incumbent Ivory Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo  ordered
companies to start shipping cocoa by the end of this month or
face sanctions and took control of local cocoa purchases and
exports. About 440,000 tons are currently stored in exporters’
warehouses near the port of Abidjan, Malick Tohe, an adviser to
Ouattara, said March 14.  Clashes between armed groups spread southward in Abidjan
yesterday, residents said. Almost 400 people have been killed
since the disputed election, according to the  United Nations .
Gbagbo retains the loyalty of the armed forces, while Ouattara
has set up his rival administration in the Golf hotel in Abidjan
protected by UN peacekeepers.  Cocoa Shipments  Cocoa shipments from Ivory Coast have almost come to a
halt, according to ports data obtained by Bloomberg. From
Jan. 21 to Feb. 3, 71,457 tons of beans were registered for
export. That number dropped to 8,645 tons in the 14 days that
followed. They were just 277 tons registered in the two weeks
from Feb. 18 to March 3, down for 50,738 tons a year earlier,
the data show.  Global output of the chocolate ingredient will exceed
demand by 119,000 tons in the 2010-11 season, the International
Cocoa Organization said March 1. Production in Ivory Coast may
rise 6.7 percent to 1.325 million tons in the 2010-11 season
that started Oct. 1, the London-based ICCO estimates.  Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain
processor, suspended its operations in the Ivory Coast this
month, the Decatur, Illinois-based company said in a statement
March 8. Barry Callebaut AG, based in Zurich and the world’s
largest maker of bulk chocolate, confirmed it was no longer
exporting cocoa products from the country on March 9.  Olam International Ltd., a trader of commodities from
coffee to cotton, is offering customers cocoa from other
countries, Gerry Manley, director and global head for cocoa of
the Singapore-based company, said in an e-mail March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 