-- 
Colicchio, Samuelsson Help Laurie Tisch’s Charity Cookbook

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-16T19:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/colicchio-waters-samuelsson-help-laurie-tisch-write-cookbook-for-charity.html
Philanthropist Laurie Tisch has
expanded on the $1.5 million in seed money she gave  New York ’s
 Green Cart  with a cookbook tied to the initiative’s efforts to
bring more fruits and vegetables to lower-income neighborhoods.  Three years ago her nonprofit  Laurie M. Tisch Illumination
Fund  made the financial gift to jumpstart a drive that places
wheeled produce stands in neighborhoods where the diet tends to
be short of such foods.  “ The Green Cart Cookbook ” (Firstline Creative & Media), a
compilation of recipes funded by Tisch and released today, aims
to show cart customers how to buy for and create healthy dishes.  “I was so surprised to learn that there were neighborhoods
that had almost no access to healthy foods,” said Tisch, 60,
the daughter of the late  Loews Corp. (L)  chairman, Preston Robert Tisch. “People could go to grocery stores, but they had to take
a bus or a train -- a lot of transportation -- to get there.”  Tisch enlisted some of New York’s best chefs to create
recipes, including Tom Colicchio, chef and owner of New York’s
Craft and the head judge on Bravo’s “Top Chef”; Bill Telepan
of the Upper West Side’s Telepan restaurant; and Ethiopia-born
Marcus Samuelsson, who opened Harlem’s Red Rooster in October.  Alice Waters , the owner of the restaurant Chez Panisse in
Berkeley,  California , and one of the early advocates of using
seasonal ingredients, shared her formula for minestrone soup.
Samuelsson wrote a pear-pumpkin salad recipe. Telepan gives his
take on vegetable bread soup. The New York City Department of
Health and Mental Hygiene and Mohammed Ali, a green-cart vendor
in  Brooklyn , also pitched in recipes.  Free Books  The printing of the first 10,000 cookbooks, which will be
distributed free at green carts, will be paid for by Tisch’s
charity.  “So not only will fruits and vegetables be accessible but
what to do them will also be accessible,” Tisch said.  Tisch said one of the cookbook’s earliest supporters was
New York Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , who wrote the foreword.
Other U.S. cities have expressed an interest in using New York’s
program as a model, she said.  “Judging that there are more than 500 carts on the street,
it’s got to be working,” Tisch said about the program. “It’s
certainly not the whole answer to curbing health problems, but
it’s a great beginning.”  Among her first major acts of philanthropy was the founding
of the  Children’s Museum of Manhattan  in 1973, where she serves
as chairman emeritus of the board. She’s also chairman emeritus
of the Center for Arts Education, which advocates support for
arts education in New York schools. Tisch is also a co-owner and
a board member of the  National Football League ’s New York Giants
football team.  Green Space  The 7,200-square-foot Laurie Tisch Illumination Fund  Lawn 
offers a green space at  Lincoln Center  for the Performing Arts.
Tisch also sits on the boards of Lincoln Center and the Whitney
Museum of American Art, and she serves as vice chairman of  Columbia University ’s  Teachers College ’s board.  Her fund is underwriting “Moveable Feast,” a photographic
exhibition about green-cart owners that opens this week at the
 Museum of the City of New York . A documentary, “The Apple
Pushers,” about the city’s green carts and their operators,
will be completed in May.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 