-- 
Colombia’s Foreign Debt Rating Raised to Investment Grade by S&P on Growth

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-03-16T22:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/colombia-s-foreign-debt-rating-raised-to-investment-grade-by-s-p-on-growth.html
  Colombia ’s credit rating was
boosted to investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , 11 years after
it was cut to junk in the midst of an insurgency, as violence
recedes and growth prospects improve.  S&P raised Colombia one step to BBB-, from BB+. The
increase puts Colombia’s rating in line with that of Brazil and  Peru . Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings rate Colombia
one level below investment grade.  Colombia has cut its homicide rate by almost half since
2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took office and boosted
investor confidence by cutting debt levels, maintaining stable
inflation and increasing economic growth. The government
forecasts the economy grew 4 percent last year and estimates
gross domestic product will rise 4.5 percent this year.  “This is a certificate of good behavior,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in a statement on the presidential website.
The rating increase “allows many companies, funds and
institutions with considerable resources to invest in
Colombia,” he said.  Yields on Colombia’s 7.375 percent dollar bonds due in 2019
fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 4.20 percent,
the lowest since Jan. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “A lot of people expected it for a very long time,” said
Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, a
Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin America. “I expect
Moody’s to move very fast after this. They’ve been very vocal on
the possibility of an upgrade coming for Colombia.”  Budget Deficit  The government forecasts the budget deficit will equal 4.1
percent of GDP this year, up from 3.9 percent in 2010.  “Deepening domestic capital markets and improving external
liquidity should continue to reduce the level of vulnerability
embedded in the sovereign’s debt burden,” S&P said in a
statement.  Colombia lost its investment grade rating with Moody’s and
S&P in 1999, when violence and a banking crisis helped trigger
six straight quarters of contraction beginning in 1998.  Santos, who took office in August, and Uribe, his
predecessor, have drawn investment by improving security and
weakening rebel groups, including the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia, or FARC. Foreign direct investment more than
quadrupled in the past decade, to $7.2 billion in 2009 from $1.5
billion in 1999.  “If Santos’s policies continue to be market friendly, and
if they are able to hold onto gains that have been achieved in
security, there will be further upgrades,” Bernal said.  Colombia’s rating outlook is stable, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  