-- 
Colombia Sees Record Oil Output as Billionaire Slim, China Seek Reserves

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-03-16T15:51:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/colombia-expects-record-oil-production-as-carlos-slim-china-seek-reserves.html
Colombia,  South America ’s third-
largest crude producer, said output will climb to a record this
year amid investments from  China  and billionaire  Carlos Slim .  Spending on exploration and production may surpass $3.5
billion to $4 billion this year, when annual output will exceed
a 1999 peak to reach a record of 850,000 to 900,000 barrels a
day, said Armando Zamora, director general of the state-run
 National Hydrocarbons Agency . Transport capacity is scheduled to
reach 1.2 million barrels per day within two years, he said.  “Investment has started high,” Zamora said in an
interview yesterday from his headquarters in Bogota. The outlook
for Colombia “must be good if Slim comes.”  Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB entered  Colombia ’s oil market for
the first time last month, joining companies including China
Petroleum and Chemical Corp. and  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  that will
help almost double the nation’s output to 1.4 million barrels a
day in 2014, Zamora said. The military’s response to kidnappings
of oil workers this month shows the nation is prepared for
guerrilla attacks that are on the decline overall, he said.  The government said March 8 that 22 of 23 oil workers
kidnapped a day earlier in the eastern Colombian province of
Vichada by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia were freed
after a military dragnet. Another worker has yet to be found.
Pipelines owned by state-run  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  also were sabotaged
with explosives last month in separate attacks.  Military offenses reduced attacks on pipelines, roadways
and bridges to 76 in 2009 from more than 800 in 2002, according
to government figures.  Offshore Concerns  Forbes last week said  Mexico ’s Slim is the world’s richest
person with estimated assets of $74 billion. Grupo Carso agreed
in February to acquire a 70 percent stake in Geoprocesados SA’s
Tabasco Oil Co., which won rights last year to explore and
produce oil at a Colombian site near the Venezuelan border.  Gains in Colombian crude production after 2015 will depend
in part on environmental regulatory approval as companies scope
out new areas for drilling, including jungle areas and the
Caribbean, Zamora said.  In the Archipelago of San Andres in the Caribbean,
Colombia’s government last month suspended contracts for
offshore oil exploration pending talks with local communities
and environmental authorities. There is no date set to lift the
suspension, Zamora said.  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.06, or 1.1 percent, to
$98.24 a barrel at 11:25 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil earlier rose as high as $99.60 a barrel.  Venezuela and  Brazil  are South America’s first- and second-
largest crude producers, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  