-- 
Columbia’s Cranes Claw Out Brainy, Bland Lab Building: James S. Russell

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/columbia-s-cranes-claw-out-brainy-bland-lab-building-james-s-russell.html
On a frigid morning, I walked
through Manhattanville, a 17-acre tract at the western edge of
Harlem, pausing to watch a crane clawing at the skeletal remains
of a parking garage.  These blocks of lumpy warehouses and worn gas stations
under elevated road and rail structures slope toward the  Hudson
River . This area, which stretches from Broadway and 125th street
to 12th Avenue and 133rd Street, will become a 6.7-million
square foot satellite campus for  Columbia University .  “Manhattanville is the release of Columbia’s pent-up
potential,” Columbia president Lee Bollinger said in a recent
conversation in his dark-paneled study.  Columbia, the densest of the Ivy League campuses, has been
able to grow little on its Morningside Heights campus for more
than 40 years. Bollinger said the expansion, five blocks north,
permits “us to redefine the intellectual directions of the
institution.”  Plans call for lining 125th Street, Harlem’s main street,
with an academic conference center, a performing-arts building
and a new home for Columbia’s  School of International and Public
Affairs .  Science Center  The university can’t finance those buildings yet. Instead,
a block-long site on W. 129th Street is being cleared for
Columbia’s first building in the area: the Jerome L. Greene
Science Center, designed by the ubiquitous  Renzo Piano . Greene,
a prominent New York lawyer and real-estate investor, gave $250
million to the project.  The center, which will open in 2016 or 2017, intends to
scramble disciplines to collaborate on research of mind-boggling
complexity.  “We’re creating a unique venue to understand the problems
of the brain and mind,” said Thomas M. Jessell, a professor in
the departments of neuroscience, biochemistry, and molecular
biophysics. He’s worked closely on the design.  “Technical advances depend on engineering, chemistry,
physics, computer science, applied mathematics, and statistics,
as well as psychology,” he said. “We’ll study the basis of
consciousness and free will, as well as psychological and
neurological disease.”  But the renderings I saw at Columbia’s project office fall
short of suggesting the energy this idea factory hopes to
unleash.  Close Encounters  Piano has wrapped seven tall lab levels in sheer layers of
glass. This could be an office building anywhere.  When I spoke to Jessell, he said that throwing such diverse
disciplines together will only pay off if researchers discover
answers in unplanned encounters.  Perhaps the deep exterior recesses that open into nicely
daylit two-level lounges linked by stairs will indeed generate
serendipitous encounters. I fear that the isolation of the lab
will prove more alluring than the bland meeting places.  Piano stops the glass walls above the tall first floor to
reveal what he has called an “urban layer,” which is a fancy
way of saying a mix of stores and community-oriented facilities
ranged along the street.  A clinic will serve the neighborhood, and an educational
center will publicly exhibit the causes and cures of mind and
brain maladies.  That “urban layer” doesn’t really address Columbia’s
long, rocky relationship with the folks who already live and
work in Manhattanville, though their number is decreasing.  Eminent Domain  Local activists fought Columbia’s expansion for years only
to lose in December after several appeals. They fear rising home
prices and commercial rents in an area that still has long-
established businesses that restore furniture or fix auto
bodies.  That a state agency may use eminent domain on Columbia’s
behalf is not sweetening relations.  Piano’s attempt to invite neighbors in is laudable but
tentative. The life of the building should flow into the new
streets and squares that Columbia has planned.  And why doesn’t the building riff on the area’s industrial
energy, like the elegant arches holding up Riverside Drive that
runs overhead?  Perhaps a better sense of community will be achieved by the
teams that designed the justly celebrated High Line Park:  Diller
Scofidio + Renfro  and  James Corner Field Operations , the
landscape architecture firm. The architects have started
designing two buildings for  Columbia Business School  that will
cost as much as $500 million. They beat out competing designs by
New York architect Steven Holl, the Amsterdam firm  UN Studio ,
and the Tokyo firm  SANAA .  School of Business  Just north of the Greene science center, where today an
auto-body shop spills into the street, the business school will
bookend a new public square by Corner that will be the heart of
the new campus.  Elizabeth Diller once described how her design let the
disguised Alice Tully Hall at  Lincoln Center  do “an
architectural strip tease.” She wanted people to find it
irresistible.  Columbia could use some of that pizzazz.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. In May, Island Press will
publish his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 