-- 
Commodities Advance, Snapping Four Days of Losses, as Oil Gains on Mideast

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-16T12:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/commodities-drop-in-longest-losing-run-since-august-on-japan-nuclear-risk.html
Commodities rose for the first time
in five days as crude oil rebounded on renewed concern about
supply disruptions amid increasing Middle East tension.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity
futures climbed 1.6 percent to 684.32 as of 12:04 p.m. in  London 
after plunging 3.8 percent yesterday, the most since July 2009.
Crude oil advanced as Bahrain suspended stock-market trading
after the government declared a state of emergency. Gulf-nation
troops poured into the island country, which is off of  Saudi
Arabia , the largest oil exporter.  “What people have in the back of their mind is the Middle
East,” said  Michael Haigh , global head of commodities research
at Standard Chartered Plc, in Singapore. “Disruptions in the
Middle East and places like Libya tend to be long-lasting.”  The GSCI index has advanced 8.3 percent this year, with
gains in the past month coming mostly from political unrest that
started in Tunisia and spread to Egypt,  Libya  and Bahrain,
sparking speculation oil supply may be disrupted.  Libya’s oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and sanctions following a
rebellion against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , the  International
Energy Agency  said in its monthly Oil Market Report.  The Middle East unrest outweighed concerns about radiation
from a Japanese nuclear plant damaged by the country’s strongest
earthquake on record and subsequent tsunami. The country is the
world’s third-biggest user of crude oil, the top importer of
corn and the second-largest buyer of copper ore.  Fuel Rods  Military helicopters were deployed to drop water on the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant as officials battling to
prevent a meltdown said fuel rods at two reactors may have been
damaged and temperatures at spent fuel pools were rising.  Clouds of white smoke or steam rose from the reactor
buildings following a fire at Dai-Ichi’s No. 4 reactor this
morning. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation
levels at the plant then rose, forcing a brief evacuation, but
have since fallen. About 70 percent of the fuel rods at the
plant’s No. 1 reactor and a third of the No. 2 reactor’s fuel
may have been impaired, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said. The Dai-
Ichi nuclear complex has six reactors.  “Investors’ greatest worry is a meltdown of that nuclear
plant,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said
today by phone from  Singapore . “It is less than a week after
the Japanese quake. The outlook is still uncertain.”  Oil, Copper  Oil for April delivery gained 2 percent to $99.11 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after falling as much as 1
percent to the lowest level in more than two weeks. About 1.3
million barrels a day, or 29 percent, of  Japan ’s refining
capacity was closed after the temblor and tsunami.  Copper rose for the first time in six days on speculation
reconstruction in Japan will boost demand. The contract for
three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange added as much
as 2.9 percent to $9,382 a metric ton and last traded at
$9,341.75.  “Following the steep losses in the last few days, the
price now looks attractive to some buyers,” Li Peiying, an
analyst at Essence Futures Co., said by telephone from Beijing.
“People have started to shift their attention to the rebuilding
that will boost demand in the next few months.”  Corn for May delivery dropped as much as 2 percent to
$6.235 a bushel, the lowest level for the most-active contract
in two months, before erasing the decline and adding 1.1 percent
to $6.4275.  Declines in commodity prices because of the Japanese
earthquake are likely to be temporary, according to  Standard
Chartered ’s Haig. “We expect a V-shaped recovery” that will
boost demand for steel and industrial metals, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  