-- 
Comparing Nuclear Events at Fukushima, Chernobyl, Three Mile Island: Q&A

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-03-17T12:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/comparing-nuclear-events-at-fukushima-chernobyl-three-mile-island-q-a.html
Radiation leaks from Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s earthquake-stricken reactors in northeastern  Japan 
represent the worst nuclear power accident since the meltdown at
Chernobyl, Ukraine, almost 25 years ago, scientists say.  Helicopters poured 30 metric tons of water today on pools
used to cool spent fuel rods. No change in radiation was
reported after four runs by the aircraft,  Kyodo News  said,
citing plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co. Once exposed, the
spent fuel rods may catch fire and melt, spewing radiation into
the atmosphere.  “Radiation levels are extremely high, which could possibly
impact the ability to take corrective measures,” U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told a
congressional panel in  Washington  yesterday.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
the accidents at Fukushima, Chernobyl in 1986 and  Three Mile
Island ,  Pennsylvania , in 1979. The information is drawn from the
 U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission  in Washington, the  World
Health Organization  in Geneva and interviews with radiation
safety experts in the U.S., Australia and  India .  Q: How do the three accidents compare?  A: Events unfolding in Japan “appear to be more serious than
Three Mile Island,” U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu told a
congressional panel yesterday.  The disaster ranks 6 on a 7-step international scale for
nuclear accidents, according to Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of  France ’s  nuclear safety authority .  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  hasn’t updated the
original rating of 4 on its website. Three Mile Island was rated
5 and Chernobyl was rated 7. Each additional point on this scale
represents a factor of 10, so the accident at Three Mile Island
was 1/100th as serious as Chernobyl, according to the agency.  Q: How did the reactors differ?  A: Fukushima’s 40-year-old reactor No. 2 used nuclear fission to
heat water into steam, which powered a turbine. Such units are
called boiling water reactors.  In the plant at Three Mile Island, pressurized water is
pumped into the reactor core, where it gets heated. The hot
water is then sent to a steam generator which is located outside
the uranium-containing chamber. Both the Fukushima and Three
Mile reactors had steel casings to protect nuclear fuel.  Fuel inside Chernobyl’s unit 4 wasn’t protected by steel.
The reactor’s graphite buffer, used to slow high-speed subatomic
particles, caught fire. The Fukushima and Three Mile reactors
used water for the same purpose.  Q: What happened at Three Mile Island?  A: On March 28, 1979, unit 2 suffered a partial meltdown after
water meant for cooling the uranium fuel was released from the
containment chamber due to an equipment malfunction. There was
no explosion and radioactive materials weren’t released into the
environment because the chamber didn’t rupture.  Q: What happened at Chernobyl?  A: The  accident  was caused by a power surge that led to
overheating at reactor No. 4. A resultant fire and explosions
caused the containment roof to cave in and sent radioactive
debris, including pieces of fuel rod, spewing into the air,
destroying a nearby forest.  Radiation outside the blast area was about 50 times greater
than the peak inside Fukushima, and at least 31 workers and
firefighters died within a few months. An estimated 4,000
children and adolescents developed thyroid cancer after
consuming milk contaminated with radioactive iodine, I-131.  Q: What are the sources of radiation at Fukushima?  A: Fuel rods at the plant’s No. 1 and No. 2 reactors, both of
which were operating at the time of the temblor, may have been
damaged, Tokyo Electric said. Pressure in the containment
chamber of unit No. 2 fell yesterday, indicating that radiation
may have been released after an explosion on March 15.  Radiation is also leaking from used fuel rods, a form of
 nuclear waste , stored in a pool near reactors No. 3 and No. 4.
Water in the pool has evaporated due to radioactive heat,
exposing the uranium-containing rods to the atmosphere. The
exposed rods can emit radiation and lead to the production of
radioactive iodine and cesium, both of which are cancer-causing
agents. Helicopters and water cannons are being used to deliver
water into these pools as it is too dangerous for onsite
personnel.  An exposed worker at the edge of the pool would receive a
fatal radiation dose in 16 seconds, said David Lochbaum, a
nuclear physicist for the Union of Concerned Scientists and a
former Nuclear Regulatory Commission safety instructor.  There are six reactors in the Fukushima complex, of which
three were operating at the time of the earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  