-- 
Copper Sliding as Hedge Funds ‘Get Out of Dodge’: Chart of the Day

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/copper-sliding-as-hedge-funds-get-out-of-dodge-chart-of-the-day.html
Copper futures are headed for their
biggest monthly decline in more than a year, halting a rally
that sent prices to a record in February, as  China  seeks to slow
its economy and  hedge funds  switch to less-risky assets.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows copper inventories rising as
speculators reduced their bullish bets on the metal. Prices are
down 8 percent in March, heading for the first monthly decline
since June and the biggest since January 2010. Stockpiles in
warehouses monitored by exchanges in  London , New York and  Shanghai  rose 26 percent from a 13-month low on Dec. 10.  Even before Japan’s catastrophic March 11 earthquake sent
raw materials plunging, prospects for copper demand were ebbing.
Asian countries from China to Indonesia raised  interest rates 
this year to curb inflation. In February, shipments of copper
into China, the world’s biggest metals buyer, tumbled 35 percent
from a month earlier to the lowest in more than two years.  “This is money getting out of Dodge before the sheriff
shows up,” said Pete Sorrentino, who helps oversee $14.4
billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “We saw the
handwriting on the wall when the Chinese made multiple attempts
to slow growth.”  Since touching a record $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15 in  New
York , copper futures have fallen 11 percent to close yesterday
at $4.137 on the Comex. The price may dip to $4 before
rebounding, said  Michael Pento , a senior economist at Euro
Pacific Capital Inc. in New York who correctly predicted
copper’s slide in January.  “The global economy is going to slow, and this is bad news
for copper,” Pento said. “Inflation is destroying these
emerging markets, and all these countries are trying to cool
their economies.”  Fund Holdings, Japan  Managed-money funds held net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, totaling 22,274 futures and options contracts as
of March 8, down 13 percent for the week and 43 percent from a
record on Dec. 28.  Demand also may slow after  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami
shuttered factories, including carmakers, and disrupted power
supply following explosions at a nuclear-power plant.  “You’ve taken the third-largest economy offline,” said
Pento of Euro Pacific Capital. “When Japan starts to re-build,
that may take copper to $4.75 this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  