-- 
Corn Importers in Japan Delay Purchases Following Quake, Unipac Grain Says

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-16T06:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/corn-importers-in-japan-delaying-purchases-after-quake-unipac-grain-says.html
Corn buyers in  Japan , the world’s
largest importer, are delaying purchases of the grain after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged ports in the nation’s
northeast, suspending unloading operations from vessels, said
Nobuyuki Chino, president of Unipac Grain Ltd.  “Japanese companies have not made deals to buy corn since
the quake hit the nation,” Chino, who has traded grains for
three decades, said in a phone interview today. “They need to
assess how demand for the grain may change after the incident.”  The country imports about 12 million metric tons of corn
for feed production annually and secures about 90 percent of the
grain from the U.S., the largest exporter. Japanese importers
completed corn purchases for shipments through the first half of
June before the quake, Chino said.  Japan may have lost about 20 percent of the nation’s feed
production after the tsunami triggered by the earthquake flooded
ports and feed production facilities, Eri Utamaru at the
agriculture ministry’s livestock department said on March 14.
Corn represents about half of Japan’s livestock feed output
estimated at 24 million tons a year, she said.  Assessing Damage  “We are still assessing the extent of damage caused by the
earthquake,” said Tetsuo Hamamoto, director at the Tokyo office
of the  U.S. Grains Council , said today by phone. “It is hard to
tell how Japanese demand will change after the quake.”  Corn for May delivery dropped as much as 2 percent to
$6.2350 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the lowest level
since Jan. 12, before trading at $6.2875 at 2:24 p.m. Tokyo time.  Japan faces power blackouts, the risk of meltdowns at a
nuclear power station, and a predicted death toll of more than
10,000 after the 9.0-magnitude  temblor  and seven-meter-high
tsunami. A fire and aftershocks struck the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant today, as officials battling to
prevent a nuclear meltdown said fuel rods at two reactors may
have been damaged.  Livestock growers in the quake-affected region and near the
Fukushima power plant evacuated, leaving their animals in their
farms, said Chino at Unipac Grain.  “Those animals are at the risk of dying without water and
feed,” he said.  Zen-Noh, Japan’s largest corn buyer, plans to boost feed
production in facilities that escaped damage from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami to ensure supplies to livestock farmers
in northeast Japan.  Feed Production  “We will raise feed production in our facilities that are
operating normally to recoup losses in plants damaged by the
earthquake,” Hidetoshi Yamada at the farmers group’s public
relations department said today in a phone interview.  Feed plants in the southern Japanese prefecture of
Kagoshima and the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido continue
normal operations, Yamada said. The group produces about 30
percent of Japan’s total livestock feed.  It may take six months for damaged feed plants and grain
storage facilities in northeastern Japan to resume operations,
Chino at Unipac Grain said. Before that, Japanese feed producers
will increase output in other areas for shipments to growers of
pigs, chickens and cows in the northeast, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  