-- 
Creditors Should Take Losses in Bank Crises, FSA’s Turner Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-17T08:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/creditors-should-take-losses-in-bank-crises-fsa-s-turner-says.html
Creditors of crisis-stricken banks
should take losses before taxpayers have to, U.K.  Financial
Services Authority  Chairman  Adair Turner  said.  Regulators should be able to “impose losses on all debt
providers” in a crisis, Turner said in a speech in London
yesterday. He also said the most systemically important lenders
should face tougher  capital requirements  than smaller banks.  “It is essential that private fund providers to banks can
absorb losses without this triggering” fire sales of assets or
a “reduced credit supply,” Turner said.  The European Union is working on rules aimed at averting a
repeat of the financial crisis that followed the 2008 failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and resulted in European
governments setting aside more than $5 trillion to support
banks. The plans may require some creditors to accept losses in
the event of a crisis.  Turner said that while the latest standards from the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  are a major step forward, “in
an ideal world” equity capital requirements would be as high as
15 percent to 20 percent of risk-weighted assets.  “Regulators are the inheritors of a half century long
policy error, in which we have allowed private sector banks to
pursue their private interest in maximising leverage levels, at
times influenced by a deep intellectual confusion between
private costs and social optimality,” Turner said.  The Basel Committee last year recommended that banks hold
capital of about 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets.  Turner also said that stress tests on lenders should err on
the side of “excessive caution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  