-- 
Credit-Default Swaps Climb for a Third Day on Japan Catastrophe

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-16T21:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/credit-default-swaps-climb-for-a-third-day-on-japan-catastrophe.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
corporate bonds from default climbed for a third day as  Japan ’s
nuclear crisis worsened.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.3 basis points to a mid-
price of 92.3 basis points as of 5:34 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit swaps
on General Electric Capital Corp. gained for a third day.  “There’s a lot of volatility and there’s a lot of unknowns
here,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York. “I was once told when
you try to catch a falling knife, bring a lot of Band-Aids.”  The index earlier declined after Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average surged 5.7 percent, the biggest jump since November
2008, as the country battles to prevent a nuclear disaster after
its strongest earthquake. The benchmark typically falls as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  The CDX index reversed direction after European Union
Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said the damaged Japanese
nuclear plant is “out of control.” It rose to the highest
since Dec. 2.  “We’re starting to see signs of investors starting to sell
on strength rather than buy on weakness,” George Bory, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based chief corporate credit strategist
for UBS AG, said in a telephone interview from  London . “It’s a
notable change in investor psychology.”  Emergency Meeting  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
said all the water has drained from the spent-fuel pool at a
crippled atomic reactor north of  Tokyo  and high levels of
radiation have been released. The nuclear agency for the  United
Nations  planned to call an emergency meeting to discuss the
crisis and said the three reactor cores containing fuel are
damaged.  Swaps on General Electric Capital, GE’s finance arm,
increased 5.5 basis points to 122.4 basis points, according to
data provider CMA. They have climbed since Japan’s March 11
earthquake and tsunami crippled a power plant and raised the
threat of a meltdown.  Three reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant use a GE
design, including the damaged No. 1 unit that began operating in
1971. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE isn’t exposed to any legal
risk from the facility and could stand to benefit in the longer
term, according to Levington.  GE Impact  “It’s getting punished just because a very old facility
has a style that isn’t really used very much in today’s world,”
he said. “If anything, I think this gives more credibility
toward solar power and wind, and GE actually has very strong
market positions in those, so longer term this might actually be
a positive.”  The CDX index will roll to a new series on March 21,
followed by Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index on March
28. New versions of the indexes are created every six months.
Companies are replaced if they no longer have appropriate credit
grades, are no longer among the most actively traded in the $25
trillion credit swaps market, or fail to meet other index
criteria.  The high-yield index, which declines as investor sentiment
deteriorates, fell 0.8 percentage point to 101.7 percent of face
value, the lowest since Dec. 9.  “We cut our recommendation for high-yield to neutral from
overweight at the end of February,” Bory said. “There’s still
more downside risk in the market than upside.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  