-- 
Current-Account Deficit in U.S. Shrank to $113.3 Billion in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-16T13:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/current-account-deficit-in-u-s-shrank-to-113-3-billion-in-fourth-quarter.html
The current-account deficit in the
U.S. narrowed 9.7 percent to $113.3 billion in the fourth
quarter, reflecting an increase in exports.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade because
it includes income payments and government transfers, was the
smallest since the first three months of 2010, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The deficit for all of last
year widened to $470.2 billion, or 3.2 percent of gross domestic
product from 2.7 percent in 2009.  The current-account gap may increase in the first half of
2011 as the U.S. economic expansion fuels demand for more
imported goods. Along with a budget shortfall forecast to rise to
a record $1.5 trillion this year, the so-called twin deficits are
a reminder of American dependence on foreign investors for
funding.  “The decline we saw in the fourth quarter will probably be
reversed in the first quarter,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York . “We’re already
seeing imports snap back. The current account tends to be pro-
cyclical, rising when the  U.S. economy  is strengthening.”  Economists forecast a $110 billion deficit, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The third-quarter
deficit was revised to $125.5 billion from a previous estimate of
$127.2 billion. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 43
projections ranged from $105 billion to $132.2 billion.  Percent of GDP  The gap represented 3.1 percent of GDP last quarter,
compared with 3.4 percent in the third quarter. The figure
climbed to a record 6.5 percent of GDP in the fourth quarter of
2005.  The current-account imbalance has widened as the economy
emerged from the worst recession since the 1930s, after reaching
a decade-low $84.5 billion in the second quarter of 2009.  The trade deficit, which accounted for most of the current-
account gap, narrowed to $116.7 billion in the fourth quarter
from $132.6 billion in the prior three months. Because the
figures aren’t adjusted for inflation, a jump in oil costs may
prompt the shortfall to increase in the current quarter.  The  trade gap  widened more than forecast in January to the
highest level in seven months as higher-priced oil caused imports
to surge to the highest level since August 2008, according to a
government report released last week. While foreign demand may
stay strong, recent increases in retail sales signal imports may
pick up in coming months.  Foreign Earnings  Foreign earnings on U.S. assets, including wages and
compensation, increased by $9.4 billion to $133.5 billion in the
fourth quarter, today’s report showed. U.S. income on overseas
assets rose by $6.6 billion to $172 billion.  That left a $38.6 billion surplus on income payments in the
final three months of 2010, down from $41.4 billion in the third
quarter. U.S. investments overseas yield more than the  Treasury
securities  that foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain
the income surplus, said Gregory Daco, a senior U.S. economist at
IHS Global Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  The divergence between growth in overseas emerging markets
such as China and  Brazil  and the U.S. underscores the risk to the
value of American financial instruments.  Global demand for U.S. assets slowed in January from the
prior month as investors sought to take advantage of gains in
faster-growing economies overseas, another report showed this
week.  Treasury Report  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$51.5 billion compared with net buying of $62.5 billion in
December, the Treasury Department said yesterday. Including
short-term securities such as stock swaps, foreigners purchased a
net $32.5 billion compared with a net buying of $49.7 billion the
previous month.    China , the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries, saw
its portfolio fall by $5.4 billion to $1.15 trillion in January.  Japan , the second-largest holder, increased its holdings by $3.6
billion to $885.9 billion.  Trade with China remains a sticking point for some U.S.
lawmakers, who have accused the Asian nation of keeping the value
of the yuan low to boost exports. Some in Congress have pressed
China to let its currency rise further.  Group of 20 finance officials agreed in Paris on Feb. 19 to
closer monitoring of global economic imbalances, with yardsticks
such as the current account that would give the U.S. and  Europe 
leverage to push for an appreciation of China’s currency.  While China has allowed the yuan to appreciate against the
dollar since June last year, “China’s currency remains
substantially undervalued,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters after the G20 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  