-- 
Daimler CFO Mulls Dividend Rise to Pare Growing Cash Pile

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-16T12:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/daimler-cfo-weighs-higher-dividends-to-pare-growing-cash-pile.html
  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s second-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , may pay shareholders higher
dividends as cash accumulates from growing demand for Mercedes-
Benz cars and trucks.  “When we do come to a point where we have more cash than
deemed necessary, our preferred option would be to upgrade our
dividend payout and the pay-out ratio,” Chief Financial Officer
Bodo Uebber said in an interview. “Sustainable benchmark
dividend payouts are more attractive to our shareholders than
one-off stock buyback programs.”  The automaker proposed a 2010 dividend of 1.85 euros per
share on Feb. 16 after not paying one the previous year to
conserve cash. Daimler doesn’t plan to restart a share
repurchase plan it indefinitely suspended in October 2008 in the
midst of the financial crisis, he said.  The world’s largest truckmaker will guard liquidity this
year following political turmoil in the Middle East and the
earthquake in  Japan , he said. Daimler is focusing resources on
new plants and models such as the A-Class compact and will take
a “disciplined” approach to acquisitions, including the
pending offer for engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM) , Uebber said.  “The amount of cash that we have on hand represents a
reasonable cushion for this year,” Uebber said March 14 at the
manufacturer’s headquarters in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The tragic
situation in Japan and the recent events in North Africa show
just how unpredictable the world is.”  Shares Gain  Daimler rose as much as 93 cents, or 2.1 percent, to 46.21
euros and was up 0.8 percent to 45.66 euros as of 1:36 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 48.6 billion euros
($67.9 billion).  Daimler’s cash from industrial operations surged 65 percent
to 11.9 billion euros in 2010. The company is projecting
“significantly” higher profit this year as an upgraded C-Class
sedan and revamped SLK roadster boost Mercedes-Benz deliveries.  “I can see their desire to have an operational cash
buffer,” because of rising research spending and volatile
markets, said Heenal Patel, a London-based analyst with Standard
& Poor’s Equity Research, who has a “hold” rating on the
stock. “Automotive companies are being a lot more conservative
and going for stability.”  Dividend Payments  Daimler’s planned 2010 dividend totals 1.97 billion euros,
or 42 percent of net income of 4.67 billion euros.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the luxury-car leader, plans to pay out 26
percent of last year’s net income and is targeting dividends of
30 percent to 40 percent of annual profit.  Daimler has set aside 20 billion euros over the next two
years to invest in research, upgrading factories and developing
new products like an electric version of the SLS supercar. The
budget was increased from 15 billion euros in its previous two-
year plan, as the company builds a new small-car factory in  Hungary  and doubles its lineup of compact models to four by next
year.  “The focus for investment is on organic growth, rather
than mergers and acquisitions,” Uebber said. “Cash makes
mergers and acquisitions possible, but it isn’t a reason to do
it.”  Daimler, which declined to pursue Fiat SpA’s Iveco truck
unit last year, “will continue to take a disciplined approach
to acquisitions,” he said.  Tognum Bid  The measured M&A strategy holds in the ongoing pursuit of
Tognum, Uebber said, reiterating that Daimler and  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc (RR/)  don’t plan to raise their joint “fair value” bid for
the company that makes  diesel engines  for ships, tanks, and
power generators.  Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce offered to buy Tognum
in a deal valuing the heavy-duty engine maker at 3.2 billion
euros. The bid is 30 percent higher than the Friedrichshafen,
Germany-based company’s closing price on March 4, the last
trading day before the prospective buyers expressed interest.
The joint bidders haven’t yet submitted the offer to German
regulators.  The stock traded today as high as 5.1 percent above the
offer price of 24 euros per share. Tognum hasn’t agreed with
Daimler on a price.  While preparations for the offer are continuing, “we will
nevertheless closely monitor the situation, given the high
volatility in the capital markets,” Uebber said.  Daimler has made a series of investments since exiting
Chrysler in May 2007. The carmaker has bought stakes in Russian
truckmaker OAO Kamaz and electric-car maker Tesla Motors Inc. It
also swapped shares with Renault SA and Nissan Motor Co. to
secure a small-car partnership and bought a Formula One racing
team.  The Tognum purchase would represent Daimler’s biggest deal
since buying a 34 percent stake in Mitsubishi Motors Corp. in
2000, according to Bloomberg data. The company has since sold
the stake in the Japanese carmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  