-- 
Deere Accused of Systematic Sex Bias in Hiring in Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-17T00:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/deere-accused-of-systematic-sex-bias-in-hiring-in-lawsuit-1-.html
  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
maker of agricultural equipment, was accused in an amended
lawsuit of systematically discriminating against women seeking
entry-level positions.  Holly Artis, who sued last year in San Francisco federal
court, filed an amended complaint today seeking class-action, or
group, status for her lawsuit on behalf of female applicants
denied jobs. Artis, 33, said she was rejected by John Deere
Landscapes in Livermore,  California , in favor of a man with less
experience, and said the company and its landscaping division
bar women from customer-service and sales jobs.  All 19 executives in Deere’s equipment and landscaping
divisions are men, and women hold only 2.2 percent of sales jobs
at its larger landscaping facilities, while the average for
nursery, garden-center and farm-supply stores is more than 50
percent,  Brad Seligman , Artis’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The manager at the Livermore facility told Artis at her
2007 job interview that Deere “frowns upon hiring women,”
according to the lawsuit.  “Deere has strong nondiscriminatory hiring practices and
recruits and hires qualified candidates for employment
regardless of gender,” Ken Golden, a spokesman for Moline,
Illinois-based Deere, said in a telephone interview. The lawsuit
is one person’s perspective, inaccurate and “not representative
of Deere & Co.’s overall hiring practices,” he said.  Artis is seeking a court order ending the alleged
discriminatory hiring practices and reimbursement of lost pay to
applicants denied jobs.  Seligman is the lead lawyer in a class action against Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., the largest-ever private gender bias case in
U.S. history, representing as many as 1 million women. The U.S.
Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments in the case March
29. Wal-Mart denies wrongdoing.  The case is Artis v. Deere, 10-5289, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California   San Francisco )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 