-- 
Democrats Seek Repeal of Anti-Gay ‘Defense of Marriage’ Law

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-16T20:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/democrats-seek-repeal-of-anti-gay-defense-of-marriage-law.html
Democrats in the U.S. House and
Senate introduced legislation today that would repeal a ban on
federal recognition of same-sex marriage after House Republicans
said they would defend the 1996 law in court.  The Defense of Marriage Act defines marriage as “a legal
union between one man and one woman as husband and wife.”
President  Barack Obama ’s administration says the law
unconstitutionally discriminates against gays and lesbians.  Obama’s decision to stop defending the law against court
challenges to its constitutionality prompted Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, to authorize the House’s top lawyer
earlier this month to take over that task.  “Rather than prolonging litigation in the courts, Congress
should act to repeal this ugly law,” Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat who is sponsoring the House bill,
said in a statement.  Five states and the District of Columbia have legalized
same-sex marriages. The U.S. law bars same-sex married couples
from receiving federal benefits when eligibility is determined
by marital status, such as Social Security survivors’ payments
or enrollment of a spouse for government retiree health-care
benefits.  The Senate measure was introduced by Senators Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, and  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat from California.  Repeal legislation was first introduced in the House in
2009, when Democrats controlled both chambers of Congress,
though it never received a vote in committee or on the floor.
Such a measure hasn’t previously been introduced in the Senate,
said Judiciary Committee spokeswoman Erica Chabot.  108 Co-Sponsors  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, who was
speaker when the measure was introduced two years ago, is among
108 co-sponsors of the new measure.  At least 10 lawsuits are challenging the constitutionality
of the law. Following a Justice Department review, Attorney
General  Eric Holder  recommended that the agency no longer defend
the law against those suits. Obama accepted the recommendation
last month.  “Years of experience with same-sex marriage in several
states has conclusively refuted the arguments” that the law was
needed to protect family values, Representative  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in a statement.  “It stands now only as a symbol of bigotry,” said Frank,
who is gay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  