-- 
Dogs Show How Earthquake Will Bring Us Closer: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-16T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/dogs-show-how-earthquake-will-bring-us-closer-william-pesek.html
  Japan ’s domestic nuclear crisis is
going global in a hurry.  Just ask  Christine Lagarde ,  France ’s finance minister, who
wants to convene Group of Seven talks on a response to Japan’s
earthquake. “I’ve asked for a G-7 meeting at the level of
finance ministers and central bankers to see how we can purchase
their bonds and how to respond on the financial level,” she
said.  The internationalization of this crisis is even more
obvious in the openness with which Japan is responding,
welcoming foreign assistance. It’s a phenomenon that may bring
Asia closer together to the economic benefit of billions.  For much of the world, it’s a no-brainer in times of chaos
and human tragedy. We’re reeling, you have expertise that we
need, please by all means rush here and help us. You saw this
dynamic in  New Zealand  last month, Haiti and  Chile  in 2010,  Indonesia  in 2007 and many parts of Asia in 2004.  Yet in 1995, Japan was having none of it. On a crisp
January morning, a 7.3 magnitude earthquake that would
eventually kill 6,400 people devastated western Japan. Offers of
help poured in, the vast majority of them rebuffed by the then-
ruling  Liberal Democratic Party , hardly a bunch of
internationalists.  Swiss rescue teams did manage to arrive at Kansai
International Airport with a bunch of rescue dogs, which Japan
held in quarantine for days while survivors who might have lived
succumbed to their injuries. Then there were government
bureaucrats who wanted to powwow with the international
emergency staffers who did sneak in for a leisurely lunch or
dinner rather than letting them get to work in devastated areas.  More Open Japan  Today the situation is markedly different and it’s not just
the magnitude. With the LDP gone and the  Democratic Party  of
Japan in charge, the nation is not only open for business, but
outside help. Aid and offers of assistance are rolling in fast
and furiously, from  Washington  to Canberra. It’s being accepted
with open arms and being solicited without reservation.  On March 15, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for
international help and asked the United Nations atomic agency to
provide “expert missions” to help stabilize the nuclear
reactors. Immigration-wary Japan is approaching this crisis with
a sense of openness that’s both extraordinary and a sign of hope
for its dealings in the world’s most vibrant economic region.  Concerned World  A concerned world is responding with similar selflessness.
And not just governments, but companies that compete with
Japanese counterparts. Says Samsung Electronics Co. Vice
Chairman Choi Gee Sung: “Japan is a close neighbor before it is
a rival. We will do whatever we can to help Japan’s recovery
from the quake.”    South Korea  really is Exhibit A. Aside from considering a
government financial-aid package, Korea plans to transfer its
boric-acid reserves to Japan to stabilize quake-damaged nuclear
reactors. The idea of Japan accepting such a gesture in 1995
would be unthinkable. This time Korean actor Bae Yong Joon, a
superstar in Japan, donated 1 billion won ($884,000) to the
nation’s earthquake-relief fund.  The U.S. military has arrived this time without the
bureaucratic delay of 16 years ago. Dogs, too. The  U.S. Agency
for International Development  sent 150 search-and-rescue
personnel with dogs that can find people or bodies in rubble.
The U.K., Australia and Korea did the same. Mongolia also is
sending rescue teams to Japan’s devastated Tohoku region.    China ’s Nemesis  China is an important part of this story. It has long been
the case that the leaders of China, Japan and  Korea  could barely
speak to one another. We in the media get excited when any of
them chat for 20 minutes, no matter how superficially. Here is
an example of the Chinese stepping forward to help its long-time
nemesis in a time of crisis.  It’s a sign that China is maturing. Pundits have long
called on China, now the second-biggest economy, to be less of a
global shareholder and more of a stakeholder. China is a global
leader and must accept the responsibility that comes with that
status. The world needs China to be a constructive and nuanced
steward of an international system that has lost its way.  Here’s an example of just that. Another: China has
suspended approval of new nuclear projects and will conduct
safety inspections of all plants under construction following
the radiation leaks in Japan. And really, are nations along the
so-called Ring of Fire, an arc of volcanoes and seismic fault
lines around the Pacific Basin, appropriate homes for nuclear
reactors?  Yet the considerably more open response to the world’s
offers of aid shows not only that Japan learned from past
mistakes but also that it’s looking outward. China and Korea are
doing the same.  One never wants to make light of the immense toll of
Japan’s earthquake in lives and human suffering. Here is a sign,
though, that out of a huge tragedy may come a closer, more
coherent  Asia .  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  