-- 
Dubai Art Fair Emerges From 2010 Slump, Focuses on Mideast Art

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-03-16T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/dubai-art-fair-emerges-from-2010-slump-targets-collectors-of-mideast-art.html
Art Dubai  opens today in the Gulf
emirate with a narrowed focus on works from the Middle East,
North Africa and South Asia after last year’s event was
attended by few of the world’s top-selling galleries.  The 2010 fair took place right after Dubai announced it
was renegotiating its debt, sparking a global stock-market
selloff. A third of the previous year’s exhibitors stayed
away, including  London ’s  Lisson Gallery  and New York’s  L&M
Arts , while booth rates were cut 20 percent.  This year, there are 81 exhibitors -- nine more than last
year -- each representing at least one artist from the region.
Among first-timers is the  Marianne Boesky Gallery , one of  New
York ’s top-selling dealers. The fair will gauge appetite for
Mideastern art at a time of political upheaval in the area.  “In the first couple of years, you saw a lot of large-
scale works: safe, but glitzy,” said Antonia Carver, 39, the
fair’s new director, in an interview in London. “That’s
changed dramatically.”  Dubai is “not seen as a place where you can make quick
money,” she said. “It’s a place where you meet interesting
people, have interesting conversations and discover artists.”  Art Dubai was co-founded in 2007 by  John Martin , who
heads the  John Martin Gallery  in London. There were 40 booths
in the first year. The fair was, and still is, held at the
convention center in the  Madinat Jumeirah  beachside resort.  Art Rivalry  Since 2009, Art Dubai has faced competition from  Abu
Dhabi Art , which in November each year draws top Western
exhibitors -- including the  Gagosian Gallery  and  White Cube  --
aiming to sell to the new museums under construction: the
Louvre, the Guggenheim and the Sheikh Zayed National Museum.  Art Dubai now tends to draw collectors from the Middle
East, North Africa, and  South Asia  who shop for works that in
past years have cost, on average, less than $30,000.  Some European dealers would like to see a merger of the
two fairs.  To William Lawrie -- former head of contemporary Middle
Eastern art at Christie’s, who has just opened the Lawrie
Shabibi gallery in Dubai -- they are quite distinctive.  “At Abu Dhabi Art, you can find Matisse, Picasso, 20th-
century modern masters,” he said. At Art Dubai, “you’d be
more likely to find emerging artists, especially from emerging
markets.”  “Either by design or by trial and error, they’ve become
quite different entities,” he said.  According to Carver, Art Dubai is also the place where
Western museum curators go shopping for Middle Eastern art.  “Five or six years ago, the Middle East was not seen as
a region that you’d have an acquisitions committee for,” she
said.  Today, “ignoring the Middle East or South Asia, whether
you’re a museum from  Hong Kong  or New York, is missing out on
a fascinating and vibrant part of the world,” Carver said.  The fair ends on March 19. Information:
 http://www.artdubai.ae .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 