-- 
E.ON Begins Isar Reactor Halt as Germany Plans Safety Check

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-16T15:04:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/e-on-halts-isar-1-nuclear-reactor-as-germany-orders-safety-check.html
  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  Germany ’s largest utility,
was the first nuclear power plant operator to start the halt of
a facility in the country after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered
safety checks at the country’s seven oldest reactors.  E.ON began lowering output at its 878-megawatt Isar 1 plant
in the southern town of Essenbach at 12:10 p.m. local time
yesterday, according to data published on the company’s  website .
The utility is operating the facility at 110 megawatts until the
government orders it to switch the plant off, said Petra Uhlmann, a spokeswoman for E.ON’s nuclear power unit.  The nationwide safety review will run through June, Merkel
told reporters in Berlin yesterday. Two of the seven plants are
currently offline. The rest equals 5.2 gigawatts of the 20.7
gigawatts installed over Germany’s 17 reactors.  The seven plants are E.ON’s Isar 1 and Unterweser,  RWE AG (RWE) ’s
Biblis A and B,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ’s
Philippsburg 1 and Neckarwestheim 1 as well as Brunsbuettel,
which is co-owned by E.ON and Vattenfall AB. Biblis B is offline
for maintenance, while Brunsbuettel has been shut since June
2007 following a short circuit in a nearby power network.  RWE will halt Biblis A in coordination with a regulator in
the state of Hesse, where the plant is located, and publish
details of the stoppage on its website, said Manfred Lang, a
company spokesman, today by phone. The utility can’t yet say
when the plant will be taken offline, he said.  Government Orders  EnBW plans to shut down its Neckarwestheim 1 plant after an
internal decision, Ulrich Schroeder, a company spokesman, said
today, without specifying a timeframe. Stefan Mappus, the
premier of Baden-Wuerttemberg, said the reactor will be taken
off the grid permanently.  EnBW is waiting to discuss the operation of Philippsburg 1
with the government, Schroeder said, adding that the utility
will halt the reactor if ordered to do so by the state.  Uhlmann, the E.ON spokeswoman, said the company is waiting
for a state order to halt its Unterweser plant. Data the utility
published on a website that tracks the stops and starts of its
power stations showed it had reduced capacity at Isar 1 to zero.  
* Company estimate
** Determined by state/federal government
*** Determined by company and or state government  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  