-- 
Earthquake Losses May Be Limited for Japanese Non-Life Insurance Providers

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-16T06:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/earthquake-losses-may-be-limited-for-japanese-non-life-insurance-providers.html
Japanese non-life insurers may face
limited losses from the country’s strongest earthquake because
of contingency reserves and an exclusion from insuring damaged
nuclear plants, analysts said.    MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (8725)  Inc.,  Tokio Marine Holdings
Inc. (8766)  and  NKSJ Holdings Inc. (8630) , the three-biggest non-life insurers,
may have 20 billion yen ($250 million) to 80 billion yen each in
commercial losses, according to Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. The
three have set aside about 88 percent of their 593.2 billion yen
maximum liability,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Losses at Japan’s casualty insurers from the March 11
earthquake, the world’s fourth strongest since 1900, may differ
from temblors such as the Feb. 22 New Zealand quake because they
are protected under a government framework that limits coverage.
Commercial and industrial risks are passed on to the reinsurance
market, according to Fitch.  “The direct impact on the casualty insurers will be
limited,” said David Threadgold, a Tokyo-based analyst for
Keefe Bruyette. “Earthquake and tsunami are explicitly excluded
from nuclear coverage under the Atomic Energy Insurance Pool, so
there is no coverage provided by insurers.”  Non-life insurers have set aside reserves for earthquakes
that they can tap for claims, according to  Japan ’s  General
Insurance Association , while the Japan Earthquake Reinsurance
will pay all losses amounting to 115 billion yen on residential
earthquake insurance, it said.  MS&AD rose 3.2 percent,  Tokio Marine  advanced 2.9 percent
and NKSJ climbed 4.4 percent at the close of trading in Tokyo,
with all of their shares gaining for the first time in five days.  Kobe 1995  Before this earthquake, the most destructive temblor to hit
Japan struck Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto in 1995, costing insurers
about $3 billion, not taking inflation into account.  The March 11 quake -- updated to a magnitude of 9, from 8.9,
by the  U.S. Geological Survey  -- and subsequent tsunami have led
to what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called the country’s worst
crisis since World War II. Tokyo Electric Power Co., locally
known as Tepco, is battling to prevent a nuclear catastrophe at
its earthquake-damaged Fukushima plant 220 kilometers (135 miles)
north of the capital.  Stocks rebounded today from a 16 percent drop in the Topix
index in the past two days, the most since 1987. The quake also
prompted the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to pour record funds into the economy.
The Topix jumped 6.6 percent at the close.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut its outlook on the
Japanese non-life  insurance industry  to negative from stable,
citing concerns that declines in stock prices following the
earthquake may weigh on their earnings.  ‘Well Under’ Reserves  Total claims payments for losses from the earthquake and
tsunami will probably exceed those recorded after the 1995
temblor, S&P said. Still, the total payout will be “well
under” the insurers’ contingency reserves, it said.  The insured property losses from the earthquake in Japan
may be as much as 2.8 trillion yen, according to AIR Worldwide.
The disaster modeler is working to quantify losses related to
the surge of water that swept into northeast prefectures
including Miyagi, Fukushima, Ibaraki and Iwate, said Jayanta Guin, senior vice president of research and modeling.  The quake, which may have killed more than 10,000 people,
could cost the global insurance industry as much as 2.8 trillion
yen in claims, according to AIR Worldwide. The official death
toll as of midnight was 3,373, according to the  National Police
Agency  in  Tokyo .  Halting Stock Buybacks  Insurers and reinsurers have been returning capital to
shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases as the
prices businesses pay for coverage decline. The latest quake may
stop stock repurchases by most reinsurers and may push down
share prices this year, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst said.
Reinsurers in the U.S. and  Bermuda  are already facing almost a
full year’s worth of losses in the first quarter, said Joshua Shanker, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank.  Japan’s residential earthquake insurance is structured so
that a large part of the risk is reinsured to the government.
The coverage for nuclear power also comes under the government,
not local insurers.  “Japanese insurance companies have appropriate levels of
reserves and capital and it should not have significant impact
on their business or claim payments,” Japan’s Financial
Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi said at a press conference on
March 15.  Japanese casualty insurers will probably have to pay claims
totaling 10 billion yen to 20 billion yen to cover losses due to
earthquake damage to cars and for fire, according to Natsumu Tsujino, a Tokyo-based analyst at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co.  More Losses  Payments against losses on commercial property, cargo,
marine vessels, and factories will be around “several tens of
billions” for the industry as a whole, Tsujino said.  Japan’s earthquake follows the  New Zealand  temblor that
wrecked the central business district of Christchurch. The
government said earlier this month it may need to borrow more
money and reconsider spending plans after New Zealand’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years caused as much as NZ$15 billion
($11 billion) in damage.  “While the March 11 earthquake in Japan will be among the
largest insured losses in history, such loses can be absorbed by
the insurance and reinsurance industries without widespread
solvency problems, or undue financial strain,” Fitch Ratings
wrote in a report issued on March 14. The rating firm added that
the initial assessments are subject to change as new information
becomes available.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  