-- 
Heating Oil Advances on Mideast Violence, Japan Earthquake

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-16T19:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/heating-oil-advances-on-mideast-violence-japan-earthquake.html
Heating oil gained as growing
violence in  Bahrain  increased concern that fuel supply may be
disrupted and on speculation that Japan’s March 11 earthquake
and worsening nuclear crisis will raise demand for distillates
and drive up global diesel prices.  Futures rose as political protests in Bahrain left four
dead and neighbor  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil
exporter, sent troops. Japan’s worst earthquake left refineries
and nuclear  power plants  shut and industries seeking fuel to
power generators.  “The biggest factor has been the continuing turmoil in
the Middle East,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston. “The biggest concern is that by
Saudi Arabia sending troops in Bahrain, Saudi Arabia is very
concerned about turmoil in their own country and that would
impact oil production.”  Heating oil for April delivery rose 4.34 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $2.9972 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  In Japan, as much as 1.2 million barrels a day of refining
was offline yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Japan is  Asia ’s fourth-largest diesel exporter, according to a
report today from Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  ‘Reconstruction’ Demand  “You’re going to see demand for distillates rise in the
reconstruction efforts,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of
commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “You
may see less gasoil shipments to  Europe , and that’s supportive
of European prices, along with the loss of light Libyan crude.
Europe is structurally short distillate. If European prices
strengthen, you might be able to draw cargoes from the U.S.”  The fuel’s premium over gasoline has jumped sixfold to 15.4
cents a gallon from 2.53 cents March 10, the day before the 9.0-
magnitude temblor and a tsunami struck  Japan . The United
Nations’ nuclear agency will call an emergency meeting to
discuss the crisis in Japan as a breach at the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant increased the risk of a radioactive
leak.  Heating oil also gained as Libya’s political uprising
reduced its crude exports to European refiners.  Libya’s crude exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to oil facilities and international sanctions
following a rebellion against leader Muammar Qaddafi, the
International Energy Agency said yesterday in its monthly Oil
Market Report. The IEA estimated output loss for Africa’s third-
largest producer at about 1.3 million barrels a day.  ‘Powder Keg’  “Traders are eyeing the powder keg in the Middle East,”
said  Dan Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Futures widened gains after a government report that U.S.
fuel inventories fell more than projected last week.  The Energy Department reported that stockpiles of
distillates, including heating oil and diesel, dropped 2.6
million barrels to 152.6 million, the lowest level since May 21.
It was the fifth straight decline and a bigger drop than the 1.4
million-barrel loss projected in a survey by Bloomberg News.  “It’s a response to the high price of crude,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Refiners are pushing out inventories
made with cheaper crude.”  Distillate demand slipped 7 percent to an average 3.91
million barrels a day, the first decline in three weeks.  Heating oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
157,068 contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in New York, 29 percent above
the average during the past three months. Gasoline volume was
82,940 contracts, 23 percent below the three-month average.  Gasoline futures for April delivery added 4.08 cents, or
1.5 percent, to settle at $2.8437 a gallon.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles shrank 4.17 million barrels to 225
million last week, the lowest level in nine weeks, according to
department data. A survey by Bloomberg News projected a decline
of 1.5 million barrels.  “It’s inventory-clearing, but it’s pretty bullish because
the inventory burn is going to end,” Cohan said. “Refiners are
going to have to start making products and they will have to buy
more expensive crude.”  Gasoline demand, as measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
slipped 3.9 percent to an average 8.83 million barrels a day
last week, a four-week low.  Oil futures also rose, with Brent crude for April
settlement advancing $2.10 to $110.62 a barrel on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange and Nymex April crude gaining 80 cents
to $97.98.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
0.3 cent to $3.553 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  