-- 
Qaddafi Launching Two New Attacks on Rebels, Libyan Envoy Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-16T22:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/lebanon-appeals-for-libya-no-fly-zone-vows-arab-participation.html
A no-fly zone over  Libya  needs to
be authorized immediately by the  United Nations Security Council 
to prevent two new offensives by the Qaddafi regime from killing
thousands of rebels and civilians, a Libyan envoy said.  “We think in the coming hours we will see a real genocide
if the international community does not move quickly,” Libya’s
Deputy Ambassador to the UN Ibrahim Dabbashi, who is allied with
the rebel movement, told reporters in New York. “We are
counting on international forces to limit the number of
victims.”  Dabbashi said he has information that forces loyal to
Qaddafi are preparing to launch major offensives in eastern and
western Libya. He said they have instructions to destroy
everything in their path and that the  Security Council  needs to
impose the no-fly zone and go further -- authorizing air attacks
on Qaddafi’s ground troops -- within“10 hours.”  A vote in the security council on some measures may come
tomorrow, officials said.  Qaddafi has a “large number of mercenaries” from the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Chad
who are moving east in a convoy of 400 vehicles toward the rebel
stronghold in Benghazi, Dabbashi said. In Western Libya, he
said, another force is preparing to execute “ethnic cleansing”
on villages that have rebelled.  Dabbashi spoke as the Security Council debated a draft
resolution authorizing a no-fly zone and strengthening of
existing sanctions on Libya intended to block the participation
of mercenaries and cut off any movement of arms to government
forces. The text as presented yesterday by Britain,  France  and
Lebanon would not authorize attacks on Qaddafi’s ground troops.  Sarkozy Letter  “It is high time for the international community, through
the Security Council, to pull together in order to draw the
logical conclusions from this situation and respond without
delay to the urgent appeal of the League of Arab States,”
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in a letter today to
leaders of the Security Council’s 15 member governments.  “France solemnly calls on all the members of the Security
Council to fully shoulder their responsibilities and give
support to this initiative,” Sarkozy said in the letter.
“Together, we can save the martyred people of Libya. It is now
a matter of days, if not hours.”  Momentum in the monthlong conflict has shifted toward the
Qaddafi regime. His forces have used armor and planes to drive
back the insurgents. Qaddafi’s warplanes today attacked the
airport in Benghazi, the rebel stronghold.  Ban ‘Gravely Concerned’  “Our goal is to have a resolution before the end of the
week and, if possible, before tomorrow night,” France’s
Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told reporters before the Security
Council meeting.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is “gravely concerned
about the increasing military escalation by government forces,
which include indications of an assault on the city of
Benghazi,” the UN said in a statement released in New York. “A
campaign to bombard such an urban center would massively place
civilian lives at risk.”  Security Council members including  Brazil ,  China ,  Germany ,  Russia  and  South Africa  have expressed reservations about the
resolution.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in Cairo
that Arab participation was critical. “The Arab League
statement, their very courageous stance, suggests that they know
that they have to step up and lead and participate in any
action,” Clinton said in an interview on  CBS News .  Arab Participation  Lebanon’s Ambassador to the UN Nawaf Salam said a
“number” of Arab countries are committed to help enforce the
no-fly zone and that “significant participation has been
confirmed from the highest political authorities.” He declined
to be more specific.  Dabbashi said five Arab nations have agreed to contribute
to the no-fly zone, and diplomats said that group would include
Jordan, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and United Arab Emirates.  “I am sure you heard Saif al-Islam Qaddafi’s statement
that in two days they will be in Benghazi,” Salam told
reporters before the council met. “I hope the Security Council
will prove him wrong on two counts: that there will be no rivers
of blood and that the council will act swiftly and have a no-fly
zone and other measures to protect the civilian population.”  Qaddafi, son of Libya’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi , said on
state-run television that government forces were closing on the
rebel stronghold of Benghazi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  