-- 
Ecom’s Esteve Says Demand for Cotton Rationed by Rally in Price

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T05:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ecom-s-esteve-says-demand-for-cotton-rationed-by-rally-in-price.html
Antonio Esteve, chief executive
Officer at  Ecom Cotton Group , a cotton ginner with facilities in  Brazil ,  Paraguay  and  Mexico , comments on demand, alternative raw
materials and the outlook for global production. He spoke
yesterday in an interview in Dubai.  On demand:  “The problem that we are having now is the supply shortage
has caused prices to rise to ration demand. There is more demand
than availability, so prices had to rise to cause people to
switch to other fibers or to reduce their consumption of cotton
and that was the function of the market. That is why prices have
risen and I think that prices have risen sufficiently to get
that job done.”  On substitution:  “There’s been a lot of switching to polyester, to viscose
and as much as spinners have been able to switch, they have
switched. This is a phenomenon that is probably exacerbated in
the last two or three months because cotton prices really
started rising in October but most of the mills were already
covered two or three months forward. So through the end of 2010
it was not a very big impact because prices had risen but it was
not in their inventories yet.  “So the real impact to mills is being felt this quarter
and now we are getting the rationing kicking in. There’s a limit
to how much you can switch. The elasticity to switch will be
maximized but it’s limited. Normally you would have a switch of
3 to 5 percent, maybe this year because of the exaggeration it
might be 10 percent, but it won’t be more than that.”  On the global production response to higher prices:  “We are going to see the biggest increase in acreage and
production. Production will depend on yields, but acreage is
definitely going to increase at least 10 percent globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Dubai on
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  