-- 
EDF Says Nuclear Industry in Difficult Position After Japan

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-16T18:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/edf-says-nuclear-industry-in-difficult-position-after-japan.html
Electricite de France SA Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said explosions at Japanese
nuclear reactors have put the atomic industry in a “difficult
situation.”  “We can’t erase the good of nuclear just by looking at the
drama of a terrible accident,” Proglio said in an interview on
RTL radio today. “It’s a difficult situation for any industry
whatever it may be. All airplane accidents create difficulties
for the aeronautical industry. It doesn’t end airplanes.”  The utility is ready to send equipment such as robots and
detectors to aid Tokyo Electric Power Co. to gain control of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant and has a team of nuclear workers
that could also be sent to help, Proglio said. The utility is
sending two metric tons of boron to  Japan .  EDF operates France’s 58 nuclear reactors that provide the
country with more than three quarters of its power production,
making the country  Europe ’s most dependent on atomic energy.
Prime Minister Francois Fillon yesterday said that while it
would be “absurd” to halt nuclear energy following the
Japanese accident, the country’s plants would be inspected to
determine how well they would withstand earthquakes and floods.  “Building confidence is now essential for our industry,”  Areva SA (CEI)  Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  said at a
parliamentary hearing today. The reactor designer is ready for
“extremely stringent” rules for building new reactors in the
future.  Aging Plants  EDF will stick to its plan to extend the lifetime of French
nuclear reactors, which will cost an estimated 40 billion euros
($55.9 billion), Proglio said, adding aging plants don’t pose a
threat as EDF undergoes about 500 inspections by safety
authorities annually.  “We have a very high level of safety in  France ,” Industry
Minister Eric Besson said on RMC radio. “Our nuclear reactors
are in better shape than we expected.”  A debate in France on the merits of nuclear energy is
“inevitable and legitimate,” Besson said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided yesterday to halt
seven of Germany’s 17 reactors including two in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, where her party is battling to retain its 59-year
-hold on the state in a March 27 vote. Polls indicate a neck-
and-neck race between the local Christian Democrat Union-led
coalition and opposition parties including the anti-nuclear
Greens.  The decision is “purely political” and was “made at a
moment of dramatic circumstances and electoral climate,”
Proglio said. “Nuclear is a formidable source of energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  