-- 
Egypt Bond Ratings Cut by Moody’s on Political Instability

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   H e a t h e r   B u r k e
-- 
2011-03-16T14:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/egypt-bond-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-on-political-instability-2-.html
  Egypt , the North African nation
whose president was ousted after popular protests last month,
had its bond ratings cut one level at Moody’s Investors Service
on political instability and the impact on the economy.  Egypt’s foreign and local currency bond ratings were
lowered to Ba3, three levels below investment grade, from Ba2,
the ratings company said in a statement today. The outlook
remains negative, it said.  The downgrade is the second by Moody’s since the start of
anti-government protests in January which force President  Hosni Mubarak  to resign on Feb. 11 and handed power to the military.
The armed forces suspended the constitution and said it will
remain in charge until a transition to an elected government.
The country on March 7 swore in a new cabinet headed by Prime
Minister Essam Sharaf following protesters’ demands that the
government be purged of officials appointed by Mubarak.  “Although the country’s Higher Military Council has
outlined a timetable for transition to a civilian government,
the process is fraught with uncertainty,” Moody’s said in its
report. “The make-up of the cabinet has been fluid, and
sporadic protests and violence have continued amid fragile
domestic security.”  Auction Tomorrow  Egypt’s Ministry of Finance plans to raise 6 billion
Egyptian pounds ($1 billion) at an auction tomorrow of six-month
and one-year treasury bills with yields already hovering near
their highest levels in more than two years. The cost of
insuring Egyptian government debt fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage points, to 384, according to CMA credit default swaps
prices. The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds
due in April 2020 declined 6 basis points to 6.88 percent.  The economy of the most populous Arab country relies on
revenue from tourism, the  Suez Canal  and foreign direct
investment for growth. Gross domestic product expanded 5.1
percent in the fiscal year that ended in June. Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said last month growth may slow to 4 percent this
fiscal year, from a pre-crisis estimate of 6 percent. The
country’s bourse has been shut since the end of Jan. 27.  The decision to cut Egypt’s ratings was also influenced by
“the uncertain prospects for economic recovery,” a number of
strikes and the departure of Egyptian workers from  Libya , the
ratings company said. Moody’s had cut Egypt’s bond ratings to
Ba2 from Ba1 on Jan. 31, less than a week after anti-government
protesters took to the streets.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net 
Heather Burke at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  