-- 
Lehman Seeks to Confirm $61 Billion Plan by Nov. 17

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-16T18:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/lehman-aims-to-confirm-liquidation-plan-by-november-17-after-creditor-vote.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September
2008, aims to confirm a liquidation plan by Nov. 17 that offers
creditors about $61 billion.  Creditors will vote on the plan by Oct. 14, according to a
schedule published today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .
Lehman revised its plan to exit Chapter 11 proceedings in
January, offering bondholders more money after hedge fund
Paulson & Co. and other creditors proposed a competing plan.
Voting will be “contentious,” Lehman said earlier this month.  Members of the rival group, including the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , hold about $20 billion in Lehman
claims, including $16 billion of senior bonds.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which filed two claims totaling $2.5 billion against
a Lehman unit that financed derivatives transactions, may submit
a competing plan to try to improve its position, according to
John Beiers, chief deputy counsel for San Mateo County in  California , a member of the Calpers-Paulson group.  Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal intends to
raise $61 billion for creditors by selling assets in the next
few years and reducing allowable claims to $322 billion,
according to court filings. That would give the average Lehman
creditor 18.6 cents on the dollar.  Bondholders’ Recovery  Paulson and other senior bondholders would be paid 21.4
cents on the dollar, up from 17.4 cents in Marsal’s previous
plan. New York-based Goldman Sachs and other derivatives
creditors with claims against Lehman Brothers Special Financing,
the unit that handled many of the collapsed bank’s swap
contracts, would get 22.3 cents, down from a prior estimate of
24.1 cents.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck ordered a June 28 hearing
on Lehman’s disclosure statement, which explains its liquidation
plan.  Lehman, which reported debt of $613 billion in 2008, spent
almost $1.2 billion on managers and advisers through January,
according to court filings. That included $403.5 million paid to
Marsal’s restructuring firm, Alvarez & Marsal LLC, for “interim
management.”  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 