-- 
Electronic Arts Must Defend $400 Million Activision Suit Over 2 Developers

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T20:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/electronic-arts-must-defend-400-million-activision-suit-over-2-developers.html
  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher, must defend a contract-
interference lawsuit for $400 million brought by its larger
rival  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , a judge ruled.    California  Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle in  Los Angeles 
today refused to dismiss all but one of the claims against
Electronic Arts. The judge, without ruling on the merits of
Activision’s claims, said the company had provided sufficient
facts in its complaint for the case to proceed.  Electronic Arts had said in court filings that Activision
failed to provide facts to support its allegation that the rival
company intended for two of Activision’s executives to breach
their contracts. The judge referred to Activision’s assertion
that Electronic Arts sought confidential information from the
executives in overruling the objection.  Robert Klieger, a lawyer for Electronic Arts, argued during
the hearing that Activision hadn’t identified any confidential
information Electronic Arts allegedly received and that the
claim was “only a conclusionary allegation.”  Klieger and Steven Marenberg, a lawyer for Activision,
declined to comment after the hearing.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica , California, in December
added Electronic Arts to its dispute with the two developers,
Jason West and Vince Zampella, who had helped create the “Call
of Duty” and “Modern Warfare” combat games as heads of
Activision’s Infinity Ward subsidiary.  Unpaid Bonuses  The two sued Activision for $36 million in unpaid bonuses
after they were fired in March of last year. They said
Activision had terminated them to avoid making royalty payments
on “Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2,” the top-selling game the
previous year.  Activision countersued the two developers, saying they had
hired agents and secretly met and negotiated with Electronic
Arts executives while still working at Activision.  After they were fired, West and Zampella set up Respawn
Entertainment, which agreed to produce games for  Redwood City ,
California-based Electronic Arts.  In addition, 38 current and former employees of
Activision’s Infinity Ward unit sued last year, alleging they
weren’t paid bonuses and royalties for their work on “Modern
Warfare 2.” Their case has been consolidated with West’s and
Zampella’s case against Activision.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  