-- 
Simon Israel to Retire From Temasek Executive, Board Positions as of July

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-03-16T10:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/temasek-says-israel-to-retire-from-board-executive-roles-after-five-years.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said Executive Director and
President Simon  Israel  will retire from his executive and board
roles effective July 1.  Israel, who turns 58 in May, assumed the role of president
last year and has been a member of the board since August 2005.
He will continue to serve in his own individual capacity on the
boards on some companies owned by Temasek, the company said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Israel’s departure comes almost two years after the company
parted ways with former BHP Billiton Ltd. head Charles “Chip”
Goodyear, who was going to replace Ho Ching as chief executive
officer, because of differences in strategy. Temasek, which
manages S$186 billion ($145 billion), last year named Israel as
president, along with Gregory Curl, once a candidate for CEO of
Bank of America Corp., and former Singapore Exchange Ltd. head
Hsieh Fu Hua.  “As I have shared with Ho Ching periodically, it has been
my wish for some time to retire from a full-time executive
role,” Israel said in the statement. “Now that we have a good
team of very capable and committed people in place in Temasek, I
feel it is as good a time as any for me to move on to a non-
executive role.”  ‘Evolution of Temasek’  Before Temasek, Israel joined Paris-based  Danone (BN)  in 1996
and was the  Asia  Pacific chairman of the world’s largest yogurt
maker. Prior to Danone, he had a 22-year career at  Sara Lee
Corp. (SLE)  in Asia.  Israel contributed to the “evolution of Temasek as an
international investor,” the company said. Temasek has
transformed itself from a passive holder of stakes in
government-controlled firms to an investor with more than two-
thirds of underlying assets abroad.  “Simon has contributed significantly to the deepening of
Temasek’s capability and discipline as an active investor,” Ho
said in the statement. “He has played an invaluable role in the
evolution and reshaping of Temasek as an active international
investor and value-adding shareholder.”  Israel is on the board of Temasek-linked companies
including  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer,
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., the region’s largest phone
operator, and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., Asia’s second-largest
container shipping company.  Israel, who’s from  New Zealand , was appointed executive
director at Temasek starting July 1, 2006. He was first named a
non-executive director in 2005 as part of the company’s “board
rejuvenation,” Temasek said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  