-- 
Treasuries Rise for Third Day as Japanese Turmoil Bolsters Refuge Appeal

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-16T21:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ten-year-treasury-notes-erase-drop-leaving-yield-little-changed-at-3-30-.html
Treasuries surged, with 10-year
note yields falling to the lowest level this year, as Japan’s
deepening nuclear crisis stoked demand for the relative safety
of U.S. government securities.  The  Federal Reserve  delayed buying Treasuries after as a
plunge in yields at the time of the schedule close of the
transaction added to volatility. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
erased its gain for the year and the yen strengthened to a post-
World War II high versus the dollar as the rising risk of
radiation leaks boosted speculation Japanese investors sell
overseas assets to finance repairs.  “It’s a classic flight to quality trade,” said Alex Li,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at Deutsche Bank AG, one
of the 20 primary dealers who trade with the Fed. “There’s lot
of uncertainty as to what’s happening with the nuclear
situation. When people don’t feel comfortable in other asset
classes, they move into Treasuries.”   Yields on 10-year notes fell 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 3.17 percent at 5:36 p.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It dropped as low as 3.14
percent, the least since Dec. 8. Two-year note yields fell 6
basis points to 0.544 percent.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell to a record low of 2.04
percent on Dec. 18, 2008, as investors sought safety in  U.S.
debt  as global credit markets froze and the  U.S. economy  lapsed
into recession.  Global Haven  “‘The U.S. Treasury market remains the only place in the
world for safety at this point in time,” said Gary Pollack, who
helps oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at
Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.
“They don’t teach you response to nuclear catastrophe in
monetary economics. As a result, the Fed has to respond to
global economic risk in whatever form it takes as part of its
mandate to keep markets calm as well as provide liquidity for
the banking system.”  Ten-year notes have rallied for three consecutive days,
dropping to the lowest this year, as investors seek refuge in
the safest and most easily traded securities in the aftermath of
the March 11 earthquake in  Japan .  Yields on 10-year notes plunged by about 10 basis points at
about 11:00 a.m. amid speculation Japan’s nuclear plant disaster
was worsening. Prices of the securities that primary dealers
sold to the Fed would have been higher after the initial
operations given the slide in yields.  Fed Purchases  The Fed bought $6.58 billion of Treasuries after
rescheduling the operation by an hour. It purchased securities
maturing from March 2015 to June 2016 as part of its plan to use
asset purchases to keep borrowing rates low while the economy
recovers as part of a policy that’s become known as quantitative
easing. The central bank reaffirmed its plan to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries through June at yesterday’s policy meeting.  Treasuries gained earlier after a report showed housing
starts in the U.S. declined more than forecast in February to
the slowest pace since April 2009 and building permits slumped
to a record low.  Beginning  home construction  dropped 22.5 percent to a
479,000 annual rate, Commerce Department figures showed. The
decline from January was the biggest since March 1984. The
producer-price index climbed 1.6 percent from the prior month,
the most since June 2009, the Labor Department said.  ‘Transitory’ Inflation  “Measures of underlying inflation continue to be somewhat
low, relative to levels that the Committee judges to be
consistent over the longer run,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said yesterday in a statement after a meeting in  Washington . The inflation effects of increased commodity costs
will be “transitory,” and officials “will pay close attention
to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations,”
policy makers said. Fed officials aim for long-run overall
inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “People think inflation in food and energy is temporary,”
said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York. “Ultimately it will recede and then the Fed
is on hold for longer. The market is focused on long-term
growth.”  In Japan, pressure readings at the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant confirmed a possible breach in one of
its reactors, according to  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which
operates the facility. Yukiya Amano, head of the  International
Atomic Energy Agency , is flying to Tokyo to talk with
authorities amid concerns of increased risk of radiation
from the crippled station.  ‘Volatile, Violent’  “There was a lot of surprise how volatile, violent and
quick the moves in the market have been,” said James Combias,
New York-based head of Treasury trading at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It
shows the market is very afraid right now.”  Treasury yields have dropped from 3.4 percent on March 11,
when investors expressed concern insurers in Japan may sell  U.S.
government debt  to pay claims on damages caused by the nation’s
strongest earthquake on record.  The yen strengthened to as much as 76.36 per dollar in New
York, breaking through the post-World War II high of 79.75
reached in April 1995.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.95 percent,
extending its decline for a third day. Crude climbed as much as
2.5 percent to $99.60 a barrel, paring gains on concern demand
will weaken if Japan’s economy is hobbled.  ‘Bullish Breakout’  Treasury 10-year notes may rally further, with the yield on
the debt close to breaching a “double bottom,” according to
Royal Bank of Canada, citing technical analysis.  A daily close for the 10-year yield below 3.25 percent
represents a “bullish breakout” and would push the security
toward 3.13 percent, according to  George Davis , chief technical
analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy in Toronto at
primary dealer  RBC Capital Markets . The closing move would
signal a breach of the lowest yield levels since Dec. 13, which
have been tested twice.  “The market is trying to come to grips with what the events
mean for global growth,” Davis said in a telephone interview.
“A move lower in yields would signify further deterioration in
the economic backdrop and expectations for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  