-- 
Tencent’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Increases 46% on China Online Game Sales

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-16T16:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/tencent-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-46-on-china-online-games-advertising.html
  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company, will step up overseas expansion and
increase spending on operations from e-commerce to social media
because of intensifying domestic competition.  Tencent wants to buy well-run Internet businesses with
strong market positions overseas, President Martin Lau told
reporters in Hong Kong yesterday after announcing a 46 percent
gain in fourth-quarter profit to 2.2 billion yuan ($335
million).  The Chinese company, which has a bigger market value than
EBay Inc., is boosting social media services such as micro-
blogging and expanding e-commerce as rival Baidu Inc. widens
product lines. Tencent last month agreed to buy a majority stake
in Los Angeles-based online-game publisher Riot Games Inc.,
adding to the 10 percent of  Russia ’s Mail.ru Group Ltd. it
bought last year.  “The company can accelerate the pace of overseas
investment, as it has plenty of cash,” said Jake Li, who rates
Tencent a “buy” at Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen. “It’s
essential for the company to invest in domestic operations to
ensure future growth.”  Tencent rose 1.3 percent to HK$216.80 in Hong Kong trading
yesterday, before the announcement, and has gained 28 percent
this year. This compared with the 27 percent gain in the U.S.-
traded stock of Baidu, owner of China’s most-popular Internet
search engine, and the 33 percent increase in Sina Corp.,
operator of the leading local micro-blogging site.  Earnings Growth  Tencent’s net income was in line with the 2.24 billion yuan
average estimate of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 50 percent to 5.5 billion yuan, the Shenzhen-based company
said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange yesterday.  Earnings growth is “certain” to slow as costs increase
with expansion, and investors should adjust their expectations,
Lau said late yesterday. Tencent faces “intensifying
competition” and security threats to its users, according to
its statement.  Tencent gained market share from Chinese online game rivals
including NetEase.com Inc. and  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  by promoting
titles such as “Cross Fire” to the more than 600 million
active users of its QQ instant-messaging service.  The company has net cash of 17.8 billion yuan, Deputy Chief
Financial Officer John Lo said at the briefing yesterday.  Distribution Advantage  “The company’s advantage is in distribution, and its
ability for cross-selling its various services,” Billy Leung,
who rates Tencent “buy” at OSK   Asia ) Securities in Hong Kong,
said before the earnings. “Tencent’s focus this year will move
away from games to social networking services and e-commerce.”  There were 647.6 million active user accounts for Tencent’s
QQ instant-messaging service at the end of December, compared
with 636.6 million three months earlier, the company said.  Sales of Internet value-added services, including online
games and QQ-related subscription fees, rose 54 percent to 4.38
billion yuan, Tencent said. Online advertising sales increased
39 percent to 388.1 million yuan.  The company may explore sales of targeted online
advertisements and seek investments in e-commerce, Lau said. It
will also raise spending on its micro-blogging service, he said.  Tencent increased its share of China’s online games market
to 29.1 percent in 2010, from 21.1 percent a year earlier,
according to research company iResearch. Second-ranked  NetEase.com (NTES)  boosted its market share to 15.3 percent from 12.5
percent, the Shanghai-based researcher said.  Tencent may list in China when Chinese regulations allow it
to, Lau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  