-- 
Eni’s Agip Oil Facility in Nigeria Attacked, Military Say

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-03-16T19:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/eni-s-agip-oil-facility-in-nigeria-attacked-military-say-1-.html
Militants in Nigeria blew up an oil
well head belonging to  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s Agip unit in the  Niger delta 
Clough Creek Bayelsa state, a military spokesman said.  “It’s an isolated case and shouldn’t be misconstrued with
the recent threat from MEND,” or the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta, Timothy Antigha, a spokesman
for the Joint Military Task Force, said today by phone from
Yenagoa, the capital of Bayelsa state. He said the military have
a suspect and efforts will be made to apprehend him, adding the
investigation is continuing. Harding Orife, an Eni spokesman in
the region, didn’t respond to at least six phone calls.  Attacks by armed groups targeting the oil industry cut more
than 28 percent of the country’s crude production from 2006 to
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The actions have
subsided after thousands of militants campaigning for more local
control of the delta’s energy resources accepted a government
amnesty and disarmed two years ago.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s largest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. crude imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and Eni SpA operate
joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. that pump most of the country’s crude.  An e-mailed statement that claimed to be from MEND today
took responsibility for the attack and said it marks “the start
of our promised campaign against the Nigerian oil industry.”  “This attack and similar attacks on pipelines and flows
stations which will take place within the next few days is a
reminder to the Nigerian government and the general public not
to take our threats for granted,” said the statement, which
couldn’t be verified for its authenticity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  