-- 
Erdogan's Mini Davos Fizzles as Mideast Tumult Spurs No-Shows

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-16T16:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/erdogan-s-mini-davos-fizzles-as-mideast-tumult-spurs-no-shows.html
The first annual  Istanbul World
Political Forum  ended yesterday with a no-show by Turkish
President  Abdullah Gul , the scheduled closing speaker,
concluding a summit characterized by low attendance as many
regional leaders sought to quell political discontent at home.  Billed by organizers as the “alternative Davos” in
reference to the high-profile yearly meeting of world business
and political leaders in the Swiss village, the Turkish version
largely failed to meet expectations as rebellions across the
Middle East and an earthquake in  Japan  kept key speakers away
and attention elsewhere.  The two-day event opened March 14 at the Istanbul
Conference Center with a speech by Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who after an argument with Israeli President
Shimon Peres in Jan. 2009 stormed off stage and vowed never to
attend the Davos  World Economic Forum  again. He’s missed the
last two meetings.  The clash with Peres boosted Erdogan’s popularity in  Turkey 
by 10 percent and spurred organizers to search for an
alternative forum in which leaders, largely from the developing
world, meet to exchange views on issues of global importance
including international finance and development, poverty, the
environment and conflicts.  As rebellions spread across the Middle East though, top
guests on the schedule including Syrian President Bashar Assad
stayed home and panel speakers were frequently switched without
notice.  ‘Something Went Wrong’  “We expected to have all of the halls and meeting rooms
filled but at some point, something went wrong,” Nisan
Necimoglu, a spokeswoman at Tour Orange, which managed the
event, said in a phone interview. “We’re going to work on it
for next year.”  Scheduled guest  Gamal Mubarak , son of former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak , didn’t show after Egypt’s government
was overthrown by a popular revolution. Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, whose face was used in promotional
materials, also didn’t show. Zapatero has worked with Erdogan on
a campaign to help bridge the ideological gap between the
Christian and Islamic worlds, labeled the “Alliance of
Civilizations.”  In a press conference in February, Ahmet Eyup Ozguc, head
of organizers the  Turkish Future Research Foundation , said the
aim was to create a yearly meeting at the 5,000-seat venue that
made Istanbul the center of world political debate, a goal in
line with Turkey’s more assertive foreign policy under Erdogan.  ‘Political Davos’  “Our goal is to make Istanbul the political Davos,” Ozguc
said. “If you’re looking for a center for political debate in
the world, Istanbul is the most suitable location.”    Oil prices  climbed today as tensions in the region
persisted.  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil
reserves, sent troops into the neighboring kingdom of Bahrain to
help quell protests and Libyan forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  moved against rebels in the east. Crude climbed 1.5
percent to $98.60 a barrel at 9:35 a.m. in  New York  and Brent
rallied above $111 in  London .  Almost all speeches and introductions at the conference
were in Turkish, as well as the public announcements, causing
some confusion among foreign guests in the audience. Panels
often ran an hour or more late, when compared with a written
schedule handed to attendees.  On the second day, the main conference hall was nearly
empty most of the day, and organizers drew curtains across the
back of the auditorium to downplay the appearance of more than
2,500 empty seats.  Panelists in attendance included former U.N. Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, former U.S Vice President  Al Gore , who gave
a version of his “Inconvenient Truth” slideshow on global
warming, former Mexican President Vicente Fox, and current and
former heads of state of Kosovo, Ukraine, Malaysia and the
Netherlands.  The event was notable for the accessibility of Turkish
officials, including Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, almost
all Turkish ministers and economic officials such as Central
Bank head  Durmus Yilmaz , which ultimately gave the event an
unintended local feel.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 