-- 
EU Renews Push for Common Company Tax Base, Challenging Ireland

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-16T11:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/eu-renews-push-for-common-company-tax-base-challenging-ireland.html
European Union regulators revived a
push to create a common base for calculating the taxable profits
of companies, recommending a system that would be optional for
businesses in a bid to win over opponents including Ireland.  The  European Commission  proposed a single method for
calculating income to save companies the cost of complying with
different rules in each EU country where they file a return. Tax
rates would remain in national hands under the draft law on a
common consolidated corporate tax base, or CCCTB, which the
commission says would save companies 700 million euros ($977
million) a year in compliance costs.  “The CCCTB will make it easier, cheaper and more
convenient to do business in the EU,” European Taxation
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said in a statement today in
Brussels. The proposal by the commission, the EU’s regulatory
arm, needs the support of all 27 national governments to become
law.  Ireland and the U.K. have for years blocked discussion of
standard EU-wide tax rates, saying this policy area is a
national responsibility. The two countries have also opposed a
common EU tax base, fearing it would open the door to harmonized
rates.  This past weekend, Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  failed
to persuade fellow European leaders to cut  interest rates  on
emergency loans for Ireland because he refused to pledge support
for efforts to promote more tax-policy coordination in  Europe .
Ireland, keen to defend its 12.5 percent corporate tax rate --
among the lowest in the EU -- in November became the first
nation to tap the euro area’s rescue system for countries with
high budget deficits after  Greece  received a separate bailout.  Tax Return  Under the new draft EU law, companies would have the choice
of consolidating all profits and losses across the bloc. The
single consolidated tax return would be used to establish the
tax base of the company, after which the EU nations in which the
company is active would be entitled to tax at their own rate a
portion of that base according to a formula linked to assets,
labor and sales, the commission said.  “This would all be done through the tax authorities of the
company’s principal member state,” said the commission, which
called it a “one-stop-shop system.”  The CCCTB would save businesses 1.3 billion euros a year
through consolidation, according to the commission. In addition,
companies seeking cross-border expansion would save as much as 1
billion euros, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  