-- 
Eurex to Clear Off-Exchange Interest Rate Derivatives

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-03-16T16:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/eurex-to-clear-off-exchange-interest-rate-derivatives-1-.html
  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Eurex Clearing
unit plans to offer processing of over-the-counter interest rate
and equity derivatives, as it seeks to capitalize on regulators’
push to move more complex financial products through
clearinghouses.  The company’s Eurex OTC Clear service will be expanded “to
include OTC-traded interest rate and equity derivatives,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. At present the
clearing service guarantees so-called look-like futures and
options traded both on the Eurex derivatives exchange and over-
the-counter. The company also owns Eurex Credit Clear, a
clearing service for over-the-counter credit default swaps.
Eurex Clearing processed 774 million contracts in OTC-traded
products in 2010, the exchange said.  Frankfurt-based Eurex is pitting itself directly against
London-based  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , the world’s largest interest-
rate swaps clearinghouse. One in four  hedge funds  is already
clearing over-the-counter derivative trades, up from none in
October, before new rules require changes later this year to the
$583 trillion market, analysts at UBS AG said March 10.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses in a bid to cut some of the risks attached to
derivatives trading. Most interest-rate, credit-default and
other swaps bought and sold by money managers will be required
to be processed by a clearinghouse later this year under new
U.S. regulations.  Europe  is also moving ahead with its own
regulations.  Clearinghouses  Clearinghouses -- such as London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and
Eurex Clearing -- operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.    CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures market, on Feb.
28 said it will reduce margin payments for customers who own
offsetting interest-rate future and cash U.S. Treasury trades to
ward off planned competition from  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)  In London, CME
Clearing Europe, a unit of CME, will start clearing more than
150 over-the-counter energy and commodity derivative products
from May 6.  Global Derivatives Trading  Global derivatives trading on exchanges rose the most since
2003 last year, the World Federation of Exchanges said March 7.
Volume rose 25 percent to 22.4 billion contracts last year,
according to the Paris-based trade group, which has 52 members
that list a total of 45,000 stocks around the world. The
outstanding notional amounts of OTC contracts fell by 13 percent
from June 2009 to June 2010, WFE said, citing data from the  Bank
for International Settlements .  This is “part of our strategic agenda enabling our
customers to prepare for the new regulatory environment”, said
Thomas Book, Eurex Executive Board member responsible for Eurex
Clearing. “We will offer all clearing services in the relevant
asset classes to our clearing members and buy-side clients to
comply with new requirements.”    ICAP Plc (IAP) , the biggest broker of transactions between banks,
in September last year started an electronic market for the
product and handled more than 10 billion euros of interest-rate
swaps in the first week.  Barclays Capital , Deutsche Bank AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. all were market makers on ICAP’s new
system.  Derivatives are contracts that have values determined by
the underlying assets. Futures are agreements to buy or sell an
underlying commodity or financial product at a determined later
date. Options give the right, without the obligation, to buy or
sell a security at a certain price by a given date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  