-- 
European Stocks Slide Amid Concern Japan Crisis Will Worsen

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-16T17:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/european-stock-index-futures-advance-japanese-shares-rally.html
European stocks retreated for a
sixth day as the European Union’s energy chief said Japan’s
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant risks provoking
a “major disaster,” increasing concern the crisis will worsen.  BNP Paribas SA and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  led banks lower as
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Portugal ’s debt rating.
Automakers  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  lost more
than 2 percent amid speculation the Japanese crisis may hurt the
economic recovery.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  plunged the most in eight
years after the Swiss hearing-aid maker cut its forecasts.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.6 percent to 262.69 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , erasing an earlier gain. The
gauge has retreated almost 10 percent from this year’s high as
the March 11 Japanese earthquake and subsequent explosions at
the nuclear plant added to concern that revolts in the Middle
East and North Africa will further disrupt oil supplies.  “The market is very confused as there are too many
questions it can’t answer at the moment,” said  Robert Halver ,
head of research at Baader Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “We don’t know
yet whether we will see further deterioration” in  Japan .  The six-day decline in the Stoxx 600 is the longest losing
streak in more than five months and has dragged the gauge to the
lowest level since November. The drop has pushed the measure’s
valuation to the cheapest since 2008 when compared with its
companies’ reported earnings.  ‘Too Early’  “It’s too early to call the bottom,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. The market’s
direction “is heavily dependent on what’s happening in Japan.”  Japan’s government suspended its plan to use military
helicopters to drop water on the Fukushima facility today, even
as officials battled to prevent any of the four stricken
reactors at the site from suffering a meltdown. Clouds of white
smoke or  water vapor  rose from the power plant following a fire
at Dai-Ichi’s No. 4 reactor this morning. Radiation prevented
workers from establishing whether their efforts had extinguished
the blaze.  “The site is effectively out of control,” EU Energy
Commissioner Guenther Oettinger told a European Parliament
committee today in Brussels. “In the coming hours, there could
be further catastrophic events.”  He said his assessment is based on information from the EU,
its mission in  Tokyo , the  International Atomic Energy Agency  and
media reports.  Nikkei Gains  Even so, Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average jumped 5.7
percent today as investors speculated that the selloff that
drove valuations to a 28-month low was excessive.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 1.7 percent, while  France ’s CAC 40 tumbled 2.2 percent and  Germany ’s DAX retreated
2 percent.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of insuring
against declines in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, gained 14 percent
to 35.23, the highest level since July.  In the U.S., a report today showed wholesale costs rose
more than forecast in February, led by food prices that climbed
to a more than three-decade high and a surge in energy. Housing
starts tumbled 22.5 percent to a 479,000 annual rate, according
to the Commerce Department, the biggest monthly decline since
March 1984.  Banks Drop    BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s largest lender, lost 3.1 percent to
50.34 euros, leading a gauge of banks to the biggest drop among
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. HSBC slid 2.5 percent to
622.5 pence, while  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the largest bank in  Spain , sank 3.2 percent to 8.03 euros.  Moody’s downgraded Portugal’s debt rating by two levels,
citing a weaker outlook for economic growth, risks to the
government’s deficit-reduction plans and a possible need to
recapitalize the country’s banks. The rating was downgraded to
A3, four steps from so-called junk status.  Portugal’s borrowing costs increased at an auction today of
1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of bills due in 2012.  A gauge of auto shares had the second-biggest decline of
all industry groups, sliding to the lowest level since October.
Renault, France’s second-largest carmaker, fell 4.1 percent to
36.01 euros and Germany’s BMW lost 2.2 percent to 53.09 euros.  Sonova tumbled 23 percent to 89.15 Swiss francs for the
biggest drop in the Stoxx 600. The company forecast slower sales
growth and said it will make a smaller profit in 2011 than it
had predicted because of the recall of a hearing implant, a
delay in introducing new products and currency swings.    Bourbon SA (GBB)  fell 5.2 percent to 32.06 euros as the owner of
the second-biggest fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil
industry reported a 75 percent drop in 2010 profit.  Pandora A/S had the biggest gain in the Stoxx 600. The
Danish jewelry-maker that sold shares last year rallied 8.4
percent to 258.5 kroner, rebounding from a 22 percent slump
yesterday that was prompted by a sales forecast that missed most
analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  