-- 
Euro Weakens as Moody’s Cuts Portugal’s Credit Rating; Yen Recoups Losses

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-16T11:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/euro-slides-as-moody-s-cuts-portugal-s-credit-technical-momentum-wanes.html
The euro halted three days of gains
versus the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Portugal ’s credit rating, reviving concern about  Europe ’s
ability to solve its debt crisis.  The 17-nation common currency depreciated versus all but
two its major counterparts after Portugal was cut two steps by
Moody’s yesterday to A3, four steps from so-called junk status.
Japan’s yen rebounded as Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a
containment vessel may have been breached at a crippled nuclear
plant. Norway’s krone weakened before the nation’s central bank
announces its decision on  interest rates .  “The euro’s under pressure after Portugal’s downgrade,”
said Jane Foley, a senior strategist at Rabobank International
in London. “Momentum for euro buying has waned.”  The euro declined 0.4 percent to $1.3937 as of 6:58 a.m. in  New York . It rose to $1.4013 yesterday, the strongest since
March 7. The currency weakened 0.4 percent versus the yen,
trading at 112.55.  Technical analysis suggests the euro’s outlook has worsened
after its failure to sustain gains past $1.40, Foley said.  Portugal “faces significant challenges, not least a less
supportive economic environment,” Moody’s said late yesterday.
The rating company said its outlook remained negative given
Portugal’s “subdued growth prospects” and risks that the
government won’t be able to implement deficit-reduction plans.  Finance Ministers  Finance ministers from the euro countries failed on March
14 to decide how to bring an emergency aid fund up to its full
440 billion euros ($615 billion) from its current level around
250 billion euros. Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said a “few
points of detail” might not be settled by the March 24-25
summit, and called another gathering of ministers for March 21.  The yen weakened earlier as the nation’s central bank
pumped an additional 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) into the
financial system, boosting Asian stock markets. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Index rose for the first day in five.  The Japanese currency was little changed against the dollar
at 80.73, having depreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 81.17.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 3.1 percent
today, led by a 5.7 percent rally in the Nikkei 225. The
Japanese benchmark plunged 11 percent yesterday.  The U.S. currency gained against nine of its 16 most-traded
peers as officials battling to prevent a nuclear meltdown said
fuel rods at two reactors at the power station north of Tokyo
may have been damaged.  Japan’s yen has surged since last week’s magnitude 9
earthquake and tsunami amid speculation local investors are
selling overseas assets to repatriate funds for reconstruction.  Dollar Index  About 70 percent of the uranium-plutonium fuel rods at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station’s No. 1 reactor and a third of
the No. 2 reactor’s fuel may have been impaired,  Tokyo  Electric
Power said. The plant’s cooling systems were knocked out in the
wake of the earthquake.  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen rate fell
to 13 from 14.08 yesterday, the highest since May 26. The
volatility has risen 58 percent since the temblor. Implied
volatility is a measure of expected price swings and the key
gauge for option prices.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, advanced for the
first day in four, gaining 0.3 percent to 76.555.  Prices paid to producers in the U.S. probably increased in
February on higher costs for energy and food, a report today is
forecast to show. The Labor Department’s producer price index
likely rose 0.7 percent after a 0.8 percent gain in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Firmer Footing’  “I hate to say it in an emergency like this, but people
know the  U.S. economy  is holding firm and find it easy to buy
the dollar as a safe haven,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest bank. “The nuclear problem is the
biggest risk right now. The yen will remain volatile until we
see a clear picture of the situation.”  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that the U.S.
recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while higher energy prices
are likely to have a temporary effect on inflation.  The dollar is likely to strengthen against the yen,
“particularly with the  Bank of Japan  standing ready” and
injecting liquidity, said Michael McCarthy, chief market
strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.  The BOJ has added 28 trillion yen to the financial system
since March 14 after Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to keep
pumping cash into the economy to stabilize markets.  “The BOJ will have no choice but to add to monetary
easing, which may ease the yen’s appreciation,” said Tomokazu Matsufuji, a dealer in Tokyo at SBI Liquidity Market Co., a unit
of SBI Holdings Inc. “Policy makers may intervene verbally if
the yen strengthens rapidly beyond around 80.60 per dollar.”  The Norwegian krone weakened 0.3 percent to 5.6779 against
the dollar before the central bank’s interest-rate decision. The
Oslo-based Norges Bank will leave its key rate at 2 percent
today, 17 of the 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg say. One
economist expects policy makers to raise the rate to 2.25
percent. The bank announces its decision at 2 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  