-- 
Europe Tackling Libyan Oil Shortage, Euro Debt, European Union Envoy Says

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/european-union-not-panicked-about-loss-of-libyan-oil-envoy-says.html
Europe isn’t worried about the loss
of Libyan oil supplies or Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s threat
to cut off contracts with Western energy companies, the European
Union’s envoy to Washington said.  “I am told that there is not, for the moment, a problem in
terms of oil supply” caused by the drop in Libya’s oil exports,
Joao Vale de Almeida, the EU’s ambassador to the U.S., said in
an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.  “The market is sufficiently liquid to allow us to look for
other suppliers,” he said.  Before the crisis, Libya was Africa’s third-largest oil
producer after Nigeria and Angola, pumping 1.6 million barrels a
day, according to Bloomberg estimates, or 1.8 percent of world
oil supply.  While Libya sells most of its crude and fuel across the
Mediterranean to Europe, exports have fallen to a trickle and
may be halted for “many months,” because of damage to oil
facilities and international sanctions on Libya prompted by
Qaddafi’s military assault on opponents, the  International
Energy Agency  said March 15.    Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil company, France’s  Total SA (FP)  and
Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  are among European companies that have
evacuated their staffs and scaled down their production in the
North African state, the IEA said. Austria, Ireland and Italy
are the European countries most reliant on Libyan crude imports,
which make up more than 20 percent of each country’s purchases,
the organization said.  Qaddafi ‘Lost Trust’  Qaddafi declared on state-run television March 15 he had
“lost trust” in Western nations and companies and would grant
future oil contracts only to  China ,  India  and  Russia .  Germany ,
whose leaders have publicly opposed a military intervention in
Libya, has acted differently from other western states, Qaddafi
said, and German companies might still be allowed to invest or
get contracts.  Critics, including European Parliamentarians yesterday in
Brussels, have blasted the 27-nation EU for indecisiveness over
how to respond to the violence in  Libya , where pro-Qaddafi
forces appear to be routing the opposition. EU member states
France and the U.K. have pushed for urgent action, such as
imposing a no-fly zone to block Qaddafi’s forces from bombing
rebels and civilians, while Germany has opposed any path that
would lead to war or the involvement of German troops.  British liberal-democrat Edward McMillan-Scott, a member of
the European Parliament, complained yesterday that the EU’s
mixed messages “have demonstrated our impotence.”  EU ‘Ready to Consider’  Vale de Almeida said the EU is “ready to consider”  a no-
fly zone, “provided there is a clear evidence of the need of
that and that this is a required solution.” Group of Eight
foreign ministers were unable to agree on endorsing a no-fly
zone in Paris earlier this week.  Vale de Almeida, who represents the EU’s foreign policy in
the U.S., defended the union’s deliberations on Libya, saying it
was swift to support democratic forces, to recognize the
opposition, to adopt sanctions against Qaddafi and to provide
humanitarian relief. Decisions on military action, he said, must
be left to the United Nations Security Council and have a
“solid legal basis.”  “Are we taking longer than anybody else deciding on what
to do in Libya? Has anybody taken quicker decisions?” Vale de
Almeida asked. “I don’t agree with an assessment that says that  Europe  is taking too long. No. I would say that Europe has acted
collectively, allowing some margin of expression of different
positions inside the union.”  European Debt  Asked about the European debt crisis, Vale de Almeida said
discussions are continuing among EU member states on whether to
cut the interest rate on the loan European nations are providing
to Ireland.  At a meeting of euro-area leaders in Brussels on March 11,
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  refused to raise the country’s
12.5 percent company tax rate in return for a 1 percent interest
rate cut in the EU loan.  “The discussions continue among member states about
that,” Vale de Almeida said. “I don’t think anyone has put
this off the table.”  Speaking a day after  Portugal ’s debt rating was cut by
Moody’s Investors Service, Vale de Almeida, who is Portuguese
and served as head of cabinet for European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso , said EU officials “clearly supported the
efforts made by Portugal” to improve its public finances when
they met last week.    Interest Rates   Higher interest rates set by the  European Central Bank  may
exacerbate the challenge for Portugal, Moody’s said, as the
government in Lisbon tries to rein in the euro region’s fourth-
biggest budget gap and avoid following Greece and Ireland in
resorting to bailouts. Portugal is raising taxes and carrying
out the deepest spending cuts in more than three decades in a
battle to restore investor confidence.  “We believe Portugal is on the right track” and “will
manage to reach its objectives of fiscal sustainability,” Vale
de Almeida said.  Last week, EU leaders agreed to widen the scope of the
euro’s rescue fund, authorize the purchase of  government bonds 
and ease the terms of Greek bailout loans while toughening
sanctions for nations that breach EU fiscal rules.  The European debt crisis has prompted a “small
revolution” in the EU’s economic governance, Vale de Almeida
said. Two years ago, such wide-ranging rescue measures would
have been “unthinkable,” he said.  Russian Engagement  Asked about relations with Russia, Vale de Almeida said the
EU’s policy has been one of “engagement, of cooperation.”  “We are condemned by geography to live together,” he
said, calling Russia and the EU neighbors with “complementary”
economies. “They have resources; we have the market and
technology.”  The EU has supported Russia’s accession to the  World Trade
Organization , he said, explaining, “we want them to join a
rule-based international system. We want them to enforce the
rule of law in the economic field. And we see this as a good
opportunity for our business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  Washington  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 