-- 
European February Inflation Quickens, Adding Pressure on ECB to Raise Rate

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-16T11:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/european-february-inflation-quickens-adding-pressure-on-ecb-to-raise-rate.html
European inflation accelerated to
the fastest in more than two years in February, increasing
pressure on the  European Central Bank  to raise interest rates.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.4
percent from 2.3 percent in January, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today, confirming a March 1
estimate. That’s the fastest since October 2008 and exceeded the
ECB’s 2 percent limit for a third month. Labor costs rose 1.6
percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago, after increasing
0.9 percent in the third quarter, a separate report showed.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 7.5 percent this year, adding
pressure on companies to pass on higher costs as labor unions
seek more pay. While the ECB signaled on March 3 that it may
raise borrowing costs as soon as April to fight price pressures,
the aftermath of  Japan ’s earthquake has since clouded global
growth prospects and eroded investor confidence.  “Euro-region inflation will remain above 2 percent,” said
Mario Jung, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Japan
has increased uncertainty and the global economy could lose some
dynamic, but I still expect the ECB to raise borrowing costs
next month unless there’s a total catastrophe.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3945 at 11:40 a.m. in Frankfurt, down from $1.3998 yesterday.  ECB Assessment  Euro-region consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from January,
today’s report showed. Inflation accelerated in euro-region
countries including Germany, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Luxembourg
and Finland. It slowed in Belgium and  Greece .  The Frankfurt-based ECB earlier this month forecast euro-
region inflation to average about 2.3 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2012. Policy makers aim to keep annual gains in
consumer prices just below 2 percent over the medium term.  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said on March 14 that it’s
“too early” for any conclusion on how the Japanese disaster
may affect officials’ resolve to raise the benchmark interest
rate from a record low of 1 percent. Developments have to be
“observed very closely,” he said.  ECB council members will have to weigh threats to economic
growth with the risks of surging costs leading to more
entrenched inflation. In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
inflation accelerated to 2.2 percent in February, and investor
confidence unexpectedly dropped this month.  Crude Rally  Oil rose as protests in Bahrain added to Middle East
tensions, leading to gains in commodities.  Brent crude  rallied
above $110 a barrel in  London , gaining for the first time in
five days, and copper increased. Energy costs had been pushed
lower as Japan battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown that
threatens to worsen damage to the economy.  Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy and food prices, slowed to 1 percent in February
from 1.1 percent a month earlier, the statistics office said.  “We don’t expect any considerable easing of price
developments over the year,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist
at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn,  Germany . Rising energy costs
“will probably drive up core inflation rather soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  