-- 
Lew Says Obama Open to More Spending Cuts in Budget Talks With Republicans

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T15:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/lew-says-obama-open-to-more-spending-cuts-in-budget-talks-with-republicans.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
chief,  Jacob Lew , said he is optimistic lawmakers will reach an
agreement to fund the government through the end of the fiscal
year and signaled the administration is open to more spending
cuts in negotiations with Republicans.  While he applauded Republican leaders for approaching the
budget discussions pragmatically, Lew said one stumbling block
may be Republican efforts to eliminate funding for the health-
care law passed last year as well as money for Planned
Parenthood and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.  Those issues are “more emotional sometimes than the
individual funding levels,” Lew said during a Bloomberg
Breakfast with reporters today in Washington. “That’s why we
were so clear right at the start that it was not acceptable to
put extraneous social policy and broad policy directives in a
must-fund continuing resolution. It’s not going to be acceptable
to us, and we’re going to have to work our way through that.”  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives 
yesterday  approved  another short-term measure to pay for
government operations until April 8. It includes $6 billion in
cuts, which would keep Republicans on track with their push to
reduce the budget by $61 billion this year.  There are points “between where things are now” and the
$100 billion in cuts the Republicans originally sought “that we
could live with,” Lew said. “I hope we can work our way
towards that.”  Choosing Optimism  “With the choice between optimism and pessimism, I always
choose optimism,” Lew, 55, said.  Yesterday’s 271-158 vote sends the measure to the Senate,
where leaders of the Democratic majority said it soon will be
forwarded to the president for his signature. Throughout this
fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, lawmakers have relied on
stopgap measures to avoid a shutdown of non-essential government
services. The current spending authority, enacted earlier this
month, expires March 18.  The measure passed yesterday in the House “reflects
something that they had a very high degree of confidence would
be acceptable -- that’s pragmatic,” Lew said of Republicans.  “One could have put a $6 billion package together that was
$5 billion of things that were acceptable and $1 billion of
things that were daring us to veto,” Lew said. “They didn’t do
that. I applaud them for that.”  The drive to make cuts is being driven in part by White
House projections that deficit will hit a record $1.6 trillion
this year -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product -- and $1.1
trillion next year.  Uncertainty  Lew reiterated the administration’s stance that repeatedly
relying on temporary funding authority is irresponsible because
it injects uncertainty into the economy. Still, he said, another
temporary measure “beats a government shutdown by a long-
shot.”  Lew said the three-week extension presents lawmakers with
an opportunity to “maybe finish the year’s work.”  He declined to say whether Obama would refuse to sign
another stopgap funding bill after the three-week extension,
which is the sixth temporary spending authority approved this
fiscal year.  “I don’t think it’s helpful to the process for us to
deliver ultimatums,” Lew said. “I’m not going to say what he
would do. I didn’t say he would, I didn’t say he wouldn’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  