-- 
Texas Governor Perry Agrees to Close 2011 Deficit Using Reserve

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/texas-governor-perry-agrees-to-close-2011-deficit-using-reserve.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  reversed
course and agreed to use $3.2 billion of reserves to close a gap
in this year’s budget, while remaining opposed to a similar move
in the next biennium.  Perry, 60, and House of Representatives Speaker Joe Straus,
a San Antonio Republican, agreed with Comptroller Susan Combs to
use reserves to help close a $4.3 billion deficit for the year
that ends Aug. 31, according to a joint statement yesterday.  The agreement calls for $800 million in budget cuts, and
counts on $300 million in extra sales-tax receipts, according to
the statement. Perry last week said legislators should look for
more efficiencies and urged public schools to use their own
reserves and not the state’s $8.2 billion. The so-called rainy-
day fund is collected from energy taxes.  “Perry’s been like the prettiest girl at the school and
the hardest to get a date with,” said  Bill Miller , a Republican
political consultant whose clients have included businesses and
politicians.  “He’s wanted everyone to prove it, emotionally and
substantively, that they really needed the money,” said Miller,
who works at  HillCo Partners  in Austin. “He’s the jury, and
he’s been convinced.”  Perry has insisted on only using the reserve as a last
resort to cover nonrecurring costs, Katherine Cesinger, a
spokeswoman, said yesterday by e-mail. He agreed to use the
money following meetings with legislative leaders, she said.  “I remain steadfastly committed to protecting the
remaining balance of the rainy-day fund, and will not sign a
2012-2013 state budget” that uses the reserve, Perry said
yesterday in the  statement .  Projected Deficit  The Republican governor last week emphasized his opposition
to increasing taxes and using reserve funds to balance the
budget, in a meeting with about 70 House lawmakers. The state
faces a projected deficit of $15 billion to $27 billion for the
two-year spending cycle that begins in September.    Texas  voters in November “overwhelmingly sent a message
that we don’t want to see Texas be like  California  and  New
York ,” Perry told reporters after the meeting. “Fiscal
conservatism will be the foundation of this state.”  Republican legislative leaders including Representative Jim Pitts of Waxahachie, the House’s chief budget writer, pushed
back. They said spending cuts may force firings of thousands of
teachers, close dozens of nursing homes and deny financial aid
to many college students.  Using about 40 percent of the reserve fund now diminishes
Texas’s flexibility in balancing its budget over the next two
years, said Horacio Aldrete-Sanchez, a Dallas-based Standard &
Poor’s analyst.  Longer-Term Solution  “Stronger credits such as Texas should look for a longer-
term solution that tries to preserve some budgetary balance over
the long term,” Aldrete-Sanchez said in a telephone interview.  While Perry and Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, also a
Republican, have said tax increases aren’t being considered,
Aldrete-Sanchez said spending cuts alone “may not be sufficient
to address the  budget deficit .”  Texas used $1.9 billion of reserves in 2005, including for
its Emerging Technology Fund, favored by Perry. In 2003, the
state took out $1.2 billion to help pay for health insurance for
children and low-income residents, according to a 2009  report 
from the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a nonprofit
research group in Austin, the capital.  Looking Forward  Using reserve funds now is a mistake because Texas will
face more severe economic pressure over the next few years
resulting from rising Medicaid costs, Talmadge Heflin, a Texas
Public Policy Foundation analyst in Austin, said by e-mail.  “Those who seek to empty the fund because it is raining
today have not checked the long-range weather forecast,” Heflin
said. The foundation promotes limited government.  Perry’s opposition to spending from the reserves has been a
nod to “Tea Party” conservatives, said Cal Jillson, who
teaches politics at  Southern Methodist University  in  Dallas .  “Perry was solidifying himself with his base,” he said.
“Everyone has known since before the session started that we
were in a hole and that we would have to use the fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  