-- 
Facebook, Google Must Obey Stricter EU Data-Protection Rules, Reding Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-16T17:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/facebook-google-must-obey-eu-data-protection-law-reding-says.html
Facebook Inc., the most-visited
U.S. website,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other U.S.-based companies would
have to comply with stricter data-protection rules being planned
for the European Union, the region’s justice commissioner said.  Any company active in the 27-nation region or any Internet-
based product targeted at European consumers “must comply with
EU rules,”  Viviane Reding  said in a speech in Brussels today.  “Privacy standards for European citizens should apply
independently of the area of the world in which their data is
being processed,” said Reding. “A U.S.-based social network
company that has millions of active users in  Europe  needs to
comply with EU rules.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , and  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook are among several Internet companies
under scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule breaches over
their use of personal data. Data protection officials from 30
European countries have pushed Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
Yahoo! Inc. to limit the amount of time they store search
records. The same group has criticized Facebook for policy
changes that could have harmed users’ privacy rights.  In November, Reding  proposed an overhaul  of the EU’s nearly
16-year-old data-protection policies to address online
advertising and social-networking sites. The law, which the
regulator will formally offer up later this year, may include
stricter sanctions, such as criminal penalties, and the option
for consumer groups to file lawsuits. Reding, 59, hadn’t
previously said how the rules would affect U.S.-based firms.  Committed to Privacy  Google spokesman Al Verney declined to comment.
Spokespeople for Facebook didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Search engine operator Yahoo! Inc. said in an e-mailed
statement it’s “deeply committed to privacy.”  “We always welcome the opportunity to sit down with EU
stakeholders, regulators, advocates, NGOs and industry to
encourage a modern approach to privacy that prevents bad actors,
is adaptable to new innovations in online services and protects
users,” Yahoo said.  Reding said that “national privacy watchdogs shall be
endowed with powers to investigate and engage in legal
proceedings against non-EU data controllers whose services
target EU consumers.”  Revised EU data-protection rules will give people “the
right, and not only the possibility, to withdraw their consent”
for companies to collect and use their data to better market
their products, said Reding.  It should be up to companies to prove why they need to keep
user data, such as search records, rather than  Internet users 
having to prove why collecting their data isn’t justified, the
commissioner said.  Jesse Verstraete, a spokesman in Brussels for Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft declined to immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  