-- 
Fair Finance Chief Durham, 2 Other Officers Face Federal Fraud Charges

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-16T19:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/fair-finance-chief-timothy-durham-is-indicted-for-fraud-in-indianapolis.html
Fair Finance Co. Chief Executive
Officer Timothy S. Durham and two other men were indicted on
fraud charges by a U.S. grand jury.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Kennard P. Foster in Indianapolis
today unsealed the indictment, filed yesterday, in which Durham,
48, Chairman James F. Cochran, 55, and Chief Financial Officer
Rick D. Snow, 47, are accused of conspiracy, fraud and using
manipulative and deceptive devices.  The  finance company , based in Akron, Ohio, raised about
$200 million from investors from 2002 to 2009 by selling
investment certificates to Ohio residents, according to the
indictment.  The men “deceived and defrauded investors by making and
causing others to make false and misleading statements about
Fair’s financial condition and about the manner in which they
were using Fair investor money,” prosecutors said.  Automatic not-guilty pleas were entered for each of the
defendants and a trial scheduled for May 16.  If convicted, the three men face as many as 20 years
imprisonment on the wire fraud and securities fraud charges and
as many as five years if they’re found guilty on the conspiracy
charge, acting Indianapolis U.S. Attorney Timothy Morrison said
at a press conference today announcing the charges.  National Lampoon Chief  Durham, a Republican Party donor, is also chief executive
officer of the National Lampoon Inc. media company and of
Indianapolis-based Obsidian Enterprises Inc. He was arrested in  Los Angeles . Snow and Cochran were arrested in
Indianapolis, according to a U.S.  Justice Department  press
release.  Durham’s attorney, Larry Mackey of Indianapolis-based
Barnes & Thornburg LLP, didn’t immediately respond to voice mail
messages seeking comment. Cochran’s lawyer, James Voyles of
Indianapolis, also didn’t reply to a telephone message seeking
comment.  The scheme, which involved 5,000 investors, ran from
February 2005 through November 2009, according to the Justice
Department.  Fair Finance closed after a November 2009 raid by U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents. In February 2010, its
creditors forced it into involuntary bankruptcy in Akron. Its
creditors, in a court filing, accused Durham, Cochran and
companies they controlled of taking $176 million in loans from
Fair Finance.  Loans Made  Bankruptcy Trustee Brian Bash said Cochran and Durham, who
acquired Fair Finance in 2002, used it to make loans to parent
companies Fair Holdings Inc. and DC Investments LLC and
ultimately to themselves.  Those allegations are repeated in the indictment.  “Durham and Cochran wired Fair investor money to
themselves, to their family, friends and acquaintances and to
the companies that they owned or controlled,” including Fair
Holdings and Obsidian, according to the indictment.  Allegedly aided by Snow, the men made false and misleading
statements about the company’s financial condition in filings
with  Ohio  securities regulators and in offering circulars
distributed to their investors, the charging document said.  Snow’s attorney, Thomas Farlow of Indianapolis, said in a
telephone interview that his client maintains he is innocent.  “He asserts that he hasn’t committed any crime,” Farlow
said of Snow. “He’s confident that he hasn’t done anything
that’s a violation of any law.”  The case is U.S. v. Durham, 1:11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  