-- 
FDIC Clawbacks, Mortgage Deal, Swipe Fees, UBS-Libor Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-16T12:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/fdic-clawbacks-mortgage-deal-ubs-libor-probe-compliance.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
is seeking comment on a measure that may subject executives and
directors to clawbacks of as much as two years’ pay if they are
found  “substantially responsible”  for the failure of a
systemically important financial company.  FDIC board members voted 5-0 to propose the rule, part of
the agency’s expanded liquidation authority under the Dodd-Frank
Act, at a meeting in Washington yesterday. In the same vote,
board members laid out a framework for priority payment of
creditors and procedures for filing claims in liquidations of
large, complex firms, for which the FDIC would serve as
receiver.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
July, expanded the FDIC’s resolution authority from winding down
failed banks to untangling the affairs of systemically important
nonbanks when they collapse. Congress sought the liquidation
authority after the September 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  exacerbated the credit crisis and highlighted the
interconnectedness of the largest financial firms.  The rule proposed yesterday authorizes the FDIC to recover
pay from senior executives and directors substantially
responsible for a failure for the two-year period preceding the
date when the agency is appointed as receiver. In cases of
fraud, the time period is unlimited, according to the proposal.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Geithner Says Consumer Bureau Won’t Sign Mortgage Agreement  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the nascent
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau won’t sign any
settlement reached with mortgage servicers over allegations of
fraud and bungled foreclosures.  The consumer bureau currently doesn’t have authority to
administer penalties, Geithner wrote in a letter to eight
members of Congress dated March 15. For that reason, the bureau
won’t be a party “to any formal settlement with mortgage
servicers.”  Geithner wrote that the consumer bureau will “obtain
significant authority to set standards for the mortgage
servicing industry” on its scheduled start date of July 21.
Officials from the agency -- currently operating under the
auspices of the Treasury Department -- have “been invited to
advise other agencies on how to design appropriate servicing
standards,” Geithner wrote.  The letter was sent to leading members of Congress involved
in financial services committees. Last week, the mortgage talks
were called a “regulatory shakedown” by Senator  Richard
Shelby , Republican chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee .  Senate Bill Would Delay ‘Swipe’ Rules; House to Follow  A bipartisan group of nine U.S. senators signed onto
legislation to delay a Federal Reserve proposal that would cap
debit-card “swipe” fees.  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, yesterday
introduced the bill that would put off implementation of the
rule, which has pitted lobbyists for retailers  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  against financial-industry groups.  The rule, developed by the Fed under the mandate of the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, would allow card networks to
charge retailers a maximum of 12 cents per transaction. Issuers
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  could
lose $12 billion in annual revenue under the change.  Tester’s  legislation  would delay the Fed  rulemaking  for two
years. During that time, a joint study of the rule’s impact
would be conducted by the Fed’s board, the chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency and  National Credit Union Association .  House Republicans are close to introducing a similar bill
that would delay the proposal for a year and would require the
same agencies to conduct the impact study, according to a draft
copy obtained by Bloomberg News.  For more, click here.  Schapiro Tells Appropriators SEC Needs $1.4 Billion Budget  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  told House lawmakers that her agency needs its entire
proposed $1.4 billion budget for 2012 to hire 780 new employees
to meet its “core capabilities” as well as implement tougher
new securities rules.  Schapiro made the statements in remarks prepared for a
hearing yesterday of the House Appropriations Committee’s
financial services subcommittee.  Schapiro and other agency leaders told House and Senate
lawmakers in hearings last week that without an increase in
funds, the agency won’t be able to handle its current duties as
well as new responsibilities mandated by last year’s Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul. The SEC, like other federal agencies, has
been held to 2010 budget levels since Oct. 1 while lawmakers
debate federal spending.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July, authorized a $1.5
billion 2012 budget for the regulator -- higher than its current
level of $1.1 billion. President  Barack Obama  proposed boosting
the agency’s budget to $1.4 billion to hire more staff to
implement the tougher oversight of financial markets required by
Dodd-Frank.  Schapiro’s argument was reinforced last week by the release
of an independent study by the  Boston Consulting Group ,
conducted at the request of Congress, which found the agency
currently understaffed by about 400 people.  EU ‘Can’t Afford’ to Delay Short-Selling Rules, Barnier Says  The European Union “can’t afford to delay” proposals to
restrict short selling over concerns the measures might harm
liquidity in the sovereign-debt market, said  Michel Barnier , the
region’s financial services commissioner.  Barnier and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
pushed for the rules to limit some short selling after other
finance ministers complained the plans gave too much power to
new pan-European regulators and might harm the ability of
investors to hedge risk using debt issued by countries.  Governments in the 27-nation EU and lawmakers in the
 European Parliament  are considering, in particular, measures to
restrict so-called naked short selling. That follows complaints
from politicians including German Chancellor Angela Merkel that
speculation using short sales has worsened the euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Finance ministers from Sweden, Luxembourg and Italy have
called the rules politically sensitive.  Lawmakers in the parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee in Strasbourg, France, voted last week in favor of
banning short selling of stocks or government bonds in the EU
unless traders have “located and reserved,” in advance, the
securities they intend to sell.  Barnier said the final rules wouldn’t harm liquidity and
that sovereign debt “must be covered” by the EU proposals.  For more, click here.  U.K. Reveals Details of Plan to Merge Two Antitrust Regulators  The U.K. government revealed its plan to “streamline” the
merger-approval process for businesses by combining the
country’s two antitrust regulators into the new Competition and
Markets Authority.  The planned change will reduce the duplication of costs for
business, stimulate growth, increase industry confidence in the
regulatory system and give more support to small- and medium-
size firms, according to a statement today from Britain’s
 Department for Business, Innovation and Skills .  Lawyers have said the changes may decrease efficiency and
raise costs for business.  The proposed merger of the  Office of Fair Trading  and the
 Competition Commission , announced in October, is the biggest
shakeup of competition law since 1973. It’s part of a larger
restructuring of hundreds of quasi-autonomous organizations in a
bid to save money and tighten government control. The government
is accepting third-party comment on today’s so-called
consultation paper until June 13.  Compliance Action  UBS Says U.S. Is Probing Possible Libor Rate Manipulation    UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said it received
subpoenas from U.S. authorities investigating possible attempts
to manipulate the setting of the London interbank offered rate.  The company received subpoenas from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the U.S. Justice Department, Zurich-based UBS
said in its 2010  annual report . The bank also received an order
to provide information to the Japan Financial Supervisory Agency
concerning “similar matters,” it said.  “UBS understands that the investigations focus on whether
there were improper attempts by UBS, either acting on its own or
together with others, to manipulate Libor rates at certain
times,” the bank said. “UBS is conducting an internal review
and is cooperating with the investigations.”  Libor rates are set daily by the  British Bankers’
Association , based on data it gets from a panel of banks on what
it would cost them to borrow funds for various periods of time
and in different currencies.  UBS didn’t say in yesterday’s report what time period the
Libor investigation is focused on. A spokesman for the bank
wasn’t immediately able to comment beyond the statement in the
report. A BBA spokesman wasn’t immediately able to comment.  For more, click here.  Audit Watchdog Warns of Lax Exams of U.S.-Listed Chinese Firms  Some auditors are signing off on financial statements of
China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges without verifying
the accuracy of the books, according to a survey by accounting
regulators.  The U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board said in
a report published yesterday that it found “potential audit
concerns” -- including language barriers and overreliance on
outside consultants -- for auditors that sign off on statements
for firms located in China. The report focuses on firms that
listed on U.S. exchanges through so-called reverse mergers,
which don’t entail the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  In a reverse merger, a closely held company buys a publicly
traded shell company and retains the U.S. listing as its own.
Regulators have paid more attention to reverse mergers amid
concerns the firms’ financial statements may not be accurate.  Chinese companies represented 42 of 141 reverse mergers in
2009, the research report said, outpacing their initial public
offerings. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which
oversees the PCAOB, set up a task force to look for fraud in
such companies and launched a probe last year, asking U.S.
auditors for information on audit practices and fee structures.  For more, click here.  EU Officials Criticize Ratings Firms After Downgrades  European Union officials criticized credit-rating companies
following downgrades of Spain and Greece, saying the moves were
premature and ignored commitments by rich members to help poorer
ones.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden told Bloomberg News
yesterday in Brussels that the ratings “don’t correspond to the
reality of how the euro zone functions.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Spain’s credit rating to
Aa2 on March 10, saying Spanish lenders will need as much as 50
billion euros ($70 billion) to meet new capital requirements,
more than double the 20 billion euros estimated by the
government in Madrid. French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde
said March 15 that the downgrade is being studied as an example
of problems with how rating agencies work.  The comments highlight EU dissatisfaction with U.S.-
dominated rating companies as the  European Commission  considers
setting up a publicly funded agency to compete with firms
including Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. European
Central Bank officials have criticized the announcements of
sovereign-ratings changes just as Europe’s debt crisis was
unfolding, exacerbating market turmoil.  For more, click here.  Courts  Rajaratnam Told of Goldman Talks on Wachovia, AIG Purchase  Rajat Gupta, while a member of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
board in 2008, told Raj Rajaratnam of talks on whether to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or Wachovia Corp., according
to a wiretap recording.  Prosecutors at the insider-trading trial of Rajaratnam, the
co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, played the
recording of a July 2008 discussion between the men, one of
about 170 wiretaps the government said it will present to jurors
in Manhattan federal court. During the conversation, Rajaratnam
asked about a “rumor that Goldman may look to buy a commercial
bank.” In the taped conversation, Gupta takes Rajaratnam
through a portion of a recent Goldman Sachs board meeting.  Gupta hasn’t been charged with criminal wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam is the central figure in the largest crackdown
on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-
born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. The Galleon Group case has led to a nationwide
investigation implicating banks, consultants, technology
companies and other hedge funds.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Juno Founders Sued by SEC on $1.8 Million Fraud Claim  Juno Mother Earth Asset Management LLC and founders Eugenio
Verzili and Arturo Rodriguez were sued by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for defrauding clients out of $1.8
million.  Juno, which was an investment manager for three hedge
funds; Verzili, 44, of Miami Beach, Florida; and Rodriguez, 47,
of Costa Rica, looted assets from a hedge fund they managed in a
scheme that began in 2007, the SEC said in a lawsuit filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Omar Ortega, a lawyer for the men, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. Juno Mother Earth Asset Management LLC,
11-CV-1778, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Geithner Seeks ‘Deliberate’ Wind-Down of Fannie, Freddie  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated the
Obama administration’s position that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
should wind down “at a careful and deliberate pace” and
housing finance should be primarily a private-sector activity.  He made the remarks in testimony before the  Senate Banking
Committee  at a hearing yesterday.  The administration of President Barack Obama has presented
Congress with three options for winding down the two mortgage
companies, which have been under government conservatorship for
more than two years, with the goal of drawing private capital
back into the housing market.  “It is very important that we wind down Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac at a careful and deliberate pace,” Geithner said.
Closing the firms “without consideration for the pace of
economic recovery could shock an already-fragile housing
market,” he said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were pushed to the brink of
insolvency in 2008 in part because they failed to charge enough
for the guarantees they sold to protect lenders and investors.  For more, click here.  CFTC to Focus on Swaps Data to Shape Regulations, O’Malia Says  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will focus on
collecting data to inform how it completes regulation of the
$583 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market, said
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  The information on how many swaps trade per day and which
contracts are considered standardized by the industry will make
it easier to know which trades can be guaranteed by a
clearinghouse, O’Malia said yesterday in an interview at the
 Futures Industry Association ’s annual conference in Boca Raton,
Florida. Once clearing is established, how the trades are
executed on exchanges or similar systems can be determined, he
said.  “There’s a recognition that we need to phase” the
rulemaking, he said.  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are writing rules to
oversee interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps for the
first time after the market complicated efforts to resolve the
financial crisis. The CFTC and Securities and Exchange
Commission have until July to finish the rule writing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 