-- 
Parkinson Says 30% of U.S. Banks Have Unsatisfactory Supervisory Ratings

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-16T17:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/fed-s-parkinson-says-30-of-banks-have-unsatisfactory-ratings.html
  Patrick Parkinson , the  Federal
Reserve ’s chief bank regulator, said about 30 percent of U.S.
banks have “less than satisfactory” supervisory ratings.  Parkinson, director of the central bank’s division of
banking supervision and regulation, told a gathering of bankers
today that while asset quality is “stabilizing,” the
“conditions in real estate markets are still very difficult”
and the banking system is “still in the repair and recovery
stage.”  The central bank is implementing a regulatory overhaul that
creates a process for unwinding large financial institutions,
restricts banks’ trading for their own accounts and requires
tougher oversight of firms deemed essential to financial
stability. The new rules are part of the Dodd-Frank Act, signed
into law by President  Barack Obama  in July.  Bank regulators use a system known as Camels, an acronym
for capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings,
liquidity and sensitivity to market risk. Firms are rated in
each category, with 1 the best and 5 the worst. Banks with
ratings of 3, 4, or 5 are considered “less than satisfactory.”  Parkinson’s 30 percent figure includes commercial banks and
excludes thrifts and savings banks,  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Parkinson said that additional capital requirements for
banks with more than $50 billion in assets will be increased in
proportion to a bank’s size to “reflect the degree of systemic
risk that individual banking organizations seem to pose.”  Gradation Provision  “Nobody really regards $50 billion as systemically
risky,” he said. “We have to come up with some charge, but
thank God there’s this gradation provision” in the Dodd-Frank
law, he said.  “We’re not going to treat a $54 billion  bank holding
company  as if it were Citigroup, Bank of America or JPMorgan,”
he said in response to questions at the American Bankers
Association annual government relations summit in  Washington .  Additional  capital requirements  would be “nominal” for
smaller banks, he said.  “Definitely we intend to gradate, and the gradation will
be significant, it will have the effect that the very smallest
firms above $50 billion will not have to worry about large
systemic charges.”  Separately, the Fed has ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks
to test their capital levels against a scenario of renewed
recession and determine how their loans, securities, earnings
and capital would perform during at least three possible
economic outcomes.  Plans Submitted  The banks, including some seeking to increase dividends cut
during the financial crisis, submitted their plans in January.
The review is scheduled to be finished this month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is on the newly created
Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . The council is charged with averting
another financial crisis and will collect data that can be used
to compel firms to raise capital, increase liquidity and sell
assets deemed too concentrated in any part of the economy.  Regulators worldwide are making progress on implementing
regulations including capital standards and supervisory
assessments for the most important global financial firms,
Parkinson told reporters after the speech. “I am still
optimistic we will come up with something internationally,” he
said.  “I don’t think internationally we’re ever going to be
talking about $50 billion banks” as posing a major threat to
financial stability, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washingtont ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 