-- 
Fed Purchases Treasuries After Delay Is Triggered by Plunge in U.S. Yields

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-16T18:53:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/fed-purchases-treasuries-after-delay-is-triggered-by-plunge-in-u-s-yields.html
The  Federal Reserve  canceled an
initial round of Treasury purchases today as a plunge in yields
at the time of the schedule close of the operation added to
volatility and risk for its primary dealers.  The completion of the transaction was pushed back by about
an hour from just after 11 a.m. “due to the market’s volatility
at the close,” according to a  statement  on the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s website.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes fell by about 10 basis
points at about 11:00 a.m. amid speculation Japan’s nuclear
disaster was deepening. Ten-year notes have rallied for three
consecutive days, dropping to the lowest this year, as investors
seek refuge in the safest and most easily traded securities in
the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan .  “The issue was that yields moved substantially lower from
about the time the operation was to be completed and when the
Fed announces the results,” said Brett Rose, New York-based
strategist at primary dealer Citigroup Inc., in an interview.
“It was a fair way for the Fed to handle it. They probably felt
that maintaining confidence in the procedure was important given
they have three more months of these purchases to go.”  Prices of the securities, which move in the opposite
direction of yields, that dealers sold to the Fed would have
been higher after the initial operations given the slide in
yields.  The Fed eventually bought $6.58 billion of Treasuries after
rescheduling the operation. It purchased securities maturing
from March 2015 to June 2016.  Purchase Operations  In November, the central bank began buying $600 billion of
Treasuries in a second round of its quantitative easing policy
that will run through June. The Fed has so far purchased
$432.648 billion in the program, dubbed QE2, which followed the
completion last year of $1.7 trillion in debt.  Yields on 10-year notes are down 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 3.17 percent, after dropping as low as 3.15
percent.  The Fed has adjusted their daily purchase operations before
since it began its QE2 program. On Nov. 12, the closing time for
a round of Treasury purchases was pushed back by 30 minutes due
to what was described by the a  New York  Fed spokeswoman as a
“technical issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  