-- 
Fed Signals More Stimulus Unlikely as Recovery Picks Up Steam in U.S.

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/fed-signals-further-stimulus-unlikely-as-economic-recovery-gains-strength.html
Federal Reserve officials signaled
they’re unlikely to expand a $600-billion bond purchase plan as
the recovery picks up steam and the threat that inflation will
fall too low begins to wane.  The economy is on a “firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement yesterday after a one-day meeting in Washington. While
commodity prices have “risen significantly,” inflation
expectations have “remained stable.”  U.S. equities pared losses as Fed policy makers looked past
threats to growth such as higher oil prices, unrest in the
Middle East and the earthquakes in Japan. Their statement
reveals confidence that the plan to buy  Treasury securities 
through June will be enough to achieve the self-sustaining
expansion that they say is vital before reversing record
stimulus, said analysts including Josh Feinman, global chief
economist for DB Advisors, a unit of Deutsche Bank AG.  “The hurdle for them doing more on the asset purchase
program is pretty high,” said Feinman, whose New York-based
firm manages $231 billion in assets. “It’s not like they say
things are booming, but you don’t need a rip-roaring boom to end
the asset purchase program.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent to
1,281.87 in New York trading while 10-year Treasury yields
declined 0.05 percentage points to 3.30 percent.  Too Slow  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his Fed colleagues removed
language from their January statement which said that the
recovery is “disappointingly slow” and that “tight credit”
is holding back  consumer spending . They also dropped references
to “modest income growth” and “lower housing wealth.”  “Certainly, this is the most optimistic Fed officials have
sounded since asset purchases began in November and, at a
minimum, that’s consistent with the expectation there will be no
third round of purchases,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist
at MF Global Inc. in New York.  Even so, the statement echoed caution from the January
release, saying that “the  unemployment rate  remains elevated,
and measures of underlying inflation continue to be somewhat low,
relative to levels that the Committee judges to be consistent,
over the longer run, with its dual mandate” for stable prices
and maximum employment. Policy makers also said they’ll “pay
close attention” to inflation trends.  ‘Easy Policy’  “Inflation is rising and they are running an easy
policy,” said  Julia Coronado , North America chief economist at
BNP Paribas in  New York . “They are betting their credibility
that inflation expectations won’t become unhinged. They had to
balance that against global developments taking the wind out of
sails.”  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008, and
retained a pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” Officials next
meet April 26-27 in Washington.  The average U.S. retail price of regular unleaded gasoline
rose to $3.56 a gallon this week, the highest since October 2008.  “Commodity prices have risen significantly since the
summer, and concerns about global supplies of crude oil have
contributed to a sharp run-up in  oil prices  in recent weeks,”
the Fed said.  Preferred Price Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Payrolls have increased by an average 134,000 a month for
the past five months and the unemployment rate has dropped by
almost 1 percentage point over three months to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest since April 2009.  “They were buoyed by the last employment report,” said  Mark Gertler , a New York University professor who has co-written
research with Bernanke. “Except for what is going on in  Japan ,
and that is a big exception, all the pieces were coming together.
The last missing piece of the puzzle was the employment
number.”  Among the companies anticipating an improving economy is
Pleasanton, California-based Safeway Inc. The fourth-largest U.S.
supermarket chain by stores expects that 2011, “while it will be
a challenging year,” will be “much better” than 2009 or 2010,
Chief Executive Officer Steven Burd said March 8.  “The economy will improve, but only moderately,” Burd said
at the company’s investor conference. “We’re not looking for any
kind of a hockey-stick curve here.”  Unanimous Decision  The FOMC decision was unanimous for a second consecutive
meeting. That means Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , both skeptics of the
second round of so-called quantitative easing who voted for the
statement today, don’t disagree strongly enough with the path of
policy to dissent.  “The next meeting in late April is the last chance they
have to bring QE2 to an early halt, and if that was going to
happen I’d expect one or two of the more hawkish members to have
dissented,” said Brian Levitt, an economist at OppenheimerFunds
Inc. in New York, which has $184.4 billion in assets under
management as of Feb. 28.  The central bank, through the New York Fed’s traders, has
enlarged its balance sheet by $304 billion through its Treasury
purchases since Nov. 12. Including securities bought by
reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage debt the Fed has
purchased $426 billion of Treasuries.  ‘Very Cautious’  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in a March 7
speech that he doesn’t expect consumer-price inflation to
accelerate because of the rise in food and energy costs.
Speaking to economists in Arlington,  Virginia , Lockhart said he
is “very cautious” about further asset purchases, while not
ruling out the possibility because turmoil in the Middle East
and  Africa  risks slowing the  U.S. economy .  “They certainly understand what the risks are out there
and the risks are greater than they were 60 days ago: from the
Middle East and oil prices to Japan and how that could affect
financial markets and regional growth,” said  Paul Ballew , a
former Fed economist and senior vice president at Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio . “It’s not a surprise
they’re going to keep their powder dry and see how things play
out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  