-- 
Ex-Manchester United Player Robson Has Throat-Cancer Surgery, Club Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-16T14:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/former-manchester-united-player-bryan-robson-has-throat-cancer-club-says.html
Former  England  and  Manchester
United  captain Bryan Robson has had surgery to remove a
cancerous tumor from his throat, the Premier League soccer team
said today.  Robson, 54, had the operation on March 3 in Bangkok,
Thailand, where he is currently coaching the national soccer
team.  “The oncologist is confident that the condition is
treatable,” United said in a  statement  on its website. “At
this moment, Bryan is fine to continue with his role as Thailand
coach and his role as ambassador of Manchester United.”  Midfielder Robson, nicknamed “Captain Marvel” during his
playing days, spent 13 years with United after moving there from
West Brom in 1981. As England captain, he was one of the U.K.’s
most-recognized athletes, leading the national team out in 65 of
the 90 matches he played in.  News of Robson’s illness comes a day after Spanish champion
Barcelona  revealed  its French national team defender  Eric Abidal 
has a tumor on his liver. He’ll have surgery tomorrow.  For 20 years Robson held the record for the  World Cup ’s
fastest goal, scoring after 27 seconds against  France  in the
1982 tournament. That was a highlight in an international career
shortened by injuries.  A shoulder injury meant he played just two matches at the
1986 tournament in  Mexico , where England reached the
quarterfinals. In the next event in 1990, Robson was hurt in the
second match, and was left to watch from the sidelines as his
team reached the semifinals for its best finish since winning
the World Cup in 1966.  His stay at Manchester United coincided with Liverpool’s
dominance over the English championship, leaving Robson to wait
until 1992-93, his penultimate season there, to get a title win.
He added another Premier League the following year. Robson
earlier led United to the now defunct European Cup Winners’ Cup
in 1991 and also collected three F.A. Cups and a League Cup.  Robson coached Middlesbrough, Bradford, West Brom and
Sheffield United before signing up with  Thailand  in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  