-- 
French Connection Loss Narrows After Shutting Weak Outlets

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-16T16:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/french-connection-loss-narrows-after-shutting-weak-outlets.html
  French Connection Group Plc (FCCN) , the
U.K. retailer that sold the Nicole Farhi brand last year, posted
a narrowed full-year loss as it closed weak outlets and sold
more merchandise at full price.  The net loss was 2.3 million pounds ($3.7 million), or a
loss of 2.4 pence per share, compared with a loss of 24.9
million pounds, or 26 pence, a year earlier, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The Nicole Farhi sale
generated a loss of 5.7 million pounds, French Connection said.  French Connection closed money-losing or marginally
profitable stores in the U.S. and  Japan , in favor of licensing
agreements, including one with  Hong Kong ’s  Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  in
shops such as those of Sears Holding Corp. French Connection’s
shares have tripled since it sold the unprofitable Nicole Farhi
fashion label in July.  “The restructure of French Connection has enabled the
company to focus back on its core brand and markets and rid
itself of profit-depleting businesses,” Maureen Hinton,
practice leader at London-based Verdict Research, said in a e-
mailed statement. “It has also enhanced the brand’s fashion
authority, which it had lost somewhat over recent years.”  French Connection rose 4.25 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 124
pence in  London , giving the company a market value of 118.9
million pounds.  Clothing Lines  The company is benefiting from strong product lines,
allowing it to sell more items at full price, Neil Williams,
director of operations, said in a telephone interview.  “We’ve seen a significant move away from clearing stock,”
he said. The company expects to increase sales at full price
again this year, he said. “It’s on the strength of the range,
men’s wear and women’s wear.”  French Connection expects to open franchised outlets in
Russia, Hungary,  India , Hong Kong and  China  over coming months,
he said.  Gross margin improved 50 basis points to 52 percent last
year, yet was weaker in the second half, due to price rises in
cotton and other raw materials, the company said.  French Connection raised its prices by 8 percent for its
2011 spring collection, and expects another 8 percent increase
for the winter, Williams said.  “We continue to see inflationary pressures,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  