-- 
Gupta Administrative Action by SEC Is ‘Bizarre,’ Judge Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-16T22:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/galleon-case-judge-calls-bizarre-sec-decision-not-to-sue-insider-gupta.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s decision to file an administrative action against
ex  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat K. Gupta, instead of
to sue him, is “bizarre,” the judge in a Galleon Group LLC
case said.  The SEC filed its action against Gupta, 62, on March 1,
alleging he tipped Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs, about the bank’s quarterly earnings and about earnings at  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also a director.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in New York federal court on
criminal charges of  insider trading  and  securities fraud . He has
denied wrongdoing. More than a dozen people tied to the Galleon
hedge-fund probe have been sued by the SEC. At least 19 people
involved in the investigation pleaded guilty to criminal
charges.  “I don’t understand why Mr. Gupta is the subject of an
administrative proceeding before the SEC while everyone else is
the subject of a proceeding before a district court judge,”
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said today at a hearing in the
SEC’s case against  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader.  Smith pleaded guilty to conspiracy in January and agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. The SEC has also sued him for fraud.
Rakoff said today that lawyers in the civil case had advised him
in a letter that they were in settlement talks.  Called Co-Conspirator  In a letter released today, SEC lawyer Valerie Szczepanik
asked Rakoff for a delay in the case to allow time for Smith to
focus on his testimony at Rajaratnam’s criminal trial.  “Mr. Smith has pleaded guilty in the criminal case and
currently is cooperating with the government in connection with
the criminal prosecution of Raj Rajaratnam and related criminal
matters,” Szczepanik said in the March 8 letter.  Rakoff granted the request and set an Aug. 16 hearing in
the case.  Federal prosecutors have called Gupta a co-conspirator with
Rajaratnam. Gupta isn’t charged with a crime and has denied
wrongdoing.    John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined in a phone
interview to comment on Rakoff’s statements.    Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, has called the SEC’s
allegations against his client baseless and said there is no
allegation that Gupta made any illegal trades or shared in any
profits from them. He declined to comment on Rakoff’s remarks
about the administrative action.  Wiretapped Phone Calls  The jury in Rajaratnam’s trial yesterday heard a July 29,
2008, wiretapped telephone conversation in which Gupta told him
about discussions Goldman Sachs directors had on buying
Wachovia, now part of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  or  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   The SEC’s decision to bring an administrative action
against Gupta “was made by others above me,” Szczepanik told
Rakoff at the separate hearing.  She said that under the Dodd-Frank Act, the commission had
the authority to determine which action was most appropriate.  “What you just said was not an answer to my question,”
Rakoff replied. “On its face, it’s sort of bizarre, but there
it is.”  Portfolio Manager  When he pleaded guilty, Smith, a portfolio manager for
Galleon Emerging Technology Funds, admitted being part of an
insider-trading conspiracy with Rajaratnam and others at Galleon
that ran from 2003 to 2009. He admitted passing material
nonpublic information to Rajaratnam on matters including a deal
by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  to acquire ATI Technologies Inc.  Smith’s lawyer, Michael Feldberg, declined to comment after
court when asked if his client would testify against Rajaratnam
during the criminal trial.  Prosecutors have told the jury in Rajaratnam’s case that on
at least two occasions after Gupta attended Goldman Sachs board
meetings he called Rajaratnam within minutes. Gupta tipped
Rajaratnam in 2008 about the $5 billion investment in the bank
by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., they said.  Rajaratnam bought Goldman Sachs stock, earning $1 million
in two minutes, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told
the jury. Streeter said another tip by Gupta about Goldman Sachs
losses prompted Galleon to sell shares and avoid millions of
dollars of losses.  Gupta stepped down from the board of New York-based Goldman
Sachs last year and resigned from Cincinnati-based Procter &
Gamble’s board this month.  He is a former managing director of McKinsey & Co., the
consulting firm, and is currently the firm’s senior partner
emeritus. He has also served on the boards of American Airlines
parent AMR Corp.; Harman International Industries Inc.; Genpact
Ltd., the business outsourcing company; and  Russia ’s Sberbank.  The SEC didn’t allege any wrongdoing in connection with
those companies.  The case is SEC v. Smith 11-cv-0535, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 