-- 
GE $1 Billion Nuclear Unit at Risk as Nations Mull Atomic Future

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-16T20:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ge-s-1-billion-in-nuclear-sales-at-risk-as-nations-ponder-industry-future.html
  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s goal of
broadening its $1 billion nuclear service-and-parts business
with sales of new reactors risks stalling as world leaders
reconsider the future of atomic energy.  Governments from Germany to  India  are reassessing the
technology after Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami
crippled a power plant and raised the threat of a meltdown.  China  today halted nuclear project approvals and plans safety
inspections of new facilities.  Political doubts after the Japan disaster may signal
dwindling appetite for new plants, and the reactors that Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has said he wants to pursue.
Three reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant use a GE design,
including the damaged No. 1 unit that began operating in 1971.  “We want to look at, just like the whole industry, the
details of what happened here,” GE Power & Water CEO Steve Bolze said yesterday in an interview. “There is going to be a
lot of discussion, and we’re part of that process.”    Tokyo Electric  Power Co. operates and maintains the Dai-
Ichi plant complex. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE operates its
nuclear business through a 60-40 venture with  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) 
everywhere except Japan, where Hitachi has 80 percent ownership.
Services and parts produce most of the revenue for GE-Hitachi.  Sales Effect  GE’s portion of those sales makes up less than 1 percent of
the parent company’s $150.2 billion in 2010 revenue. A possible
loss of sales for GE’s latest reactor design to customers such
as India or for parts and service wouldn’t cause much harm,
according to analysts such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Stephen
Tusa and Matt Collins of  Edward Jones .  “GE-specific exposure is relatively minor and, even if
there were an earnings impact, we do not believe that it’s
material to the intrinsic value of GE stock,” Tusa wrote in a
March 14 note. The New York-based analyst recommends buying GE.  The shares have been under pressure, tumbling 7 percent
from March 11 through today to $18.95 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading, the worst drop among the 30 companies in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Japan’s unfolding nuclear disaster opens up questions on
the future of nuclear power worldwide, scholars and analysts
said. About 15 percent of global electricity comes from nuclear
power, according to London-based  World Nuclear Association .  ‘Step Backward’  A large radiation release reaching the Japanese public
would be “a big step backward,” James Bartis, a senior
research analyst at the Santa Monica, California-based public
policy group Rand Corp., said yesterday in an interview.  As  France  reaffirmed its backing this week for nuclear
power,  Germany  halted production of 25 percent of its nuclear-
generated electricity for a safety review and  Switzerland  put
renewal of three atomic stations on hold.  Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of the Nuclear Power Corp. of
India, said in Mumbai that Japan’s disaster may be a “big
dampener” on the nuclear program in the country, which has
planned $175 billion in spending by 2030.  “There’s going to be some immediate slowdown,” Richard Lester, head of the department of nuclear science and
engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said
yesterday in an interview.  Building GE Energy  Immelt is concentrating on building other areas within the
$37.5 billion GE Energy business, including solar, wind, biogas
and natural gas-fired turbines, in part because it can take a
decade or more to complete a nuclear plant.  GE has produced nine versions of a boiling water reactor
design. The latest one in operation is the Advanced Boiling
Water Reactor, sold to the Japanese in 1996. A new version, the
Economic Simplified Boiling Water Reactor, is awaiting final
certification from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  GE’s Bolze  defended the design  used at the Dai-Ichi site,
saying it operated as expected even under stresses beyond the
criteria set by Japanese regulators. GE has assembled 1,000
reactor specialists, including retirees, at an emergency center
in Wilmington,  North Carolina , where GE-Hitachi is based.  On-the-ground information from  Japan  is flowing from Tokyo
Electric and the Washington-based  Nuclear Energy Institute ,
which represents  reactor owners and builders , Bolze said.  The company is offering aid, including 10 truck-mounted gas
turbines being flown to the Dai-Ichi plant to help restore
power. Authorities in Japan have said the tsunami knocked out
backup generators needed to cool the reactors.  ‘Peculiar Spot’  GE “is in a peculiar spot,” Michael Levi, a senior fellow
for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations
in New York, said in an interview. “It’s not good to have your
company’s name mentioned repeatedly next to ‘large nuclear
accident,’ regardless of the safety potential of your current
offering.”  The company is shielded from legal liability in the
disaster by Japan’s so-called channeling laws, according to Omer
Brown, a Washington-based lawyer who is a member of the
 International Atomic Energy Agency ’s International Nuclear
Liability Expert Group. Japan assigns nuclear-accident liability
to plant operators.  The protections are “rock solid,” Brown said in an
interview.  For GE, any pullback in global nuclear demand would be
tempered by the prospect of adding sales of other power-
generating equipment, according to Edward Jones’s Collins, who
rates GE as “hold” and is based in  Des Peres ,  Missouri .  GE’s Strengths  “GE is actually stronger in those areas than it is in
nuclear, so it could largely offset any nuclear decline,”
Collins said yesterday in an e-mail.  GE and competitors including Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , France’s
Alstom SA and Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  may benefit in the near
term from sales of gas-fired turbines, Citigroup Inc.’s Deane Dray wrote March 14.  Immelt, who has been in talks to sell reactors in India,
said during a visit to New Dehli on March 14 that it’s too early
to forecast the future of nuclear power in that country or
elsewhere.  “We just have to let discovery take place,” he said.
“Let people and countries reach their own conclusions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  