-- 
Bunds Rise as Japan Disaster Stokes Safety Demand; Portugal Bonds Decline

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T16:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/german-notes-fall-before-data-that-may-show-euro-area-inflation-quickened.html
German  government bonds  rallied
amid concern  Japan ’s nuclear disaster may be worsening in the
wake of last week’s earthquake, boosting investor demand for the
safest assets.  Ten-year bund yields slid to the lowest since Jan. 18 after
the European Union’s energy chief said the situation at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant was “out of control” and
“catastrophic events” could occur in coming hours. Two-year
notes reversed earlier losses that followed a report showing
euro-area inflation accelerated at the fastest pace in more than
two years. Portuguese bonds fell after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the nation’s credit.  “Equity markets are trading in a jittery fashion and
investors are plumping for safety, and that’s giving support to
bunds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , an Edinburgh-based fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
investors.  Yields on 10-year bunds sank as much as seven basis points
to 3.065 percent, the lowest since Jan. 18, and were five basis
points lower at 3.09 percent as of 4:13 p.m. in London. The 2.5
percent security due January 2021 rose 4.10 euro per 1,000-euro
($1,394) face amount to 95.09. Two-year note yields declined
five basis points to 1.47 percent.  Stocks in  Europe  and the U.S. extended losses after EU
Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger told a parliamentary
committee in Brussels today that Japan faced a “major
disaster.”  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment
vessel may have been breached at the earthquake-damaged nuclear
facility north of Tokyo, risking further radioactive leaks.  A plan to drop water on damaged nuclear reactors from
helicopters was suspended because of the risk of radiation,
public broadcaster NHK said.  Belgian Auction    Belgium  won’t sell bonds due June 2017 this week because of
“continued market uncertainty” in the wake of the Japanese
crisis, said Anne Leclercq, director for treasury and capital
markets at the Belgian Debt Agency. European Central Bank
council member  Christian Noyer  said policy makers will consider
the effects of the Japanese disaster when discussing an interest
rate decision in April, Handelsblatt reported.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.4
percent, up from 2.3 percent in January, the European Union’s
 statistics office  said today, confirming a March 1 estimate.
That exceeded the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a third month.  “I don’t think events in Japan will prevent the ECB from
hiking,” said Stamenkovic. “The short end doesn’t look very
attractive,” he added, referring to German notes.  Portuguese Yield  Yields on 10-year Portuguese debt rose seven basis points
to 7.48 percent, widening the additional yield investors demand
to hold the securities instead of bunds by 12 basis points to
4.39 percentage points.  Moody’s cut  Portugal  two steps to A3, four notches above
so-called junk status, and may make further reductions,
according to a statement late yesterday. Moody’s cited a weaker
economic outlook, risks to government deficit-reduction plans
and the potential that banks will need recapitalizing.  Portugal sold 1 billion euros of bills due in March 2012 at
an average yield of 4.331 percent, up from 4.057 percent at a
previous auction of the same-maturity debt on March 2.    Germany  sold almost 5 billion euros of two-year notes at an
average yield of 1.53 percent today, attracting bids for 9.375
billion euros of the securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  