-- 
Gilead, Astellas, Rambus, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-16T11:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/gilead-astellas-rambus-apple-sri-intellectual-property.html
  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and units of
patent-partner  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  sued Indian generic drugmaker  Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)  for allegedly infringing a U.S. patent for the
Tamiflu influenza medication.  Gilead, which gets royalties from Roche Holding for the
drug, asked for a court order to block other versions of Tamiflu
until the 1998 patent expires in 2017, according to a filing
March 14 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “This action arises because of Natco’s efforts to gain
approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market
generic copies” while claiming the Gilead patent isn’t valid,
according to the complaint.  In February, Natco became the first company to file an
application with U.S. regulators for a generic version of
Tamiflu, which logged about $1 billion in U.S. sales in 2009.  Rajeev Nannapeneni, chief operating officer of Natco in
Hyderabad, said in a phone interview that he didn’t know about
the lawsuit and couldn’t comment further.  The disputed patent -- 5,763,483 -- was issued in June
1998.  Gilead is represented by  Jack B. Blumenfeld  and  Maryellen
Norieka  of Wilmington’s  Morris Nichols Arsht & Tunnell LLP .  The case is Gilead v. Natco, 11cv221, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Astellas Sued for Alleged Scheme to Delay Prograf Generics    Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  was sued by a drug wholesaler over an
alleged scheme to delay generic versions of the immune-
suppressant Prograf.  Astellas illegally maintained a monopoly on the market for
tacrolimus, which it sells as Prograf, for almost two years by
filing a “sham” petition with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  to require safety and efficacy tests for the
generics, Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. said in the complaint.  “The only material difference between generic drugs and
their brand name counterparts is price,” lawyers for the
wholesaler said in the complaint filed March 15 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware. “Astellas was keenly aware that it
would lose a substantial amount of its sales of Prograf very
quickly once AB-rated generics came to market.”  Prograf, given to transplant patients to avoid organ
rejection, has faced generic competition since August 2009 in
the U.S. when  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit began selling the first
copy of the drug. That month, the FDA also denied Astellas’s
petition, filed in 2007, which included a request that the
regulator require doctors be notified whenever a substitute oral
medicine is about to be provided to a transplant patient.  Stan Neve, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Astellas, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The delay in bringing generics to market allowed Astellas
to overcharge direct purchasers of Prograf by millions of
dollars, Louisiana Wholesale said in the complaint. The company
is seeking to represent all direct purchasers in recouping
unspecified damages.  On March 7, the U.S.  Supreme Court  rejected an appeal
yesterday from Louisiana Wholesale Drug that sought to press an
antitrust suit over a 1997 settlement between Bayer and Barr
Laboratories Inc., now part of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)   Joining with Louisiana Wholesale Drug in that appeal were
two of the three largest U.S. drugstore companies,  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite-Aid Corp. (RAD)   That case was Louisiana Wholesale Drug v. Bayer, 10-762.
The new case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. v. Astellas Pharma
US Inc., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Rambus Renews Toshiba Patent License Accord for Five Years    Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  said it renewed a patent-license agreement
covering  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  products with DRAM memory controllers for
SDR, DDR, DDR2, DDR3 and other devices.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale,  California , said in a statement
yesterday that it will receive royalty payments based on the
shipment of these devices for five years.  The company gets revenue from licensing designs for
interfaces that connect semiconductors and from royalty payments
for patents it claims cover fundamentals of all memory chips
designs.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Seeks to Register Former Logo as European Mark    Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and iPhone, filed an
application with the European Trademark Office seeking to
register an image of a Granny Smith apple as a trademark, CNet
News  reported .  The green-skinned apple image was previously  used as a logo 
by the Beatles’ record label Apple Corps Ltd., according to CNet
News. Apple Inc., based in Cupertino, California, applied to
register the mark in  Europe  for a range of classifications
including games, computer hardware and advertising, CNet News
said.  In 2007, Apple filed an application with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office indicating that it had been transferred the
right to use the former Apple Corps logo, according to CNet
News.  SRI’s Cleveland Golf Wins Trademark Case Against Web Host    SRI Sports Ltd. (7825) ’s Cleveland Golf unit won a trademark-
infringement case against a web-hosting firm that supported a
website where fake clubs were sold.  Bright Builders Inc. , of Orem, Utah, which hosted the
www.copycatclubs.com website, was ordered to pay the club
company $770,750 in damages. The  South Carolina  resident who
sold the fake clubs was hit with a $28,250 damages judgment.  The suit was filed in August 2009 in federal court in
Charleston, South Carolina. The jury delivered its verdict on
March 10 and the judgment was entered March 14.  The case was Roger Cleveland Golf Co. v. Christopher Price,
2:09-cv-02119 MBS, U.S. District Court, District of South
Carolina (Charleston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Obama Seeks Rules for Illegal Video Streaming, More Wiretaps  President Barack Obama asked Congress to clarify whether
illegal video streaming for events such as the Super Bowl is a
felony and to give the government broader wiretap authority in
recommendations released yesterday.  The administration issued 20 legislative suggestions to
lawmakers “to improve intellectual property enforcement,”
Victoria Espinel, the White House intellectual property czar,
said in a statement posted on the White House blog.  The proposal included measures to clarify that “in
appropriate circumstances, infringement by streaming, or by
means of other similar new technology, is a felony,” the
statement said.  The administration also is seeking “wiretap authority for
copyright and trademark offenses, which will enhance efforts to
fight organized crime and bring their leaders to justice,”
Espinel said in the blog post.  The Washington-based  International Intellectual Property
Allianc e estimated in November that the unauthorized use of
software within businesses has cost U.S. software companies $30
billion.  Other recommendations in the proposal included increasing
criminal penalties for violating intellectual property laws,
stealing trade secrets and dealing in counterfeit prescription
drugs.  Lawmakers are considering ways to close down websites
selling pirated content and products. Senator Patrick Leahy, a
Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, plans to reintroduce a bill that would make it easier
for authorities to shut so-called rogue websites, which sell
stolen content and copycat products.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest business
lobbying group, said it supported the move to clarify “criminal
copyright infringement through unauthorized streaming.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Toyota, Plaintiffs’ Lawyers Near Accord on ‘Crown Jewel’ Code    Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lawyers and attorneys for plaintiffs
suing the automaker over claims of unintended sudden
acceleration told a judge yesterday they are close to resolving
a major hurdle in pre-trial evidence-gathering.  Company attorneys said they have come up with a new concept
for providing the plaintiffs’ attorneys access to Toyota’s
secret source codes for the electronic throttle-control system,
which the plaintiffs have said in court papers is critical to
determining whether the system played a part in sudden
acceleration.  The concept was described during the hearing by the lawyers
as a technological procedure in which the plaintiffs’ experts
will be able to analyze the source code while Toyota monitors
the procedure in a way that satisfies the company’s security
concerns. Both sides told the judge they were optimistic this
would resolve a dispute that has lasted more than 2 1/2 months.  “This seems to be an infinitely better idea from a lot of
aspects,” U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana,
California, said at a hearing yesterday. Selna, who has been
pushing to have the first cases go to trial in early 2013,
scheduled a March 22 hearing to approve the final form of the
proposal and iron out any disagreements.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles last year and in 2009, most for defects related to
unintended acceleration. It paid a record $48.8 million in fines
for how some of the recalls were conducted. The carmaker, based
in Toyota City,  Japan , said last month that it’s recalling
another 2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-
mat flaws that could jam gas pedals.  Access to the source code, which is the programming for the
throttle system, has been described by the judge as one of the
key issues to be resolved in order to bring the first cases to
trial on schedule. The judge has ruled that the plaintiffs’
lawyers have a right to review the code to allow their experts
to determine whether the system caused the acceleration
problems.  Toyota lawyers have said they want sufficient safeguards to
prevent the codes, which are trade secrets, from becoming public
and available to their competitors.  “The source code is probably the most important part of
the science aspect of this case,” Mark Robinson, one of the
lead plaintiffs’ attorneys told the judge. Robinson described
the new proposal as a “brilliant idea.”  Toyota’s source code is “the crown jewel of the company’s
intellectual property and deserves the highest levels of
protection and oversight during discovery,”  Celeste Migliore , a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
plaintiffs’ convenience should not outweigh Toyota’s ability to
rigorously guard the confidentiality of this code.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 