-- 
Glencore Investments Lose $3.8 Billion, Threatening IPO Plan

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-17T12:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/glencore-investments-lose-3-4-billion-threatening-ipo-plans.html
Glencore International AG, the
largest commodities trader, lost $3.8 billion in the value of
its listed mining holdings over the past month as stocks fell,
threatening plans for a share sale as its valuation slides.  The value of Glencore’s 10 largest holdings, including a 34
percent stake in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , slumped 12 percent from Feb. 14 to
$28.2 billion yesterday, exceeding the 6.3 percent drop in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index in the period. Stocks fell this week on concern
a nuclear accident outside  Tokyo  may harm the global economy.  Glencore briefed analysts from 11 banks in the week
starting Feb. 28 as it studies a $10 billion initial public
offering in London and  Hong Kong , two people with knowledge of
the talks said at the time. The company may be valued at more
than $60 billion should it seek a share sale, which could occur
in May,  RBC Capital Markets  said March 3.  “The market is much more difficult than it was weeks ago
and people start to get more risk-averse,” said Peter Braendle,
a  fund manager  at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich,
which oversees about $62 billion. “I could imagine Glencore
delaying the IPO.”  Credit-default swaps on the company rose 5 basis points to
200, according to data provider CMA. That means it costs 200,000
euros ($280,000) annually to insure 10 million euros of the
company’s debt for five years. Simon Buerk, a spokesman for
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, declined to comment.  Market Moves  Stocks in the U.S. and  Europe  plunged earlier this week,
following Japanese shares lower as the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  index posted
its biggest two-day decline since 1987. Commodities also slid as  Japan , the world’s third-biggest economy, grappled with the
aftermath of a March 11 earthquake.  “If the perception in the market is that growth will slow
down and commodity prices will fall, then they would achieve a
lower valuation,” Felix Freund, a Frankfurt-based portfolio
manager at Union Investment GmbH, which oversees 177 billion
euros of assets, said by telephone.  Japan’s Fukushima nuclear plant had power and cooling
systems knocked out by a 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami that followed
the country’s strongest earthquake on record, and suffered
explosions that blew out containment walls. Factories and oil
refineries also shut following the disaster.  Stocks Rebound  European stocks advanced today, halting a six-day slide,
amid speculation Group of Seven nations will move to calm
markets. The value of Glencore’s 10-largest holdings climbed 3.5
percent to $28.8 billion by 12:25 p.m. in  London .  An IPO by Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich &
Co. after management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier
Marc Rich in 1994, would end more than three decades of being a
closely held partnership.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot index of 24 commodities
dropped 4 percent the first two days of this week, capping the
longest losing streak since Aug. 24. Oil futures in  New York 
slid below $100 a barrel and U.S. gasoline declined. Gold,
copper, nickel, aluminum, silver and corn also fell.  “With volatilities shooting up and prices dropping, any
IPO would have to adapt,” Braendle said. “Glencore’s IPO will
be attractive if they construct the deal properly.”  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg and Chief Financial
Officer Steven Kalmin addressed analysts at the London briefing,
including those from the IPO’s lead managers Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley, two people said.  Xstrata Stake  After its holding in Xstrata, Glencore’s next largest stake
is an 8.8 percent interest in United Co. Rusal, the largest
aluminum producer. Rusal has sunk 4.6 percent since Feb. 14.  Glencore also owns 74 percent of  Katanga Mining Ltd. (KAT)  and 71
percent of Australian nickel producer Minara Resources Ltd. It
holds stakes in Century Aluminum Co. and Nyrstar NV, the world’s
biggest zinc producer.  On March 3, the company reported a 39 percent increase in
2010 net income excluding exceptional items to $3.8 billion.
Glencore employs 2,000 people in its trading units and more than
50,000 at its industrial operations at 15 plants in 13
countries, according to a company fact sheet on its website.  Glencore’s 10 largest mining-company investments are given
in its published holdings as of Dec. 31, according to its annual
report to bondholders obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 Zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 