-- 
Japanese Stocks May Defy Earthquake, Gain as Global Demand Drives Exports

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-16T09:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/goldman-sachs-positive-on-japan-stocks-following-earthquake-1-.html
Japanese stocks may gain even as
the nation battles to rebuild and prevent a potential nuclear
meltdown following its strongest earthquake on record, as global
economic growth drives export demand, strategists said.  The economic effects of the magnitude 9 temblor on March 11
and the subsequent tsunami are likely to be temporary, and
shares may gain in the medium term, according to analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Equities are trading below their “fair
value,” according to Morgan Stanley. Stocks may advance by the
end of March as the global economy recovers,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.    Japan ’s Topix Index plunged as much as 14 percent
yesterday, the third-worst daily slump in history, following
damage to a nuclear plant following the quake and tsunami that
destroyed towns north of Tokyo. Thousands have been killed and
millions left without electricity or water. The Nikkei rebounded
6.6 percent today, its biggest one-day gain since Oct. 2008.  “Share prices have fallen sharply as they factor in
adverse impacts from the natural disaster and nuclear reactor
incidents,” UBS strategists led by Shoji Hirakawa said in a
report dated yesterday. “We believe there could be investment
opportunities for sectors and stocks where valuations are
appealing.”  Pumping Cash    Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged on March
14 to keep pumping cash into the economy as needed after
unleashing a record 15 trillion yen ($183 billion) in one-day
operations. The measures should help stop the yen’s
appreciation, which will lead to a rebound in share prices
through the end of the month, Hirakawa said.  Japan’s stock market is likely to advance as the U.S. and
global economies continue to grow, deflation dissipates in Japan
and company profits rise in fiscal 2012 amid reasonable
valuations, Goldman strategist Kathy Matsui wrote in a report
yesterday.  Japanese stocks entered what some investors consider a  bear
market  yesterday, with the Topix extending its drop since April
15, 2010, to more than 20 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge yesterday traded at 0.91 times the value of
net assets for its companies, the lowest level since March 2009.
It rose to 0.97 today.  28-Month Low  The Topix closed at 817.63 today in  Tokyo  amid speculation
that the selloff that drove valuations to a 28-month low was
excessive.  Goldman left its 12-month target for the Topix Index
unchanged at 1,050, while the bulk of the gains are likely to be
in the latter half of the year, as overseas investors may resume
buying shares, and the potential negative impact on fiscal year
2011 profit growth for companies listed on the first section of
the Tokyo Stock Exchange is likely to be a decline on 10
percent, rather than a possible 20 percent drop, Matsui said.  “We believe the current uncertainty will result in a near-
term pause in foreign buying,” wrote Matsui. “The market still
has scope for upside over the medium-term.”  The Topix lost more than $680 billion in market value in
the past three days. The gauge’s relative strength index, a
measure of price momentum, dropped to as low as 16.54 yesterday,
before advancing to 31.50 today. Some traders use a reading
below 30 as an indicator to buy.  Rolling Blackouts  Tokyo Electric Power Co., also known as Tepco, began
rolling blackouts that will continue until the end of April to
conserve electricity in the Kanto region on concerns of a supply
shortfall. The utility is also battling to prevent a nuclear
catastrophe at its earthquake-damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
and said today that fuel rods at two reactors may have been
damaged.  Stocks may stop falling once Tepco returns power usage back
to normal and the government formulates an appropriate policy
response, both likely to be addressed by the end of April, Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch strategists including Masatoshi Kikuchi
said in a report yesterday.  “As so many market players reside in the Tokyo area, the
morning and evening severe commuter congestion caused by the
power shortage has come to symbolize the overall economic damage
and has exacerbated the sense of unease,” wrote Kikuchi. “We
expect the rolling power cuts to end during April, once Tepco’s
thermal power stations return to normal operations.”    Morgan Stanley (MS)  strategists led by Alexander Kinmont said
while sentiment may weaken in the near term, there is no need
for a knee-jerk response, as earnings for Japanese companies are
more dependent on global growth rather than events in Japan. The
Topix is trading about 20 percent below its “fair value” of
1,100, Kinmont said.  “The effects of the earthquake are ultimately likely to be
less significant than the swing in other variables that affect
earnings -- most notably, global demand growth,” wrote Kinmont.
“In addition to the obvious moral considerations, we believe
that investors are poorly advised to trade on “events,”
especially ones such as Friday’s devastating earthquake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 