-- 
Goldman Says Buy Vale Puts as Iron-Ore Prices May Drop

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-16T20:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/goldman-says-buy-vale-puts-on-prospect-iron-ore-prices-to-drop.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended investors buy put options in  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s
largest iron-ore producer, to protect against a short-term drop
in the commodity’s price.  Derivatives strategists Katherine Fogertey and John Marshall recommend buying May $30 puts and selling Jan 2012 $25
puts. The New York-based company, which in January advised
hedging near-term risks by buying April $35 puts and selling
January $25 puts, is now saying to roll the April $35 puts.
Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , fell 2.7 percent to $31.04 today.  “Iron ore prices and volumes could be negatively impacted
due to the earthquake in  Japan ,” Fogertey and Marshall said in
the note. “While our analyst is bullish on Vale on the longer
term, we continue to see three near-term risks which could cause
volatility and pull back the stock.”  Vale dropped 16 percent from its 31-month high on Jan. 18.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 6.9 percent in that period. Japan
accounted for 10 percent of Vale’s iron ore exports, the note
said, compared with 12 percent for Brazil.  Mining Royalty Taxes  The company may also owe Brazilian states almost 5 billion
reais ($3 billion) on royalties through 2010, Mining Minister
Edison Lobao said March 14 in Brasilia. Mining royalty taxes to
the government may increase to about 4 percent from 2 percent,
which could hurt the stock price, according to the strategists,
who cited a Goldman Sachs analyst.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Roger Agnelli’s term will
expire this year and the prospect of a new leader may increase
volatility in the next two months, according to the note.
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  may push major Vale
shareholders to name Antonio Maciel Neto of Suzano Papel e
Celulose SA, Latin America’s second-biggest pulp exporter, to
replace Agnelli, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported on
March 14, without saying where it got the information.  Vale Chairman Ricardo Flores signaled Agnelli may stay,
saying there “will be no change in the company’s command,”
Brazil Economico reported on Jan. 3. Flores is president of the
pension fund that’s Vale’s biggest shareholder.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  