-- 
Goldman Sachs Agrees to Buy Indian ETF Provider Benchmark Asset Management

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-16T09:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/goldman-sachs-said-to-near-takeover-of-india-s-benchmark-asset-management.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
buy Benchmark Asset Management Co.,  India ’s largest provider of
index-tracking funds, stepping up an expansion in Asia’s third-
biggest economy.  Goldman Sachs, which set up its own mutual fund unit in
India in 2008, didn’t oversee any assets in India as of the end
of last year, according to data from the Association of Mutual
Funds of India, an industry body. The transaction is expected to
be completed later in the year, subject to regulatory approvals,
Goldman Sachs said in a statement today. It did not disclose the
terms of the transaction.  The purchase gives New York-based Goldman Sachs access to a
market where assets managed by mutual funds more than tripled to
6.8 trillion rupees ($150 billion) in the five years to Dec. 31,
according to the industry body.  “It’s curious that Goldman is buying Benchmark because
they don’t have an ETF business anywhere in the world,” said
Dhirendra Kumar, New Delhi-based managing director at Value
Research, a firm that tracks funds. “I think this purchase is
more a statement of their commitment to India.”  Benchmark Asset Management  oversaw 29.35 billion rupees in
assets as of Dec. 31. The company last year began selling an
exchange-traded fund linked to  Hong Kong ’s benchmark Hang Seng
Index, the first overseas-backed ETF in India.  “It’s a good deal for Benchmark, which have been pioneers
in the ETF business in India,” said Kumar. “They have been
facing a lot of competition from rivals like Kotak Mutual Fund
and Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund getting into the ETF fray.”  Becoming Popular  Exchange-traded funds, which allow investors to buy or sell
shares of entire portfolios of stocks in a single security, have
become popular worldwide since their creation in 1993 as they
widen investors’ access to different types of assets. ETFs,
which mimic the performance of an index and trade like
securities, are cheaper than  mutual funds .  India’s benchmark Sensitive Index has dropped 11 percent
this year, the third-worst performance among 90 global
benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, after gaining 17 percent last
year and 81 percent in 2009.  Mutual-fund assets in India have dropped 19 percent since
peaking in November 2009, three months after the country banned
firms from charging investors an upfront fee when they bought
fund units, according to the industry association. The ban
caused distributors, which previously shared the fee with the
manager, to reduce marketing of funds.  “India is one of the world’s largest growth markets and a
strategic priority for our firm,” Oliver Bolitho, head of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  Asia  said in the statement.
“The acquisition illustrates our commitment to expand in
India.” Goldman Sachs also will start actively managed on-shore
funds in the country, he said.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. bought a 26 percent stake in UTI
Asset Management Co., India’s oldest money manager, in November
2009, in a deal that valued UTI at 3.3 percent of its money
under management. The financing unit of Larsen & Toubro Ltd.,
India’s largest engineering company, in September 2009 acquired
DBS Cholamandalam Asset Management for 450 million rupees, or
1.6 percent of the target’s managed assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  