-- 
Grain Demand in Japan Unlikely to Decline After Disaster, UN’s Konuma Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-16T02:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/grain-demand-in-japan-unlikely-to-decline-after-disaster-un-s-konuma-says.html
Grain demand in  Japan , the world’s
largest corn importer, is unlikely to decline even after an
earthquake and tsunami damaged some of the nation’s ports and
disrupted deliveries, the  United Nations  said.  The country, struck by its strongest earthquake on record
on March 11, faces power blackouts and the increasing danger of
radiation leaks at a crippled nuclear facility. The unloading of
U.S. corn from vessels at Kashima and other northern ports were
suspended because of power outages, Zen-Noh, Japan’s largest
corn buyer, said March 14.  “I don’t see any particular reason for demand to decline
at the moment,” Hiroyuki Konuma,  Asia ’s regional representative
at the UN’s Food & Agricultural Organization, said in a phone
interview from Bangkok yesterday. “Ports in the northern part
aren’t major ports. For importing foods from abroad, shipments
can be redirected to other ports. Demand remains there.”  Sustained purchases by Japan may help push corn prices
higher, after futures in  Chicago  slumped to the lowest level in
almost two months yesterday. The contract for May delivery
traded 0.2 percent lower at $6.3475 a bushel at 10 a.m. in
Singapore. Prices have tumbled 13 percent this month.  Global supplies of corn will remain tight even if the
market sees “a temporary decline” in demand from Japan,  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said in a phone interview from Sydney yesterday.  Food Prices  High food prices may persist in the next six months as the
nuclear crisis in Japan boosts the nation’s oil needs,
increasing fuel and transport costs, Konuma said.  About 4.8 million metric tons of the 24 million tons of
feed Japan produces each year come from the northern region hit
by the quake and the tsunami, Eri Utamaru, assistant director at
the livestock production and feed division of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, said March 14. Ports and
feedmaking plants in coastal areas were damaged, she said.  About half of national feed production each year comes from
corn, so the disaster may hurt 2.4 million tons of the grain on
an annual basis, Utamaru said. Other feed ingredients include
soybean meal, sorghum and barley.  Japan’s corn demand is estimated by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  to rise to 16.1 million tons this season, from 16
million tons in the previous season.  Production Unaffected  “Production of grains shouldn’t be affected at the moment
as it isn’t growing time. The weather is still cold,” FAO’s
Konuma said.  Global corn inventories will drop for a third consecutive
season in the year through June 2012 as record world production
won’t be enough to satisfy rising demand, the International
Grains Council forecast last month. Before the next harvest,
inventories will be equal to 15 percent of demand, the smallest
since 1974, according to USDA data.  “Once the situation does become clearer and if the worst
is averted, then we think investors will continue to see
agricultural commodities as an attractive investment path, at
least in the medium term,” Mathews said, referring to a three
to 12-month period.  Still, Mathews said the investor reaction to the disaster
in Japan in the next few weeks “is going to prove a significant
hurdle” to the rally in prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  