-- 
Greggs Profit Climbs on Meal Deals, Fairtrade Coffee

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-16T16:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/greggs-profit-climbs-on-meal-deals-fairtrade-coffee-1-.html
  Greggs Plc (GRG) , the U.K.’s biggest
bakery chain, said full-year profit climbed 10 percent as more
customers bought Fairtrade coffee and breakfast meal deals.  Net income for the 52 weeks ended Jan. 1 rose to 37.9
million pounds ($61 million), or 37.3 pence a share, from 34.4
million pounds, or 34 pence a share, a year earlier, the
Newcastle, England-based company said in a statement today.
Sales grew to 662.3 million pounds.  Rising global commodity prices, which have pushed up the
cost of ingredients, and pressure on  consumer spending  will
continue to make this year “challenging,” Chief Executive
Officer Ken McMeikan said.  British consumers “still want to enjoy their lives as much
as they can and will seek out greater value but they don’t want
to necessarily compromise on the quality of food they get,”
McMeikan said in a conference call. “The breakfast market is a
big opportunity and coffee is a big opportunity for Greggs.”  The company plans to add about 80 shops this year,
following the opening of 93 outlets last year. Greggs said
performance in the year so far is as forecast, with total sales
for the 10 weeks ended March 12 increasing 3.8 percent. The
chain said that any price increases passed on to customers will
be lower than the rise in commodities such as wheat, according
to McMeikan.  “It will be pennies for any increases we put through,” he
said, “We are not exposed to the immediate rise in commodities
as we have extended our cover further forward.”  Greggs said customer demand for hot drinks grew strongly
during the year as the baker rolled out more coffee machines
serving freshly ground Fairtrade coffee which is priced about 40
percent below that of other high-street coffee chains. Greggs
plans to have coffee machines at all its outlets by end of this
year, McMeikan said.  “Despite fears over rising raw material costs such as
wheat, a profit margin ahead of analyst expectations has been
achieved, led by a series of management initiatives,”  Keith Bowman , an analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc said in an e-
mailed note today. Bowman recommends buying the stock.  The stock climbed as much as 5.5 percent in London trading
before closing little changed at 466.3 pence, giving the company
a market value of 471.7 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  