-- 
Higher Tax on Millionaires Proposed in Congress as Deficit Fix

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-16T17:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/higher-tax-on-millionaires-proposed-in-congress-as-deficit-fix.html
U.S. millionaires would face an
annual income tax increase of at least 10 percent under a
deficit-reduction measure proposed by Representative  Jan Schakowsky .  The legislation, introduced today and touted at a press
conference by the Illinois Democrat, would add five tax brackets
starting with a 45 percent rate for taxpayers earning more than
$1 million annually. The highest rate, 49 percent, would be
levied on those with income exceeding $1 billion annually.    Capital gains  and dividend income would be taxed at
standard income rates instead of the 15 percent rate most
individuals currently pay.  The bill is unlikely to gain support from Republicans who
control the  House of Representatives . It would represent a
dramatic tax increase for the wealthiest U.S. taxpayers, most of
whom pay a top 35 percent income tax rate, before deductions.  Schakowsky said the legislation is needed to trim the
federal  budget deficit . She estimated the tax would generate
$78.9 billion in revenue for 2011 if enacted for this tax year.  “This isn’t about punishment or revenge,” she said.
“It’s about fairness.”  Lawmakers in Congress and some state legislatures have
proposed similar “millionaire taxes” and cuts in tax breaks
for the wealthy in recent years and have struggled to enact such
legislation.  Schumer Amendment  When Congress debated the extension of the 2001 and 2003
tax cuts in December, Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, offered an amendment that would have eliminated those
tax cuts for people earning more than $1 million a year. It
failed 53-37.  An initiative in Washington state that would have raised
taxes for residents earning more than $200,000 was defeated in
November.  The reverse is happening in  New York , where Governor Andrew Cuomo is seeking to allow the state’s highest income tax rate to
expire. Democrats in the Assembly want to keep the tax on the
books.  Schakowsky said she is aware of the challenges her
legislation would face.  “My legislative strategy right now is to get co-sponsors
for the legislation to indicate there’s a depth of strength in
the House, to give courage to other members that this is a
highly popular idea,” she said.  The bill has nine co-sponsors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 Ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  