-- 
India Inflation Still ‘Sticky,’ Policy Tightening Seen, S&P Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-16T09:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/india-inflation-still-sticky-policy-tightening-seen-s-p-says.html
  India ’s inflation is still
“sticky” and high, and the central bank may raise  interest
rates  in the near future, said  Takahira Ogawa , a credit analyst
at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.  “There is still very sticky, high inflation,” Ogawa said
in a conference call today. “There is still possibility for the
Reserve Bank to have monetary tightening later this year, in the
near future.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  may increase its benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point tomorrow,
according to all 26 economists in Bloomberg News survey. India’s
inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 8.31 percent in February.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25 raised rates for the
seventh time in a year and pledged to persist with an “anti-
inflationary monetary stance.” The central bank’s repurchase
rate is 6.5 percent. The RBI aims for inflation of 4 percent to
4.5 percent.  S&P said the government also needs to take steps along with
the central bank to slow inflation.  “The  Reserve Bank  is saying the monetary policy itself
will not deal with the current situation of high inflation
environment, so the Indian government might also need to
cooperate,” Ogawa said. “This is another challenge for the
Indian economy.”  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s budget for the fiscal
year starting April 1 aims to cut income tax, increase wages and
boost spending, risking higher inflation.  Mukherjee on Feb. 28 unveiled plans to increase spending by
13.4 percent to 12.6 trillion rupees ($279 billion) in the next
fiscal year. He also announced that incomes below 180,000 rupees
won’t be taxed, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  