-- 
India’s Rupee Gains as Overseas Holdings of Shares Increase

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-16T11:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/india-s-rupee-gains-as-overseas-holdings-of-shares-increase.html
  India ’s rupee gained for the second
day this week as stock exchange data showed overseas investors
increased holdings of the nation’s shares this month for the
first time since December.  Funds based abroad added an average $54 million a day to
shareholdings so far in March, compared with net daily sales of
$43 million last month and $69 million in January, according to
data published by the  Securities & Exchange Board of India . Net
additions increased to $112 million on March 14, the most in
more than a week. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index of
local equities advanced 1.1 percent today.  “Rupee sentiment has improved, particularly with stock
inflows remaining positive,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-
based currency trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd. “The
equity market is also up, and that will support the rupee.”  The Indian currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 45.1175 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The rupee strengthened after Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Economic Advisory
Council, said yesterday that  Japan ’s earthquake and its
aftermath will have only a ‘marginal’ impact on India’s economy.  Indian exports to Japan make up only 2 percent of the
nation’s total overseas sales while foreign direct investment
from Japan accounts for 4 percent of the inflows, according to
India’s commerce ministry data.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.97 in
three months, compared with expectations of 46.12 yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  