-- 
Minkow in Plea Talks With U.S. Prosecutors Over Fraud Case, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-16T21:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/minkow-in-plea-talks-with-u-s-prosecutors-in-miami-defense-lawyer-says.html
Barry Minkow, a convicted con man
who became a minister and anti-fraud crusader, is in talks with
U.S. prosecutors in Miami to plead guilty to insider trading of  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , his lawyer said.  “Barry is looking forward to getting this behind him and
on with the rest of his life,” Alvin E. Entin, Minkow’s
attorney, said in a telephone interview today from  San Juan ,  Puerto Rico . Minkow faces a maximum five-year sentence under the
proposed deal in which he would plead guilty to a single
securities fraud count. The plea may take a week to negotiate,
Entin said.  After serving a prison sentence for fraud from 1988 to
1995, Minkow became a minister and founded the  Fraud Discovery
Institute,  which stated as its mission the exposure of corporate
fraud. The institute said it supported itself by trading against
companies where it found executives misrepresented their
credentials or allegedly committed other types of fraud.
Minkow’s exposes led to resignations of executives at companies
such as  Microsemi Corp. (MSCC)  and  Intrepid Potash Inc. (IPI)   In January 2009, Minkow issued a report alleging that
Lennar operated joint ventures “like a  Ponzi scheme ,”
triggering a 20 percent one-day drop in the Miami-based
homebuilder’s shares. The company denied the accusations and
later sued Minkow in state court in Miami, alleging he conspired
to extort money and caused reputational harm.  Default Judgment  In December 2010, Florida Judge Gill Freeman entered a
default judgment against Minkow in the lawsuit, saying “Minkow
has withheld key documents, destroyed or discarded important
evidence, concealed the identity of material witnesses,
willfully violated court orders and engaged in actions to cloud
his misconduct.”  Federal prosecutors haven’t charged Minkow in the Lennar
insider trading matter, his lawyer said. He is negotiating a
deal to plead guilty to one count of “trading on information
that wasn’t otherwise public,” Entin said.  About three months after the report on Lennar, Minkow
bought options worth $20,000 betting Lennar’s shares would go
down, Entin said.  “There was a margin call and he lost his position,” said
Entin, who declined to disclose the information Minkow used as
the basis of the trade.  Alicia Valle, spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney in Miami,
declined to comment.  Had a Position  In a March 30, 2010, e-mailed statement, Minkow denied that
he had a position in Lennar’s stock at the time he issued the
report.  “Always assume we are shorting any public company we
report on,” he said in the e-mail. “I had a 3 hour, 1400.00
2008 profit from a Lennar trade -- BEFORE any report was issued
so technically I could not say I had never shorted Lennar. But
in the spirit of the law, we all know that the question pertains
to the period in which we released information and the answer to
that question is no -- when Lennar’s stock dropped 40% in 2 days
in 2009 January I was not short.”  Minkow didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail at his
church and the Fraud Discovery Institute in  San Diego  seeking
comment. Lennar spokesman Marshall Ames declined to comment.  At age 16, Minkow began a carpet-cleaning company, ZZZZ
Best Co., in  Southern California . He took it public and the
value eventually exceeded $211 million, according to a 1987 Wall
Street Journal article.  Carpet Business  To make his business appear successful, Minkow prepared
fake receipts that fooled auditors and investors. When the
scheme fell apart, he was convicted in 1988 of 57 counts of
fraud and conspiracy and sentenced to 25 years in prison. He
served more than seven years before being released in 1995.  Minkow recently resigned as pastor of the San Diego-based
Community Bible Church, where he began preaching after leaving
prison, according to a letter from the church obtained by
Bloomberg.  “Pastor Barry no longer considers himself above reproach
as he has agreed to plead guilty to a criminal count related to
the Lennar lawsuit,” the letter from church elders to
parishioners said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at   johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  and;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  