-- 
Insurer Allianz Steps Into Commercial Property Lending as Banks Retreat

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-16T10:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/insurer-allianz-steps-into-commercial-property-lending-as-banks-retreat.html
  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, will start to offer direct commercial real-estate loans
in Germany this year and may expand into mortgage lending across
the euro region.  Allianz Real Estate  will grant senior loans to German
property buyers or borrowers refinancing existing debt, said
Olivier Piani, chief executive officer of the property unit.
Senior loans rank first for repayment in the event of a default.  “Hopefully, it can create enough volume to be a sizeable
business,” Piani, 57, said in an interview last week. “Then we
will ask if we should do deals in other markets, like going to
France and  Italy . Then, we would look at the  euro zone .”  Allianz and other insurers are attracted by the higher
interest income generated by commercial property loans compared
with  government bonds , Piani said. Banks, which dominate
property lending in Europe, are pulling back after incurring
losses in the financial crisis. That has forced real-estate
borrowers to look elsewhere for refinancing and new funds.  Until now, Munich-based Allianz’s European commercial real-
estate lending has involved buying property-backed covered bonds
known as pfandbriefe that are sold by German banks. New rules on
capital by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , known as
Basel III, may limit the number of pfandbriefe they can sell.  Alternatives to Bonds  Allianz owns about 350 billion euros worth of bonds, equal
to 80 percent of its investments, some of which are managed by
its Pacific Investment Management Company LLC unit, Piani said.
Prospects of slower pfandbriefe sales have made it consider
other ways to generate secure investment returns from property,
Piani said at the  Mipim  real-estate trade fair in Cannes,
southern  France .  “For Allianz and other lenders to that market, the
question is what to do with our money,” Piani said. “So why
not lend directly to real estate?”  More than 500 billion euros of commercial real-estate loans
will mature in Europe during the next three years and most will
require refinancing, according to real-estate adviser CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. Financial institutions in Europe racked up
losses of 494 billion euros since the third quarter of 2007 in
the financial crisis and the ensuing real-estate slump,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Non-bank lenders lifted their share of European commercial
real-estate lending to about 24 percent in 2010 from 13 percent
in 1997, London-based property adviser DTZ Holdings Plc
estimates. Prudential Plc, Axa SA, Aviva Plc, Canada Life Group
and Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. are all stepping up their
property lending.  Risk Appetite  Insurers are also making riskier property loans, mainly
through funds that specialize in junior or mezzanine debt, which
rank after senior loans for repayment in a default.  Duet Group , a manager of private equity and hedge funds,
raised an 75 million pounds ($121 million) this month for its
European Real Estate Debt Fund from institutional investors and
the sale of shares in a publicly traded company.  Allianz Real Estate’s Piani wouldn’t say how much Allianz
plans to lend for commercial property.  “The issue isn’t the overall volume limit, it’s about the
deals,” he said.  Allianz already does real-estate lending in the U.S., where
sources of financing are more diverse, through an investment
unit partly absorbed by Allianz Real Estate earlier this year.
The unit made 220 loans totaling $5 billion during the past five
years. In  Germany , Allianz also has a residential mortgage-
lending business based in Stuttgart.  Piani also plans to double Allianz’s investment in
commercial buildings to 30 billion euros by 2014 as the insurer
lifts real estate-related investments to 6 percent of the total
from 4 percent previously. He has about 2 billion euros to spend
this year and earlier this month he agreed to invest an initial
400 million euros in a venture with AMB Property Corp. to buy
logistics centers and warehouses in the euro region.  “We are working on a number of other deals, principally in
Germany and France,” Piani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  