-- 
InterContinental Hotels Chief Cosslett to Step Down in June

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-16T13:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/intercontinental-hotels-chief-cosslett-to-step-down-in-june-1-.html
  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
owner of the Holiday Inn brand, said Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Cosslett will step down on June 30 and be succeeded by
Richard Solomons, currently chief financial officer and head of
commercial development.  “With IHG entering the next phase of its development, and
after six years, this is the right time to hand over the
reins,” Cosslett, 55, said today in a statement from the
Denham, England-based company.  Under Cosslett, InterContinental sold assets and now owns
fewer than 20 hotels out of more than 4.400 properties, compared
with 185 owned properties in 2005. The group, which now makes
most of its income from hotel franchising and management, has
renovated the Holiday Inn brand, helping boost average revenue
per room, and announced plans to reposition its 388-hotel Crowne
Plaza brand.  “In strategic terms Cosslett has done a very good job,”
Wyn Ellis, an analyst at Numis Securities in  London , said by e-
mail. “The company is well-placed for growth as global
economies recover.”  Business and leisure travel is recovering after companies
and consumers trimmed spending during the recession, probably
allowing hotels to raise rates this year, Cosslett said in an
interview last week. Revenue per room in the hotel industry rose
worldwide in 2010, according to researcher STR Global. Accor SA,  Europe ’s largest hotelier, said last month that room rates are
improving in upscale and midscale hotels and “gradually
stabilizing” in the economy segment.  No ‘Immediate’ Plans  “This is an opportunity to pause for a while,” he said on
a conference call with reporters, adding he won’t be getting an
“exceptional” severance payment. He said he didn’t want to
commit to another four years as CEO and doesn’t have any
“immediate” plans.  InterContinental shares fell 1.7 percent to 1,234 pence at
1 p.m. in London, valuing the company at 3.58 billion pounds
($5.7 billion). Before today’s trading the shares had advanced
about 2 percent since Cosslett joined the company in February
2005 from Cadbury Schweppes.  Solomons, 49, has been with the company since June 1992.
InterContinental said it’s seeking a replacement for him as CFO.  “Solomons is a very competent and well-regarded successor
and I would envisage no change in strategy,” said Ellis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  