-- 
Israel Yields Jump on Bets Faster Inflation to Spur Higher Rates

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-16T11:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/israel-yields-jump-on-bets-faster-inflation-to-spur-higher-rates.html
Yields on  Israel ’s benchmark
government bond rose to the highest level in almost 15 months as
faster inflation fueled bets the  Bank of Israel  will have to
step up the pace of interest rate increases. The shekel fell.  Annual inflation in February quickened to 4.2 percent, the
fastest pace in more than two years, from 3.6 percent in
January, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
yesterday. That exceeded the 3.9 percent median forecast of 12
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The surprise rise in the index is pushing up inflation
expectations in the market as investors don’t believe the Bank
of Israel is able to contain inflation and meet its target,”
Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-strategy at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said by telephone.
“The central bank will need to show more decisiveness about
inflation risk and raise rates more rapidly.”  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January
2020 increased 5 basis points to 5.23 percent at 12:55 p.m. in
Tel Aviv, the highest since December 2009. The shekel fell 0.1
percent to 3.5566 per dollar. The currency has strengthened 4.8
percent over the past year.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark interest rate for a second month on Feb. 21, bringing
it to 2.5 percent, after inflation surged above the government’s
3 percent ceiling for the first time since March last year.
Fischer has been increasing rates gradually since August 2009 as
economic growth has returned.  “The central bank is faced with a dilemma between dealing
with higher inflation and stemming an appreciation of the shekel
in an environment of heightened uncertainty,” said Hevron.  The central bank next meets on March 28. Five of 16
economists in a survey taken before yesterday’s announcement
expected a quarter-point increase. The remaining 12 had expected
the rate to stay unchanged at 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  