-- 
Japan’s Reactor Risk Foretold 20 Years Ago in U.S. Agency Report

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-03-16T02:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-reactor-risk-foretold-20-years-ago-in-u-s-nuclear-agency-s-report.html
The earthquake disaster at the
Fukushima nuclear power plant north of  Tokyo  was foretold in a
report published two decades ago by a U.S. regulatory agency.  In a  1990 report , the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
an independent agency responsible for ensuring the safety of the
country’s power plants, identified earthquake-induced diesel
generator failure and power outage leading to failure of cooling
systems as one of the “most likely causes” of nuclear
accidents from an external event.  While the report was cited in a  2004 statement  by Japan’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, adequate measures to
address the risk were not taken by Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
which operates the plant in Fukushima prefecture, said Jun
Tateno, a former researcher at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency
and professor at Chuo University.  “It’s questionable whether  Tokyo Electric  really studied
the risks outlined in the report,” Tateno said in an interview.
“That they weren’t prepared for a once in a thousand year
occurrence will not go over as an acceptable excuse.”  Hajime Motojuku, a spokesman for Tokyo Electric, said today
he couldn’t immediately confirm whether or not the company was
aware of the report.  The 40-year-old Fukushima plant was hit by Japan’s
strongest earthquake on record March 11 only to have its power
and cooling systems knocked out by the 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami
that followed.  Radioactive Steam  Lacking power to cool reactors, engineers vented
radioactive steam to release pressure, leading to as many as
four explosions that blew out containment walls at the plant 135
miles (220 kilometers) north of the capital.  While the appropriate measures that should have been
implemented are still to be evaluated, more extensive
waterproofing of the underground portion of the reactor could
have helped prevent the cooling systems’ failure, said Tateno,
who questions the use of nuclear power in  Japan  because of its
seismic activity.  Engineering of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant or its
age are unlikely causes of the problem, said Tateno, author of a
book titled “The Coming Age of Scrapping Nuclear Plants.”  While nuclear power has been supported as a way of
producing vast quantities of energy compared with other sources,
“it will be difficult to get any more nuclear plants built
going forward” in Japan, Tateno said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  