-- 
Japanese Default Swap Trading Costs Jump Amid Price Volatility

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-03-16T07:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japanese-default-swap-trading-costs-jump-amid-price-volatility.html
The gap between the cost to buy and
sell Japanese credit-default swaps jumped as traders sought to
limit risk in a market roiled by the nation’s biggest earthquake.  The bid-ask spread for swaps insuring 50 Japanese
investment-grade borrowers rose to an average 18.3 basis points
yesterday from one basis point on March 10, a day before the
magnitude-9 quake and tsunami, according to data provider CMA.
That’s the widest in at least a year, CMA data show.  “Traders need to raise their ask prices to the level where
they don’t make losses,” Takayuki Atake, chief credit analyst
at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., said in a phone interview from  Tokyo . “In this volatile market, where 200 basis points drops
to 125 basis points the next day,” they need to leave plenty of
room for maneuver, he said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of default swaps plunged 22.5
basis points to 132.5 basis points as of 2:30 p.m. in Tokyo, its
first decline since the temblor, according to Citigroup Inc. The
risk benchmark soared 30 basis points to 144 yesterday after
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of radiation leaks at a
nuclear power plant in Fukushima was rising, CMA prices show.  The approaching end of Japan’s financial year on March 31
is forcing some investors to buy credit protection whatever the
spread, said Hisayoshi Nogawa, a structured credit strategist at
BNP Paribas Securities  Japan  Ltd. in Tokyo.  New Year  “Domestic financial institutions need to reduce their
credit positions to avoid deviations in the market price of
their assets,” Nogawa said in a telephone interview. The iTraxx
index “is the easiest way to hedge positions from the viewpoint
of risk management, so regardless of the price level they need
to buy,” he said.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and investors use them to hedge against
losses on debt or to speculate on creditworthiness. A drop
signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  