-- 
Japan Reactor Loses All Cooling Water for Spent Fuel, NRC Head Jaczko Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-16T20:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-reactor-loses-all-cooling-water-for-spent-fuel-nrc-head-jaczko-says.html
All cooling water has drained from
the spent-fuel pool at one of the crippled nuclear reactors in  Japan , causing the release of high levels of radiation, U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko said.  “We believe that the secondary containment has been
destroyed and there is no water in the spent-fuel pool,” he
said today at a hearing of a House Energy and Commerce Committee
panel in Washington. “We believe that radiation levels are
extremely high, which could possibly impact the ability to take
corrective measures.”  The unit at the Fukushima Daiichi plant wasn’t operating at
the time of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, said Jaczko,
the chief U.S. regulator of nuclear-power plants.  The  Associated Press  reported that Japanese officials
denied all the water has drained and said the reactor, known as
Unit 4, is stable.  Radiation at the Japanese site is fluctuating and at peak
levels is life-threatening, Jaczko said.  The peak levels “would be lethal within a fairly short
period of time,” he said. The pool at the plant’s Unit 3, which
was in service, may be cracked and losing water, Jaczko said.  U.S. citizens in the area have been urged to evacuate to 50
miles (80 kilometers) from the plant site, the same distance in
the event of a nuclear accident in the U.S., Jaczko said.  “We would recommend an evacuation to a much larger radius
than has currently been provided by Japan,” Jaczko said.  The NRC has 11 officials in  Tokyo  helping the Japanese
government respond to the nuclear crisis. Japanese officials are
injecting seawater into three reactors to try to keep them cool,
Jaczko said.  Crippled Reactors  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan crippled Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant with explosions,
fires and radiation leaks. The containment vessels for the three
operating reactors are reportedly functional, Jaczko said.  Jaczko said U.S. nuclear plants remain safe, and harmful
radiation from damaged reactors in Japan isn’t expected to reach
the U.S. The U.S. power plants are designed to withstand natural
disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis, Jaczko said.  “At this time we don’t have any specific actions that are
necessary to add to the safety” of U.S. reactors, he said. A
“thorough and systematic review” will be conducted after the
Japanese crisis passes for possible additional actions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
-0- Mar/16/ :39 GMT 