-- 
Japan’s Quake May Hurt Battery, Chip-Wafer, LCD-Panel Markets

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-16T09:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-quake-may-hurt-battery-semiconductor-wafer-lcd-panel-markets.html
The global supply of  lithium-ion
batteries , chip wafers and liquid-crystal display panels may be
curtailed after last week’s  earthquake  in  Japan , according to
research reports.  Plant closures by Japanese manufacturers including  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and Hitachi Chemical Co. will likely affect the
rechargeable-battery market,  Daiwa Securities  Group Inc. said.
Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co.’s stoppage of resin shipments may
hurt output of integrated circuit chips, Barclays Plc said.
Prices of LCD panels and memory chips may rise as the earthquake
leads to potential shortages, IHS ISuppli said yesterday.  The disaster in Japan, which produces about 40 percent of
the world’s electronics and audiovisual components and 60
percent of the silicon used to make semiconductors, has shut
down hundreds of plants in the nation. Damaged factories could
take three months to recover, and others may be hobbled by
transportation difficulties and shortages of power and water,
the researchers said.  “It’s too early to tell when we can restart output,”
Hiroshi Okubo, a spokesman for Sony, said of the company’s
closed battery plants in Fukushima prefecture. He cited
uncertainty over procurement of materials, transportation
difficulties and power shortages.  Sony, Panasonic  While only a limited number of component makers have
reported physical damage, they’re facing difficulties getting a
stable power supply, raw materials and workers, said IHS ISuppli,
based in El Segundo,  California .  Plant closures at Hitachi Chemical, which makes materials
used in lithium-ion cells, Sanyo Electric Co. and Sony may
affect supplies of rechargeable batteries, Pranab Kumar Sarmah,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities, said in a report
published yesterday.  Sony is halting operations at eight factories, including
those making lithium-ion batteries.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which
controls Sanyo Electric, Japan’s biggest maker of rechargeable
batteries, is suspending operations at some of its plants
located north of Tokyo.  A three-month stoppage of resin shipments from Mitsubishi
Gas Chemical Co. may put at risk as much as half the global
output of chips used in devices including smartphones and tablet
computers, Andrew Lu, an analyst at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report yesterday.  Hitachi, LG Electronics  The chemical maker controls half the global market for the
BT resin used by chipmakers including Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., according to the Barclays report. The
“larger-than-expected bottle neck” may affect companies whose
earnings mostly depend on communication integrated circuits, Lu
wrote.  Mitsubishi Gas isn’t certain when it may resume operations
at its bismaleimide triazine facility in Fukushima prefecture,
the Tokyo-based company’s sole plant making the BT resin,
spokesman Atsushi Shibata said. The factory has a capacity to
make 1 million square meters of resin monthly, he said.  Sanyo hasn’t seen an impact on lithium-ion battery
production so far, Akihiko Oiwa, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said,
adding that Sanyo’s rechargeable-battery operations are based in
western Japan.  Hitachi Ltd.’s delivery of panels used in Nintendo Co.’s DS
handheld video-game players and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s mobile
phones may be affected if its display factory is shut for a
month or longer, ISuppli said. Panasonic’s factory producing LCD
TV panels may have been affected, and that may influence the
availability and prices of products, it said.  Hitachi hasn’t determined when its LCD display unit can
resume operation at its factory in Chiba prefecture, said
Atsushi Konno, a company spokesman. The manufacturer is
considering using its alliance with Taiwan-based  Chimei Innolux
Corp. (3481)  to minimize a possible production decline, he said.  “There has been some damage, though not a fire or a
collapse,” at Panasonic’s LCD factory in Mobara, Chiba
prefecture, said Akira Katoda, a company spokesman. Panasonic
hasn’t determined when to restart the factory, he said.  Osaka-based Panasonic aims to avoid an impact on LCD-panel
supply by using an LCD plant in Himeji, western Japan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  