-- 
Japanese Bonds Rise as Yen Reaches Post-War High, Damping Recovery Outlook

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-17T06:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-government-bonds-may-advance-as-record-yen-dims-recovery-prospects.html
Japanese bonds rose, snapping a
two-day drop, on speculation the yen’s advance to a post-World
War II high will hamper the nation’s economic recovery from its
biggest ever earthquake.  Yields on 10-year debt fell toward a two-month low as
stocks slumped around the world, boosting demand for the
relative safety of  government securities . The extra yield
investors demand to hold 40-year bonds instead of 10-year debt
widened to the most in three years on speculation the government
will increase issuance of longer-term debt to finance rebuilding.  “Buying prevails in the  bond market  on demand for safe
assets on the back of the yen’s appreciation and the slump in
stocks,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist at the
brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Tokyo. “It’s
necessary to evaluate a balance between selling spurred by
concern about Japan’s worsening fiscal health, and buying caused
by  risk aversion  and a possible economic slowdown.”  The 10-year yield fell two basis points to 1.20 percent as
of 3:45 p.m. at  Japan  Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security maturing in
March 2021 added 0.18 yen to 100.892 yen. The yield dropped to
1.145 percent on March 15, the lowest level since Jan. 5.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery were little changed
at 139.70 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange after
earlier advancing as much as 0.48.  Yen Surge  The yen rose as high as 76.36 per dollar today, surpassing
its post-World War II peak of 79.75 reached in April 1995. A
stronger yen makes Japanese exports more expensive overseas and
reduces the value of overseas earnings at the nation’s companies
when repatriated.  The Japanese currency’s postwar high “reinforces
speculation the yen’s appreciation and a drop in stocks will
continue,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co. Ten-year bond yields will decline to 0.9 percent
between May and July, he said. Tokai Tokyo and RBS’s brokerage
unit are among the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government debt sales.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.4 percent after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 2 percent in  New York  yesterday.  More than 300 workers are racing to prevent a meltdown and
spread of radiation at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station today, an increase from a core group of 50 engineers
yesterday, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said. Workers plan to
connect a power line to start damaged cooling systems later
today and intend to spray water on a damaged reactor from a
cannon used by the police for riot control, Tepco spokesman
Kaoru Yoshida said.  ‘Natural Response’  Concern the threat of a nuclear accident will persist
prompted financial companies to increase deposits at the central
bank as the  Bank of Japan  provided additional liquidity. The
outstanding current-account deposits held by private financial
institutions at the BOJ climbed to 27.2 trillion yen ($343
billion) yesterday, the highest level since April 2006.  The increase in the deposits “is a natural response for
financial companies to the crisis,” said Hiroshi Seki, a market
economist at Tokyo Tanshi Co.  The BOJ pumped 6 trillion yen in the financial system today,
bringing the total amount of emergency one-day operations for
this week to 34 trillion yen.  The difference in yield between 40-year bonds and 10-year
government debt expanded to 1.17 percentage points today, the
widest since April 2008.  Group of Seven nations’ finance chiefs will discuss Japan’s
crisis on a conference call at 7 a.m.  Tokyo  time tomorrow,
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today. The G-7 is
made up of the U.S.,  Germany , France,  Canada , Italy, the U.K.
and Japan.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday
she wanted to convene G-7 talks on the financial response to
Japan’s earthquake.  “I’ve asked for a G-7 meeting at the level of finance
ministers and central bankers to see how we can purchase their
bonds and how to respond on the financial level,” she told
reporters in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 