-- 
Japan Disaster Looms Over Global Economy: Mohamed El-Erian

-- B y   M o h a m e d   A .   E l - E r i a n
-- 
2011-03-16T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-disaster-looms-over-global-economy-commentary-by-mohamed-el-erian.html
Count me among those who believe
that the latest statement from the  Federal Open Market Committee 
upgraded the outlook for both growth and inflation in the U.S.
Yet, what may prove much more significant about the statement
lies in what it didn’t cover: namely, Japan.  In its usual concise manner, the FOMC informed us this week
that America’s economic recovery “is on a firmer footing” and
that inflation is facing “upward pressure.” The hope is that
the former will prove durable and that the latter will be
transitory though neither are certain.  The statement was silent on the implications for the U.S.
of the tragic disasters in Japan, the world’s third-largest
economy. I can think of two principal reasons for this.  The FOMC may have lacked the information required to take
even a preliminary position. After all, the group met only a few
days after the earthquake and tsunami hit  Japan . Much of the
background material for the meeting was prepared before those
awful events. Moreover, uncertainty prevails after such
disasters. Indeed, the Japanese authorities themselves don’t yet
have a good handle on the extent of the damage, and the
continuing instability of several nuclear reactors materially
increases the uncertainties.  A second interpretation is that this important policy-
making body believes that the economic impact of Japan’s
disasters on the U.S. will be transitory. As such, it would be
legitimate for policy makers to “look through” the tragedy
when assessing the implications for the  U.S. economy .  Assessing the Impact  This sanguine view could sound heartless and absurd in
light of the horrific images of human suffering and physical
damage. Yet it has also been expressed by some economists who
have used the 1995 Hanshin (Kobe)  earthquake  as a valid,
legitimate reference.  Through this prism, the aftermath of Japan’s natural
disasters will be dominated by large reconstruction spending.
Growth resumes in a V-shaped fashion, and the initial (shortage-
driven) inflationary spike is normalized as supply chains are
restored. As such, it would be imprudent for the FOMC to react
to the immediate economic impact of the disasters since it will
prove temporary and reversible.  Once rescue operations are complete, Japan will indeed
embark on a massive reconstruction program that, I believe, will
be successful. Yet there are three reasons why it’s way too
early to conclude that the aftermath of these events will have
only a transitory impact on the global economy.  Chilling Consequences  First, consider the nature of this terrible shock. In
addition to the large wealth destruction and the worrisome
health risks of released radioactive material, the spiraling
crisis at the Fukushima nuclear reactors raises difficult
questions about how and when electricity will be fully restored
throughout the country. It will also fuel a global debate about
the future of nuclear power, an important source of energy.  Second, think about the funding of Japan’s reconstruction
program. The mix, particularly involving debt financing and the
repatriation of Japanese savings invested outside the country,
will matter quite a bit in terms of the impact on different
asset classes. As the  Federal Reserve  knows well, changes in
asset valuations can influence consumer behavior and market
volatility.  Third, the Japanese disasters are not happening in
isolation. They add to the supply shock that the global economy
already faces due to the uprisings in the Middle East and the
related increase in  oil prices . As such, the risk of a global
macro tipping point cannot, and should not, be ignored.  No words can come close to capturing the enormity of the
human suffering going on today in Japan. Like many others, my
heart goes out to all Japanese, and I still struggle to
comprehend the extent of the human devastation, let alone
predict its implications for policy making in other countries.  I hope that this is what drove the FOMC’s decision to
exclude any reference to Japan in its statement. The alternative
of assuming that that U.S. policy should simply “look through”
the tragedy would be a mistake.  (Mohamed A. El-Erian is Pimco’s chief executive officer and
co-chief investment officer, and the author of the book “When
Markets Collide.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mohamed A. El-Erian at  Mohamed.El-Erian@pimco.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  