-- 
Japan Quake Will See Yen Gain, Fuel Commodity Boom, HSBC Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T13:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-quake-will-see-yen-gain-fuel-commodity-boom-hsbc-says.html
  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami will
boost the yen as the economy’s focus shifts from exports to
reconstruction, increasing demand for raw-material imports and
fueling the commodity boom, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “The destruction of infrastructure will require a massive
reconstruction effort,” HSBC economists including London-based  Stephen King  and Madhur Jha said in a note to clients dated
yesterday. “The yen should rise to divert resources away from
exports toward domestic reconstruction.”  Japan’s currency has surged since last week’s magnitude 9
temblor and tsunami amid speculation local investors are selling
overseas assets to repatriate funds for reconstruction. Amid
uncertainty about whether workers can prevent a meltdown at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station, it is too
early to calculate the full impact of the disaster, and in a
worse-case scenario, “all bets are off,” King and Jha said.  In terms of exports, “while it is easy to argue that other
nations will gain at Japan’s expense, the more likely scenario
is that global supply lines will be disrupted,” they said. “As
for the importers, the main gainers will be those which supply
the raw materials and machinery required for rebuilding,
doubtless adding further fuel to the global commodity boom.”  The yen was little changed against the dollar at 80.74 as
of 12:05 p.m. in  London , having depreciated as much as 0.6
percent to 81.17.  While reconstruction will bolster gross domestic product
growth in Japan later this year, funding it will drag down other
parts of the economy, King and Jha said.  “Taxes may rise to divert Japanese spending away from
consumption toward infrastructure investment,” they said.
“Should the Japanese government issue ‘reconstruction bonds,’
savings may be diverted patriotically to the needs of the nation
and not to commercial needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 