-- 
Japan Power Shortage Poses Growth Risks Spanning Asia, S&P Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-03-16T10:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-power-shortage-poses-growth-risks-spanning-asia-s-p-says.html
Disruptions in  Japan ’s power supply
after the world’s strongest earthquake in more than six years
may affect the country’s economic output and hurt the rest of
the region, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today.  “There is a potential risk that because of the shortage of
supply of electricity, general economic activities in Japan will
be affected,”  Takahira Ogawa , a Singapore-based credit analyst
at S&P, said on a conference call today. “If that is the case,
there will be indirect implications on the economies in Asia.”  Companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Toyota Motor Corp. have
halted production after the 9.0-magnitude temblor and an ensuing
tsunami damaged power-generating facilities including the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Japan may enter a brief
recession as a result of its worst earthquake on record, said
Rhee Chang Yong, the  Asian Development Bank ’s chief economist.  That may cloud the outlook for Asian economies including
China, the biggest destination for Japan’s exports and the
largest source of its imports.  “China’s exports may take a noticeable hit because of the
production suspension at Japanese electronics companies and
automakers,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist with
Industrial Bank Co. “The pace of yuan gains may slow
markedly.”  Industrial Bank forecasts the yuan may appreciate 4 percent
to 5 percent against the dollar this year, from a previous
estimate of as much as 6 percent.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. has begun rolling blackouts that
will continue until the end of April to conserve electricity.  South Korea  South Korean exports and industrial production will
probably be hurt if the earthquake in Japan disrupts supplies
from that nation for an extended period, the Ministry of
Knowledge Economy said March 14. Steel supplies may be affected,
display-panel prices may rise due to shortages, while  South
Korea ’s shipments of car parts to Japan could slow because of
the quake’s impact on Nissan Motor Co. and other Japanese
automakers, the ministry said.  Still, the impact on Asia’s growth may be limited and
temporary, and policy makers should resist the temptation to
delay raising  interest rates , said  Frederic Neumann , an
economist in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Consumption demand in Japan will almost certainly slow in
the coming months,” he said in a note today. “Eventually,
however, this will be offset by greater government and private
expenditure on rebuilding efforts, with an emphasis on housing,
infrastructure, and electricity generation and transmission.”  Shares Recover  Asian shares rallied for the first time in five days today
after the Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s biggest two-day drop since
1987 left valuations at a 28-month low and as commodities gained.  The region’s exports to Japan slowed for about six months
after the Kobe earthquake in 1995 before rebounding, Citigroup
Inc. economists Johanna Chua and Kit Wei Zheng said in a March
15 note. Since then, Japan’s share of Asian exports has dropped
to 7.3 percent in 2010 from 12.3 percent in 1995, they said.  The cost to Japan’s government from this month’s earthquake
will be “much higher” than that for the Kobe temblor, S&P’s
Ogawa said. Any rating action for Japan will depend on the
extent of the economic damage and costs of the disaster, and
it’s too early to determine those, he said.  “Despite uncertainties, the impact on  Asia  growth should
not be exaggerated,” the Citigroup economists said. “The
slowdown in Japan imports post-Kobe was more pronounced in
industrial materials and consumer goods, while capital equipment
imports posted a strong rebound.”  Japanese Trade  While Japan’s economy has slipped to the third-largest
worldwide after China and the U.S., it still ranks fourth in
merchandise exports and fifth in imports, according to  World
Trade Organization  figures.  Malaysia,  Singapore  and  Thailand  look “relatively more
vulnerable” to a sharper slowdown in exports to Japan, the
Citigroup economists said. Slower exports to Japan could be
offset by stronger shipments for similar goods from countries
such as South Korea and  Taiwan , they said.  In Thailand, where Japan is the third-largest export
destination after the Southeast Asia region and  China , shipments
to the quake-stricken nation may fall 7.2 percent because of
lower purchasing power after the disaster, according to the
University of Thai Chamber of Commerce.  The earthquake may affect Thai automobile production,
because manufacturers import some parts from Japan, and hurt the
tourism industry, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said March
14.  Malaysian Shipments  Malaysia’s exports to Japan may fall as much as 10 percent
this year, said Manokaran Mottain, an economist at AmResearch
Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. Along with the turmoil in the Middle East,
the impact from the quake may shave 0.3 percentage point off
Malaysia’s growth this year, he said.  “Electrical and electronic exports to Japan and the rest
of Asia are a major contributor to Malaysia’s industrial
production, and a supply disruption is unwelcome,” said
Michelle Chia, an economist at ECM Libra Investment Research in
Kuala Lumpur.  The earthquake in Japan will have a “marginal” impact on  India ’s trade and investment, according to Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council. Indian exports to Japan make up only 2 percent of the
nation’s total overseas sales while foreign direct investment
from Japan accounts for 4 percent of the inflows, according to
the country’s commerce ministry.  Yen Repatriation  Japan may withdraw savings from abroad and reduce private
capital from regional financial markets to fund its
reconstruction, the ADB’s Rhee said yesterday.  In Indonesia, the central bank sees a “mild” possibility
of yen repatriation following Japan’s earthquake, Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in Jakarta today. Japanese
investors are institutional investors with long-term commitments,
Sarwono said.  The Philippine central bank will consider the implications
of the earthquake in Japan when it reviews monetary policy next
week, Governor Amando Tetangco said March 13.  The main challenge for policy makers in Asia will still be
inflation, said HSBC’s Neumann.  “Over the next couple of months, we had expected China,
India, Indonesia,  Korea , the Philippines, Singapore,  Sri Lanka ,
Taiwan and Thailand to tighten monetary policy,” said Neumann.
“However, financial market volatility could delay these moves
well into the second half, if not further. The risk then would
be that officials would need to deliver an even more forceful
punch to compensate for the current holdup and bottle up rising
inflation expectations.”  Beyond the impact of Japan’s earthquake and nuclear crisis,
risks to global growth remain from rising oil prices and  Europe ’s debt crisis, according to S&P.  A surge in crude prices past $148 per barrel may lead to
signs of “panic” among consumers and increase the risk of a
so-called double-dip recession, said  David Wyss , global chief
economist at the ratings company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  