-- 
Japan Weighs Worker Safety Against Bigger Threat, Roulstone Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T11:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-weighs-worker-safety-against-bigger-threat-roulstone-says.html
Tony Roulstone, who directs  Cambridge University ’s masters program in nuclear energy,
comments on the risks being faced in controlling damage at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant.  On workers:    Japan  seems to be worried about the balance between the
health of the workers and the safety of the site. Because of the
radiation levels, you have less and less staff on the site and
unless they’re seeing what’s going on, it’s hard to know what’s
happening. Higher radiation on the plant makes it harder for the
workers to stay there and do what they need to cool it.”  On fuel ponds:  “The reactor cooling ponds are just a concrete box and as
long as there is some water in them, you don’t really have to do
anything. It shouldn’t be a real issue; if there is a leak you
need to keep it cool.”  To minimize the likelihood of the rods becoming “re-
critical,” boric acid is added to the ponds and rods are kept
apart, he said. By adding more water to cool the rods, the
amount of boric acid is diluted, increasing the risk of a
reaction in the pond. “Your cooling pond could become a nuclear
reactor. There are nuclear reactors that look like cooling ponds
-- poolside reactors. Your cooling pond is never supposed to be
that.”  On weather:  “The wind direction is generally offshore, which is good.
If the wind changes people would be more concerned about the
relatively low levels of radiation. If it rains or snows, the
noble gases will still just disperse in atmosphere quite
quickly. The caesium and iodide will both come down relatively
quickly; the release doesn’t seem to be high and it will come
down close to the plant.”  On helicopters:  “If you just drop water on there you don’t know where it’s
going to land, if it will disturb ponds or the reactor. It’s
much better to observe what’s going on and add water. Shows a
level of desperation and brings in uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/16/ :41 GMT 