-- 
Japan Disaster Pushes Europe’s Equity Strategists Into Wait and See Mode

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-16T06:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-disaster-pushes-europe-s-equity-strategists-into-wait-and-see-mode.html
European equity strategists say
it’s too soon to buy into stocks until more clarity becomes
available on whether  Japan  has managed to contain earthquake-
damaged nuclear reactors that threaten to leak radiation.  Japan’s biggest earthquake on record and subsequent tsunami
that engulfed towns north of  Tokyo  on March 11 sent global stock
markets reeling. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index has
tumbled 4.2 percent since the temblor, sliding below its 200-day
moving average, a key technical support level. The losses have
dragged the gauge’s valuation to 10.7 times its companies’
estimated earnings, the cheapest since April 2009.  “The big risk to  Asia  and maybe even the global economy is
a nuclear reactor meltdown,” said  Mike Lenhoff , London-based
chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose parent
company oversees about $33 billion. “People to a certain extent
can visualize what will happen after an earthquake, but the
prospects of a meltdown? Who knows where that could lead.”  Lenhoff says his firm, which increased cash levels at the
beginning of the month, is waiting for an opportunity to
reinvest the money in what is starting to look like an
“oversold” market.  “If not in the next few days, it will be something we will
be talking about over the next few weeks,” he said.  Nuclear Disaster  European stocks extended a global selloff yesterday after
two explosions and fire struck Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant, raising concern a nuclear disaster is unfolding
in the world’s third-largest economy. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average climbed 5.7 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo today,
the first gain in five days, amid speculation that recent
declines were excessive.    Gary Baker , head of European equity strategy at BofA
Merrill Lynch, said that while he’s not giving up on global
growth prospects just yet, it’s too soon to start buying stocks
on the dips until the flow of news starts to improve.  “It’s still wait and see,” he said from the bank’s London
offices. “We first need to see containment in Japan, then Asia
and then global growth. Clearly no one feels comfortable with
anything remotely connected to a nuclear meltdown.”  Option prices and bets on higher equity volatility jumped
from Tokyo to  Frankfurt  and  Chicago  yesterday as investors
sought protection against stock-market losses. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) ,
which measures the cost of insuring against declines in the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, surged the most since November.  Amid the increased price swings, economic data have pointed
to an ongoing recovery, with a report yesterday showing
manufacturing in the New York region accelerated in March at the
fastest rate in nine months.  Karen Olney , a strategist at UBS
AG, is still forecasting a 10 percent rally for equities from
current levels.  “Now might be a good buying opportunity, but wait for a
day or so,” she said. “A double dip in the global economy is
what would make us change our forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 