-- 
Japan’s Nuclear Workers ‘Not Committing Suicide,’ Wakeford Says

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-16T15:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-nuclear-workers-not-committing-suicide-wakeford-says.html
Richard Wakeford, a professor at
the Dalton Nuclear Institute at the University of Manchester,
comments on the risks of nuclear radiation following the damage
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant. He made the remarks in a
telephone interview today.  “The workers who are still in the plant will be monitored
very carefully. Their doses will be limited if at all possible;
they’ll be wearing protective clothing, PVC suits, breathing
apparatus. They’re certainly not committing suicide.  ‘‘My bigger concern for them is further hydrogen explosions
like they had at unit number 3.  ‘‘The guys working in the reactors are heroes, working
under incredible conditions, in particular the threat of large
explosions. They should be given medals. I don’t think they’ve
been given the credit they deserve yet.  ‘‘It’s difficult to see this far on from the shutdown of
the reactors how  Tokyo  could seriously be under threat. The
biggest danger, five days in, is not being able to cool the
fuel. It will probably take a week or two to achieve full
stabilization. Surely it’s not helped by hydrogen explosions,
but they still seem to be able to keep control of the levels of
radioactive release, so in that sense the situation is getting
better.  ‘‘At the moment, these levels of radiation don’t warrant a
20 kilometer evacuation zone. But they’re quite right to do it
in case there’s a more serious release of radioactive material.
It’s a sensible precaution.  ‘‘They’ve issued iodide tablets to counter the effect of
any radio iodine. The thing they’re aiming to do is limit the
dose to the thyroid glands of children. The big problem after
Chernobyl, which was a much bigger accident than this, where a
lot of radioactive iodine was released, was that the local
authorities were in denial. They didn’t evacuate, they didn’t
stop the consumption of contaminated milk, they didn’t issue
stabilizing tablets until it was too late, and there’s lots of
thyroid cancer as a consequence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  