-- 
Japan Quake May Lift Reinsurers as Hurricane Katrina Did, Investors Say

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-17T17:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-quake-may-lift-reinsurers-as-hurricane-katrina-did-investors-say.html
Shareholders of reinsurers still
counting losses from the biggest Japanese earthquake on record
are betting on a share rebound comparable to the one that
followed Hurricane Katrina in 2005.    Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, climbed about 25
percent in the six months following the storm that devastated  New Orleans , while Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second
largest, rose 14 percent.  Amlin Plc (AML) , the biggest Lloyd’s of
London insurer, advanced 49 percent.  “Could that happen again? Absolutely,” said Clive Beagles, who manages about $1.3 billion at JO Hambro Capital
Management Ltd. in London, including shares of insurers. “This
is probably the event that turns the market in terms of
pricing.” Beagles said he is adding to his holdings of Amlin
and Dublin-based insurer  Beazley Plc. (BEZ)   Prices for coverage are likely to rise after the disaster,
helping insurance companies, investors said. The 9.0-magnitude
earthquake and the tsunami that struck northeast Japan on March
11 left 5,178 people dead and 8,913 missing as of 12 p.m. Tokyo
time, the  National Police Agency  said. The Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant was flooded, and a possible reactor breach raised
the specter of a radioactive leak.    Amit Kumar , an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., said
there is “a lot of confusion” about how much insurers will pay
because of the disaster. Insurers and reinsurers will probably
have losses of $12 billion to $25 billion, catastrophe modeling
firm Eqecat said. Rival modeler AIR Worldwide estimated the
range to be 1.2 trillion yen ($15 billion) to 2.8 trillion yen.  ‘More Clarity’  “I would be hesitant to tell people to start buying
reinsurance stocks right now,” Kumar said in an interview.
“One should wait to get more clarity on the loss estimates.”    Japan ’s catastrophe may be the second-most expensive on
record behind Katrina, which  cost  the  insurance industry  $62.2
billion. Moritz Rehmann, who helps manage about $13.9 billion at
DJE Kapital AG in Munich, said the prospect of insurance-rate
increases may help the industry.  “While what is currently happening in Japan is a great
human tragedy, it made me bullish on reinsurers again,” Rehmann
said. “They should be able to manage expected claims payments
without a need to raise capital.”  Scor’s Projection  The Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index rose 2.9 percent
today, the biggest gain in six months, after tumbling for four
straight days following the quake. Amlin climbed 3.5 percent,
Munich Re rallied 4.1 percent and Swiss Re advanced 2.4 percent.
The companies haven’t yet published estimates of the potential
costs of the catastrophe.    Scor SE (SCR) , the world’s sixth-largest reinsurer, estimated on
March 14 that its claims will be less than 185 million euros
($257 million). The Paris-based company’s shares increased 2.7
percent today.  Four previous disasters in the Asia-Pacific region within
the past year caused about $20 billion in insured losses,
according to projections by Guy Carpenter & Co. Two temblors
struck  New Zealand , while Cyclone Yasi and floods hit  Australia .  “This is definitely a big event for the insurance
industry, but whether it’s big enough to turn the rating
environment is the key question,” said Simon Gergel, who
manages about $1 billion at Allianz Global Investors in London.
“If rates went up significantly and the share prices didn’t
move, then clearly that would be a great buying opportunity.”  Following  Hurricane Katrina , reinsurance rates rose to
their highest since 1994, ending a two-year decline, according
to the Guy Carpenter Global Property Catastrophe Rate on Line
Index. That helped the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index rise
24 percent in the 12 months following the disaster.  Benefiting From Disaster  “Reinsurers typically benefit from a major disaster that’s
big enough to affect prices but not big enough to kill the
industry,” said Karl Huber, a  fund manager  at Pioneer
Investments in Munich, which oversees about $221 billion
globally. “That’s the business of reinsurance.”  Paul Morgan, a London-based fund manager at Baring Asset
Management, which manages about $44 billion, said this time may
be different. “A lot of the costs will be borne by the Japanese
state so it’s difficult to read across from Katrina in terms of
pricing,” he said.  The share price declines over the last few days mean
insurers are trading at less than their book value, or assets
minus liabilities. The 27 members of the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index traded at 0.92 times book value, meaning
insurers have erased all gains from the beginning of the year.  “There’s not a huge amount of valuation optimism baked in
anyway,” said JO Hambro’s Beagles. “In a bizarre sort of way
the worse it is, the better it is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 