-- 
Japanese Redemptions May Quicken Rand’s Drop, Push Lira Lower, SocGen Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-03-16T11:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japanese-redemptions-sinking-rand-5-to-societe-generale-as-lira-declines.html
Emerging-market currencies from  South Africa  to  Turkey  are falling on concern Japanese families
will sell developing-country local bonds to fund the rebuilding
of homes wrecked by the nation’s strongest earthquake.  South Africa’s rand, the worst-performing emerging-market
currency this year, will decline another 5 percent against the
dollar following its biggest slump in 10 months yesterday as the
Japanese unload their Eurobond holdings,  Societe Generale  SA
says. The lira will slide to the weakest level since May,
according to Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-market strategist at
the Paris-based bank.  Japanese investors own about $3.9 billion of rand-based
Eurobonds, known as uridashi, more than the $3 billion of
Brazilian reais and $765 million in Turkish lira, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s mutual funds held 2.8
trillion yen ($34.6 billion) in Brazilian stocks and bonds as
their fourth-largest foreign assets, leaving the real among the
most “vulnerable” during the selloff, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “When you’ve got a crisis like this, the initial reaction
is shock, then people have got to access their cash and start
rebuilding their homes,” Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-market
strategist at Paris-based Societe Generale, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “What we’re going to see is a reduction of
emerging-market portfolios as people are putting money back into
Japan.”  Shut Plants  The March 11 earthquake and subsequent tsunami shut
manufacturing plants at companies from Sony Corp. to Toyota
Motor Corp., sent more than 350,000 people to emergency shelters
and may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture north of  Tokyo ,
according to company statements and police estimates. Insurers
and reinsurers may face 2.8 trillion yen in claims from the 9.0
magnitude quake, excluding damage from the tsunami, initial
estimates from catastrophe modeler AIR Worldwide show.  The rand depreciated 0.4 percent to 7.0152 per dollar as of
12:28 p.m. in Johannesburg today, extending this year’s slide to
5.5 percent. The lira fell 0.4 percent to 1.5858 per dollar
today, and may weaken as much as 2.1 percent to 1.62 per dollar
over the next few days, Salomon said. The real fell 0.3 percent
to 1.6653 per dollar.  Repatriation  Japanese investors will repatriate funds from other
countries to finance the recovery, Pacific Investment Management
Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said in an
interview with Bloomberg Radio yesterday. The nation’s holdings
include at least $50 billion of debt in reais issued by the  World Bank , European Bank for Reconstruction & Development and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to Guggenheim Securities
LLC, a New-York based brokerage.  Investors in Japan have been buying bonds issued in the
higher-yielding emerging-market currencies for the past five
years lured by yields as high as 9 percent, Salomon said.
Japan’s main central bank rate is between zero and 0.1 percent,
compared with 11.75 in  Brazil  and 6.25 percent in Turkey. South
Africa cut its main borrowing rate to 5.5 percent last year from
12 percent in 2008.  The real and the Australian dollar are the “most
vulnerable” currencies and are likely to fall against the Swiss
franc and Norwegian krone,  David Bloom , global head of foreign-
exchange strategy at HSBC in London, wrote in a note to clients,
citing data from Japan’s Investment Trust Association.  “The flow could be most dramatic for the Australian dollar
and Brazilian real,” Bloom wrote.  Brazil Tax ‘Disincentive’  The Australian dollar lost 0.1 percent versus the yen
today, extending this week’s loss to 3.6 percent.  Japanese investors may keep their funds in Brazil because
the 6 percent tax the South American country charges on
foreigners creates a “disincentive” for them to move capital
in and out of the market often, according to Bank of America
Corp.  “We believe that the repatriation Japanese investment is
unlikely to prompt a major unwinding of recent allocations to
Brazil,” Analysts Virgilio Castro Cunha and  David Beker  wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. “Japanese investors are likely
to turn to other investments before pulling money out of
Brazil.”  South Africa’s currency will decline the most because the
biggest increase in uridashi issuance has been in rand,
according to Salomon. About $633 million of rand-denominated
uridashi bonds have been issued in the past 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Yields  Yields on South Africa’s 13.5 percent government bonds due
2015 rose 2 basis points to 7.825 percent today after reaching a
high this year of 7.951 percent on March 8, according to prices
on Bloomberg. Turkish benchmark five-year lira bond yields
increased 3 basis points to 9.25 percent today, according to the
RBS Istanbul 5-Year Bond Index. Brazil’s inflation adjusted
interest-rates are the second highest in the world after  Croatia , according to data compiled Bloomberg.  Even before the quake, Japanese families were already
dipping into their reserves as the economy shrank an annualized
1.3 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. Household
hesokuri, or “secret savings,” fell 18 percent in 2010 to the
lowest in three years.  “Rich natural resources and publicity around the 2010
football  World Cup ” last year “have pushed rand bonds to
stardom in Japan,” Salomon wrote. “We are now concerned about
disinvestments from these positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 