-- 
Japanese Stocks Climb for First Time in Five Days After Post-Quake Selloff

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-16T08:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-stocks-climb-for-first-time-in-five-days-after-selloff.html
Japanese stocks rose for the first
time in five days on speculation a selloff that drove valuations
to a 28-month low was excessive even as the country battles to
prevent a nuclear disaster after its strongest earthquake.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, surged
9.1 percent. Sony Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, jumped 8.8 percent. Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s No. 3 bank, surged 5.4 percent. Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
Asia’s biggest power generator, tumbled by the daily limit for a
third day after the company said today a new fire broke out at a
reactor following an earthquake on March 11.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 5.7 percent to 9,093.72
at the 3 p.m. market close in Tokyo, the biggest gain since
November 2008. The gauge plunged 11 percent yesterday as record
trading volume on the main section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
drove the average price of shares in the Nikkei to 14.7 times
estimated profit, the lowest level since November 2008.  “People sold anything and everything in a panic and now
they’re buying back stocks which declined a lot,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees $84 billion. “If we see the
nuclear issues being overcome, or if we see a possibility that
radiation leaks can be controlled, shares should rise even
further. The global economy is not so bad, so if reconstruction
in Japan advances, stocks should recover slowly. It will take
time to factor in the bad news.”  Shares Rally  The broader Topix index climbed 6.6 percent to 817.63 today,
with all of its 33 industry groups advancing. The index gained
the most since October 2008.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2
percent today. The index declined 1.1 percent yesterday in  New
York , rebounding from a 2.7 percent slump earlier, as Japanese
officials made progress in stabilizing nuclear reactors damaged
following last week’s earthquake, and after the  Federal Reserve 
said the American economy is improving.  Investors and traders should “respond in a calm and
orderly manner” exchange President  Atsushi Saito  said yesterday,
after the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average plunged 11 percent, bringing
its loss since March 11’s close to 16 percent. The Nikkei and
broader Topix index each fell as much as 14 percent, the biggest
intraday retreats since the October 1987 stock market crash.  The total value of stocks traded on in Japan reached 3.29
trillion yen ($40.7 billion), the highest since June 2008.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  The number of stocks whose price-to-book ratio was lower
than 1 totaled 1,198 as of yesterday, more than 70 percent of
the Topix index members, according to Nikko Cordial Securities.  “Japanese stocks are at a relatively cheap level,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. “The  U.S. economy  is recovering and the
economies of  China  and other emerging countries aren’t
deteriorating.”  The Nikkei Volatility Index, derived from prices traders
were paying for options to insure against losses in stocks had
its biggest two-day jump on record through yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Equity valuations are far more attractive now than in
1995,” when Great Hanshin earthquake struck Kobe, Kathy Matsui
who runs Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s economics, commodities and
strategy research division for Asia, and other analysts wrote in
a report dated yesterday. “Since we expect the impacts to be
temporary, our forecast of steady U.S. and global growth,
dissipating domestic deflation, a profit expansion through
FY2012, and reasonable valuations suggest that the market still
has scope for upside over the medium-term.”  Quake Impact  Profit of the companies listed on the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange’s first section will likely decrease by 10 percent in
the year ending March 2012 because of the impact of the
earthquake, according to an estimate by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Toyota surged 9.1 percent to 3,345 yen and was the biggest
single support for the Topix. Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third-
biggest automaker by sales, rallied 6.2 percent to 741 yen.
Bridgestone Corp., the world’s largest tiremaker, climbed 7
percent to 1,689 yen. Sony jumped 8.8 percent to 2,528 yen.
Hitachi Ltd., which provides nuclear power generation systems,
soared 17 percent to 422 yen, the most since at least September
1974.  Panasonic, Banks  Panasonic Corp., the world’s largest maker of plasma
televisions, advanced 7.4 percent to 930 yen, the biggest gain
since July 2009. The company plans to boost production of dry-
cell batteries in Japan and may start importing the product from
overseas factories to meet surging demand for disposable
batteries after last week’s earthquake, said spokesman  Akira
Kadota .  Mizuho increased 5.4 percent to 137 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank by market value,
gained 4.4 percent to 381 yen.  Tokyo Electric Power plunged by the daily limit for a third
day as sell orders outweighed those to buy by a factor of five
to one.  Asia ’s biggest power generator said a fire broke out at
the No. 4 reactor of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant
today. The fire, at the same installation as a blaze yesterday,
was reported by a worker at about 5:45 a.m. local time today, a
company spokesman said on public broadcaster NHK television. The
company is gathering more information, the spokesman said.  The stock closed at 921 yen, down 25 percent from
yesterday’s closing price. The company had lost 43 percent of
its market value from the close on March 10 through yesterday.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange sets a limit on how much higher or
lower a stock can be traded from the last closing price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 