-- 
Japan's 10-Year Bond Futures Fall, Halt Three-Day Gain, on Fiscal Concerns

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-16T07:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-s-20-year-government-bonds-decline-a-second-day-before-debt-auction.html
  Japan ’s bond futures fell, halting
a three-day gain, on concern the government will boost borrowing
to finance reconstruction after the nation’s biggest earthquake.  Investors demanded the highest yield in a year at a 1.1
trillion-yen ($13.6 billion) auction of 20-year  government bonds 
today as Japan’s Self Defense Force helicopters were deployed to
drop water on the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant today
to prevent a nuclear meltdown. Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, predicted Japan’s
public debt will increase and consumer prices will rise.  “The higher average yield appears to reflect investors’
demand for a higher  risk premium ,” said  Ayako Sera , a
strategist in  Tokyo  at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages about $331 billion in investments. “It’s likely that
the government will increase bond issuance.”  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery slid 0.56 to 139.72
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The 20-year yield dipped half a basis point to 2.07 percent
as of 4:17 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 2 percent debt due December
2030 added 0.07 yen to 99.018. Twenty-year yields earlier jumped
8.5 basis points, the biggest increase since Sept. 1. Ten-year
yields rose half a basis point to 1.22 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 5.7 percent after
having lost 19 percent during the preceding four days.  “There is a backlash against the excessive  risk aversion 
seen recently,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “For the near term,
selling will prevail as a correction for the drop in yields.”  ‘Stay on Sideline’  Today’s auction had an average yield of 2.13 percent, the
highest since March 16, 2010. An increase in the so-called tail,
the difference between the lowest and the average price, showed
the fewer bids were clustered around the average price. The bid-
to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, rose from the previous auction.  “The higher bid-to-cover ratio doesn’t point to strong
appetite at the auction” considering the longer tail,  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB
and CLSA. “I’m recommending staying on the sideline, owing to
the possibility that the need for government financing will
boost long-term bond yields.”  Insurance Companies  Clouds of white smoke or steam rose from reactor buildings
following a fire at Dai-Ichi’s No. 4 reactor. Japan Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation levels at the plant
rose this morning, forcing an evacuation, but have since fallen.
About 70 percent of the fuel rods at the plant’s No. 1 reactor
and a third of the No. 2 reactor’s fuel may have been impaired,
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  “We know that inflation will spike because of shortages
and because of supply chain disruptions,” Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer at Pimco, said about Japan in a
telephone interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“We know that the deficit and public debt are going to increase
significantly.”  Bonds also fell amid concern insurance companies will sell
Japanese government debt to pay for claims.  Naka Matsuzawa, chief rates strategist for Nomura in Tokyo,
has calculated that the maximum amount of money that Japanese
non-life insurers will have to pay is 1.2 trillion yen,
strategists, including Yunosuke Ikeda, a senior economist and
currency analyst at Nomura Securities Co., wrote in a report
yesterday. “Insurance companies are likely to raise cash
primarily through liquidation of shorter-term JGBs,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 