-- 
Japan Doesn’t Need a Weaker Yen to Spur a Recovery, Jefferies Analyst Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-16T20:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-doesn-t-need-a-weaker-yen-to-spur-a-recovery-jefferies-analyst-says.html
Japanese policy makers shouldn’t
try to weaken the yen as part of the effort to rebuild an
economy shocked by the March 11 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear
crisis, according to Jefferies & Co.  The Bank of Japan’s decision to add liquidity to the
financial system and purchase risk assets to help bolster the
economy is “probably” the right one, said  Naomi Fink , a Tokyo-
based macroeconomic strategist focusing on Japan for Jefferies.
The moves may stimulate output and give the government leeway to
temporarily raise taxes to fund its recovery efforts, she said.  While Japan is still very reliant on exports, much of the
production capacity of its companies has migrated overseas,
including 40 percent of its  auto industry , Fink said during a
conference call today. Global diversification may help buffer
the nation from damages caused by the earthquake, tsunami and
cutbacks in available power from the nuclear crisis.  “Massive intervention to weaken the yen would be the wrong
thing to do,” Fink said. “Consumers are cash rich. If they are
paying additional tax to pay for the necessary recovery while
they have some asset inflation from the BOJ’s operations, they
might not be too adverse to absorbing the price increases, which
is reflationary, not deflationary.”  Yen Moves  The yen reached its strongest level since 1995 versus the
dollar as risk of radiation leaks from crippled nuclear plants
in  Japan  added to speculation insurers and investors will redeem
overseas assets to pay for damages.  Japan’s currency gained for the fourth straight day,
prompting speculation the BOJ may intervene for the first time
since September in an effort to counter repatriation flows and
shore up the competitiveness of Japanese companies. The yen
gained as much as 1.2 percent to 79.76 per dollar, the strongest
since April 1995, when it touched a post-World War II high of
79.75.  “Any time we see sell-Japan arguments and fears of fiscal
crisis, a lot of this is likely to be overdone,” Fink said.
“There probably is some reason to remain somewhat optimistic
that households and commerce will be able to adjust relatively
quickly” to restrictions on available electricity while many
industries will be “surprisingly resourceful” in their
approach to rebuilding, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  