-- 
Japanese Investors May Reduce U.K. Real Estate Holdings After Earthquake

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-03-16T11:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japanese-may-liquidate-u-k-property-investment-after-quake-on-rebuilding.html
Japanese investors may reduce U.K.
property holdings, which include stakes in the largest real-
estate investment trusts, as they focus on rebuilding in their
home country following its strongest earthquake on record.  “There must be the risk of a general repatriation of
overseas assets by Japanese investors as they focus inwards
after the earthquake,” Mike Prew, an analyst at Nomura
International Plc, said by telephone. “There may be some
selling pressure on stocks if that happens.”  Japanese retail funds hold about 11 percent of  Land
Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the biggest U.K. real estate investment
trust, and 6 percent to 8 percent of the larger listed property
companies, Prew said in a March 14 report to clients. Investors
from the country have purchased $976 million of London
properties since 2000, according to New York-based research
group Real Capital Analytics Inc., which tracks deals larger
than 10 million pounds.  Harm Meijer, a London-based real-estate analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co, said his initial expectation is that Japanese
investors will pull some money out of property.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at California-
based Pacific Investment Management Co., also predicts that
Japanese investors in general will probably move funds back to
their country, according to a telephone interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Low prices attracted Japanese investors to U.K. REITS
starting in 2009, Prew said. “With a zero interest-rate policy
and low-yielding assets in Japan, they liked the higher dividend
yields and focused on the most liquid FTSE 100 stocks.”  Banks, Asset Managers  Investors with holdings in both Land Securities and British
Land Co., the second-largest U.K. REIT, include Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp., Nikko Asset Management Ltd. and Nomura Holdings
Inc.  Money would also flow back to Japan if insurers are forced
to sell investments to raise cash for claims, said Matthew
Richardson, head of European property research at a London-based
division of Fidelity International Ltd, which has $246 billion
of assets under management.  “Liquidating property investments can be expensive and
takes time, so you can’t have a knee-jerk reaction,” he said.
“What it shows clearly, though, is that there are more risks to
property investment than just on the tenant side.”    Japan  ranked 19th among countries investing in London over
the last decade, Real Capital Analytics said. Deals included
Mitsubishi Estate Co.’s 105 million-pound purchase of River
Plate House, where Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. has offices, and
Kajima Corp.’s purchase of 5 Savile Row for 40 million pounds in
2008, the London street famous for its tailors.  Global Investment  Real estate investors from Japan have invested $11.8
billion outside their country since 2007.  Spain  was the most
popular destination and accounted for $5 billion and the U.K.
was fourth, RCA said.  “In the short term, those types of investment will pause
as Japanese investors focus on the domestic market,” said Hans Vrensen, global head of research at real-estate broker DTZ
Holdings Inc. “People are still assessing the longer-term
damage and its impact on insurance companies.”  Japanese pension funds showed renewed interest in U.K. real
estate starting in the summer of 2009, although no major deals
have been concluded, according to John Forrester, head of U.K.
and Ireland at DTZ. The earthquake “is likely to stall that for
the foreseeable future,” he said.  Donal McCabe, a spokesman for Land Securities, said the
company spoke to its Japanese investors regularly, though he
declined to comment on their intentions.  No one from Sumitomo Mitsui Banking was immediately
available to comment. Gordon Simpson, a spokesman for British
Land, Patrick Meyer, a spokesman for Nomura Holdings in  London ,
and Jamie Wynn-Williams, a spokesman for Nikko Asset Management
in London, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  