-- 
Japan Post-Quake Rebuilding Holds Promise for Northeast Region Left Behind

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-17T02:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/japan-post-quake-rebuilding-holds-promise-for-northeast-region-left-behind.html
Reconstruction from  Japan ’s record
earthquake and ensuing tsunami may help revive a farming and
manufacturing region that was already lagging behind the rest of
the economy.  Job prospects in Miyagi, where an estimated 10,000 people
were killed, were worse than in most of the nation’s 47
prefectures in January. Neighboring Iwate had been hemorrhaging
workers to Tokyo, while Fukushima was becoming increasingly
dependent on its remaining factories even as Japanese
manufacturers move abroad to emerging Asian markets.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government aims to compile a
relief package as soon as next month, with the biggest
opposition party calling for a 5 trillion yen ($62 billion)
effort, about $5 billion more than  South Korea ’s 1997 bailout
package. A new international airport at Sendai, better road and
telecommunication links and incentives for businesses to move to
the region could help foster a rebirth, economists said.  “This was a very tragic disaster for the entire nation,
but there’s a way to get this reconstruction effort right,”
said Akio Makabe, an economics professor at  Shinshu University 
in western Japan. “All these roads and train tracks and
facilities are going to be brand new.”  BOJ Efforts  At the Bank of Japan’s Aomori branch at the northern tip of
Tohoku, staff members are still trying to estimate the scope of
the damage to the area’s economy. The bank will need to replace
banknotes damaged by the tsunami and fires, checking each one as
it’s submitted, an official at the branch said on condition of
anonymity as he’s not approved to speak publicly.  “We are struggling desperately to recover,” Yoshihiro Murai, Miyagi’s governor, said in an e-mail. “I am afraid it
will take a few years to revive,” he said, after earlier saying
the disaster was “far bigger than we prepared for.”  Blackouts and a lack of gasoline are hindering businesses
from returning to normal, and also making it harder for the BOJ
to gauge the impact of the disaster, the official said. Further
south, the lanes headed from Fukushima toward  Tokyo  have been
clogged with cars. On the night of March 15, an unbroken line of
vehicles about 40 kilometers long was seen crawling to the
capital.  Radiation Threat  For now, the government remains engulfed in defusing the
threat of radiation spreading from a crippled nuclear power
plant in Fukushima, whose cooling system was knocked out on
March 11. Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s consequent rolling
blackouts have hampered factory operations across the country.  Stocks resumed their slide today. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 2.1 percent as of 11 a.m. local time, after
rebounding yesterday from a two-day plunge of more than 16
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated damage from the disaster
to reach 16 trillion yen, while Morgan Stanley analysts said it
would be tens of trillions of yen.  Sendai, the 12th most populous city in the nation, may be
the fastest to recover as companies rush to tend to their
damaged facilities and the government builds the infrastructure
necessary to resume operations at those businesses, according to
economist Soichi Okuda, chief economist at Sumitomo Shoji
Research Institute in Tokyo.  Damaged Factories  Sendai Shiogama port reopened yesterday as companies
struggled to bring their operations back online after the
magnitude 9 earthquake and tsunami.  Japan Tobacco Inc., the world’s third-largest publicly
traded cigarette maker, said the quake damaged its factories in
Fukushima and Ibaraki and has halted operations at those plants
as a result. Kanto Auto Works, an assembler of passenger cars
for Toyota Motor Corp., said it’s working to restore facilities
in Iwate that were damaged by the quake.  Sendai was first developed in the early 1600s by Date
Masamune, the a daimyo, or feudal lord, and ally of Shogun
Tokugawa Ieyasu. Date built the fishing village into a trade hub.  An airport built in Sendai, Tohoku’s unofficial capital, in
1940 and bullet trains reaching Morioka, Iwate, in 1982 helped
the region stay connected to the booming economies around Tokyo.
Shipments out of Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate, the three
prefectures hardest hit in the disaster, totaled 9.6 trillion
yen in 2009, according to Trade Ministry data.  Counterbalance to Tokyo  “Rebuilding Sendai could actually be an opportunity to try
to create a growth pole in northern Japan,” said Marcus Noland,
deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington  and co-author of the 2001 book “No More
Bashing: Building a New Japan-United States Economic
Relationship.” “Tokyo’s sucking the life out of the rest of
the country, and this may be an opportunity to do something up
in Sendai which would start to act as a counterbalance to
that.”  Aomori and Akita, two of the six prefectures that make up
Tohoku, have suffered Japan’s biggest declines in population in
recent years as younger workers moved to bigger cities. About a
quarter of Aomori high school graduates left the prefecture in
2009.  As policy makers deploy reconstruction funds, one danger is
increasing reliance on public spending rather than private
business.  “Public works spending will obviously surge as we rebuild
the area, but the challenge will be to do it in a way that
ensures sustainable growth in the long-term,” said Tamai Chino,
an analyst who focuses on regional economies at Mizuho Research
Institute in Tokyo. “They need to have a clear plan for the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  