-- 
Dimon Says Risk-Retention Exemption May Benefit Biggest Lenders

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-16T19:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/jpmorgan-s-dimon-says-risk-retention-exemption-may-benefit-biggest-lenders.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said a U.S. proposal to exempt
certain mortgages from rules governing securitized loans may
unintentionally help the biggest banks.  A law requiring lenders to keep 5 percent of the loans they
securitize on their balance sheets could be “a positive for the
larger players” such as JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  because
it exempts few mortgages,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analysts said in a
March 3 research note summarizing a meeting with Dimon.  The Dodd-Frank Act lets regulators exempt some mortgages
from securitization rules designed to discourage risky lending.
Six agencies drafting the rules, including the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and Office of Comptroller of the Currency,
agreed to exempt loans in which borrowers make down-payments of
at least 20 percent, according to U.S. officials who requested
anonymity because the negotiations aren’t yet public.  That means lenders could securitize those loans without
keeping part of the debt on their books. It would help bigger
lenders such as New York-based JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, because they “have the scale to hold the
5 percent of non-qualifying mortgages on their balance sheet,”
said Citigroup analysts Keith Horowitz, Craig Singer and Steve
Foundos, citing Dimon.  Last year, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo urged regulators
to exempt only mortgages with down-payments of 30 percent or
more.  Smaller lenders and housing activists say exempting only
high-down-payment loans would raise borrower costs, shut out
smaller originators and cement the positions of big banks that
can afford to keep 5 percent of non-exempt loans on their books.  In response to those concerns, regulators are considering
whether to include an option that would exempt loans with down-
payments of at least 10 percent if they are backed by private  mortgage insurance , which protects lenders from default, said
one government official with knowledge of the discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 