-- 
Jyothy Laboratories Plans to Seek Buyout of Henkel’s India Unit

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-03-16T20:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/jyothy-laboratories-plans-to-seek-buyout-of-henkel-s-india-unit.html
  Jyothy Laboratories Ltd. (JYL)  is seeking
to purchase Henkel AG’s 51 percent stake in an Indian unit after
acquiring a minority stake yesterday, according to a Jyothy
executive.  Henkel hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to sell its portion of the
Indian venture, said K. Ullas Kamath, deputy managing director
of Jyothy, in a telephone interview. Wulf Klueppelholz, a Henkel
spokesman, and Malini Thadani, a spokeswoman for HSBC in Mumbai,
declined to comment.  The board of Mumbai-based Jyothy approved a proposal to buy
a 14.9 percent stake in Henkel India Ltd. from  Tamilnadu
Petroproducts (TNPP)  Ltd. for as much as 35 rupees a share, according
to a statement on the Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday. The deal
includes an option to buy Tamilnadu’s remaining 1.75 percent
stake in Henkel India, Kamath said. Jyothy’s purchase of more
than 15 percent would trigger a so-called open offer for another
20 percent stake.  “We will participate in the bid,” Kamath said. “Our
whole approach will be to be aggressive and to get the 51
percent stake.”    Henkel India Ltd. (HNKL) , the company’s consumer-goods unit on the
subcontinent, has been unprofitable since 2004. It posted a
wider loss of 589 million rupees ($13.1 million) last year.
Henkel Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in a March 3
interview with Bloomberg News that over time the company needed
to find solutions for its India business.  Mape Advisory Group Private Ltd. is working with Jyothy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  