-- 
Kan’s Deputy Edano Gives Up Sleep to Provide the Latest on Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T07:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/kan-s-deputy-edano-gives-up-sleep-to-provide-the-latest-on-nuclear-crisis.html
Yukio Edano followed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  through the creation of a political party in 1996 and
the ascent of their  Democratic Party of Japan  to power 18 months
ago. Now, as  Japan  faces its worst crisis since World War II, he
embodies Kan’s strategy of transparency.  Edano, who as chief cabinet secretary is a combination
deputy and chief of staff, has held an average of five televised
briefings a day since the 9.0 quake and tsunami hit northeastern
Japan on March 11, damaging several nuclear reactors and killing
at least 5,178 people. In the process he also has raised his
profile as a possible successor to Kan, in a country that has
had five premiers in less than five years.  “He is truly giving everything he can as the government’s
spokesman,” said independent political analyst Hirotada Asakawa
in  Tokyo .  “Every day, several times a day, he’s up there in
front of the press. Whenever the post-Kan era begins, he’ll be a
candidate to replace him.”  The prime minister makes one public appearance a day at his
offices in central Tokyo, usually appealing for calm and
expressing his conviction that Japan can overcome this disaster
as it did the devastation from the war. Edano, wearing the same
type of blue emergency jumpsuit as Kan, provides details on
radiation levels, evacuation orders and recovery efforts.  No Confirmation  Edano, 46, also has given information that conflicted with
reports from Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant, where explosions have occurred at three reactors
and another has caught fire. On March 14, company officials
couldn’t confirm Edano’s statement about one of the explosions.  That confusion has led to some frustration between the
government and Tokyo Electric. Kan on March 15 said it took an
hour before he was informed about an afternoon fire at the No. 1
reactor.  “What the hell is going on?”  Kyodo News  and other news
agencies quoted him as saying within earshot of reporters. The
same day, the government set up a  task force  with Tokyo Electric
and Kan appointed lawmaker Goshi Hosono as his coordinator.  Alma Mater Closed  Edano was born in Tochigi Prefecture, which borders the
province holding the stricken nuclear reactors in Fukushima. His
alma mater is the University of Tohoku in Sendai, a coastal city
devastated by the tsunami. The school is closed indefinitely and
hasn’t yet accounted for every student, according to its  website .  The government’s communication and mobilization is a change
from past responses to crises, such as the 1995 Kobe earthquake,
which killed about 6,400 people. Then-Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama came under criticism after bureaucrats blocked foreign
doctors from treating victims because of a lack of Japanese
medical credentials and initially refused foreign aid.  The first prime minister in five who isn’t descended from
past premiers, Kan has a history of favoring more transparency.
As health minister in 1996, he forced bureaucrats to release
documents exposing their role in allowing as many as 5,000
Japanese to contract HIV through contaminated blood products.  When he became finance minister in 2010, a post he held for
six months before assuming the premiership, he vowed more
openness in Japan’s most powerful ministry.  ‘More Information’  “I think we’ve gotten more information out of the Kan
administration than you would have out of a U.S. administration
or a British administration or a French administration partly
because they’re new at it,” said Steven R. Reed, a political
science professor at Chuo University in Tokyo.  More than 300 workers raced to prevent a meltdown at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station north of Tokyo
with the aftermath of the quake, which has left hundreds of
thousands stranded without food and water. Failure to prevent
the release of radiation prompted countries including the U.S.
and U.K. to advise citizens to consider leaving the country.  Japanese stocks fell, paring earlier declines amid optimism
that plans to connect a power line to start damaged cooling
systems later today will help avert disaster. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average fell 1.4 percent, and the yen traded near a post-
World War II high on concern Japanese investors will redeem
overseas assets to pay for damages.  ‘Wildcard’  “The nuclear factor is the game-changing wildcard,” said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist with Newedge
Group’s prime brokerage business. “The level of skepticism on
disclosure from officials is only confusing the situation.”  Edano slept at  Kan’s residence  for four straight nights
before going to his official home on March 15. Asked about it
the next day, he shrugged it off.  “The people in the disaster zone are the ones who are
truly suffering,” he told reporters yesterday. “There are lots
of people telling us ‘it’s important to make the right
decisions.’ The prime minister hasn’t gone home either and we’re
all on sort of a rotation.”  Edano is taking on his public role in part because
campaign-financing scandals have claimed the jobs of DPJ cabinet
members, including former Foreign Affairs Minister  Seiji Maehara ,
said Arpita Mathur, research fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School
of International Studies in  Singapore .  “When Kan was in a state of crisis, the DPJ didn’t seem to
have a backup because all the political leaders seemed to have
already resigned for one reason or another,” she said. “Edano
is very likely to emerge as a contender for the premiership in
case Kan has to resign ultimately.”  Twitter Praise  On Twitter, users set up several threads praising Edano for
his work ethic. They included “Edano_my_Angel,”
“Edano_go_to_bed” and “ Edano_nero ,” which transliterates a
Japanese word meaning “go to sleep.” Some Twitter users
converted Edano’s name into a verb by adding the suffix “ru.”
One user,  Shinseitaro , said the new word meant “not sleeping,
working too hard and not having a good boss.”  Edano took over his position in January when Kan shuffled
his cabinet, replacing  Yoshito Sengoku . A patent lawyer, he was
first elected to parliament in 1993 as a member of a now-defunct
party Kan helped form and has served six terms.  Now a member of the ruling DPJ, Edano stepped down as DPJ
secretary-general -- a position he had said he wanted to use to
“promote transparency” -- after three months in part to take
responsibility for losses in last year’s upper-house elections.  Edano supported Kan in his party leadership contest last
September with  Ichiro Ozawa , who in January was indicted for his
role in a campaign finance scandal.  “Kan can rely on Edano to keep things under control, as
much as that’s possible,” said  Robert Dujarric , director of the
Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at  Temple University ’s
Tokyo campus. “The truth is, this is such an unlikely
catastrophic event you can’t as an organization prepare for
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  