-- 
Kazakh Halyk Bank Plans 24% Profit Growth as Lending Increases

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-03-16T09:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/kazakh-halyk-bank-plans-24-profit-growth-as-lending-increases.html
Halyk Savings Bank, the lender
controlled by Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s daughter
and son-in-law, said its profit may grow as much as 24 percent
in 2011 as lending increases and the quality of loans improves.  Lower provisions for bad loans this year will free up cash
and lift net income to between 40 billion tenge ($275 million)
and 45 billion tenge, Chief Executive Officer Umut Shayakhmetova
told reporters in Almaty today. The lender’s provisions will be
little changed at 24 percent of the loan portfolio, compared
with 23 percent last year, she said.  The economy of  Kazakhstan , the second-biggest energy
producer among the former Soviet republics, may expand as much
as 6 percent this year after growing 7 percent in 2010, the
central bank said in January. “We see improvements in the
economy as many borrowers come and start paying off their
debts,” Shayakhmetova said.  Halyk Bank, the nation’s  second-biggest  by assets, said
March 10 it will pay its parent for the option to buy back most
of a 19.8 percent stake the government acquired in 2009. The
National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna bought shares in Halyk
Bank and Kazkommertsbank and took control of BTA Bank,
Kazakhstan’s largest lender at the time, in early 2009 after
credit markets froze and the country’s property bubble burst.  Halyk, whose net income more than doubled last year to 36.2
billion tenge, plans to boost lending by 10 percent this year,
Shayakhmetova said. The loan portfolio declined to 1.22 trillion
tenge last year from 1.24 trillion tenge in 2009, according to
its  website .  Loans overdue by more than 90 days are expected to fall
from 16 percent of its loan portfolio last year, Shayakhmetova
said, without elaborating.  Excess Liquidity  The lender has “excess liquidity” that amounts to 36
percent of assets, more than its “comfort level” of 25
percent, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Dauren Karabayev said
today. The bank seeks to lower the level of liquidity this year,
he said.  Halyk Bank has cut  interest rates  for corporate deposits
and will decrease the rates for individual deposits next month,
Shayakhmetova said. The lender doesn’t expect assets to grow
this year from 2.02 trillion tenge last year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  