-- 
KBR Managers Got Kickbacks From Subcontractor in Iraq, Kuwait, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-16T22:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/kbr-managers-got-kickbacks-from-subcontractor-in-iraq-kuwait-u-s-says.html
  KBR Inc. (KBR)  managers in  Iraq  and
Kuwait took $45,000 in kickbacks from a dining facility
subcontractor from late 2002 through 2003, the U.S. said in a
lawsuit.  Terry Hall, who was KBR’s regional food services manager
for the two countries, and his deputy, Luther Holmes, were
accused of violating the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback
Act yesterday in U.S. claims court in  Washington . The allegation
came as a counterclaim in a 2009 lawsuit against the government
by Houston-based Kellogg Brown & Root Services Inc., a KBR unit
seeking $41 million for an alleged breach of contract.  “Kickbacks in military subcontracts open the door to
wartime profiteering and corrupt the integrity of our government
contracting process,” Assistant Attorney General  Tony West , who
oversees the civil division, said in a statement. “When we
learn of such illegal conduct at the expense of taxpayers, we
will pursue it.”  The U.S. alleges the kickbacks were made by Mohammad
Shabbir Khan, vice president of Tamimi Global Co., which is
based in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia . During the time the payments
were made, KBR awarded Tamimi contracts worth more than $400
million, the U.S. says, according to the  Justice Department .  Gabriela Segura, a spokeswoman for KBR, said in an e-mailed
statement that the Justice Department is seeking to set aside
the entire value of a contract based on “some vague allegation
of wrongdoing” that is “not supported by facts or law.”  Segura said that when the Army asked KBR to provide food
services in support of the military in  Kuwait , it already was
using Tamimi for food services in Kuwait and Iraq and directed
KBR to use Tamimi as a subcontractor in Kuwait, Segura said.  “Despite knowledge of various alleged improprieties by
Tamimi, the Army continues to contract with Tamimi for such
services today,” Segura said.  The case is Kellogg Brown & Root Services Inc. v. U.S., 09-
351, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 