-- 
Kenya to Name New Central Bank Monetary Policy Committee Members in April

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-16T10:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/kenya-to-name-new-central-bank-monetary-policy-committee-members-in-april.html
The government of  Kenya , East
Africa’s largest economy, will appoint a new  Monetary Policy
Committee  to succeed its inaugural body whose term expires on
April 30, two sitting members of the team said.  The  Central Bank of Kenya’s  nine-member MPC, as the
committee is known, has led a series of eight interest-rate cuts
since December 2008 to a record low of 5.75 percent in a bid to
coax commercial lenders to lower the cost of loans and boost
economic growth.  The reductions underpinned a growth rate that swelled to
5.4 percent last year from 2.6 percent in 2009 and 1.7 percent a
year earlier, even as commercial banks failed to supply cheaper
credit. Kenyan banks’ average lending rates dipped to 14.03
percent in January from 14.22 percent in 2009.  “I think new blood, as it works around the world, would
bring in new ideas,” Sheila M’Mbijjewe, an MPC member, said in
an interview yesterday in Nairobi, the capital.  In addition to setting the central bank’s benchmark rate,
the MPC also decides on the cash-reserve ratio -- the percentage
of deposits that commercial banks must keep at the central bank
-- and advises on the sale of  government securities . The
committee uses measures including inflation, the level of
foreign-exchange reserves,  money supply  and economic growth to
determine its policy stance. It holds formal meetings every two
months to analyze the data collected over the period and take
decisions.  ‘Continuity’  Members are permitted to serve two three-year terms, Terry
Ryan, who is also an MPC member, said in an interview. Some of
the current panelists may have their contracts renewed as there
is “importance for continuity,” M’Mbijjewe said.  The MPC’s four “external” members include M’Mbijjewe, a
former director for finance and retail at  Standard Chartered
Bank Kenya Ltd. (SCBL) ; Ryan, a former economic secretary at  Kenya’s
Finance Ministry ; and Wycliffe Mukulu, the former head of
Treasury at the Kenyan unit of ABN Amro Bank NV, which was since
sold. Rose Ngugi left the MPC about six months ago to take a job
with the  International Monetary Fund . Kenyan law allocates two
of the seats on the MPC to women, M’Mbijjewe said.  The permanent membership of the committee comprises the
central bank governor, at present Njuguna Ndung’u; his deputy;
the bank’s director of research; and an official responsible for
monetary policy operations. Ndung’u was earlier this month re-
appointed for a second, four-year term as governor. Kenya’s
 Finance Ministry  contributes a ninth, non-voting member.  March Meeting  The MPC’s next meeting, which will be its final under the
current configuration, will be on March 22, a spokeswoman for
the bank said today. The meeting was brought forward from an
earlier announced March 23, she said, without providing further
details. The appointment of the new MPC members will probably be
announced in a government notice.  The MPC, which helped shepherd the country through the
global financial crisis, is currently assessing the possible
impact of political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
and the fall-out for the global economy from  Japan ’s earthquake
and tsunami last week, M’Mbijjewe said.  One of the most challenging periods faced by the committee
since its inception three years ago was when the initial public
offering of mobile-phone operator  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM)  drained
liquidity from the system, she said. In 2008, Safaricom
attracted four times more applications than the number of shares
offered, raising 50.8 billion shillings ($591.8 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 