-- 
U.K. Market Is ‘Challenging’ This Year, Retail Chiefs Say

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-16T17:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/kingfisher-chief-says-he-sees-flat-market-no-double-dip-in-u-k-in-2011.html
The U.K. economy will be
challenging for retailers this year as consumers wrestle with
government austerity measures and higher value-added tax, chief
executive officers of some of Britain’s biggest retailers said.  The U.K. is “incredibly challenging,” Carl McPhail, CEO
of budget fashion retailer New Look Group Ltd., said today on a
panel at a Retail Week conference in  London .  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  CEO
Ian Cheshire said he expects no growth in the market this year,
though a surge in manufacturing will help stave off a so-called
double-dip recession. Kingfisher is  Europe ’s largest home-
improvement chain.  McPhail and Rob Templeman, chief executive of Debenhams,
the country’s second-largest department store operator, said
they expect to achieve growth through international and online
sales.  France  is a “much easier” market than the U.K.,
McPhail said.  U.K. consumer confidence stayed close to the lowest level
since March 2009 in February as Britons remained pessimistic
about the strength of the economic recovery. The government has
raised the value-added tax charged on many goods to 20 percent
from 17.5 percent, and is cutting public spending to reduce a
record budget deficit.  ‘Slow Recovery’  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, the U.K.’s fourth-
largest supermarket chain, predicts a “slow recovery, low-
growth” market this year, according to Finance Director Richard Pennycook. The grocer, which is branching into online food with
a stake in New York internet grocer FreshDirect Inc., said
higher fuel prices are pushing shoppers to buy less regularly
but for larger baskets of goods.  Andy Hornby, the chief executive officer of privately held
pharmacy chain Alliance Boots Plc, said retailers must work on
online and international growth to overcome the “horribly
difficult times” they face for the next two years.    Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest retailer, knows “no single
sound-bite that encapsulates” what the consumer is doing, with
customers buying more expensive goods as well as the Tesco value
range, said Richard Brasher, U.K. chief executive. “The trend
shows economic uncertainty is affecting everyone,” he said.  Debenhams, based in London, said yesterday that “trading
across the U.K. high street is likely to be difficult in the
second half of the year” as consumers have less disposable
income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 