-- 
Korean Regulator Defers Decision on Lone Star’s KEB Stake

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-16T09:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/korean-regulator-defers-decision-on-lone-star-s-keb-stake-1-.html
  South Korea ’s financial regulator
withheld a decision on whether  Lone Star  Funds is the legitimate
owner of Korea Exchange Bank, fueling concern that a sale of the
buyout firm’s stake to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  may be delayed.  The Financial Services Commission deferred its decision
after the nation’s highest court last week ordered that Dallas-
based Lone Star and its former local head be retried over
allegations that they violated trading laws, Choi Jong Ku,
standing commissioner at the regulator, told reporters today.  The regulator’s review of  Hana Financial ’s proposed 4.7
trillion won ($4.2 billion) takeover of Korea Exchange Bank is a
separate legal issue, the Commission said today. Lone Star has
tried for more than five years to sell its 51 percent holding as
authorities examine the circumstances surrounding its 2003
investment in the lender.  “The officials seem to want to take their time, to build
up their excuses for not making a decision,” said Hwang Seok Kyu, an analyst at Kyobo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Completing
Hana’s acquisition may take longer than it wants, but I don’t
think the deal will fall apart at this point.”  Three calls to Lone Star’s Dallas headquarters outside of
U.S. business hours weren’t immediately answered today. Hana
Financial Chairman Kim Seung Yu said he’s concerned about
possible delays to the transaction, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company today.  Biggest Takeover  Both Hana Financial and Lone Star have the option to walk
away from the deal unless it’s completed by May, the South
Korean company said.  Kim agreed in November to buy the stake from Lone Star, the
buyout fund controlled by  John Grayken , in a deal that would be
Seoul-based Hana’s largest takeover. Kim said in November that
he wants to complete the purchase by March.  The regulator will try to complete a legal review of
whether Lone Star is eligible to hold the stake as soon as
possible, Choi said, without providing a specific timeframe.  South Korea’s  Supreme Court  last week overturned a 2008
ruling that cleared Lone Star and its former local chief, Paul Yoo, of stock price-manipulation charges. The nation’s top court
on March 10 asked the Seoul High Court to reconsider whether Yoo,  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  and Lone Star’s local unit violated trading
rules or evaded taxes, Supreme Court spokesman Seo Dong Chil
said by telephone in Seoul at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  