-- 
Korean Won Rebounds From 2011 Low as Global Funds Buy Stocks

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-03-16T10:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/korean-won-rebounds-from-2011-low-as-global-funds-buy-stocks.html
South Korea’s won rebounded from
its weakest level of the year as overseas investors pumped funds
into the nation’s equities, betting a sell-off in global
equities following  Japan ’s earthquake was excessive.  The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  rose the most in nearly two weeks
as Japanese workers struggled to stabilize nuclear reactors
damaged by last week’s earthquake and the  Federal Reserve  said
the  U.S. economy  is improving. Currencies strengthened across
regional markets open for trading.  “Asian currencies have recovered some composure from the
panic selling yesterday that we saw in the equities,” said Wai Ho Leong, a regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.
“People were reacting to the nuclear situation and the risks
seem to have subsided for now. The Fed’s comments are also
another positive.”  The won climbed 0.4 percent to 1,130.85 per dollar as of
the close of trade in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 1,137.95 yesterday, the weakest level
since Dec. 30.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose for the first time in
five days as radiation readings fell below harmful levels at
reactors in Japan. Today’s 5.6 percent advance follows a 16
percent plunge in the last two days that was the gauge’s
steepest slide since the October 1987 stock market crash.  “The situation still bears watching but seems to have
stabilized for now,” Leong said.  Higher Unemployment  South Korea’s unemployment rate rose to a one-year high of
4 percent in February, Statistics Korea said today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight economists was for
a rate of 3.6 percent.  “The figure is actually very good but was distorted by the
fact that February is graduation month when a lot of new job
seekers enter the market,” Leong said.  Three-year  government bonds  declined for the first time in
nine days. The yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013
rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.64 percent,
according to prices from Korea Stock Exchange. The rate reached
3.58 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Jan. 12. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 