-- 
Natural Gas Futures Little Changed on Milder Weather, Easing LNG Concern

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-03-16T19:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/natural-gas-futures-in-new-york-rise-for-fourth-day-on-japan-earthquake.html
Natural gas futures were little
changed in New York as forecasts showed warmer-than-normal
weather in the U.S., reducing demand for the heating fuel.  Gas was steady after three days of gains as the  National
Weather Service  said temperatures will be above average in the
U.S. East and Midwest from March 21 to March 25. The impact of
Japan’s earthquake on U.S. gas prices will be “limited as we
are not a big player” in liquefied natural gas, said  James Williams , an economist at energy research firm WTRG Economics.  “Spring is coming and gas is responding to the warm
weather,” said Williams, based in  London ,  Arkansas . “U.S. gas
is not going to follow the U.K. as we don’t really rely on LNG
for domestic consumption.”  Natural gas for April delivery slid 0.3 cent to settle at
$3.938 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  after touching $4.015 in earlier trading.
Gas had declined 11 percent this year.  “It seems $4 is the price the market gravitates to,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in  Chicago .  The high temperature in Chicago on March 21 will be 63
degrees Fahrenheit (17 Celsius), 14 degrees above normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Gas rose in earlier trading on speculation that shut
nuclear plants in Japan would lead to greater demand for LNG.  Damaged Reactor  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG importer, battled to contain
fires and radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power station after the nation’s worst earthquake on record.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. has begun rolling blackouts that will
continue until the end of April to conserve electricity.  The country will import more LNG for electricity
generation, according to Flynn.  “There is realization that liquefied natural gas is
becoming a more valuable commodity to replace nuclear power not
only in  Japan  but perhaps in  Germany  and other countries,”
Flynn said.  U.K. natural gas futures rose to the highest price in more
than two years today on concern the deepening nuclear crisis in
Japan will divert LNG cargoes away from Britain.  LNG imports to the U.S. this year will be the equivalent of
1.15 billion cubic feet a day of natural gas, about 1.7 percent
of total gas demand, according to Energy Department estimates.  The U.S. doesn’t produce LNG in the lower 48 states. Two
LNG import terminals, at Sabine Pass in Louisiana and Freeport
in Texas, are authorized to export previously imported LNG
cargoes.  Cheniere Energy Inc., which owns the Sabine Pass terminal,
has no liquefied natural gas stored at the facility, Chief
Executive Officer Charif Souki said in a phone interview.  Inventory Report  The U.S. Energy Department may say tomorrow that gas
stockpiles slipped 42 billion cubic feet in the week ended March
11, according to the median of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average drop for the week is 58
billion.  Inventories declined 71 billion cubic feet in the week
ended March 4 to 1.674 trillion cubic feet, the Energy
Department said last week. Stockpiles were 1.3 percent above the
average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 