-- 
Navy Says Northrop Resolved Concerns on Shipyard Spinoff

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-16T00:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/navy-says-northrop-resolved-concerns-on-shipyard-spinoff.html
The U.S. Navy said  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC)  has resolved all concerns posed by the proposed spinoff of
wholly owned subsidiary Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.  Northrop Grumman said today that its board of directors has
approved the spinoff.  “Our support of the spinoff is based on having carefully
reviewed key financial assumptions for HII, which include
proprietary forward-looking projections,” the Navy’s assistant
secretary for acquisition, Sean Stackley, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are confident that HII is well postured to build
affordable ships into the future” and the service “regards HII
a responsible contractor and is proceeding to finalize the
negotiations and awards” for the LPD-26, the 10th San Antonio-
class amphibious warfare vessels and DDG-113 guided missile
destroyer, he said.  The LPD-26 will be named after the late Representative John Murtha, the Pennsylvania Democrat who was the longtime chairman
of the House defense appropriations subcommittee.  Wes Bush, chief executive officer of the Los Angeles-based
defense contractor, has said that separating HII will allow the
company to focus on its electronics, aerospace and information-
systems businesses that offer better profit margins.  The new unit will include yards at Avondale,  Louisiana ;
Pascagoula, Mississippi; and  Newport News ,  Virginia , Northrop
has said in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Northrop also has said that it plans to shut down
the Avondale yard and move work to Pascagoula.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  