-- 
Neurologix Gene Therapy Helps Parkinson’s Patients Walk, Move in Study

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-03-17T20:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/neurologix-gene-therapy-helps-parkinson-s-patients-walk-move-in-study.html
A therapy developed by  Neurologix
Inc. (NRGX)  shot a gene deep into the brains of people with  Parkinson’s
disease , easing their jerking motions and tendency to freeze,
according to a study sponsored by the company.  The gene acts like a factory, pumping out one of the brain
chemicals lacking in people with the disorder to rebalance the
substances that stimulate and inhibit activity, said Michael Kaplitt, a founder of  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Neurologix and
co-creator of the therapy. The study was published yesterday in
the journal  Lancet Neurology .  The therapy appeared safe and seemed to improve motor
control, compared with subjects who received a placebo through a
sham surgical procedure, said  Jon Stoessl , director of the
Pacific Parkinson’s Research Centre at the University of British
Columbia in  Vancouver . Stoessl, who wasn’t involved in the
study, said the findings should be evaluated in larger trials.  “This is the first controlled trial to show a significant
improvement in the active group of a gene therapy trial,”
Stoessl said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It appears
promising and merits further investigation.”  Neurologix gained 5 cents, or 6.7 percent, to 80 cents at 4
p.m.  New York  time in over-the-counter trading. The shares have
increased 23 percent in the past 12 months.  Expanded Trial  Neurologix, which has no marketed products, plans to ask
the FDA this year for permission to begin an expanded trial next
year that may be used to win regulatory approval, Marc Panoff,
the company’s chief financial officer, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The company needs to raise $30 million to $40 million to
conduct the study and is talking to both investors and potential
partners from the pharmaceutical industry to obtain funding,
Panoff said.  Walter Liskiewicz, 60, a retired oral surgeon from Jackson,  Michigan , who has been living with Parkinson’s for 18 years,
said he was in “terrible” shape before taking part in the
study.  “I wiggled all the time, I had trouble walking, life
sucked,” Liskiewicz said.  After being treated in July, 2009, Liskiewicz started
noticing slow, steady improvement, he said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Now he walks a mile or two once or twice a
week and can carry groceries into his house.  “This is not a neuroprotective treatment, which would be
the holy grail,” said Blair Ford, a professor of clinical
neurology at  Columbia University  in New York. “This is aimed at
ameliorating the immediate symptoms of Parkinson’s, not
reversing its course.”  Gene Therapy Revival  About 1.5 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson’s,
according to the  Parkinson’s Disease Foundation . People with the
neurological disease gradually lose neurons that make the brain
chemical dopamine. The lack of dopamine leads to increasing
activity in a part of the brain called the subthalamic nucleus,
which influences movement.  While no gene therapy has yet been approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, recent successes have revived a
field that was almost ended when a patient in such a trial died
in 1999. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Bluebird Bio , a closely
held company, is developing therapies for blood conditions
including beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease after
clinical trials reported positive results. Bluebird is backed by  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , also in Cambridge, and by venture capital firms.  Boehringer, Glaxo  Early-stage Parkinson’s patients now are treated with
medications including Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Mirapex,
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Requip and a generic medication called
levodopa. All aim to increase dopamine in the brain.  These treatments generally lose effectiveness after several
years. Patients may then get a treatment called deep-brain
stimulation, which shoots electrical current into the
subthalamic area of the brain. While the procedure helps many
patients, they must have batteries and wires installed in their
bodies, said Neurologix’s Kaplitt, a neurosurgeon at Weill
Cornell Medical College in New York.  In the Neurologix therapy, an ultra-thin wire is inserted
through the skull and passes through brain tissue to reach the
subthalamic area. The gene, carried by a harmless virus,
journeys into brain cells to ramp up production of the chemical
GABA, which limits excess activity to reduce abnormal movements.  2007 Study  The therapy was first tested in 12 patients in a 2007
study. While those findings were encouraging, no control group
was used so researchers couldn’t be certain about the findings.  In the latest study, 22 patients received an injection with
the gene, called GAD. For comparison, 23 people underwent a sham
procedure in which surgeons pretended to drill holes in their
skulls and imitated sounds of the actual procedure.  A catheter designed by Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  to
lock in place after being inserted allowed patients to leave the
operating room and have the gene injected in a recovery room,
making the procedure less invasive and more affordable.
Afterward, the catheter was removed and a small cap was used to
cover the hole in the skull.  Both groups of patients showed improvement on a scale that
rates stiffness, tremors, speed of motion and other symptoms.
After six months, patients who got the treatment improved by 8.1
points, or 23 percent, while the placebo patients had a 4.7
point, or 11 percent, improvement, Kaplitt said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Some patients did even better, he said.  “All but two of the patients in the treatment group had
some improvement and half of them had dramatic improvement,”
Kaplitt said. There were no serious adverse events related to
the treatment, he said.  The therapy didn’t appear to alleviate the cognitive
problems, depression and impaired balance many patients suffer,
Stoessl said.  Gene therapy has several advantages over deep-brain
stimulation, said Kaplitt.  “It’s a single operation instead of two, patients don’t
need general anesthesia and no hardware is left in the brain,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 