-- 
NFL Owners to Vote on Moving Kickoffs to 35-Yard-Line to Reduce Injuries

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-16T17:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nfl-owners-to-vote-on-moving-kickoffs-to-35-yard-line-to-reduce-injuries.html
National Football League  owners
will vote next week on whether to move kickoffs to the 35-yard
line from the 30 in an effort to reduce injuries, competition
committee chief Rich McKay said.  Other proposed rules changes include allowing referees to
review all scoring plays, rather than just during the final two
minutes of each half and overtime, and shielding receivers from
head shots until they can either protect themselves or clearly
become a runner, the league said.  “The injury rate on the kickoff return remains a real
concern for us,” McKay, president of the  Atlanta Falcons , said
on a conference call. “This creates a shorter field. It’s a
pretty major change.”  Owners will hold their annual spring meeting next week in  New Orleans  about a week after they shut down the league when
negotiations with players failed to yield a new labor agreement.
 Players  have sued the NFL in federal court over the work
stoppage. NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said he expects the 2011
regular-season schedule will be announced as usual in April.  In addition to moving the kickoff spot, no member of the
kicking team other than the kicker would be allowed to line up
more than 5 yards behind the ball so they would get less of a
running start.  On kickoffs, touchbacks would result in teams taking
possession on the 25-yard-line instead of the 20; out-of-bounds
kickoffs would still result in the receiving team taking
possession at the 40-yard-line; and all forms of wedge blocks
would be prohibited.  The league moved kickoffs to the 30-yard-line in 1994 to
increase offensive production.  Rules Clarification  The competition committee also will suggest some rules
clarifications, including one on catches. Receivers are
currently required to catch, secure control of the ball and
maintain control until they have two feet on the ground or any
body part other than their hands touches the ground.  The committee would add that if the receiver goes to the
ground in the act of catching the pass, he must maintain control
of the ball throughout the process of contacting the ground.  “You have to put some responsibility on the receiver,”
McKay said.  According to the league, the total points scored per game
last season was 44.07, eighth highest of all time. Teams also
averaged a record 672 yards of offense, and 25.4 percent of
games were decided by three or fewer points, the most since
1999.  Ray Anderson, NFL executive vice president of football
operations, also said that the league will be more active in
suspending players for violating safety rules.  Anderson said repeat offenders over the previous two years
will be under special scrutiny.  Head Hits  Several players were fined last season for making hits to
the head.  “We are not relenting on this,” Anderson said. “We don’t
want to go there (suspensions) but we are prepared to do that.
These rules are meant to protect everyone.”  He said “aggressive discipline” will be emphasized.  While the league is preparing as if there will be a 2011
season, the union and owners are battling over the lockout in
court.  A challenge by  Tom Brady ,  Drew Brees ,  Peyton Manning  and
seven other players to the NFL’s labor lockout is set to go
before a Minnesota federal court next month. U.S. District Judge
Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul  will hear arguments April 6
from attorneys for the NFL players, who asked the court to block
the lockout in an antitrust lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  