-- 
JSE Appoints First Woman to Run Africa’s Biggest Stock and Bond Exchanges

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-03-16T11:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nicky-newton-king-named-first-woman-to-run-biggest-african-stock-exchange.html
  JSE Ltd. (JSE) , which manages  Africa ’s
biggest stock exchange, said Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Nicky Newton-King will become CEO in January next year, the
first woman to be appointed to the position.  “It’s a big responsibility,” Newton-King, 44, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg today. “Fifteen years in an
organization gives you a good understanding of the business. I’m
not anticipating that life in our industry will stay the same.
The JSE will need to evolve with it.”  Newton-King, who was appointed to the JSE’s board in 2000,
having previously been a partner at one of the country’s largest
law firms, Webber Wentzel, will replace Russell Loubser, who
retires as CEO at the end of this year. Newton-King has been his
deputy for eight years.  The JSE, which is 124 years old, operates  South Africa ’s
markets in stocks, bonds, agricultural futures and derivative
instruments. The exchange’s main equity index, the FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share Index, is made up of 164 companies with a
market value of 4.97 trillion rand ($710 billion). The  World
Federation of Exchanges  listed the JSE as the world’s 20th
largest bourse at the end of 2010.  “There’s a lot to do this year and it’s important that the
team here focuses on getting that done,” Newton-King said,
adding that she won’t discuss her plans for the JSE under her
stewardship until 2012.  On Agenda  Newton-King, who on March 13 completed the  Cape Argus Pick
n Pay Cycle Tour , which organizers say is the world’s largest
timed cycling race, said the completion of technology projects,
the installation of a new equity trading engine, extending its
offerings to include over-the-counter products and the growth of
interest-rate market are on this year’s agenda.  The JSE’s net income rose 3 percent to 378 million rand for
the year through December from a year earlier, according to a
statement released by the Johannesburg-based company yesterday.
The JSE started trading its shares on its own bourse in 2006 and
the stock has appreciated 177 percent since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  