-- 
Nigeria’s Sanusi to Keep Naira Stable, Meeting Dollar Demand Before Polls

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-16T12:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nigeria-central-bank-to-keep-naira-stable-meet-dollar-demand-before-poll.html
  Nigeria ’s central bank will meet
the rising need from investors for foreign currency before
elections next month as it tries to stabilize the naira and
control inflation, Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  The jump in demand this month is “temporary,” based on
investors’ fears that violence between religious and ethnic
groups may disrupt elections, Sanusi said in an interview in
Nigeria’s capital, Abuja, yesterday.  Sanusi has been defending the naira, keeping it within a
range of between 3 percent above or below 150 per dollar, in a
bid to curb inflation in Africa’s biggest oil producer. That
policy has led the bank to deplete its foreign currency
reserves, raising concern at the  International Monetary Fund ,
which said last month the central bank should allow for more  exchange-rate  flexibility.  “So long as we’re comfortable with the coverage given by
the reserve position of the country we will pursue a stable
exchange rate policy,” Sanusi said. “If we see an elevation in
demand, that in our judgment is temporary, we will meet that
demand. Nothing has changed fundamentally as far as the economy
is concerned. But people want to see a smooth transition, a free
and fair election before they bring back the money.”  The naira weakened to its lowest level in 18 months against
the dollar today, depreciating 0.1 percent to 156.30 per dollar
as of 12:15 p.m. in Lagos.  April Elections    Africa ’s most populous nation, with 150 million people,
will hold elections for parliament on April 2, the president on
April 9 and state officials on April 16. Attacks by Islamic
militants in northern Nigeria, including Christmas Eve bomb
blasts that killed 80 people, are deepening religious tensions
before the polls. The last election in 2007, won by Umaru Yar’Adua, was marred by violence and election fraud.  “With an African country like Nigeria going into
elections, where people are talking about ethnicity and
religion, you get people trying to get out, to buy dollars and
hedge their risks,” Sanusi said. “That puts pressure on the
exchange rate and foreign currency reserves.”  Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves plunged by almost $10
billion to $33.1 billion in the year through Nov. 29 as the
central bank propped up the currency and the government withdrew
oil savings from its excess crude account. The government has
now reversed that trend, with reserves climbing to a five-month
high of $36.4 billion on March 8, according to the central
bank’s data.  Rate Impact ‘Questionable’  With import costs accounting for about 70 percent of the  consumer price index , keeping the naira stable is crucial to
fight inflation, Sanusi said.  Nigeria’s inflation rate fell to an annual 11.1 percent in
February from 12.1 percent in the previous month, the statistics
office said yesterday. The central bank, which raised its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
6.5 percent on Jan. 25, is due to make its next rate decision
next week.  While the bank is concerned about the impact of rising
government spending, oil and food costs on inflation, the short-
term impact of raising interest rates is “questionable,”
Sanusi said.  “I have no doubt in my mind that sustained expansion in  money supply  and low  interest rates  for a long time would be
inflationary,” Sanusi said. “But the extent to which a short-
term movement in rates and monetary aggregates would affect
inflation in the short term is more questionable.”  The Monetary Policy Committee will assess the “balance of
risks” of rising costs against the stability of the banking
system when making its next interest-rate decision, he added.  -- Editors: Ana Monteiro, Karl Maier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 