-- 
Nigerian Oil Law Delayed as Senate Halts Debate, Takes a Break

-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 
2011-03-16T12:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nigerian-oil-law-delayed-as-senate-halts-debate-takes-a-break.html
  Nigeria ’s Senate suspended debate
on a bill to change how the government runs Africa’s biggest oil
industry, making it unlikely that the legislation will be passed
before general elections next month.  The Petroleum Industry Bill has been before the legislature
for more than two years. President Goodluck Jonathan said on
Feb. 2 that he expected it to pass before the government’s term
runs out in May. Senate spokesman Ayogu Eze blamed the
suspension of debate yesterday on pressure from the public.  “We have been receiving phone calls and threatening text
messages and we felt that we cannot be stampeded,” he said today
in a phone interview from Abuja, the capital. Pressure reached a
peak yesterday when protesters calling for quick passage of the
bill barricaded the main entrance of the National Assembly.  The bill seeks to change the structure of Nigeria’s oil
industry, including its state-owned oil company, as well the
West African nation’s relationship with its main oil company
partners.  Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California,  Total
SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
nation’s oil.  “We are concerned about the delay in the passage of the
bill because if it is not passed now it will rest on the next
national assembly, but given the unstable nature of Nigerian
politics you can never say what will happen next,” Sylvester
Odion-Akhaine, executive director of the Lagos-based  Centre for
Constitutionalism and Demilitarization , said today in a phone
interview.  The lower house of parliament was due to begin debate on
the bill today, after which both chambers start a two-week
break. Elections for parliament are scheduled for April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Olukoya in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 