-- 
Nigerian Central Bank Sells $400 Million of Currency, Less Than Requested

-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 
2011-03-16T16:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nigerian-central-bank-sells-400-million-of-currency-less-than-requested.html
  Nigeria  sold $400 million of
foreign currency at an auction today, less than the $473 million
lenders requested, the central bank said.  Dollars were sold at a marginal rate of 151.01 naira
compared with 150.96 at the previous auction held on March 14,
the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and most
populous country depreciated for a third day against the dollar,
losing 0.2 percent to 156.47 naira at 3:04 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, from a close of 156.15 yesterday.  “The demand for dollars today is the highest this year and
that might have contributed to the further fall of the naira,”
Kwekwu Brown, an analyst with Lagos-based Source Capital Nigeria
Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  The central bank has only met lenders’ demand for foreign
currency twice out in the 20 auctions held this year.  The bank will meet the rising need from investors for
foreign currency before elections next month as it tries to
stabilize the naira and control inflation, Governor Lamido
Sanusi said yesterday, adding that the jump in demand this month
is “temporary,” based on investors’ fears that violence between
religious and ethnic groups may disrupt elections.  Futures Trading  “It is possible that the central bank deliberately reduced
dollar supply at the foreign currency auctions in order to
reduce speculative buying, some of which is based on fear of a
devaluation of the naira and the political uncertainty with next
month’s elections,” Brown said.  Nigeria will start foreign currency futures trading from
next week, the Nation reported today.  “With a deep forward market, it is believed that the
demand for foreign exchange will smoothen out and accelerated
demand in reaction to anticipatory depreciation in naira will
reduce,” the central bank said Feb. 1. Foreign currency
auctions will be conducted twice a week with three maturities of
1, 2 and 3 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Olukoya in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  