-- 
Nikkei Futures Show Japanese Stocks May Plunge as Nuclear Concerns Deepen

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-16T23:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nikkei-futures-in-chicago-show-japan-stocks-may-plunge-on-nuclear-concern.html
  Nikkei 225  Stock Average futures
showed the benchmark measure of Japanese shares may drop on
renewed concern that a worsening nuclear crisis may damage the
world’s third-largest economy.  Contracts expiring in June opened at 8,445 in  Singapore  at
8:45 a.m. Tokyo time today, 7.1 percent below yesterday’s close
for the Nikkei 225. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.2
percent to 1,251.80. The yen reached a post-World War II high
against the dollar after a U.S. official said all water has
drained from a spent-fuel pool at a nuclear plant, raising the
risk of radiation.  “Far more investors are looking to protect their assets by
reducing risk, instead of looking to make profits,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “We don’t know what will
happen to the nuclear plants and the government’s pronouncements
are losing credibility.”  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee that all cooling
water at one of the reactors has drained from the spent-fuel
pool and “radiation levels are extremely high, which could
possibly impact the ability to take corrective measures.” The
Associated Press said Japanese officials denied all the water
has drained and said the reactor, known as Unit 4, is stable.  ‘Nasty Headlines’  “The Japanese reactor story is still generating nasty
headlines,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, which oversees $1 billion in  New York .  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant as hundreds of cars streamed south of areas hit by
last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Japanese stocks surged yesterday, with the Nikkei 225
rising 5.7 percent. The average had plunged 16 percent since
March 11, the biggest two-day slump since the 1987 crash.  American depositary receipts of Japan’s three biggest
carmakers, Toyota Motor Corp, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor
Co., which get at least 70 percent revenue overseas, tumbled
more than 5.5 percent from their closing share prices in Tokyo
as the strengthening yen threatened to crimp export earnings.
The Bank of New York Mellon  Japan  ADR Index dropped 3.1 percent
in New York yesterday.  The yen strengthened to 76.36 per dollar yesterday in New
York. Japan’s currency passed a post-World War II high of 79.75
reached in April 1995.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange will be open as usual today, said
Satoshi Mimura, a spokesman. The heads of more than 10 foreign
financial companies in Japan held a conference call on March 15
to discuss whether the market should close, Nikkei reported.
Some argued that should happen, the newspaper said. The report
didn’t say if the group made any recommendation to the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  