-- 
Northrop Drone Flies Over Japan Reactor to Record Data

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-17T20:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/northrop-grumman-drone-to-fly-over-japan-reactor-to-gather-data.html
A  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global
Hawk drone flew over Japan’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant today to collect data and imagery for the Japanese
government, said U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz.  Schwartz confirmed the mission during a brief interview
today in  Washington  after a Senate budget hearing.  Air Force Secretary Michael Donley said after the hearing
that “it won’t be the last” mission of that type. The Global
Hawk, based in  Guam , is in a “pattern of regular reconnaissance
in support of the Japanese government,” he said.  “Its tremendous contributions in this humanitarian
assistance disaster relief operation is a testament to its
value,” Lieutenant General  Herbert “Hawk” Carlisle , the Air
Force deputy chief of staff for operations, said in an e-mail.  The drone, known for missions over Iraq and  Afghanistan , is
helping “assess damage to towns, industrial infrastructure, and
other facilities,” U.S. Pacific Air Forces said in a statement
yesterday.  The Global Hawk aircraft can fly as high as 60,000 feet and
is equipped with sensors and cameras that can take infrared and
electro-optical images as well as detailed synthetic aperture
radar-based pictures. It is designed for flights as long as 35
hours, according to the company.  The 9.0-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami on March
11 have caused what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has called the
country’s worst crisis since the end of War II.  Worsening Crisis  Water cannons may have had some success in cooling one
reactor at the damaged Fukushima plant, owned by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. The United Nations nuclear agency said the situation
remained “very serious.”  Cannons and helicopters were used to douse the plant as
workers tried to stem radioactive pollution from the worst
nuclear accident since the 1986 incident at the Chernobyl
reactor in Ukraine. Some water may have reached the No. 3
reactor, a Tepco official said. Engineers are working through
the night to connect a power cable that may help get Fukushima’s
cooling systems working again.  The U.S. military also is providing high-pressure water
pumps to the Japanese government for use at the Fukushima plant,
said Lieutenant Anthony Falvo, a spokesman for the Navy’s
 Seventh Fleet  in  Japan . The USNS Safeguard brought the latest
installment of pumps to the U.S. Navy’s base in Yokosuka, Japan,
two days ago for delivery onward.  Relief Efforts Grow  The Seventh Fleet conducted humanitarian relief and search-
and-rescue missions off the coast of Japan yesterday, with more
than a dozen vessels either there or on the way. They have
delivered 40 tons of relief supplies.  The USS  Ronald Reagan  conducted three helicopter sorties
delivering seven tons of food and water. Choppers from other
ships in the Reagan Carrier Strike Group flew a dozen sorties
with eight tons of food, water, milk, meals, clothing, medical
supplies and other aid.  The USS Cowpens, a guided missile cruiser, canceled a
scheduled return to the base at Yokosuka so it could move north
to meet the strike group.  The USS  Blue Ridge , the fleet’s flagship, is headed to the
vicinity of Okinawa to pick up reserve and other personnel
coming in by helicopter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  