-- 
Norway’s Central Bank Signals Krone Focus Fading as Credit Risks Take Over

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-17T12:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/norway-central-bank-signals-krone-focus-fading-amid-credit-risks.html
Norway’s central bank is signaling
that efforts to limit the krone’s appreciation will play a
smaller role in shaping policy, leaving the bank more scope to
raise  interest rates  and stem the risk of a housing bubble.  The krone “is strong, but we are not worried especially,”
Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in an interview in Oslo
yesterday, after announcing tightening may start earlier than
the bank had previously indicated. There is “a 50/50 chance in
May or June” of a rate increase, he said. The bank had said
rates would rise no earlier than mid-2011.  Norges Bank, which kept its benchmark rate at 2 percent
yesterday, had since May avoided steps that risked fueling
currency gains and hurting exporters, even as the country’s
financial regulator warned rates were too low. Jean-Claude Trichet’s March 3 signal the  European Central Bank  may raise
rates next month is now helping Norway commit to faster monetary
tightening as a stronger euro restrains the krone’s ascent.  The krone, which touched a four-year high against the euro
the day before Trichet’s comments, has since lost 1.6 percent
versus  Europe ’s single currency. It rose 0.7 percent against the
dollar today to 5.6270 by 1:20 p.m. in Oslo, ending three days
of losses. It was little changed against the euro, at 7.8878.  “Qvigstad’s comments signal that Norges Bank may be less
sensitive to a strong krone,” Everett Brown, European bond
strategist at IDEAglobal in  London , said in a reply to e-mailed
questions. “Considering that much of  Norway ’s exports are oil,
I think the economy can handle a somewhat stronger krone.”  Overheating  As currency concerns fade, policy makers are turning their
attention to the threat of an overheated economy fueled by
credit growth that the Financial Supervisory Authority last week
said may be spurring a housing bubble in the world’s second-
richest nation per capita.    House prices  are increasing at not too-crazy levels and
credit growth to households is also not disturbing but we are of
course always worried that the future development will take
off,” Qvigstad said. “So that is a worry and that is one of
the reasons we increase interest rates.”  Norges Bank raised its growth forecasts for this year and
next as exports rebound at a faster pace. Norway’s mainland
economy, which excludes revenue from oil, gas, and shipping,
will expand 3.25 percent in 2011, versus an October estimate for
3 percent growth. Output will grow 3.75 percent in 2012,
compared with an earlier forecast for 3 percent, it said
yesterday.  Non-oil exports will surge 6.25 percent this year, more
than double the rate the bank estimated in October, it said.  Can Afford Appreciation  “With an improvement in global demand and better prospects
for oil exports, the growth outlook is soon going to improve
significantly in Norway,” David Deddouche, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in a reply to
e-mailed questions. “Given that the manufacturing sector as a
whole is showing signs of improvement, one can afford a marginal
appreciation of the krone.”  Qvigstad signaled the bank thinks policy rates play a
limited role in driving the currency, which he says is “mainly
driven by oil now.”  The bank is showing it’s “more tolerant” toward krone
appreciation, said  Carl Hammer , chief currency strategist at
SEB. That means there will be “more focus on domestics.”  House prices rose an annual 9.2 percent in February, after
gaining 7.6 percent in January, according to the Association of
Norwegian Real Estate Agents. The central bank needs to raise
interest rates to help restore economic balance as household
debt levels rise faster than incomes, the FSA said March 10.  Debt vs Income  “A worry is that the Norwegian economy is in danger of
overheating,” FSA Director Bjoern Skogstad Aamo said this
month. “Debt rates for Norwegian households are historically
high, also compared with other countries.”  The central bank may be resigning itself to bigger moves in
the currency as it sets its sights on tackling credit growth,
according to a former board member.  “The krone is strong,” said Torgeir Hoien, who manages
about $150 million at Skagen Funds and used to sit on Norges
Bank’s external board, in an interview yesterday. “In this era
of heightened uncertainty in markets in general, and in the oil
market in particular, they accept more fluctuations in the
foreign exchange rates.”  Higher  oil prices , triggered by unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa, pushed the krone to a four-year high against
the euro on March 2 as crude traded in  New York  topped $100 a
barrel. The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise last week
warned recent krone gains were stifling trade competitiveness.  ‘Surprised’  “I’m surprised that they say they are not worried about
the krone,” said Katrine Boye, a senior economist at Nordea
Bank AB and a former Norges Bank economist. “It signals that
they are not so strictly occupied with the exact movements of
the krone. They are more flexible.”  If the central bank based policy moves on the krone
exchange rate alone, it should cut rates now and increase in
following months, said Jon Nicolaisen, Norges Bank’s chief
economist, in an interview yesterday.  “The board basically says this doesn’t make sense so we
cut through that,” Nicolaisen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  