-- 
Norwegian Krone Strengthens as Central Bank Signals Rates May Be Increased

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-16T14:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/norwegian-krone-strengthens-as-central-bank-may-signal-rates-to-increase.html
Norway’s krone rose against the
euro as the nation’s central bank said it may raise  interest
rates  earlier than initially projected.  The krone snapped a two-day drop against the dollar after
Norges Bank left its key rate at 2 percent and Deputy Governor
Jan F. Qvigstad said policy makers raised their forecast for
future increases “slightly.” The currency also climbed against
the yen after the Bank of  Japan  pumped funds into the financial
system following last week’s earthquake, boosting stocks and
demand for higher-yielding assets. Norway’s key rate is double
the European Central Bank 1 percent.  “There are two elements that will support the krone:
interest-rate differentials and the fact that it’s a risk-on
currency,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “When confidence
improves, investors then look for return.”  The krone strengthened 0.7 percent to 7.8726 per euro as of
1:20 p.m. in London, recovering from its weakest level since
Feb. 14. It was 0.3 percent stronger at 5.6423 against the
dollar and strengthened by 0.2 percent versus the yen.  The “normalization” of interest rates is proceeding
faster than expected, Qvigstad said at a press conference today.
The Oslo-based central bank has left rates unchanged since May.
Some 17 of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg correctly
predicted that rates would be held steady today.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 5.7 percent after
tumbling 11 percent yesterday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
snapped five days of losses, climbing by as much as 0.8 percent
before trading little changed.  Norway’s currency has gained 1.8 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track the exchange rates of 10 developed nations. The
central bank has left rates unchanged since May.  Sweden’s krona was little changed at 8.9703 against the
euro. It traded at 6.4355 per dollar, from 6.4000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  