-- 
Norway Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate at 2%, Signals Increases to Come

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-16T14:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/norway-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-2-signals-increases-to-come.html
Norway’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged while signaling it may start
tightening policy earlier than previously indicated as policy
makers try to cool credit growth without fueling krone gains.  Oslo-based Norges Bank kept the overnight deposit rate at 2
percent, the bank said today. The decision was expected by 17 of
the 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One economist foresaw
an increase to 2.25 percent. The krone gained as the bank, which
has left rates unchanged since May, raised its forecast for
future rate increases “slightly,” Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said at a press conference. The “normalization” of  interest rates  is proceeding faster than expected, he said.  “Norges Bank is now indicating that the rate will be
raised in May or June and then again in October, December and
January, by 25 basis points at each meeting,” said  Kyrre Aamdal , an Oslo-based senior economist at DnB NOR Markets.  The bank is trying to steer an economic rebound in the
world’s seventh-largest oil exporter without spurring a krone
appreciation that may hurt exporters such as Europe’s third-
biggest aluminum producer Norsk Hydro ASA. At the same time,
Norway’s financial regulator has warned low borrowing costs risk
fueling a credit-driven property bubble as house prices exceed a
pre-crisis peak.  “The projections in the March 2011 Monetary Policy Report
imply that the interest rate should gradually be raised towards
a more normal level,” Qvigstad said in the statement.  Jobs, Prices    Europe ’s lowest unemployment rate, which slipped to 3
percent last month not including seasonal swings, and house-
price growth have yet to feed through to higher consumer prices.
Underlying inflation, which adjusts for the impact of taxes and
energy, was 0.8 percent in February, and has remained below the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target since August 2009.  “Should economic activity or inflation rise more than
expected, the increase in the key policy rate may be more
pronounced than currently envisaged,” Qvigstad said. “In the
event of a marked slowdown in world economic growth, heightened
financial turbulence abroad or a further appreciation of the
krone, the increase in the key policy rate could be deferred
further ahead.”  The bank targets an interest rate interval of 1.75 percent
to 2.75 percent until its June 2011 meeting, it said.  Krone Gains  The krone was trading 0.7 percent higher against the euro
at 7.8687 at 3:12 p.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, the krone
was up 0.3 percent at 5.6462.  “The currency is key to what they are going to do, as long
as inflation is quite low,” said Knut Magnussen, a senior
economist at DnB Markets in Oslo. “Obviously they would like to
hike rates in the months going forward but that depends very
much on the currency.”    Norway ’s mainland economy, which excludes income from oil,
gas and shipping, expanded 2.2 percent last year and will grow
3.3 percent in 2011, Statistics Norway estimates. Financial
Supervisory Authority Director Bjoern Skogstad Aamo said
developments in the country’s property market make him
“nervous,” in Oslo last week. The regulator estimates that
household debt levels are rising faster than incomes.  The central bank today raised its forecast for mainland
economic growth for this year to 3.25 percent from 3 percent
previously. Output will expand 3.75 percent next year, versus an
October estimate for 3 percent, it said. It also raised the
outlook for 2013 and now sees 3.25 percent growth versus 2.75
percent previously.    House prices  rose an annual an annual 9.2 percent in
February, after gaining 7.6 percent in January, according to the
Association of Norwegian Real Estate Agents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  