-- 
Novartis, Roche’s Xolair Blunts Asthma Attacks in Children in U.S. Cities

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-16T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/novartis-roche-s-xolair-helps-stop-asthma-attacks-in-children.html
Xolair, sold by  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , improved treatment of asthma for inner-city
children and young adults, according to a U.S.-funded study.  Those given an injection of Xolair had fewer days with
 symptoms , such as wheezing and shortness of breath, and fewer
asthma attacks compared with those on a placebo, researchers
said today in the New England Journal of Medicine. The patients
who responded best were those most allergic to cockroaches.  About  7.1 million U.S. children  under the age of 18 have
asthma, according to the American Lung Association, based in  Washington . Reducing children’s allergic reactions can help them
have fewer asthma attacks, said  William Busse , the study’s lead
author, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “The take-home message for physicians and parents is to
realize that allergies play an important role in making children
more susceptible to viral respiratory infection-provoked asthma
attacks, especially those that occur on a seasonal basis,” said
Busse, a professor of medicine at the  University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and  Public Health , in Madison.  Asthma attacks are more likely in spring and autumn, the
seasons when more allergens are in the air and respiratory
viruses rise, according to the U.S.  National Institutes of
Health , based in Bethesda,  Maryland . The agency backed the
study.  Xolair works in the body by attaching itself to
immunoglobulin E, an antibody responsible for allergic
reactions, Busse said. The drug brings the molecule out of
circulation or pulls it from cells to reduce allergic reactions,
he said. Xolair is the only drug in its class, he said.  Age Limit  The medicine costs about $1,000 a month and is usually
covered by insurance, Busse said. Novartis’s 2010 sales of
Xolair were $369 million, while  Genentech ’s revenue from the
product totaled $616 million, according to data in the
companies’ annual reports.  Xolair was approved in the U.S. in 2003 for use in adults
and children aged 12 or older. Novartis, which also helped
support today’s study, and Roche’s Genentech unit failed to win
U.S. clearance in 2009 for Xolair in children aged 6 to 11.  Christopher Vancheri, a Genentech spokesman, said yesterday
that the companies have no plans to seek U.S. approval again for
children under 12. Both Novartis and Roche are based in Basel,  Switzerland .  “Allergic asthma is a growing problem among inner-city
children,” Vancheri said in an e-mail. The study provides “new
information that continues to help further the understanding of
the mechanism of asthma in this population.”  National Network  The study covered 419 patients aged 6 to 20 who had
moderate to severe allergic asthma for more than a year. The
children came from  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Cleveland ,  Dallas , Denver,
New York, Washington and Tucson,  Arizona . The patients were
recruited by clinics in the  Inner City Asthma Consortium , a
nationwide network supported by the NIH.  The researchers sought to determine if adding Xolair, or
omalizumab, to standard therapy reduced the number of days of
asthma-related symptoms and the severity of attacks. U.S.
guidelines call for patients to use inhaled corticosteroids,
visit doctors and limit exposure to allergens.  The participants in the 60-week trial were split into two
groups. One received Xolair and followed the  guidelines  for
asthma therapy. The other group received a placebo and followed
guidelines.  Hospital Visits  The patients taking Xolair had a 75 percent reduction in
hospitalizations, according to the report. Xolair reduced the
number of days with asthma symptoms to 1.48 in two weeks
compared with 1.96 for those given a placebo, while lowering the
proportion of people who had serious attacks to 30 percent from
49 percent, the study found. Xolair also almost eliminated
seasonal rises in the episodes.  “No differences of concern regarding safety were noted
between the two groups,” the researchers wrote. Severe allergic
reactions called anaphylactic events were reported in seven
patients, including just one on Xolair. Such reactions can lead
to death, according to  safety information  on Xolair.com, a
website maintained by Genentech and Novartis.  Busse said it was too soon to recommend that doctors give
Xolair to kids under 12 for asthma and that longer-term research
is needed. The Inner City Asthma Consortium is planning to study
whether giving children Xolair for a short period before going
back to school can reduce asthma attacks, he said.  “We continue searching for therapeutic strategies to
reduce the enormous burden of asthma,” said Daniel Rotrosen,
director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases’s Division of Allergy, Immunology and Transplantation
program, which oversees the asthma network, in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  