-- 
Nuclear Watchdog Says Japan Falls Short Supplying Information

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-16T12:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nuclear-watchdog-says-japan-falls-short-supplying-information.html
United Nations atomic inspectors
are struggling to get timely information from Japan about the
state of the country’s failing reactors, resulting in missteps
at the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna.  “The communication still needs to be strengthened,”
Yukiya Amano, director general of the IAEA, said late yesterday
in the Austrian capital. “I am asking the Japanese counterparts
to further strengthen, to facilitate communication.”  Amano, a Japanese national who was a career diplomat before
taking over as head of the IAEA in 2009, is trying to obtain
information from authorities in  Tokyo . Japan’s government formed
a  task force  yesterday with Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of
the stricken Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant, which is in
charge of reporting new information.  Technicians are battling to prevent a nuclear meltdown at
the plant, where radiation is leaking following an explosion
yesterday. About 70 percent of the fuel rods at the plant’s No.
1 reactor and a third of the No. 2 reactor’s fuel may have been
damaged, and temperatures at spent-fuel-cooling pools were
rising, Tepco said.  While the IAEA is trying to analyze information out of  Japan , the 20 people working around-the-clock in the agency’s
emergency-response center are often unable to confirm the data,
Amano said.  “Because we don’t have the full information, the ability
to assess is limited,” Amano said.  The communication gap has resulted in reporting errors at
the IAEA. The agency mixed up reactors over the weekend. On
March 14, Amano told media that there was “no indication” of
melting fuel, even after Japanese officials had reported a
“high probability.”  ‘Incompatible’ Rule  “The first rule of the IAEA is constant compromise with
all the countries, but safety is incompatible with the art of
compromise and diplomacy,” wrote Iouli Andreev in response to
e-mailed questions. Andreev led the Soviet Spetsatom agency
tasked with cleaning up the Chernobyl nuclear meltdown. During
that 1986 disaster, the “IAEA fully agreed with false
information from the Politburo and Russian nuclear ministry.”  Japan is legally obliged to provide information to the IAEA
under the Convention on Early Notification of a Nuclear
Accident,  an agreement  developed in the wake of Chernobyl.  Because of the scope and intensity of the crisis, Japanese
officials themselves may not have enough information to fulfill
their obligation, said Andreas Persbo, executive director of the
London-based Verification Research, Training and Information
Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA that is funded
by European governments.  “In a crisis situation, the only ones that really know
what is going on are at the site and they don’t have time to
pick up the telephone,” Persbo said by phone from  London .  A core group of 50 workers remain at the plant to manage
the reactors, Tepco said. Those engineers were temporarily
evacuated today when dangerous radiation levels were detected,
but have now returned, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  