-- 
Nuclear Lobby Tells Lawmakers U.S. Plants Can Withstand Japan-Like Crisis

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-16T16:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/nuclear-lobby-works-to-assure-u-s-lawmakers-amid-japan-post-quake-crisis.html
Nuclear-power executives and
lobbyists met with lawmakers in  Washington  this week as the
industry sought to allay concern that the reactor crisis in
Japan could be repeated in the U.S.  Representatives of the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based trade group, and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the biggest U.S.
operator of nuclear reactors, briefed lawmakers and their
staffs. Their message was that U.S. plants can withstand
disasters such as the earthquake and tsunami that crippled
nuclear reactors in Japan and raised the threat of a
catastrophic radiation leak.  Calls to limit nuclear plants have been made by
environmental groups and lawmakers such as Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, who is seeking a moratorium on
permits in seismically active areas. The industry’s best
response is to answer questions on  Capitol Hill  rather than
adopting a hard-sell approach, said  Michael McKenna , a lobbyist
who represented oil and gas companies to Congress after last
year’s BP Plc Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  “You don’t really lobby at a time like this, because
everyone, including lobbyists, is stunned and appalled at the
scope of the disaster,” McKenna, president of of MMR Strategies
Inc., said in an e-mail. “People on the Hill, in the
administration, in the media want facts as soon as possible and
as accurately and completely as possible.”  New Reactors  Before the disaster in  Japan  last week, builders and
operators of nuclear plants were seeking support from Democrats
and Republicans for a new generation of reactors. The U.S.
hasn’t issued a construction license for a new reactor in more
than 30 years.  President  Barack Obama  included nuclear power in a “clean
energy” agenda and urged Congress to approve $54 billion in
U.S. loan guarantees for new plants, a threefold increase.
Energy Secretary Steven Chu told a House panel today that the
administration stands by that plan.  “We’re putting the facts out so people can be aware of the
regulatory regime in this country, and how we operate our
plants,” Derrick Freeman, senior director of federal programs
for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , said in an interview.  Anthony Pietrangelo, chief nuclear officer with the
institute, and Charles Pardee, chief operating officer for the
generation unit of Chicago-based Exelon, led a briefing for
Senate aides on March 14, according to Bill Wicker, a spokesman
for the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.  Industry officials met with congressional staff and members
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees
nuclear policy in the U.S., Freeman said.  Lobbying Spending  The Nuclear Energy Institute spent about $1.69 million
lobbying Congress and the White House last year, according to
records filed with the Senate. Twenty-two utilities and utility
trade groups each spent more than that on advocacy, often on a
range of issues, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics
in Washington.   The institute contributed more than $322,000 to
congressional candidates through its political action committee,
according to the center, which tracks campaign spending.
Executives and employees of utilities also contributed to
political campaigns.  Exelon spent more than $3.7 million lobbying last year. The
company’s executives and employees contributed more than
$514,000 to congressional candidates, including $10,000 to House
Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican.  New Precautions  Even longtime supporters of nuclear energy, such as Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman, a
New Mexico Democrat, have said new precautions may be needed.  “We will need to understand what failures in design could
have contributed to the problems in Japan, whether they could
have been prevented, and whether similar design flaws exist in
reactors here in this country,” Bingaman, who received
$16,000 in campaign contributions from Exelon employees and
executives from 2005 through last year, said in a statement.
Bingaman has since announced he won’t seek re-election in 2012.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a  California  Democrat, was
scheduled to be briefed yesterday afternoon, Freeman said. Her
staff didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The damage at Japan’s nuclear plants has produced questions
about U.S. reactors near geological fault lines, including  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo Canyon in California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  