-- 
Obama Seeks to Keep Up Enthusiasm Among Democrats for 2012

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-16T22:45:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/obama-seeks-to-keep-up-enthusiasm-among-democrats-for-2012.html
President  Barack Obama  told
supporters at his second  Democratic National Committee  event
this week that they need to keep up their enthusiasm in the next
election cycle so he can finish the job they sent him to  Washington  to do.  “The promise that we made to the American people has been
kept,” he told about 480 supporters at a Washington hotel
tonight. “But we aren’t finished. We’ve got more work to do.’  While those in attendance were past contributors to Obama
and the  Democratic Party , the event wasn’t billed as a
fundraiser. The president’s main message was that they shouldn’t
take his re-election in 2012 for granted.  Obama has already started raising money for Democratic
races in 2012, rallying supporters and financiers in Miami on
March 4 and  Boston  on March 8. In Miami the president raised $1
million for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and on
in Boston the president raised $1 million for Democratic
congressional candidates. On March 14 he attended a DNC event in
Washington.  Now that he is running on a record rather than on campaign
promises, Obama will face some voters who think he lacks an
effective strategy for improving the  U.S. economy . According to
a Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 4-7, 51 percent of
Americans say the president doesn’t have the right formula for
long-term economic growth, while 40 percent say he does.  Voters expressed their displeasure in November’s midterm
elections, ousting incumbents and putting the  Republican Party 
in control of the  House of Representatives  and narrowing the
Democratic majority in the Senate. Still, since his
inauguration, the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index has gained 64
percent.  Obama told his supporters today that they need to re-create
the feelings from the last presidential campaign.  ‘‘My hope is that the same spirit that helped change this
country in 2008, that that spirit is still in each and every one
of you,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  