-- 
Obama Evokes JFK Alliance in Latin America to Thwart China

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-16T19:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/obama-evokes-jfk-alliance-in-latin-american-tour-to-thwart-china-influence.html
Fifty years ago this month, the
U.S. launched the Alliance for Progress to turn Latin America
away from Soviet communism. When President  Barack Obama  heads to
the region March 18, he’ll seek to thwart a rival eroding U.S.
commercial dominance in its backyard: China.  The world’s second-largest economy overtook the U.S. as
Brazil’s biggest trading partner in 2009 after becoming  Chile ’s
leading export market in 2007. Chinese exports to Chile have
more than tripled in the past five years, while U.S. sales
almost doubled, according to data from Chile’s  central bank .  South America welcomes U.S. efforts to enhance trade ties
as the region strives to export manufactured goods, said former
Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, 79. Brazil wants
to reduce its commercial dependence on China, whose trade policy
is driven by growing demand for raw materials.  “In the past, we feared the predominance of the U.S.; now
it’s the opposite,” Cardoso, who ruled from 1995 to 2003, said
in an interview last month. “It’s better for us for the
Americans not to retreat too much to keep the balance.”  The U.S. has lost ground in Latin America as  China  stepped
up purchases from mining, oil and farm industries to supply its
manufacturers at home.  Still, in Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , who took
office Jan. 1, Obama, 49, will find an ally in his bid to
pressure China to strengthen the yuan, which U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner calls “substantially
undervalued.” Brazil considers the currency issue a
“priority,” Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said two days
after Rousseff, 63, became president.  Common Values  When Rousseff met with Geithner in Brasilia last month, she
described Brazil as a Western country that shares a common set
of values and interests with the U.S. and wants to increase
cooperation, according to an Obama administration official who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  While Latin America “is a natural sphere of influence”
for the U.S., in the years after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, it
“became a modern Atlantis, a continent lost on the maps of  Washington ,” said Moises Naim, a senior associate in the
international economics department at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington. “There were a lot of
strategic distractions for the White House.”  First Foray  Obama’s five-day visit to Brazil, Chile and El Salvador
will be his first foray to Central and  South America , with stops
in Brasilia,  Rio de Janeiro , San Salvador and Santiago. It is an
opportunity to chart a new course with Rousseff and Chilean
President Sebastian Pinera as competitors are “knocking on the
door,” said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the New York-
based Council of the Americas.  “We can no longer assume we are the only game in town,”
Farnsworth said during a March 10 panel discussion at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington. “We cannot ignore the
Western Hemisphere, nor can we take it for granted.”  The U.S. delegation will include Geithner, Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, Energy
Secretary Steven Chu and Export-Import Bank President Fred Hochberg, according to the White House.  The U.S. in 2008 was Brazil’s biggest trade partner, with
imports of $27 billion compared with China’s $16 billion,
according to the Inter-American Development Bank. China’s total
increased to $20 billion in 2009, surpassing $16 billion for the
U.S., on demand for iron, soy beans and oil.  ‘Huge Market’    Boeing Co. (BA)  chief executive officer James McNerney, in an
interview at the White House, said Brazil has gone through “a
remarkable transformation” into a “huge market.”  “The president recognized its potential for American
businesses for exports as well as for cooperation,” McNerney, a
member of Obama’s export advisory panel, said.  Former President John F. Kennedy’s Alliance for Progress
was unveiled at a conference in Uruguay that included
revolutionary leader Ernesto ‘Che’ Guevara. It also was designed
to regain influence in Latin America, where policy makers felt
the U.S. was losing sway after  Fidel Castro  took control of Cuba
in 1959.  The U.S. invested an estimated $6.3 billion under the
alliance, Jeffrey Taffet, a historian of the program, said in a
Feb. 22 interview. U.S. loans helped countries build roads,
schools and other infrastructure, including the Santiago
airport, he said.  Promoting Exports  Then-White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  cited the
anniversary of the Kennedy program in discussing Obama’s trip
the day after it was announced in January. It will focus on
spurring the U.S. recovery by promoting exports to a rapidly
growing region of the world, Mike Froman, deputy national
security adviser for international economic affairs, said
yesterday.  Gross domestic product in Central and South America grew 6
percent in 2010 and is forecast to expand 4 percent this year,
and U.S. sales to the region help support 900,000 jobs, Froman
told reporters at the White House.  Brazil’s growing middle class has created an enormous
market for U.S. goods, and while the economic relationship has
been on a “good trajectory,” the U.S. can do better, Froman
said. He singled out energy development and infrastructure
investment, with Brazil preparing to spend $200 billion on the
2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016 summer  Olympic Games .  ‘Time to Engage’  “I don’t know why American corporations have forgotten
Brazil,” Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , who controls oil
and gas company  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , said March
14 in an interview. “It is time to engage.”  The U.S. may be able to tap into Latin America’s desire to
expand exports beyond the raw materials driving Chinese demand
in the region. At least 91 percent of Brazil’s exports by value
to China in January were raw materials and their derivatives,
according to  government data . Brazil’s top eight imports from
China by value were manufactured goods.  “That’s beginning to sour a little bit,” Stephen Johnson,
director of the Americas program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, said in a telephone interview from
Washington last month.  To be sure, long-standing trade tensions exist between
Brazil and the U.S. Among them are U.S. farm subsidies, the 54
cents-per-gallon tariff on imports of Brazilian ethanol, which
Congress renewed in December, and Brazilian duties on  consumer
goods  such as electronics.  Possible Accords  It’s unlikely these issues will be resolved during Obama’s
visit, said  Christopher Sabatini , senior policy director at the
Council of the Americas. Possible accords could include an
agreement on trade and investment to reduce double taxation,
cooperation on green energy projects and greater collaboration
on regional security, Sabatini said in a telephone interview
yesterday. A statement may also be issued on  Brazil ’s desire to
become a permanent member of the  United Nations Security
Council , he said.  The Obama administration also plans to complete changes to
trade agreements with Colombia and Panama this year and submit
the deals for approval to Congress, Trade Representative Kirk
told the House Ways and Means Committee Feb. 9. Congress has not
yet approved the pacts signed during the administration of
former President  George W. Bush .  “The U.S. has such a long way to go to catch up with China
that anything it can do will be useful,” said Ronald Scheman,
director general of the Inter-American Agency for Cooperation
and Development from 2000 to 2004 and editor of the book
“Alliance for Progress: A Retrospective.” “But the ballgame
has changed. The U.S. has to find a new role and restructure its
partnership with Latin America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  