-- 
Obama Calls for Privacy Bill of Rights for Online Consumers

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T18:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/obama-calls-for-privacy-bill-of-rights-for-online-consumers-1-.html
The Obama administration today
asked Congress to pass legislation to protect online consumers’
privacy.  “The administration urges Congress to enact a ‘consumer
privacy bill of rights’ to provide baseline consumer data
privacy protections,” Lawrence Strickling, assistant secretary
for communications and information at the Commerce Department,
said in written  testimony  to the Senate Commerce Committee.  Strickling said legislation should provide the Federal
Trade Commission with the authority to enforce privacy
protections. He did not specify the “baseline” protections,
but said the Obama administration is ready to work with Congress
to define them.  In a December report on privacy issues, the FTC recommended
a do-not-track option to allow consumers to opt out of having
their Web browsing history monitored for marketing purposes and
pressed advertisers to make their data practices more
transparent.  The U.S. market for targeted online advertising, some of
which relies on placing digital sensors called cookies on
computers, may grow 21 percent to $1.35 billion this year from
$1.12 billion in 2010, according to EMarketer Inc., a research
company based in  New York .    Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  voluntarily added do-not-track features to
its Internet Explorer 9 browser, which it released yesterday.  “What industry needs is federal privacy legislation that
sets forth baseline privacy protections for transparency,
consumer control and security that are not specific to any one
technology, industry or business model,” Erich Andersen,
Microsoft’s deputy general counsel, said in  testimony  to the
Senate committee.    Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s largest search engine,
released a tool that helps users of its Chrome Web browser keep
advertisers from monitoring their Web-surfing habits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  