-- 
Obama Picks Kansas Over Ohio State to Win NCAA Basketball Final

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-16T17:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/obama-picks-kansas-over-ohio-state-to-win-ncaa-basketball-tournament-final.html
President  Barack Obama , for the
second year in a row, picked the University of  Kansas  to win
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association ’s basketball
championship, this year by beating Ohio State University.  While the Jayhawks were upset early in last year’s
tournament, Obama said they deserve a second chance.  “Kansas has more firepower,” Obama said in an interview
with sports cable channel ESPN as he  filled out his bracket 
predicting the results of the annual tournament. “I’m giving
them a chance at redemption.”  Obama, an avid basketball player and fan, predicted that
the four top-seeded teams -- Kansas, Ohio State,  Duke
University  and the University of Pittsburgh -- will reach the
semifinals, known as the Final Four.  Las Vegas oddsmakers favor  Ohio  State to win its first
men’s basketball championship since 1960. The Buckeyes, who
went 32-2 this season and captured the  Big Ten Conference 
regular-season and tournament titles, are given 7-2 odds of
taking the title.  They are a slight favorite over Duke, the defending
national champion, and the other top seeds, Kansas and
Pittsburgh.  Obama said Pittsburgh, playing in the Southeast Regional,
has “what looks like the weakest bracket in the tournament,”
which will help them advance to the Final Four.  The president picked few upsets in his bracket, with
almost all the higher seeds advancing. Some exceptions include
11th-seeded Marquette over sixth-seed Xavier and 12th-seeded
Richmond over Vanderbilt, a five-seed.  Last Year  Obama said he was reminded of his failure to pick last
year’s tournament winner when the Duke Blue Devils and their
coach,  Mike Krzyzewski , visited the White House on May 27.  “Last year I did not pick Duke, and Coach K gave me a
hard time,” Obama said.  The NCAA tournament started yesterday in Dayton, Ohio,
with two play-in games that advanced the University of North
Carolina-Asheville and Clemson University. Two more are
scheduled for today before full tournament play begins
tomorrow. The championship game is scheduled for April 4 at
Reliant Stadium in Houston.  The president also gave his analysis of top college
players. Obama called Brigham Young University guard  Jimmer
Fredette , who has averaged 28.5 points per game this year,
“unbelievable” and the “best scorer, obviously, in the
country.” He said the University of  Connecticut ’s Kemba Walker
“plays like a pro already” and singled out freshman Jared
Sullinger of Ohio State as helping that team advance.  Help for  Japan   Before making his picks on the broadcast, Obama urged
basketball fans to take a break from filling out their brackets
to visit the U.S. Agency for International Development’s
website and consider making a donation “to help the people who
have been devastated in Japan.”  “Go to usaid.gov and that’s going to list a whole range
of charities where you can potentially contribute,” he said.
“I think that would be a great gesture as you’re filling out
your brackets.”  “This is a great tradition, we have fun every year doing
it,” Obama said of the college basketball tournament. “But
while you’re doing it, if you’re on your laptop,” consider
making a contribution, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 