-- 
OECD Reduces U.K. Economic Forecast, Urges BOE to Delay Increase in Rates

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-16T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oecd-cuts-u-k-growth-forecast-calls-for-boe-restraint-on-interest-rates.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development cut its forecast for U.K. economic
growth in 2011 and said the  Bank of England  should refrain from
increasing interest rates until the second half of the year.  Gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent instead of
the 1.7 percent predicted in November, the Paris-based group
said in its economic survey of the U.K. published today. It
maintained its 2 percent growth forecast for next year.  “The recovery is likely to remain subdued in 2011, as the
necessary fiscal tightening and a fading rebound in world trade
create headwinds, before picking up again in 2012,” it said.  The projections come a week before Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  presents updated economic forecasts in
his budget. In November, the Treasury’s fiscal watchdog
predicted 2.1 percent growth this year and 2.6 percent in 2012.  The OECD reiterated its support for Osborne’s deficit-
cutting plans, saying they strike the right balance between
“fiscal sustainability” and “preserving short-term growth.”  Osborne has embarked on the biggest fiscal tightening since
World War II, with plans to slash more than 300,000 public-
sector jobs over the next four years. He is due to speak at the
launch of the OECD report in  London  today.  With credit strains persisting and budget cuts likely to
hit household incomes, the Bank of England is right to set aside
concerns about inflation and maintain its “highly
expansionary” policy, the OECD said.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Mervyn King,
kept the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent for a 25th month
last week and left its bond-buying program at 200 billion pounds
($322 billion).  ‘Appropriate’ Policy  “This is appropriate given the large output gap,” the
OECD said. “Policy rates should rise only slowly from mid-2011
onwards as long as inflation expectations do not drift too far
from target.”  Asset purchases “should be withdrawn in an orderly and
pre-announced fashion once policy rates have risen from their
current low level,” it added. “The BOE will, however, need to
react sooner if inflation expectations begin to rise
considerably or feed through to significant wage increases.”  Inflation, which is running at twice the central bank’s 2
percent target, is likely to subside and remain below target
through 2012, the OECD said. Price pressures have been amplified
by a sales-tax increase, rising energy costs and a 25 percent
decline in the trade-weighted value of the pound since the start
of 2007, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  