-- 
Oil Pares Increase as Japan Nuclear Crisis Outweighs Unrest in Middle East

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-16T19:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oil-rises-as-bahrain-violence-spurs-concern-middle-east-supplies-at-risk.html
Crude pared gains as concern over  Japan ’s nuclear crisis overshadowed fighting in the oil-rich
regions of the Middle East and Northern Africa.  Futures retreated more than $1 after EU Energy Commissioner
Guenther Oettinger told a European Parliament committee that
Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant “is effectively out of
control.” Oil rose as much as 2.5 percent earlier as escalating
violence in Bahrain increased concern that unrest will spill
into Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude-exporting country.  “It was a blow to the market to hear the situation in
Japan described as ‘out of control’ by such a senior and
important person,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“We’re looking for anything that gives us a signal of how
strong Japanese energy demand will be.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose 80 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to settle at $97.98 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures were up as much as $2.42 to $99.60 before the
commissioner spoke. Oil is 20 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent crude oil for April settlement climbed $2.10, or 1.9
percent, to end the session at $110.62 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The April contract expired
today. May futures advanced $2.01, or 1.9 percent, to $110.60  Japan continues to suffer aftershocks after the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake on March 11 shut factories, refineries and
power plants.  Oettinger, who represents the European Commission, the 27-
nation European Union’s executive arm, said a further
deterioration in the situation could lead to deaths.  ‘Major Disaster’  “We are somewhere between a disaster and a major
disaster,” Oettinger said. “We are very much concerned and
deeply distressed by the pictures we are seeing from Japan.”  Pressure in the containment chamber of Dai-Ichi’s No. 2
reactor fell “substantially” today, said Masahisa Otsuku, a
Tokyo Electric Power Co. nuclear maintenance official. The
company suspected damage following an explosion in the reactor
building yesterday.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency will call an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis in Japan. Yukiya Amano,
International Atomic Energy Agency director general, said he
will talk with Japanese authorities today.  “The Japanese earthquake will lead to increased demand for
crude oil,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .
“There will be increased demand for low-sulfur  fuel oil .”  Japanese imports of liquefied natural gas and low-sulfur
fuel oil surged in 2007 when Tepco shut its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa
nuclear plant after an earthquake sparked a fire and caused
radiation leaks.  Unrest in Bahrain  Bahrain security forces used tear gas to drive protesters
from their rallying point at the central Pearl Roundabout in the
capital Manama. The mostly Shiite Muslim demonstrators fled into
nearby backstreets as military vehicles and helicopters were
deployed in the area. The stock market suspended trading.  A state of emergency was declared yesterday as a second
contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the kingdom.
Bahrain is connected to  Saudi Arabia  by a 25-mile causeway.  “As long as there is no real calming of the unrest in the
Middle East I don’t see the  risk premium  disappearing,” said
Andy Sommer, a senior analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland . “Spillover into Saudi Arabia that impacts exports
would be the extreme scenario, but for the time being it’s pure
speculation.”    Libya ’s state-run television ran an appeal to the people of
Benghazi, the center of the rebellion in the east of the
country, urging them to join Qaddafi’s troops. The army “is
coming to secure you and to lift the injustice and horror off
you and to protect your pure souls and precious blood,” said
the broadcast, which has been airing since yesterday.  Libyan Fighting  Pro-Qaddafi forces attacked Ajdabiya, a city 100 miles
(160 kilometers) from the rebel capital, using airstrikes and
artillery late yesterday, although rebels remained in control,
Ahmed Omar, a military spokesman for the opposition, said today.  Oil extended gains earlier after the Energy Department
reported that gasoline inventories tumbled 4.17 million barrels
to 225 million last week, the lowest level in two months.
Supplies were forecast to drop 1.5 million barrels, according to
the median of 16 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline for April delivery climbed 4.08 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $2.8437 a gallon in  New York .  ‘Pretty Bullish’  “The gasoline numbers were pretty bullish,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter,  Florida . “This comes on top of bullish news from the
Middle East, where we’re seeing increased violence in Bahrain
and an increasing prospect of Qaddafi crushing the rebellion.”  U.S. crude oil supplies climbed 1.75 million barrels to
350.6 million in the week ended March 11. Stockpiles were
forecast to increase 1.3 million barrels.  “U.S. crude supplies are still building despite the
situation in Libya,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics, an energy advisory firm in Austin,  Texas . “There are
no signs of an imminent supply problem here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  