-- 
Oil Prices May Surge to $200 on Mideast, Japan, Kudrin Says

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-16T14:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oil-prices-may-surge-to-200-on-mideast-japan-kudrin-says-1-.html
  Oil prices  may surge to between
$150 and $200 a barrel because of political turmoil in the
Middle East and the crisis in  Japan , Russian Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin said.  “The growth will be speculative and short-lived,” Kudrin
said at a conference in Moscow today. The market may see
continued volatility or price increases as a result of the
disaster at a nuclear power plant in Japan, he said.  Oil rose from a two-week low as escalating violence in
Bahrain stoked concern turmoil may spill into neighboring  Saudi
Arabia , threatening supplies from the world’s biggest crude
exporter. Crude for April delivery rose as much as $2.17 to
$99.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $99.09 at 10:25 a.m. New York time. The
contract touched $96.22 earlier, the lowest level since Feb. 25.
Futures are up 20 percent from a year ago.  Economic damage from Japan’s earthquake, which has left
more than 11,000 people dead or missing, will be less severe
than the global financial crisis in 2008, according to Kudrin.  Russia  isn’t planning to cut its holdings of Japanese assets
because their quality “isn’t in doubt,” he said.  “We are absolutely sure of the resilience of the Japanese
economy, its flexibility and ability to cope with these
difficulties,” he said. Concerns about the size of Japan’s debt
won’t limit investments in the country’s government notes.  The area affected in Japan accounts for 6 percent to 7
percent of the country’s gross domestic product and will
“weaken the rate of growth in Japan itself,” Kudrin said.  The global economy will face a shortage of natural gas in
the next few months because of growing demand in Japan, keeping
prices for the fuel at a high level, according to Kudrin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 