-- 
Oil Falls on Concerns Japan’s Earthquake Disaster Will Curb Crude Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-17T03:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oil-falls-on-concerns-japan-s-earthquake-disaster-will-curb-crude-demand.html
Oil fell from a two-day high in  New
York  as concern that damage from Japan’s earthquake will curb
demand for crude outweighed speculation unrest in the Middle
East may lead to supply disruptions.  Futures dropped as much as 1.4 percent as Japanese military
helicopters dumped water atop spent fuel rods at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant and governments cautioned citizens to
evacuate Tokyo. Oil rose as much as 2.5 percent yesterday as
violence in Bahrain increased concern that unrest will spill
into  Saudi Arabia . UBS AG raised its 2011 forecast for Brent
crude traded in  London  because of unrest in Libya.  “Japan is a big economy, if we do have some sort of
nuclear meltdown it will have big macro-economic impacts and
that could derail the recovery,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals and
energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne,
said by telephone today. “The commodity markets are jittery and
do remain heavily focused on the impacts of the Japan nuclear
power plant situation.”  Crude for April delivery declined as much as $1.38 to
$96.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $97.59 at 10:58 a.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract climbed 80 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$97.98. Prices are 18 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent crude for May settlement fell 75 cents to $109.85 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
April contract rose $2.10, or 1.9 percent, to $110.62 yesterday,
when it expired.  Crippled Plant  The helicopters dumped water four times on a pool storing
spent fuel at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station No.
3 reactor in an attempt to cool uranium and plutonium rods, said  Japan ’s Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa at a press conference
today. Pumps are being moved from the U.S. military to the
damaged plants to help reduce temperatures.  The U.S. urged its citizens near the earthquake-damaged
nuclear power plant in Japan to evacuate as it warned of
’’extremely high’’ levels of radiation, according to a statement
on the embassy web site. The U.K.,  Germany ,  France ,  Belgium  and
Norway also recommended leaving the nation.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant as hundreds of cars streamed south of areas hit by
last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Japan continues to suffer aftershocks after the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake on March 11 shut factories, refineries and
power plants. Pressure in the containment chamber of Dai-Ichi’s
No. 2 reactor fell “substantially” yesterday, said Masahisa
Otsuku, a  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. nuclear maintenance official.  Unrest in Bahrain  Bahrain security forces used tear gas to drive protesters
from their rallying point at the central Pearl Roundabout in the
capital Manama. The mostly Shiite Muslim demonstrators fled into
nearby backstreets as military vehicles and helicopters were
deployed in the area. The stock market suspended trading.  A state of emergency was declared March 15 as a second
contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the kingdom.
About 1,000 people in Saudi Arabia’s eastern city of al-Qatif
defied a ban on demonstrations and protested peacefully to
demand the country’s troops end their incursion into Bahrain.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  brought the war for the first
time to the rebel capital, with three of his warplanes bombing
Benghazi airport before being chased off by anti-aircraft fire.  UBS raised its  Brent crude  projection to $103.75 a barrel
from $85 because of cuts to output in Libya, analysts led by
Melbourne-based Gordon Ramsay said in a report dated yesterday.
The bank increased its 2012 estimate by 12 percent to $95.  Oil extended gains yesterday after the Energy Department
reported that gasoline inventories tumbled 4.17 million barrels
to 225 million last week, the lowest since January. Supplies
were forecast to drop 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median of 16 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  