-- 
S&P 500 Erases Advance for Year as Nikkei Futures Point Lower; Yen Climbs

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-16T21:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oil-rises-on-bahrain-violence-japanese-stocks-rebound-europe-shares-fall.html
U.S. stocks sank, erasing the 2011
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and Treasuries rallied
as  Japan ’s nuclear crisis worsened. The yen rose to a post-World
War II high versus the dollar on speculation investors will buy
the currency to fund rebuilding projects.  The S&P 500 lost 1.95 percent to 1,256.88 at 4 p.m. in New
York, leaving it down 0.1 percent on the year. The iShares MSCI
Japan Index Fund, which tracks the nation’s stocks, slumped 3.7
percent and Nikkei 225 futures signaled losses for Japan’s
stocks when trading resumes in  Tokyo . Ten-year Treasury yields
fell 10 basis points to 3.20 percent, the lowest since December.
The yen appreciated against all 16 major peers, rising to as
strong as 79.24 per dollar after U.S. markets closed.  Equities extended their retreat as U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told lawmakers that all the
water has drained from the spent-fuel pool at a crippled atomic
reactor north of Tokyo and high levels of radiation have been
released. The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency planned to call an
emergency meeting to discuss the crisis and said the three
reactor cores containing fuel are damaged.  “The selling today is exacerbated by the nuclear
situation, which makes it much more difficult to assess Japan,”
said Christopher Sheldon, the Boston-based director of
investment strategy at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which
oversees $166 billion globally. “Investors are selling on the
appearance of a negative situation with the nuclear reactors and
you can’t say it’s unfounded because we don’t know how bad this
may get.”  IBM Downgrade  The  S&P 500  has tumbled 6.4 percent from its 32-month high
in February amid concern Japan’s worst earthquake on record and
uprisings in the Middle East and northern  Africa  will derail the
global economic recovery. The  Chicago  Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using options to
protect against losses in the S&P 500, jumped 21 percent today
to 29.4 and is up 46 percent this week in its biggest three-day
gain since May.  Technology and industrial stocks led declines of at least
1.4 percent in all 10 industry groups in the S&P 500, which fell
to the lowest level since Dec. 23. International Business
Machines Corp. sank 3.8 percent for the biggest drop in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
reduced the shares to “market perform” from “outperform.”  All 30 Dow stocks fell, sending the average down 242.12
points, or 2 percent, to 11,613.3 in its biggest plunge since
August.  Housing Slump  Eleven of 12 stocks in an S&P gauge of homebuilders dropped
after Commerce Department data showed housing starts fell 22.5
percent to a 479,000 annual rate in February, with declines in
all regions. The decrease from January was the biggest since
March 1984 and larger than the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. A separate Labor Department report
showed the producer-price index climbed 1.6 percent in February
from the prior month, the most since June 2009.  U.S. companies at risk from lost sales in Japan helped lead
declines.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  declined 3.3
percent. The U.S. insurer made bullish bets on Japan earlier
this year. General Electric Co. slumped 3.4 percent, the second
biggest decline in the Dow, as the company’s goal of broadening
its $1 billion nuclear services and parts business came at risk
from the potential nuclear fallout in Japan.  Retailers with operations in Japan, such as  Coach Inc. (COH)  and
Tiffany & Co., declined on speculation store closures and
shortened hours will reduce sales.  Japanese Futures  Futures on the Nikkei 225 traded at 8,530 in Chicago, 4.7
percent below the closing level of 8,950 in  Singapore .  IAEA Chief Yukiya Amano is flying to Tokyo to talk with
authorities today and will return for the meeting as soon as
possible, he told reporters in Vienna yesterday. It will be the
first extraordinary meeting of the agency’s 35-member board
since his election to succeed Mohamed ElBaradei two years ago.  The U.S. Embassy recommended American citizens living
within 50 miles of the damaged power plant evacuate or take
shelter indoors as a precaution.  “We believe that the secondary containment has been
destroyed and there is no water in the spent-fuel pool,” Jaczko
said today at a hearing of a House Energy and Commerce Committee
panel.  The Nikkei 225 rebounded 5.7 percent in today’s trading in
Tokyo after plunging 16 percent on March 14 and 15, the worst
two-day drop since 1987. The gauge plunged 11 percent yesterday
as record trading volume on the main section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange drove the average price of shares in the Nikkei to 14.7
times estimated profit, the lowest level since November 2008.  Asian Shares  Benchmark equity indexes in  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and  India 
rallied at least 1 percent. Credit-default swaps insuring bonds
of Tokyo Electric Power Co., which operates the Fukushima plant,
fell 83.1 basis points to 303.9 basis points as of 11:50 a.m. in  New York  after reaching a record yesterday, while the price to
insure Japanese government debt slipped 3.5 basis points to
110.2 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.6 percent, erasing an
earlier gain, as banks and auto companies declined. BNP Paribas
SA and HSBC Holdings Plc led lenders lower and Renault SA and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG lost more than 2 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.3 percent as
valuations near the lowest level in nine months lured investors
and rising oil boosted energy companies. The 21-country gauge
closed at 11 times estimated earnings yesterday, within 2
percent of its cheapest level since May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Persian Gulf  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf shares gained
0.1 percent after falling 2.5 percent yesterday. Bahrain closed
its stock exchange as clashes between security forces and anti-
government protesters intensified.  Oil climbed 0.8 percent to $97.98 a barrel, paring gains as
concern grew that Japan’s nuclear crisis will hurt economic
growth. Crude rose as much as 2.5 percent earlier as escalating
violence in Bahrain raised concern that unrest will spill into  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude-exporting country.  The euro fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded peers,
weakening 1.7 percent to 111.08 yen. Norway’s krone rose 0.3
percent against the euro after the nation’s central bank left
its overnight deposit rate unchanged at 2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Portugal ’s 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose 14 basis points to
441 basis points.  Portugal, Egypt Ratings  The Iberian nation’s credit rating was cut two steps by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday to A3, four steps from so-
called junk status. Moody’s cited Portugal’s “subdued growth
prospects” and “implementation risks for the government’s
ambitious fiscal consolidation targets.” The change brings the
rating company’s ranking for Portugal to the same level as  Standard & Poor’s , with  Fitch Ratings  two steps higher.  Egypt had its bond ratings cut one level at Moody’s
Investors Service on political instability and the impact on the
economy. Egypt’s foreign and local currency bond ratings were
lowered to Ba3, three levels below investment grade, from Ba2,
the ratings company said in a statement today. The outlook
remains negative, it said.  Russia and Poland raised less than 50 percent of their
targets at government bond auctions today as Japan’s deepening
nuclear crisis, escalating violence in Bahrain and Portugal’s
credit-rating downgrade unsettled investors.  Russia sold 10.2 billion rubles ($356 million) of bonds
known as OFZs that mature in 2016 after seeking to raise as much
as 30 billion rubles, the  Finance Ministry  said today. Poland
issued a combined 1.03 billion zloty ($354 million) of 2021
floating-rate notes and 2023 inflation-linked bonds after saying
it was prepared to offer as much as 2.5 billion zloty of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  