-- 
Oil Rises as Bahrain Violence Stokes Middle East Supply Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-16T12:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/oil-trades-near-lowest-close-in-two-weeks-in-new-york-on-japan-fuel-demand.html
Oil rose from a two-week low in  New
York  as escalating violence in Bahrain stoked concern turmoil
may spill into neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and threaten supplies
from the world’s biggest crude exporter.  Prices advanced as much as 2.1 percent as riot police
cleared anti-government protesters from a central square in
Bahrain’s capital. The country declared a state of emergency
yesterday as Saudi-led military intervention failed to end
demonstrations. Oil dropped 1 percent earlier today as Japan
battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown that threatens to worsen
damage to the economy from last week’s earthquake.  “As long as there is no real calming of the unrest in the
Middle East I don’t see the risk premium disappearing,” said
Andy Sommer, a senior analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland . “Spill-over into Saudi Arabia that impacts exports
would be the extreme scenario, but for the time being it’s pure
speculation.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as $2.06 to $99.24 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $98.91 at 12:21 p.m. London time. Yesterday, prices
fell to $97.18, the lowest settlement since Feb. 28.  Brent oil for April settlement was up $1.93, or 1.8
percent, at $110.45 a barrel after rising as high as $111.09 on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Yesterday, the
contract dropped 4.5 percent to $108.52, the biggest one-day
loss since Feb. 4, 2010.  Manama Cleared    Bahrain  security forces used tear gas to drive protesters
from their rallying point at the central Pearl Roundabout in the
capital Manama. The mostly Shiite Muslim demonstrators fled into
nearby backstreets as military vehicles and helicopters were
deployed in the area. The stock market suspended trading.  A state of emergency was declared yesterday as a second
contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the kingdom.
Bahrain is connected to Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil
exporter, by a 25-mile causeway.  In Libya, forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  advanced
toward Benghazi yesterday after taking the gateway city of
Ajdabiya yesterday. The north Africa nation’s crude exports may
be halted for “many months” because of damage to facilities
and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency 
said yesterday.    Japan  Closures  “Had it not been for the disaster in Japan, with the Saudi
troops moving into Bahrain the oil price should have moved
toward $120,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy
consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “The contagion
effect on oil prices is still present.”  Japan, the third-biggest crude-consuming country after the
U.S. and  China , continues to suffer aftershocks after the 9.0
magnitude earthquake on March 11 shut factories and refineries.
Workers at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear
plant were struggling to cool reactors at the plant and prevent
the spread of further radiation.  The earthquake closed about 1.3 million barrels of the
country’s 4.52 million barrels a day processing capacity, based
on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan. JX-Nippon Oil &
Energy Corp. idled refineries in Sendai and Kashima in the
northeastern Tohoku region. A fire at the Sendai plant was
extinguished at about 2:30 p.m. local time yesterday. The
Negishi plant near  Tokyo  is also shuttered.  TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. has restarted “portions” of its
335,000 barrel-a-day Kawasaki plant near Tokyo and expects to be
at full operations in a few days, it said late yesterday.  Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. is preparing to start
bringing its 175,000-barrels-a-day facility in Ichihara, near
the capital, back on line, said TonenGeneral, a joint venture
partner in Kyokuto. Cosmo Oil Co.’s 220,000-barrel-a-day Chiba
refinery remains shut.  U.S. crude oil supplies climbed 91,000 barrels last week,
according to the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute.
An Energy Department report today may show stockpiles rose 1.3
million barrels last week from 348.9 million, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  