-- 
Tokyo Radiation Risk Limited Even in Worst Case, U.K. Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-03-16T20:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/tokyo-radiation-risk-limited-even-in-worst-case-u-k-says-1-.html
The risks to human health from
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s damaged Fukushima Daiichi atomic
plant are limited to an evacuated area adjacent to the facility,
according to the U.K.’s Chief Scientific Officer  John
Beddington .  “The 20-kilometer (12-mile) exclusion zone that the
Japanese have actually imposed is sensible and proportionate,”
Beddington said, according to a  transcript  of a conference call
yesterday. “This is very problematic for the area and the
immediate vicinity, and one has to have concerns for the people
working there. Beyond that 20 or 30 kilometers, it’s really not
an issue for health.”  The worst-case scenario would result in an explosion that
could send radioactive material about 500 meters in the air for
a short period of time, he said. The Fukushima reactor lacks the
sort of graphite buffer that burned so intensely during the
Chernobyl disaster in 1986 that radioactive plumes jetted into
the upper atmosphere as high as 30,000 feet for months, he said.  Cooling Struggle  Workers at the Fukushima facility, damaged after the March
11 earthquake, are struggling to keep the plant’s reactors cool
and to control pressure inside the containment vessels. If they
fail to do so, pressure would build up inside the reactors and
cause the core to melt, Beddington said. As it melts, the
material will fall and react with the concrete and other
materials on the floor, he said on a call with the British
Embassy in  Tokyo .  “In this reasonable worst case, you get an explosion,” he
said. “Now, that’s really serious, but it’s serious again for
the local area. It’s not serious for elsewhere.”  Tokyo is about 240 kilometers southwest of the damaged
power plant.  Even if weather patterns carried radioactive material
toward Tokyo on the wind and in rain, there would be
“absolutely no issue” for city residents, he said. The
radioactive pollution would fall out of the sky before it got
more than 20 kilometers or 30 kilometers from the damaged
reactor, he said.  Chernobyl Exposure  After the Chernobyl blast, which killed more than 31
workers and firefighters, health problems stemming from direct  radiation exposure  didn’t extend beyond a 30-kilometer exclusion
zone, Hilary Walker, deputy director of emergency preparedness
at the U.K. Department of Health, said during the call.  The 4,000 children and adolescents who later developed
thyroid cancer did so from eating food and milk contaminated
with radioactive iodine, rather than as a result of fallout from
the reactor explosion, Walker said.    Japan  has a robust food-inspection system that would screen
meat, produce, milk and seafood to ensure nothing contaminated
by radioactivity reaches store shelves, she said.  “We believe the situation will be very different in Japan
where they have extremely well developed plans, and they would
be able to ensure that you could not drink contaminated water or
eat contaminated food,” Walker said.  Beddington said an expansion of the Fukushima exclusion
zone to a 30-kilometer radius would be “well within the sort of
parameters that we would think are extremely safe.”  Nick Kent, a physician with the U.K.’s Health Protection
Agency, said during the call that there’s no need for anyone who
hasn’t been close enough to the plant to inhale radioactive
materials to take iodine tablets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 