-- 
Bent Tokyo Tower Goes Dark as Sony, Asahi Brace for Rolling Power Outages

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-03-17T02:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/tokyo-tower-goes-dark-as-sony-asahi-brace-for-power-outages-after-tsunami.html
Tokyo Tower  and its adorning 176
floodlights have illuminated the world’s richest city from
sundown to midnight for the past 22 years. Tonight, the 1,093-
foot beacon will go dark for a sixth straight day.  “We all should play our parts, so we shouldn’t use
electricity if it isn’t necessary,” said Masakazu Yoshida, an
administrative official at Nippon Television City Corp., which
operates the structure. “We know the tower is symbolic so it
was really tough to make the decision to turn it off.”  As  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the utility battling to avert
a nuclear meltdown, begins scheduled outages, subway lines are
running fewer trains, shops are closing early and offices are
shutting off non-essential electricity. The blackouts, which are
forcing companies including  Asahi Breweries Ltd. (2502)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
to halt factories, are compounding the economic fallout from
last week’s magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  estimates may cost $200 billion.  “It’s inevitable that businesses slow down from the
blackout,” said  Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio manager at Daiwa
SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “Even though the economy will be
damaged, we can get back on our feet as long as we’re alive. Our
priority now is to save lives.”  Power Shortage  In Tokyo,  office buildings  are switching off lights in the
hallways and turning off the heat in toilet seats. A poster at
the corner of Tokyo station reads: “We are very sorry for the
trouble and we ask for your understanding.”  In the shopping area of Ginza, the doors at Mitsukoshi
department store shut at 6 p.m., two hours earlier than usual.
At Yamada Denki’s main store in downtown Osaka, the spotlight
for a sign was off, as was the music.  Tokyo Electric said last week it would begin three-hour
blackouts, alternating between five designated zones, until the
end of April. The March 11 earthquake, Japan’s strongest,
damaged its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, creating a
shortage of about 10 million kilowatts daily in greater Tokyo.  Second-quarter gross domestic product would shrink at an
annual 2 percent if the blackouts continue through June,
analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a research note this week.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called on the public to conserve energy.  ‘Good Exercise’  Yoshinobu Tsunaka, manager of the Tsukiji Nakajima fish
restaurant, heeded the call. He turned off the fluorescent
lighting in the refrigerator where he stores beer.  “We turned off all ambient lighting,” Tsunaka, 37, said.
“We’re only saving a little power here but if you think about
the entire Tokyo area, it’s a concerted effort.”  Sakae Kogure, a salesman for an employee-training company
in Tokyo, ranked by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC in 2008 as the
world’s largest city in terms of economic size, said he’s taking
the stairs to get to his fourth-floor office after the operator
of the seven-story building switched off the elevator.  “It’s good exercise,” Kogure, 55, said. “We’ve turned
off the floor heating, and my family keeps going on and on about
saving electricity.”  The blackouts, aimed to counter a 25 percent shortfall in
power supply, may hurt manufacturing companies by 2.5 percent
and financial, insurance, information and telecommunications
companies by 10 percent, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimated this
week. Power shortages, after easing in April and May, may worsen
in the summer because of demand for air conditioning, according
to a UBS AG report.  Emergency Manual  Sony,  Japan ’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, and
Asahi, its largest brewer by sales volume, are among dozens of
companies suspending operations, partly because of the blackouts.
Mazda Motor Corp. stopped operations at four plants until at
least March 20.  “We do have a manual for general emergency situations
though, and a possible power outage is included in that,” said
Ken Haruki, a spokesman for Mazda, maker of the Miata roadster.  The effects of disruptions in Japan’s economic output may
spread to the rest of the region,   Takahira Ogawa , a Singapore-
based credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said on a conference
call yesterday.  Not all companies have been hit by power outages. Backup
generators and batteries at Tokyo’s main airports, Narita and
Haneda, are allowing Japan Airlines Corp. to fly its planes on
time, said Soichi Yatsugi, a spokesman.  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  Some manufacturers are trying to do more.  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) 
asked some dealers to save electricity by not using neon signs
and adjusting their air conditioners, said Hideki Taguchi, a
spokesman. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, is
among those seeking to save energy.  “We’re trying to save electricity by scaling back our use
of lights, air conditioning, elevators or by plugging off
everything at night,” said Keitaro Yamamoto, a spokesman.
“Worst-case scenario, we may rethink production itself,
including the adjustment of production volumes and when to
resume manufacturing.”  The earthquake and subsequent aftershocks rocked Tokyo
Tower hard enough to bend its antenna by 5 degrees. The operator
decided the following day to switch off the lights, which cost
about $260 a night, for the first time since Emperor Hirohito’s
death in 1989.  Nippon Television City hasn’t decided when the lights will
go back on, according to its website.  “There are some people who say that the tower’s lights
cheer them up,” Yoshida said. “But we got more response that
appreciated our decision to cut use of electricity so it turned
out to be good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Osaka  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  