-- 
Toyota, Nissan Say China Plants Have Adequate Parts Supply

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T07:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/honda-s-china-ventures-have-adequate-parts-supply-analysts-say.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co.
and Honda Motor Co. said car production in China was unaffected
after the strongest earthquake on record in Japan forced parts
makers to halt plants.  Output at Toyota’s China ventures is continuing normally,
Liu Peng, a Beijing-based spokesman, said today without
elaborating. Plants operated by Nissan have so far suffered “no
impact” since last week’s temblor in Japan, spokesman Akihiro
Nakanishi said. Honda’s Chinese factories have adequate parts
supplies to ensure production until the end of the week, said
Takayuki Fujii, a Beijing-based spokesman.  Japan’s three largest automakers all closed plants after
the magnitude-9.0 earthquake and an ensuing tsunami struck the
nation on March 11. Japanese automakers accounted for about 20
percent of deliveries in the world’s largest car market last
year, according to figures from the  China  Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  Nissan buys about 90 percent of auto parts used at its
China plants locally, Nakanishi said from Guangzhou, where
Nissan has a factory. The Yokohama-based company’s factories in
China can operate without disruption until the end of the month,
he said.  “Given that most suppliers are located at or near the
automakers’ car assembly plants, resumption of car assembly
would signal the resumption of supplier operations,” said Steve
Man, analyst at Samsung Securities   Asia ) Ltd. in  Hong Kong ,
adding that this is a positive sign. He estimates current supply
of inventories to sustain production for about two months.  China Inventory  Shares in Toyota, the world’s biggest car company, fell 2.2
percent to close at 3,270 yen in  Tokyo . Toyota, Nissan and Honda
shares have all lost about 10 percent since March 10, the day
before the earthquake off the coast of Sendai, northern Japan.
Honda declined 1.1 percent, while Nissan slipped 1.1 percent.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., partner of Honda and Toyota,
has as many as three months of the core parts needed for
production, CLSA Asia Pacific Beijing-based analyst Scott Laprise wrote in a note to clients, citing the company.  “Our past experience tells us the Japanese joint ventures
in China keep little inventory to improve overall efficiency,”
Laprise said. “This changed last year after the Honda parts
factory went on strike.”  Honda’s Chinese venture with Dongfeng Motor Group Co. has
enough inventory to continue production for at least a month,
Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-based analyst Gerwin Ho wrote in a
report yesterday.  China Dealerships  Guangzhou Auto and Dongfeng Motor’s dealerships on the
mainland also have about a month’s worth of car inventory,
Nomura International (HK) analysts led by Yankun Hou said in a
report yesterday. If 70 percent of Japanese domestic capacity
could resume production within one month, sales of their China
joint venture would not be affected, the report said.  While Toyota reopened seven factories in Aichi, central  Japan , today, it has halted auto assembly and closed most other
parts plants until March 22, the company said yesterday. Honda
has said all its plants in Japan will be closed until March 20.  Nissan, Japan’s second biggest carmaker, and an affiliate
today reopened one car-assembly plant in Kyushu, southern Japan
and another tomorrow, it said. Two Nissan factories will remain
closed until March 20, while another will operate partially. No
decision has been made on reopening a sixth plant, Nissan said.  Toyota sold 846,000 vehicles in China in 2010, an increase
of 19 percent, it said Jan. 5. China became Nissan’s second
largest market by sales last year, overtaking the U.S., as the
carmaker boosted sales 36 percent to 1.023 million vehicles.  Honda’s sales on the mainland gained 12 percent last year
to 646,631 units. The automaker has said it expects deliveries
to increase 10 percent this year.  Luo, a dealer for Nissan’s Infiniti luxury sedan in
Zhengzhou, said the earthquake posed no interruption to its
business, and the dealership’s current inventory would be able
to last them till the end of the month.  --Liza Lin, Tian Ying in Beijing. Editors:  Ian Rowley , Kae Inoue.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Singapore at +86-21-6104-3047 or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  