-- 
Hong Kong Moms Empty Shelves of Japanese Baby Formula Amid Nuclear Scare

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-16T06:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/hong-kong-moms-empty-shelves-of-japanese-baby-formula-amid-nuclear-scare.html
  Hong Kong  families rushed to stock
up on Japanese  infant formula , buying a month’s supply of
Megmilk Snow Brand Co.’s products in two days, as explosions at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant stoked concerns about radiation.  Megmilk, Japan’s third-largest milk producer, said it sold
60,000 cans in Hong Kong after the nation’s strongest earthquake
on record damaged a nuclear power plant and sparked concerns
food exports may be affected.  “Shops carrying our brands said sales doubled or tripled
over the weekend,” Virginia Mo, the Japanese company’s
assistant general manager in Hong Kong, said in a phone
interview. “Shelves of our milk powder products are all empty
in some of these stores. People are buying crazily.”  Hong Kong’s 7 million people aren’t alone. Across Asia,
countries moved to screen food imports from  Japan  or look for
alternative supplies.  South Korea ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and the Philippines all took steps to check
fruit, vegetables, meat and seafood from Japan for nuclear
material.  “We will use the same measures that we used during
Chernobyl in 1986,” Pipat Yingseree, secretary-general of
Thailand’s  Food and Drug Administration , told reporters in
Bangkok yesterday. “If it becomes clear that there is
radioactive contamination, we will ask for cooperation from
operators to delay food imports from Japan.”  A fire and aftershocks struck the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant, and officials battling to prevent a nuclear
meltdown said fuel rods at two reactors may have been damaged.
Shoppers in Tokyo have stripped supermarket shelves of
necessities as the risk of nuclear radiation leaks escalated.  Food Scare  In Hong Kong, consumers have increasingly embraced overseas
dairy and baby-food products after a spate of incidents raised
food-safety concern in  China . At least six babies died and
300,000 fell ill across China after consuming milk contaminated
with the industrial chemical melamine in 2008.  Shipments of dairy products to Hong Kong from Japan surged
more than four times to HK$802 million ($103 million) last year
from 2008, according to the city’s statistics department.  Megmilk, which sells its milk powder to retailers, expects
to get a shipment of 16,000 cans as early as tomorrow, Mo said.
The company is expected to ship 32,000 cans to Hong Kong next
week, though shipments after that would be “uncertain” as
production has been disrupted by power outages, she said.  All Sold Out  ASA Pacific (HK) Ltd., the Hong Kong distributor of Wakodo
Co.’s baby products, said yesterday all 4,000 cans of its
Japanese milk powder will be sold out by the end of the day.  The company, which supplies  Dairy Farm International
Holdings Ltd. (DFI) ’s Wellcome supermarket chain and Mannings
drugstore, has placed orders for 16,000 cans and hasn’t received
a confirmed shipping date, according to Andrew Ng, a sales
manager. Wakodo is a unit of Japanese beverage maker Asahi
Breweries Ltd.  PARKnSHOP, a supermarket chain owned by  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) , has limited each customer to three cans of Japanese milk
powder, Kelvin Chu, a company spokesman, said yesterday.  The Travel Industry Council of Hong Kong asked its 1,500
travel agent members to cancel all tour groups to Japan for this
month, Rita Lau, the city’s secretary for commerce and economic
development, told lawmakers today.  “We will closely monitor the situation of tour groups
going to Japan,” Lau said. The government said yesterday
residents should avoid all travel to the quake-hit prefectures.  “I do really feel disappointed that I must scrap my plans,
but it’s lucky that I didn’t go to Japan before the quake,
otherwise my family would be very worried,” said Alan Pang, 25,
who had scheduled a flight to  Tokyo  for a two-week visit on
March 13. “I would like to visit Japan again in June after all
the aftershocks and radiation threat have died down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  