-- 
Moral for CEOs Is Choose Your Fraud Carefully: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-03-16T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/moral-for-ceos-is-choose-your-fraud-carefully-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Of all the stories to come out of
the 2008 collapses of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, this one may
be the most incredible: To this day, neither company has
admitted that any of the numbers on its financial statements
that year were wrong.  It seems the Securities and Exchange Commission won’t be
doing anything to challenge that pretense, either, and that this
may be by design. The SEC for years has been bending over
backward to avoid accusing major financial institutions of
cooking their books, even when it’s obvious they did. So much
for upholding financial integrity.  Last week the regulator notified former Fannie Mae Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  that it may file civil claims
against him. The allegations wouldn’t be about Fannie Mae’s
accounting, though. They would focus on whether the government-
chartered housing financier accurately disclosed to investors
how much of its loans were subprime.  “The disclosures and procedures that are the subject of
the staff’s investigation were accurate and complete,” Mudd
said in a statement last week. He said he would submit a written
response “that will make clear why the SEC staff should not
pursue any action in this matter.”  There’s a pattern here. When the SEC in 2009 accused former
Countrywide Financial Corp. CEO Angelo Mozilo of  securities
fraud , it claimed the lender’s management foresaw as early as
2004 that the company would suffer massive credit losses on the
home loans it was making. The SEC’s  complaint  accused Mozilo of
“disclosure fraud” for hiding such information from investors.  Accounting Violation  Yet if the SEC’s allegation were true, it would mean
Countrywide had been overstating its earnings for years, by
delaying the recognition of losses long past the point when
management knew they were probable. That would be an accounting
violation. The SEC never made that connection in its complaint,
though, and clearly had made a decision not to. Mozilo later
paid $67.5 million to  settle  the suit, without admitting or
denying the regulator’s claims.  Similarly, when the SEC  accused  three former  IndyMac
Bancorp Inc. (IDMCQ)  executives of securities fraud last month, it
claimed they had made false and misleading disclosures about the
company’s financial stability. IndyMac’s regulator, the Office
of Thrift Supervision, by then had already admitted to letting
the company backdate a capital contribution to its main banking
unit in May 2008, so it would appear in the prior quarter.  IndyMac Collapse  That was a violation of generally accepted accounting
principles, the Treasury Department’s  inspector general  said in
a 2009 report. Yet the SEC didn’t identify any accounting errors
at IndyMac. The company showed shareholder equity of $959
million, as of March 31, 2008. By July 2008, IndyMac had  failed ,
costing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $10.7 billion.  Likewise, last month  Freddie Mac ’s former chief financial
officer, Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, said he received a Wells
notice from the SEC, indicating the regulator might sue him.
Piszel said the inquiry concerned “certain disclosure
matters,” according to a press release by CoreLogic Inc., where
he was CFO until Feb. 10. There was no mention of Freddie’s
accounting. Freddie’s former CEO, Richard Syron, received a
similar Wells notice last month.  That Fannie’s and Freddie’s books were a farce is beyond
dispute. At the time they were placed into conservatorship, both
companies had overvalued their deferred tax assets by billions
of dollars. The bigger their losses got, the more their tax
assets grew, based on the companies’ ludicrous claim that they
would use all these credits to offset future tax bills because
they would be wildly profitable for decades to come.  Paper Losses  Both companies kept billions of dollars of paper losses on
mortgage-backed securities out of their earnings and regulatory
capital by labeling them as “temporary,” when it was obvious
the declines were anything but that. They also claimed, falsely,
to be adequately capitalized.  And they did it all in broad daylight with the full
knowledge and approval of their regulator, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency . That helps explain why the SEC is trying to dig
up something other than accounting misdeeds as it tries to build
cases against former Fannie and Freddie executives. The toughest
challenge for the SEC will be finding violations that the
government didn’t know about while they were going on.  The biggest beneficiaries of the SEC’s see-no-accounting-
evil approach are the Big Four accounting firms. Freddie Mac is
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Deloitte & Touche LLP
audits Fannie Mae. KPMG LLP audited Countrywide. Ernst & Young
LLP audited IndyMac.  Shielding Auditors  As long as the SEC clings to the position that there were
no errors in those companies’ financial statements, it can’t
allege there was anything wrong with the firms’ audits. That
helps shield the auditors from potentially crippling liability
in private securities litigation.  It also limits the SEC’s ability to accuse any of the
companies’ executives of fudging their numbers. And so the SEC
has to resort to convoluted claims like the one against Mozilo,
where Countrywide’s disclosures were false and misleading but
somehow its balance sheet was pristine.  Mudd, now CEO at  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , said the
disclosures that are the subject of the SEC’s investigation
“were previewed by federal regulators, and have been issued in
the same form since the company went into government
conservatorship.” It shouldn’t surprise anyone if he’s right.  Too bad the SEC can’t sue some regulators along with him.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  