-- 
Morton’s Steakhouse Explores Possible Sale to Boost Shareholders’ Value

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T20:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/morton-s-steakhouse-weighs-strategic-options-possible-sale.html
  Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc. (MRT) , the
Chicago-based upscale steakhouse chain, said it’s exploring
strategic alternatives to boost shareholders’ value, including a
potential sale of the company.  Morton’s, created in 1978 by Arnie Morton and Klaus
Fritsch, has the support of Castle Harlan Inc. and Laurel Crown
Partners LLC, its two largest shareholders, and retained
Jefferies & Co. as a financial adviser, according to a statement
today. The shares soared 12 percent.  The company’s sales started rising again last year after
two years of declines during the recession as diners reduced
spending on high-end restaurants. The chain, which had a market
value of $109 million as of yesterday, is joining the Arby’s
hamburger chain in seeking a buyer after Burger King Holdings
Inc. was taken private in a $3.93 billion deal in October.  A buyer may be interested in Morton’s for its “long
operating history” and “brand cachet,” said Bryan Elliott, an
analyst at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James &
Associates Inc. who rates the shares “market perform.” “There
has been some private-equity activity in the restaurant business
in the last nine to 12 months.”  The company rose 76 cents to $7.20 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, after reaching $7.52. The
shares had gained 16 percent in the last 12 months before today,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurant Index jumped 22
percent.  Taken Private  Morton’s was taken private by buyout firm Castle Harlan for
$71.2 million in 2002 after a bidding contest with billionaire
financier  Carl Icahn . The company sold shares to the public four
years later.  There were 340 announced deals in the retail restaurant
industry globally in 2009 and 2010, according to Bloomberg data.
In the 37 deals where data are available, bidders paid a median
of 6.5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc., the third-biggest
hamburger chain, put Arby’s up for sale in January as the
industry looks for ways to offset surging meat prices.  Now in  Shanghai   Morton’s, led by Chief Executive Officer Christopher Artinian, had $188.7 million in total debt as of Jan. 2. Fourth-
quarter revenue for the company rose 6.2 percent to $84.1
million, compared with a year earlier, Morton’s said in a
statement on Feb. 24.  Over the past three decades, Morton’s has grown to 77
restaurants in the U.S.,  Puerto Rico  and internationally. It
added a location in Shanghai last year.  The original Morton’s in downtown Chicago, which serves
filet mignon, lamb chops and whole lobsters from  Maine , is
blocks from competitors Gibsons Bar & Steakhouse and Tavern on
Rush. The dining spot organizes winemaker dinners for $150 a
person and brings in football and baseball stars to serve four-
course meals during celebrity dining  events .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  