-- 
Tourists Postpone Japan Visits Amid Fears of Radiation Leaks

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-03-17T02:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/tourists-postpone-visits-to-japan-amid-specter-of-nuclear-radiation-leaks.html
Ros Airey says she loves  Japan ,
yet fears of radiation leaks from a stricken nuclear facility
north of Tokyo made her postpone her fourth visit in a decade.  “As long as there is a threat of radiation and concern
for my safety I won’t go,” Airey, 63, of Melbourne, said as
she pondered what to do with the non-refundable tickets for a
trip in June. “It’s a shame because I love the place. The
people are so lovely, and Japan needs a vibrant tourism
industry.”  Hong Kong accountant Alan Pang scrapped a visit this month
as Japan struggles to prevent a meltdown at the Fukushima
nuclear power plant amid aftershocks from the March 11
earthquake, the country’s strongest on record. Japan’s 23.9
trillion yen ($296 billion)  tourism  industry needs a resolution
to the crisis before it can recover, according to Keidanren,
the nation’s biggest business lobby.  “I can’t say to foreign visitors that it’s time to visit
Japan unless the government tries harder to disclose
information,” Keidanren Chairman  Hiromasa Yonekura  said
yesterday. “Foreign visitors are confused.”  The magnitude-9 earthquake and the ensuing 7-meter (23-
foot) tsunami killed more than 4,000 people and left hundreds
of thousands stranded and without power, while disruptions to
food and water deliveries sparked panic buying. Prime Minister
Naoto Kan has sent 100,000 troops to the northeastern region of
Honshu island closest to the temblor’s epicenter.  Death Toll  The death toll rose to 4,314 at 8 a.m. local time today
with 8,606 missing and 2,285 injured, according to the  National
Police Agency  in Tokyo. About 386,000 people have been
evacuated.  The Travel Industry Council of  Hong Kong  asked its 1,500
travel agent members to cancel all tour groups for Japan this
month, according to Rita Lau, secretary for commerce and
economic development. Hong Kong is Japan’s fourth-biggest
 source of visitors .  “I do really feel disappointed that I must scrap my plans,
but it’s lucky that I didn’t go to Japan before the quake,”
said Pang, 25, who booked a two-week trip starting March 13.  “It’s possible I would like to visit Japan again in June
after all the aftershocks and radiation threat have died
down,” said Pang. “I am confident that the Japanese could
handle the risks.”    South Korea ,  Singapore   In South Korea, the biggest source of visitors for Japan,
about 11,000 customers of Hana Tour Service Inc. canceled trips
after the earthquake, said Cho Il Sang, a company spokesman. In
Singapore,  Nam Ho Travel Service (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  and  Chan
Brothers Travel  said hundreds of customers canceled plans to
visit Japan.  Hana in South Korea still receives reservations for trips
in Japan though the travel dates are after May.  The Japan Tourism Agency had set a target of 10 million
visitors in 2011 after failing to reach that level last year
amid gains in the yen and a dispute with  China  about the
islands known as Senkaku to the Japanese and Diaoyu to the
Chinese. The agency plans 15 million visitors by 2013.  “We had a good start in the month of January,” said
Zensuke Suzuki, a spokesman for the agency. “We are worrying a
lot on the earthquake. We cannot say how big the influence is
and cannot say whether we can reach this year’s target.”  ‘Different Ballgame’  Japan isn’t alone in facing challenges from natural
disasters this year.  New Zealand  experienced its deadliest
quake in 80 years last month, while an area in  Australia  larger
than Germany and  France  combined was flooded in January.  It’s the potentially mobile threat of radiation that adds
a unique issue for Japan’s  tourism industry , said David Beirman,
author of “Restoring Tourism Destinations in Crisis.”  “Any natural disaster, whether it’s an earthquake,
tsunami or a flood, has a finite amount of damage and
geographic limitation to where it occurs,” said  Beirman , a
senior lecturer at the University of Technology Sydney. “A
nuclear cloud is a totally different ballgame, and you can’t
hide from that.”  While most airlines are maintaining Japanese services, the
impact of the temblor is forcing them to adopt contingency
plans that can disrupt tourists’ travel.    Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  added Hong Kong stopovers to six
flights serving Tokyo’s Narita Airport as the aftermath of the
earthquake disrupted ground transportation.  Lufthansa, Cathay Pacific    Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  moved all its Tokyo services to the
southern Japanese cities of Nagoya and  Osaka  with passengers
then taking high-speed trains to Tokyo.  Air France-KLM (AF)  and
Austrian Airlines AG added stops in  Seoul  for crew changes.    Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Hong Kong’s biggest carrier,
and Korean Air Lines Co. have offered discounted one-way
tickets for travelers leaving Tokyo after the quake.    Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  has had some customers cancel
trips to Tokyo and sees “strong” demand for flights from the
Japanese capital,  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman, said by e-mail.
China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s largest carrier, said
it could redeploy some of its 500 planes to meet any rise in
demand to leave Japan.  Tour Buses  “We cannot figure out numbers, but the number of foreign
tourists canceling tours is increasing,” said Akiko Mitsuhashi,
a spokeswoman for  JTB , Japan’s biggest travel agency.  Household appliances retailer Laox Co. said the number of
tour buses visiting its store in  Tokyo ’s Akihabara district has
gone down to four or less daily, compared with at least 10
before the quake struck.  The fears over nuclear contamination have led to some
people fleeing to southern areas.  The  Swissotel Nankai Hotel  in Osaka, owned by Fairmont
Raffles Holdings International, has been fully booked since
March 15, with the venue setting up a temporary office in its
banquet room to cope with the extra demand, according to
Michiko Fujikawa, a spokeswoman of the hotel.  “Right after the quake, we got a lot of cancellations,”
Fujikawa said. “Now we don’t have enough rooms.”  For Airey, confidence in Japan’s ability to recover from
the disaster means she may resume her travel plans.  “It’s a real shame because I do want to go back and if
they can work through this, I will.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in  Melbourne  
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  