-- 
House’s Issa Subpoenas Records on Former Chief SEC Lawyer

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T16:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/house-s-issa-subpoenas-records-on-former-chief-sec-lawyer-1-.html
A congressional committee issued a
subpoena to the bankruptcy trustee winding down  Bernard Madoff ’s
assets requesting documents related to the imprisoned
financier’s ties to the family of the former chief lawyer of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The subpoena from Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, calls for
records related to former SEC general counsel David M. Becker’s
family account with Madoff as well as his past communications
with  Irving Picard , the New York bankruptcy trustee, according
to a statement today from Issa.  “The decision to allow David Becker to work on the Madoff
case, despite family earnings from a Madoff account,
necessitates answers,” the California Republican said in the
statement. Issa said the subpoena to Picard, which carries a
March 22 deadline, should “shed light on the nature of Becker’s
financial conflict of interest.”  Becker, who left the SEC on Feb. 25, was sued by Picard for
more than $1.5 million in profits he and his brothers inherited
after liquidating their parents’ holdings with Madoff when their
mother died in 2004. Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to charges
related to his decades-long  Ponzi scheme .  Becker, 63, was cleared to work on agency policies on
Madoff matters by the SEC’s ethics counsel, who was a
subordinate of Becker. He has said his departure is unrelated to
the lawsuit.  Picard has received the subpoena and is reviewing it, his
office confirmed. “We will respond in due course,” said Amanda
Remus, a spokeswoman at his law firm, Baker Hostetler LLP.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told members of Issa’s committee
last week that she regretted Becker’s involvement with Madoff
decisions. “I wish that Mr. Becker had recused himself,
absolutely,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 