-- 
Lloyds Ex-CEO Daniels Says Taxpayer to Get Handsome Return

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-03-16T18:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/lloyds-ex-ceo-daniels-says-taxpayer-to-get-handsome-return-.html
  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s former
chief executive officer,  Eric Daniels , said the taxpayer has
done “very well” from its support of Britain’s banks during
the financial crisis.  “The taxpayer did very well” by providing funding, which
was “above commercial rates,” Daniels told parliamentarians at
the Public Accounts Committee in the House of Commons today.
“The taxpayer will do very well indeed” from its holdings in
the bank’s shares, he said.  Daniels led Lloyds’s takeover of HBOS Plc in September
2008, which forced the lender to seek a government bailout,
leaving taxpayers with a 41 percent stake in the bank. Daniels
was replaced as CEO in March by Antonio Horta-Osorio, who joined
from Banco Santander SA.  The taxpayer will get a “handsome return,” Daniels said.
The U.K. injected more than 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) into
the bank to boost its capital during the credit crisis. Daniels
last month said he hadn’t decided whether to accept his 1.45
million-pound bonus for 2010.  “Hopefully the taxpayer will make a profit, not a loss,
and it looks like that’s going to happen,” said  Stephen Hester ,
CEO of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which is 83 percent
government-owned. “Recriminating all the time and if you like
looking on the negative side of life isn’t going to help us
grow.”  Hester’s Bonus  Hester, 50, will get about 6.5 million pounds in shares in
addition to his 1.2 million-pound salary for last year, RBS said
this month. The bank’s nine top executives were awarded a total
of 28 million pounds in shares. RBS, Lloyds,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed to pay lower bonuses to U.K. staff
under the so-called Project Merlin agreement with the
government.  Hester’s said his pay is at the “low end” of comparable
jobs, “albeit at the high end of society.”  “People are suffering” from a credit crisis and bankers
should show “sensitivity” when deciding whether to accept
their bonuses, said committee Chairwoman Margaret Hodge. “It’s
a bridge too far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ] 