-- 
Toyota Wins Access to Insurance Data About Sudden-Acceleration Plaintiffs

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-03-16T19:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/toyota-wins-access-to-insurance-data-about-sudden-acceleration-plaintiffs.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won a judicial
ruling granting access to insurance and financial data about
plaintiffs suing the automaker over economic losses they claim
to have suffered from sudden acceleration defects.  Two private judges in Orange,  California , at a hearing
today rejected a request by lawyers for about 81 plaintiffs who
owned or leased  Toyota vehicles  to prevent the automaker from
gathering information from banks, other lending institutions and
insurance companies about the plaintiffs.  “We don’t find anything wrong with the subpoenas,” said
John K. Trotter, one of the private judges assisting U.S.
District Judge James Selna, of  Santa Ana , California, in
resolving disputes between Toyota and hundreds of plaintiffs who
have filed federal lawsuits over sudden acceleration.  Those cases from across the nation and others filed by
plaintiffs in other countries have been coordinated before Selna
and also include claims alleging wrongful death and personal
injury from sudden acceleration incidents.  Trotter said that most of the information already has been
gathered by Toyota and that the privacy concerns are covered by
a protective order by Selna that keeps certain information
confidential.  Todd B. Benoff, an attorney for Toyota, told the judges the
plaintiffs waited too long to file their request to quash the
subpoenas and that Toyota needs the data in order to defend
itself in a series of trials that are scheduled to begin early
in 2013.  ‘We Are Entitled’  “These plaintiffs say their case is all about the value of
their cars, therefore we are entitled to information about the
value of their cars,” Benoff said.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers argued that the material gathered by
Toyota from subpoenas on the institutions is “highly personal
and irrelevant financial information,” according to court
filings. They said they are concerned that data such as social
security information, family finances and health-related data
would be revealed in the litigation.  Trotter said he and Judge Steven Stone would state their
ruling in a written order to be filed later.  “Third-party discovery is essential to Toyota’s ability to
develop necessary evidence to defend itself and assess the
validity of plaintiffs’ counsel’s claims,”  Celeste Migliore , a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “So we are
pleased with today’s tentative ruling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  