-- 
Toyota U.S. Auto Inventory ‘Normal’ as Japan Extends Shutdowns

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T01:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/toyota-says-u-s-inventory-normal-as-japan-shutdowns-extended.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said inventory
at U.S. dealers remains at a “normal” level after the company
extended a shutdown of most of its plants in Japan following the
nation’s worst earthquake and a nuclear power-plant disaster.  Toyota, which halted assembly in Japan after the March 11
quake and canceled overtime at North American factories, will
keep all auto and most parts plants closed until March 22, the
company said in a statement. It will reopen seven factories in
Aichi prefecture today that make replacement parts, said Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman in Tokyo for the world’s biggest carmaker.  “There are still ships arriving and some on the water, so
we’re fine for 35 to 45 days,” said Mike Sullivan, president of
 LAcarGUY , a  Santa Monica , California-based dealer who operates
four Toyota and Lexus stores in the Los Angeles area. “After
that, we’ll be spotty.”  The 9.0-magnitude quake that may have killed as many as
10,000 people and triggered fires at a nuclear power plant at
risk of leaking radiation has disrupted operations for Toyota
and other Japanese manufacturers. As the companies assess damage
and aid recovery efforts, U.S., Asian and European makers of
electronics and autos dependent on Japanese parts say they’re
also awaiting a clearer picture of the disaster’s aftermath.  ‘Normal Levels’  “U.S. inventory remains at normal levels,” said  Steve Curtis , a spokesman for Toyota’s sales unit in Torrance,
California, without elaborating. The shutdown in  Japan  affects
about 95,000 units of production, of which 60 percent is for
shipment to markets including the U.S., he said.  Toyota fell 3.1 percent to 3,235 yen at 10:09 a.m. in Tokyo
trading today. The stock has dropped 11 percent since March 10,
the day before the quake. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota jumped
as much as 10 percent yesterday.  While Toyota gets almost 70 percent of the cars and light
trucks it sells in the U.S. from factories in  North America , it
depends on shipments from Japan for most of its luxury Lexus
models and all of its Scion small cars and Prius hybrids.  “In terms of the inventory situation, at this time I
wouldn’t expect a huge pressure,” said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst for Edmunds.com, an auto-pricing and data company in
Santa Monica,  California . “If shutdowns extend beyond next week,
there could be some problems, but for now the impact looks
limited.”  Prius  Demand for the Prius has risen as average U.S. gasoline
prices climbed 16 percent to $3.55 a gallon this year. Prius
sales in February were the highest ever for that month.  “Almost all vehicles that have been affected by the loss
in production will have an increase in transaction price,” said  Jesse Toprak , an analyst for TrueCar.com, also in Santa Monica.
“The vehicles that will have a more significant increase will
be hybrids and the more fuel-efficient vehicles.”  Toyota vehicle and parts factories in North America have
suspended overtime as a precautionary step to conserve parts,
said Mike Goss, a spokesman for the company’s manufacturing unit
in Erlanger,  Kentucky .  Toyota’s profit may be cut by 6.5 billion yen ($80 million)
for each day of lost output, said  Koji Endo , an analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in  Tokyo .  The company’s main port in Tahara, Japan, for shipping
models to the U.S. and other overseas markets, was undamaged by
the quake and tsunami.  Tohoku Factories  None of Toyota’s factories in the northern Tohoku region
hit by the tsunami sustained serious damage, the company said.
Toyota has sent 60 employees to Tohoku to assist workers and
their families and assess factory damage.  LAcarGUY’s Sullivan said he and his employees in the Los
Angeles area are raising “millions of dollars” for relief
efforts in Japan.  Nissan Motor Co., the second-largest Japanese automaker,
said all of its Americas manufacturing facilities remain
operational. The Yokohama, Japan-based company has about a 50-
day supply of vehicles in the region or aboard ships en route
from Japan, Nissan said in a statement. The company said it
doesn’t expect any “near-term” effect on sales.  Nissan and an affiliate plan to reopen one plant tomorrow
and another on March 18, the company said. Two Nissan factories
will remain closed until March 20, while another will operate
partially. No decision has been made on reopening a sixth plant,
Nissan said.  Honda Motor Co. said its plants in Japan will remain closed
until March 20. The Tokyo-based company’s North American
operations continue on normal schedules,  Honda said .  Honda and Nissan are each likely losing about 1.7 billion
yen for each day their factories in Japan are closed, said Endo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  