-- 
Palm Oil Drops to Three-Month Low on Weak Demand, Supply Surge

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-16T11:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/palm-oil-drops-to-three-month-low-on-weak-demand-supply-surge.html
  Palm oil  declined to the lowest
level in more than three months on concern that global supply
will increase and demand for commodities may weaken as  Japan ’s
strongest temblor on record slows global economic recovery.  The May-delivery contract tumbled as much as 2.8 percent to
3,290 ringgit ($1,077) a metric ton, the lowest price since Nov.
26, before closing at 3,368 ringgit. Futures plunged 8 percent
last week amid prospects for higher production in Indonesia and
Malaysia, the top producers.  “Investors remain concerns about global economy which may
be affected by the Japan event and could affect demand,” Ivy
Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank, said by telephone from  Kuala Lumpur . “Increasing output from  Indonesia  and Malaysia
remains a bearish factor to the market.”  Japan may enter a brief recession as a result of the quake,
Rhee Chang Yong, the Asian Development Bank’s chief economist
said in a phone interview yesterday from Manila. A slowdown in
world’s third-largest economy, which contracted last quarter,
may hurt the outlook for Asian nations including  China , Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services said today.  Last week’s 9.0-magnitude temblor and an ensuing tsunami
damaged power-generating facilities including the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant. Tokyo Electric Power Co. has begun rolling
blackouts that will continue until the end of April to conserve
electricity.  Price May Fall  Palm oil prices will retreat this year on speculation that
world consumption of the vegetable oil will drop and production
will increase, according to Oil World. Cash prices may fall to
$950 a ton in the three months to Dec. 31, down from a high of
about $1,300 last month, Oil World said in a report.  “The most important factor is a slowing-down of the growth
in world consumption for both food and non-food use,” Oil World
executive director Thomas Mielke said in a presentation on March
9, according to the report. “There will be relief on the supply
side from the prospective sharp increase in world production of
palm oil.”  Increased output of oils made from soybeans and sunflowers
in  South America  will also pressure prices, Oil World said.  World production of palm oil may increase 6.6 percent to
48.7 million tons in 2011, Oil World said. Malaysian output will
total 17.7 million tons, near the previous record set in 2008,
as area increased by at least 6 percent, the forecaster said.
Indonesia’s production may rise 8.2 percent to as much as 23.8
million tons, the Oil World said.  May-delivery soybean oil gained 2.4 percent to 54.15 cents
a pound in  Chicago  at 6:28 p.m. in  Singapore  after falling as
much as 4.5 percent yesterday. Soybeans for delivery in the same
month advanced 2.5 percent to $13.0175 a bushel.  September-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  declined 1.2 percent to close at 8,948 yuan ($1,362).  Soybean oil  for delivery in the same month fell 1.4 percent to
close at 9,806 yuan. CME Group Inc.’s most-active June palm-oil
contract, pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, dropped 1.9
percent to $1,088 at 3:48 p.m. Singapore time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  