-- 
Pentagon to Help Internet Providers Get Military Cyber Tools

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-03-16T22:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/pentagon-to-help-internet-providers-get-military-cyber-tools.html
The U.S.  Defense Department  plans
to start a pilot program offering the military’s cyber security
tools to  Internet service providers  for use in detecting and
stopping attacks on their networks.  The Pentagon is drafting a proposal to provide the
country’s top Internet service providers with tools and
techniques already available to a group of defense contractors
for detecting and fixing cyber attacks, defense officials told
lawmakers today.  The plan seeks to use Defense Department technology “with
tier-one Internet service providers and see if we can do what we
do with defense contractors,” General Keith Alexander, head of
the U.S.  Cyber Command , told the House Armed Services
Committee’s panel on emerging threats and capabilities. The
program may be expanded to more Internet providers if it proves
successful, he said.  The Pentagon has assembled a group of 40 defense
contractors that voluntarily share with the Defense Department
information on attacks on their networks, malware and suspected
data thefts, under a program called the Defense Industrial Base
Information Sharing Environment. In exchange, the companies get
help fixing weaknesses in their computer systems.  The same approach may be applied to Internet providers
during a 90-day pilot program, James Miller, the principal
deputy undersecretary of defense for policy, told lawmakers. He
didn’t specify any companies that may participate in the
project.  The program is in a “formative, pre-liftoff stage,”
Miller said in an interview after his testimony. “We are
working very closely with the Department of  Homeland Security  on
details of how to proceed.”  The Defense Department also is looking to expand the
defense contractors’ group to include more suppliers and is
seeking $113 million for the project over the next five years,
Miller said in his prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  