-- 
Polish Wage Growth Slows in February, Bolstering Case for Unchanged Rates

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-16T13:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/polish-wage-growth-slows-in-february-bolstering-case-for-unchanged-rates.html
Poland wage growth slowed in
February, boosting expectations that the central bank will leave  interest rates  unchanged next month.  Average corporate wages rose 4.1 percent on the year last
month, the  Central Statistical Office  reported in Warsaw today,
decelerating from 5 percent in January. The median estimate of
21 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 4.9 percent. Wages grew
0.9 percent on the month.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  in January raised borrowing costs
from a record low, the first increase since June 2008. After
policy makers left rates unchanged on March 2, Governor  Marek Belka  said that more rate increases should be expected as
economic growth boosts wage and price pressures, which may keep
inflation expectations at “elevated” levels.  “The wage figures, especially, won’t convince the Monetary
Policy Council to try to get the jump on the  European Central
Bank ,” economists at BRE Bank in Warsaw wrote in a note before
the release. “The Council’s enthusiasm for rate increases has
waned since the annual inflation rate still hasn’t topped 4
percent.”  The zloty extended losses after the data, falling to 4.0627
against the euro at 2:06 p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.2 percent on the
day. Two-year Treasury bond yields declined 3 basis points to
5.02 percent, following a 4 basis-point fall yesterday.  Inflation Figures  Inflation in February was 3.6 percent, compared with the
3.9 percent medium estimate of economists, according to a report
released yesterday that dimmed expectations for policy
tightening next month.  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs fell
by 3 basis points yesterday after the consumer price release as
investors reduced their bets for interest rate increase in April
and expect the benchmark seven-day rate to remain unchanged in
April, based on the difference between the three-month FRA and
the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate which it is settled against.  “If the data confirm that wage pressure remains limited
and there are no signals of the second-round effects at the
moment, we will see more declines in bond yields,” economists
at Bank BPH wrote in an e-mail before the wage data publication.  Employment increased 4.1 percent from the same period last
year, after rising 3.8 percent in January. The result matched
the median forecast by 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Employment rose 0.2 percent on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at  