-- 
Police Asked to Hand Over Seized Notebooks in Phone-Hacking Case

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-03-16T17:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/police-asked-to-hand-over-seized-notebooks-in-phone-hacking-case.html
Sky Andrew, a U.K. sports agent
suing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World newspaper over phone
hacking, asked a judge to force police to hand over notebooks
obtained during a criminal investigation five years ago.  Jeremy Reed, Andrew’s lawyer, told Justice Geoffrey Vos in  London  that he was seeking the disclosure of four notebooks
seized by the Metropolitan Police from Glen Mulcaire, a private
detective employed by the News of the World. Earlier in the
hearing, which started yesterday, Reed asked only for a
selection of pages from the books.  Reed has “an unending wish-list for documents,” Vos said.
“You are sort of treating the police as if they are the fund of
knowledge on which your case is being created, I’m a little
concerned by that.”  Andrew is one of more than a half dozen celebrities filing
lawsuits over allegations private voice-mail messages were
accessed for News of the World stories. The paper’s former royal
editor  Clive Goodman  and Mulcaire were jailed in 2007 for
accessing the phone messages of members of the royal family.  Reed said the notebooks would allow Andrew to see if there
is any information that the police failed to notice. It will
also help build a picture of how Mulcaire worked, he said.  Mulcaire in 2006 admitted five other counts of phone
hacking relating to Andrew, publicist Max Clifford, model Elle Macpherson, soccer player  Sol Campbell , lawmaker  Simon Hughes 
and soccer executive Gordon Taylor.  Criminal Probe  The police said in January they were re-opening a criminal
investigation into phone hacking after receiving new evidence
provided by News of the World.  Edwin Buckett, a lawyer for the Metropolitan Police, said
that to make sure that potential suspects weren’t “tipped off”
about the progress of their investigation, the judge should
consider allowing the police to delay disclosing more
information for three months.  News of the World lawyer Anthony Hudson said he was
“neutral” about the applications. Vos said he would give
judgment at a later date on Reed’s first, more limited, request
for information, and hear argument at another hearing about
Reed’s request for the full notebooks.  The case is: Skylet Andrew v. News Group Newspapers
Limited, HC10C01363,  High Court  of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 