-- 
Polish Lawmakers to Begin Debating Pension Changes That May Sway Election

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-03-16T17:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/polish-lawmakers-to-begin-debating-pension-change-that-may-affect-election.html
Polish lawmakers today began
debating pension changes proposed by the government that are
opposed by almost half of the country’s voters before elections
expected within seven months.  The plan to cut transfers to private pension funds by more
than two-thirds to 2.3 percent of employees’ salaries in a
system enrolling millions of Poles is aimed at trimming the
budget gap and keeping public debt from breaching the legal
limit of 55 percent of gross domestic product, which would
trigger mandatory austerity measures.  The largest of the European Union’s eastern economies needs
to cut the shortfall from an estimated 8 percent of GDP last
year to 3 percent. Brussels may punish  Poland  for an excessive
deficit by reducing its eligibility for the EU funding that
helped generate growth in 2009, making it the only member of the
bloc to avoid a recession that year.  “The debt spiral created by this system gives us no choice
but to downscale it,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk told
parliament in a speech opening the debate. “If we leave the
pension funds alone, as some ask, then we have to explain how we
plan to raise the money from the taxpayers.”  Pension Rollback  Like other European countries, Poland is struggling to find
ways to cut public spending, which ballooned during the global
financial crisis, and bring the deficit back to within the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of economic output.  The ruling party “had to agree to the very unpopular
pension reforms, given its inability to contend with what it
considers even more politically damaging fundamental expenditure
reforms,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at
Nomura International Plc, said in a March 9 note to clients.  Rather than targeting social spending, the government opted
to partially roll back a decade-old overhaul that diverted
pension contributions to private funds, aimed at alleviating the
budget burden when those enrolled retire.  Hungary  last year
first suspended similar payments completely, then funneled most
fund assets to the state.  “The government is tossing out life rafts and worrying
about how to stay afloat until the election,” said Beata Szydlo
of Law & Justice, the biggest opposition party, in a reply to
Tusk’s speech. “Pension changes shouldn’t be used as a budget
stopgap.”  Poles Against  A survey by the Warsaw-based  Public Opinion Research Center 
on Feb. 4 showed 49 percent of adult Poles were against the
pension proposals, while 18 percent were in favor and 33 percent
had no opinion. No margin of error was given.  While Tusk wanted the law to take effect on April 1,
disputes with economists, labor unions and employers, as well as
within the government, led to a delay.  The Cabinet now targets May 1 for the law to take effect,
though lawyers at the prime minister’s office said the
legislation may be unconstitutional, TVN CNBC reported on March
8. According to the  Finance Ministry , each month of delay
implies spending will increase by 0.07 percent of GDP.  “Maintaining this system means an outflow of 2 billion
zlotys ($681.9 million) every month,” Tusk told parliament.  Civic Platform and its coalition partner, the Polish
Peasants party, or PSL, have 235 votes in the 460-seat lower
house of parliament, sufficient to pass the measure. Stanislaw
Zelichowski, head of the PSL parliamentary club, told PAP
newswire today that all Peasant deputies would back the
government’s pension proposals.  Lawmakers will vote on the measures by March 25,
Parliamentary Speaker Grzegorz Schetyna told reporters today.  Declining Support  Tusk’s Civic Platform has led opinion polls since winning
2007 elections, a feat unmatched by any ruling party since the
fall of communism in 1989. While it remains the most popular
party, its support dropped to 35 percent this month from 37
percent in February, according to a survey conducted by the
Warsaw-based Center for Public Research from March 3 to March 9
among 950 Poles. No margin of error was given for the survey.  It was the third consecutive month of declines for  Civic
Platform  after the government decided to cut transfers to
private funds. Elections will probably be held on Oct. 23.  Growing uncertainty about the election outcome may curb
investors’ appetite for the zloty, said Jaroslaw Janecki, chief
economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw.  Weaker Zloty  The currency has lost 5.4 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months, the third-worst performance among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Argentine peso
and the Turkish lira.  Poland’s public debt was 701.9 billion zloty end of 2010,
up 11.1 percent on year, with 200 billion of the debt covering
transfers to private pension funds and “without finding a
solution to that problem, payments for current pensioners could
be threatened in the future,” Tusk said in a letter published
on March 12 and March 13 in the newspaper  Gazeta Wyborcza .  Law & Justice, the largest opposition party, and the
Democratic  Left Alliance  have said they won’t support the
government’s plan. Instead, they are calling for an open
discussion on the pension changes “so Poles regain their right
to decide on what they want to do with their own money,”  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , chief of Law & Justice said on March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  