-- 
Pools Storing Spent Fuel May Present Worst Risk at Damaged Fukushima Plant

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x ,   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-03-16T22:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/pools-storing-spent-fuel-may-present-biggest-risk-at-fukushima.html
All cooling water is gone from the
spent-fuel pool at one of the crippled nuclear reactors in
Japan, causing the release of high levels of radiation, Gregory Jaczko, chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, told
members of Congress.  Jaczko’s testimony followed warnings by the  International
Atomic Energy Agency , physicians and nuclear engineers that the
greatest threat to public health from the damaged Fukushima
nuclear plant is spent fuel in pools of water atop of the
plant’s six reactors.  Radioactivity has been heating the pools at three of the
plant’s reactors since the plant’s cooling systems were disabled
by a March 11 earthquake and tsunami, officials said. Exposed,
the spent fuel rods can catch fire and melt, spewing radiation
into the atmosphere, said Robert Kelley, an engineer in Vienna
who used to lead the Nuclear Emergency Response at  Los Alamos
National Laboratory  in  New Mexico . Unlike the plant’s reactors,
the  pools  aren’t encased by steel and concrete.  “We believe that the secondary containment has been
destroyed and there is no water in the spent-fuel pool,” Jaczko
said at a hearing of a House Energy and Commerce Committee in  Washington . “We believe that radiation levels are extremely
high, which could possibly impact the ability to take corrective
measures.”  Fatal Dose  The pool water also shields workers. With the top of the
fuel rods exposed, a worker at the pool lip would receive a
fatal radiation dose in 16 seconds, David Lochbaum, a nuclear
physicist for the Union of Concerned Scientists and a former NRC
safety instructor, said in a conference call.  As water evaporates and exposes the fuel, the uranium in
the rods can burn through a protective sheath emitting heat and
radioactive cesium. After that, the uranium may mix with any
remaining water to start an uncontrolled nuclear reaction that
sends radiation into the atmosphere, scientists said.  “Dissolving uranium in water is the way to make a certain
kind of nuclear reactor,” Kelley said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “In this uncontrolled situation, the ‘reactor’
will have no human control and begin fissioning.”  Water in the spent fuel pool at the No. 4 reactor may be
boiling,  Japan ’s Nuclear and  Industrial Safety Agency  said on
March 15. Temperatures in the rod-cooling pools of the shuttered
No. 5 and No. 6 reactors rose as high as 63 degrees Celsius (145
degrees Fahrenheit) at 2 p.m. yesterday from 60 degrees Celsius
at 7 a.m., a Tokyo Electric official said.  Burning Fuel  Reactor pool No. 4 contains 142 tons of fuel that could
burn on exposure to the atmosphere, Marvin Resnikoff, a nuclear
physicist for Washington-based Physicians for Social
Responsibility, said in a telephone press conference arranged by
the group. He cited Tokyo Electric statements.  Japanese authorities are concerned about the condition of
the pools of units 3 and 4, the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  said yesterday. Military helicopters may be used to drop
water on reactor No. 3 and workers are planning to spray water
into unit 4, according to the IAEA.  “This is going to be a problem for months,” Resnikoff
said. “Water serves as both cooling and radiation shielding and
workers can’t get close to it when the water is gone.”  The pools contain enough radioactive cesium to make areas
around the plant uninhabitable should it spread by fire and
wind, Ira Helfand, a past president of Physicians for Social
Responsibility. Whether contamination occurs remains to be seen,
he said.  Falling Pressure  The crisis at Fukushima worsened yesterday when  Tokyo
Electric  said the containment chamber at the No. 2 reactor may
have been breached because pressure dropped suddenly. Clouds of
steam were seen rising from the reactor building after a fire at
the No. 4 Reactor. The 50 workers remaining at the plant were
pulled out yesterday after radiation temporarily rose to unsafe
levels. They later returned.  “Japan seems to be worried about the balance between the
health of the workers and the safety of the site,” said  Tony
Roulstone , an atomic engineer who directs University of
Cambridge’s master’s program in nuclear energy. “Higher
radiation on the plant makes it harder for the workers to stay
there and do what they need to cool it.”  The way to stop the spent rods from reaching this critical
heat and mass is to flood their pools with water and large
quantities of boric acid, similar to the mixture being used to
cool the reactors, scientists said. Getting water into the fuel
ponds on the roofs of the building is complicated, said Kelley.  ‘Level of Desperation’  “If you just drop water on there you don’t know where it’s
going to land, if it will disturb ponds or the reactor,”
Cambridge’s Roulstone said. “It’s much better to observe what’s
going on and add water; shows a level of desperation and brings
in uncertainty.”  The risk of the fuel ponds getting hot enough to start a
nuclear reaction remains remote, said  Geoff Parks , a nuclear
engineer, also at the University of Cambridge. The pond would
need to reach about 2,200 degrees Celsius, he said.  Tokyo Electric is building a cable to supply power to the
plant’s cooling systems, a spokesman said. The systems were
knocked out by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and the
company has been pumping seawater into the reactors to keep them
from melting down.  The highest measurement of radiation so far taken at the
plant was 400 millisieverts per hour, 20 times the annual limit
for nuclear industry employees and uranium miners, according to 
the  World Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net . 