-- 
Socrates Bailout Threat, Moody’s Rating Cut Send Portugal Bond Yields Up

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-16T09:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/portugal-bonds-drop-after-socrates-hints-at-bailout-moody-s-lowers-rating.html
Portuguese bonds fell after Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates  raised the specter of needing a bailout
and Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s debt rating.  The yield on 10-year debt rose 3 basis points to 7.44
percent and the spread, a measure of risk, widened 2 basis
points to 429 more than comparable German bunds.  “Market participants have strong concerns about the
ability of Portugal to continue meeting its funding needs,”  Valentin Marinov , a senior currency strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in  London , wrote in a note to clients. “The expectation of
potential bailout could erode further the demand for the debt of
the euro zone member state going forward.”  Opposition lawmakers’ resistance to additional budget cuts
announced last week to meet deficit targets threatens a
“political crisis,” Socrates said late yesterday in Lisbon.
“The consequence of a political crisis is the worsening of the
financing risks of our economy and would lead  Portugal  to
request external intervention.”  Portugal is fighting to avoid following  Greece  and Ireland
in seeking a rescue. Socrates is raising taxes and implementing
the nation’s deepest spending cuts in more than three decades,
aiming to convince investors it can narrow its pay its bills on
its own.  Portugal’s credit rating was cut two steps by Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday to A3, four steps from so-called
junk status, with the outlook on the grade “negative.” The
rating company cited Portugal’s “subdued growth prospects” and
“implementation risks for the government’s ambitious fiscal
consolidation targets.”  ‘Commitment’  “The rating agency also notes that the commitment to
fiscal consolidation shared by both leading political parties is
an important reason why Portugal’s rating remains within the A
range,” Moody’s said.  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority in parliament.
The  Social Democrats  agreed in October to let the government’s
2011 budget proposal pass in parliament by abstaining.  The Portuguese debt agency plans to sell today as much as 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of 12-month bills. Borrowing costs
increased at a March 9 auction of 1 billion euros of two-year
bonds, which were sold at a yield of 5.993 percent, up from
4.086 percent at a previous auction of the same-maturity debt on
Sept. 8.  Bond Sales  Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of
bonds this year to finance its budget and cover the cost of
maturing debt. Portugal faced bond redemptions next month and in
June totalling about 9 billion euros. It faces bill maturities
in March, July, August, September, October and November.  Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos on March 11
presented additional deficit-cutting measures equal to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product over the three years through
2013, including a reduction in pensions of more than 1,500 euros
a month and further cuts in tax benefits.  The additional measures were presented hours before
European Union leaders agreed to allow the region’s temporary
bailout fund to tap the entire 440 billion euros of lending
capacity and to enable the rescue fund to buy bonds directly at
issuance from debt-swamped governments.  The  Portuguese government  is already trimming the wage bill
by 5 percent for public-sector workers earning more than 1,500
euros a month, freezing hiring and raising value-added  sales tax 
by 2 percentage points to 23 percent to help narrow a deficit
that amounted to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2009,
the fourth-biggest in the euro region after Ireland, Greece and  Spain .  Deficit Target  Portugal will report a 2010 budget deficit equivalent to 7
percent of GDP or less than 7 percent, narrower than the 7.3
percent gap the government had forecast,Socrates said on Jan.
28. The government has set a target for a budget deficit of 4.6
percent of GDP in 2011, and aims to reach the EU limit of 3
percent in 2012.  The Bank of Portugal on Jan. 11 said GDP will shrink 1.3
percent in 2011 as consumer demand drops and the government cuts
spending. GDP contracted 0.3 percent in the final three months
of 2010, the first quarterly contraction in a year. Portugal’s
unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the
highest since at least 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  