-- 
Qaddafi Bombs Rebel Capital as UN Weighs Libya Action to Protect Civilians

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-17T17:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/qaddafi-bombs-rebel-capital-as-son-vows-war-will-be-finished-in-48-hours.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
jets dropped bombs around Benghazi, bringing the war to the
opposition stronghold for the first time as the United Nations  Security Council  debates action to protect civilians.  Government planes today bombed Benina airport, six miles
(10 kilometers) south of Benghazi, used by the rebels as an air
base, following similar raids yesterday, Al Jazeera television
reported. Fighting continued around Ajdabiya, about 100 miles
south of Benghazi, where Qaddafi’s forces are still meeting
resistance after saying they had seized the town. Reinforcements
arrived for both government troops and rebels as they fought in
darkness after electricity was cut off by the opposition, the  Associated Press  said.  Security Council discussions resumed today and may be
followed by a vote on measures late in the day. The U.S. is
supporting a draft resolution stating that any nation can take
“all necessary measures” to protect civilians under threat of
attack, explicitly including the rebel stronghold Benghazi,
“while excluding an occupation force.” The UN measure also
calls for an immediate cease-fire.  Military Options  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in  Tunisia  that military options being considered include the use
of drones and arming rebel forces to protect civilians and stop
the advance of Qaddafi’s forces. Asked if the U.S. was
considering sending ground forces to Libya, Clinton said “no.”  “Our goal in the Security Council today is to convince the
Security Council to authorize further action, including a no-fly
zone,” Clinton said at a town hall meeting with students and
others in Tunis.  Libyan Deputy Ambassador  Ibrahim Dabbashi  said five Arab
nations have agreed to contribute to the no-fly zone.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, scoffed yesterday at the
Security Council debate on a no-fly zone. “It’s too late,” he
said in an  interview  with EuroNews television, according to a
transcript on its website. “In 48 hours, we will have finished
our military operation. We are at the gates of Benghazi.”    Libya ’s state-run television appealed to residents of
Benghazi, a city of 1 million, to support government troops. The
International Committee of the Red Cross yesterday pulled its
staff from Benghazi and moved to Tobruk, near the Egyptian
border, it said in a statement on its website.  Qaddafi’s Airstrikes  The airstrikes around Benghazi haven’t targeted the city
itself, and rebel fighters downed one of the planes carrying
them out, said Essam Gheriani, a spokesman for the rebels, by
phone today. Benghazi-based newspaper Breniq said a second plane
was also shot down.  Libyan government forces continued to fight pockets of
rebel resistance in Ajdabiya, where Al Arabiya television
reported at least 30 dead bodies in the local hospital, and
attacked the blockaded city of Misrata, the last rebel holdout
in western Libya. Government tanks attacked two suburbs of the
city last night, and at least 18 people have been killed, Reda
Almountasser, a resident, said by phone.  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery rose $2.93, or 3 percent, to $100.91 a barrel at 12:19
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are heading
for the biggest gain since Feb. 23. The contract is up 22
percent from a year ago.  ‘Nothing Left’  In Benghazi, Aisha Ftaytah, a spokeswoman for the
Transitional National Council, said the rebels still control 40
percent of Libya, though Tobruk is the only major oil hub they
hold. The rebels have some planes in Benghazi that are being
targeted by government troops, she said, adding that people in
the city are concerned that by the time there is international
action against Qaddafi, “there will be nothing left.”  “The window of opportunity that we had for a no-fly zone
has been closed,” said  Jan Techau , director of the  Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace  bureau in Brussels and a
former analyst at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Defense
College in  Rome  and the German Defense Ministry.  “The West has a feeling of guilt, powerlessness and being
morally torn,” Techau said by phone today. “Qaddafi’s rule is
shattered and he’ll have to be even more despotic and vicious to
stay in power.”  In his EuroNews interview, Qaddafi said rebels should flee
to Egypt while they can. “We have no intention of killing them
or taking revenge on these traitors who have betrayed our
people,” he said. “We say to them that they can run into Egypt
quite safely because Libya no longer belongs to them. A lot of
them have already left for  Egypt .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  