-- 
Qatar Plans Additional Investments in Iberdrola Power Projects, CEO Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-16T15:52:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/qatar-plans-additional-investments-in-iberdrola-power-projects-ceo-says.html
Qatar Holding LLC will make
additional investments in energy projects with  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
after taking a 6.2 percent stake in Spain’s biggest power
company, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Al-Sayed said.  “We will invest together, we will grow together in
different locations,” Al-Sayed said today at a news conference
in Madrid. “We will put our money next to their money when we
find something appropriate.”  Iberdrola this week secured a 2 billion-euro ($2.8 billion)
investment from Qatar’s state-owned investment company to
bolster its balance sheet after acquiring a Brazilian power
distributor and offering to buy out minority shareholders in its
clean-power unit. The Qatar deal will let Iberdrola limit
borrowing and protect its  credit rating  as the utility looks to
expand its international business, the company said.  The partnership between Iberdrola and Qatar “creates a
platform with enough financial muscle to execute other energy
projects that need serious  capital investment ,” Iberdrola
Chairman Ignacio Galan said at the news conference.  Qatar Holding is a unit of the Qatar Investment Authority
and owns stakes in Agricultural Bank of China, Banco Santander
SA, Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse AG as well as  Porsche
Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , according to a
regulatory filing.  The company agreed to buy new shares equivalent to 6.2
percent of Iberdrola’s current capitalization and treasury stock
equivalent to 0.4 percent of the firm.  No New Plans  Al-Sayed said it was too soon to discuss whether he would
consider increasing Qatar’s Iberdrola stake. “We’ve just done
the deal,” he said. “I never thought about it yet and we never
discussed it internally.”  Iberdrola last week offered about 2.5 billion euros in
shares for the 20 percent of  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR)  owned by
other investors. It agreed to pay 1.8 billion euros for Brazil’s  Elektro Eletricidade e Servicos SA (EKTR4)  in January.  The offer for Renovables “will follow its course,” Galan
said.  Clean-power company shares have surged this week after the
radiation leak caused by the Japanese tsunami prompted Germany
to review its nuclear energy program. Iberdrola has said it
expects to close the Renovables buyout in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  