-- 
Christchurch Rugby World Cup Games to Be Moved After Damage by Earthquake

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/quake-ravaged-christchurch-forced-to-scrap-plans-to-host-world-cup-rugby.html
  Rugby World Cup  games will be moved
from Christchurch after the stadium in  New Zealand ’s second-
biggest city was damaged by an earthquake on Feb. 22.  Quarter final games will be moved to Auckland and pool
matches will be relocated to other venues in New Zealand, Rugby
World Cup Minister Murray McCully said in Christchurch today.  The prospect of Christchurch hosting the games became
unlikely after the 6.3-magnitude earthquake struck the South
Island city, killing more than 160  people . The temblor wrecked
much of the central business district and other buildings that
were already weakened by a 7.0 magnitude quake on Sep. 4.  “For an event as important as the Rugby  World Cup  we need
certainty, and unfortunately the only way to achieve that
certainty was to agree to move the games,” McCully said. The
government will grant NZ$4.1 million ($3 million) for work to
begin immediately at AMI Stadium, including complete replacement
of the turf, he said.  Finance Minister Bill English said before last month’s
quake he expected the nation’s hosting of the event to help
stoke an economic recovery in 2011, after the economy contracted
in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  New Zealand’s central bank last week cut the official cash
rate half a percentage point to 2.5 percent, citing the economic
damage of the earthquake. Economic growth in 2011 is expected to
be 1.5 percentage points lower because of the Feb. 22 temblor,
according to the  Treasury Department .  ‘No Choice’  “We have explored every option but, unfortunately, there
is no guarantee that with just 25 weeks until kickoff, that the
stadium and key tournament infrastructure could be ready in
time,” International Rugby Board Chairman Bernard Lapasset
said. “We’ve been left with no choice but to relocate it.”  While  stadium  structures could be fixed in time if normal
processes are by-passed, that would place insurance cover at
risk, McCully said. Further testing may reveal additional
problems and cause further delays, he said.  Christchurch’s AMI Stadium was scheduled to stage seven
matches, including two quarterfinals, at this year’s Rugby World
Cup, which starts Sept. 9. Attempts will be made to switch pool
matches to other South Island venues, McCully said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  