-- 
Trade Minister Green Says U.K. ‘Complacent’ on India Opportunity

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-03-16T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/trade-minister-green-says-u-k-complacent-on-india-opportunity.html
British companies have been
“complacent” about business opportunities in  India , put off by
excessive bureaucracy, corruption and restrictions on operating
in some sectors, U.K. Trade Secretary  Stephen Green  said.  U.K. businesses are losing ground to global competitors and
need to focus on opportunities to sell goods in fast-growing
economies such as India,  China ,  Russia  and Brazil, Green, the
former chairman of HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview in
Mumbai yesterday. He is on a four-day trip to India and will
then travel to China as part of a push by the British government
to increase exports.  “Many British businesses would say that they got
complacent about India and thought it was all too difficult,”
said Green, 62, looking out at the 27-storey apartment built by
Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man and chairman of its biggest
company,  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  India’s economy is expected to
grow at 8.6 percent this financial year. “Time and time I hear
people say, yes, now I do need to take this seriously.”  India ranked 134 out of 183 countries in the World Bank’s
2011  Doing Business report , 55 places lower than its Asian rival
China because of the regulatory hurdles involved in working in
the country. India, the world’s second fastest major growing
economy after China, was the 18th largest market for British
exports in 2009, according to the latest annual data available,
behind Australia and  Canada . China was ninth.  Export Gap  Britain needs to address a 27 billion pound export gap with  Brazil , Russia, India and China,  Peter Mandelson , the former
business secretary, said in a speech earlier this month. The U.K.
has a $3.2 billion trade deficit with India, Mandelson said.  “It tells you we have a lot of work to do,” Green said of
the trade deficit with the so-called BRIC countries. “If there
were magic wands to wave, they would have been waved by now. So
turning this around is the work of several years, five to 10
years.”  On his visit to India, Green met with Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  and Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee to press for
greater economic liberalization. In Mumbai, he had discussions
with Governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India Duvvuri Subbarao and
business leaders including Ratan Tata.  Green’s visit to India follows a trip by U.K. Business
Secretary Vince Cable in January and a delegation led by Prime
Minister David Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in July. Britain’s coalition government is trying to
increase exports to kick start an economy saddled with debt and
facing the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  HSBC Upheaval  Green said that Britain and India have a shared history
that should benefit U.K. firms although companies and the
government have not done enough at expanding relations. India
was ruled by Britain until 1947. The two countries share English
as a common language and are both democracies.  British exports rose to a record 25.1 billion in January,
helped by a weakening of the pound since the start of the
financial crisis. Ernst & Young’s Item Club said in a report
last month that U.K. goods exports will probably increase 8.7
percent a year through 2020, compared with a 3 percent annual
gain in the three years up to end 2010.  The trade minister helps promote British companies overseas,
something Cameron said in July he wants to be the focus of U.K.
foreign policy. Green stood down from HSBC in September along
with chief executive officer  Michael Geoghegan  in the biggest
management upheaval in the bank’s 145-year history. He started
his new job in January and sits in parliament’s upper house, the
House of Lords.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  