-- 
Radioactive Risk to Tokyo Limited Even in Worst Case, U.K. Official Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-16T23:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/radioactive-risk-to-tokyo-limited-even-in-worst-case-u-k-official-says.html
The risks to human health from
damage at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic
plant are limited to the area around the facility, according to
the U.K.’s Chief Scientific Officer  John Beddington .  “The 20 kilometer exclusion zone that the Japanese have
actually imposed is sensible and proportionate,” Beddington
said, according to a  transcript  of a conference call yesterday.
The worst case scenario would result in an explosion that could
send radioactive material about 1,600 feet in the air, he said.  Workers at the Fukushima facility, damaged after the March
11 earthquake, are struggling to keep the plant’s reactors cool
and to control pressure inside the containment vessels. If they
fail to do so, pressure would build up inside the reactors and
cause the core to melt, Beddington said. As it melts, the
material will fall and react with the concrete and other
materials on the floor, he said on a call with the British
Embassy in  Tokyo .  “In this reasonable worst case you get an explosion,” he
said. “Now, that’s really serious, but it’s serious again for
the local area. It’s not serious for elsewhere.”  Assuming that weather patterns drive radioactive material
toward Tokyo, there would be “absolutely no issue” for human
health, he said. Even following the disaster at Chernobyl,
there were no radiation-related problems outside the 30
kilometer (18.6 mile) exclusion zone, the scientist said.  The U.K. embassy today recommended nationals currently in
Tokyo and to the north of Tokyo to consider leaving the area
because of the threat from the Fukushima nuclear facility, as
well as disruptions to the supply of goods, transport,
communication, power and infrastructure, the British embassy
said in a statement on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 