-- 
Radiation Contamination Risk Growing as Japan Nuclear Crisis Deepens: Q&A

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-16T10:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/radiation-contamination-risk-growing-as-japan-nuclear-crisis-deepens-q-a.html
The stricken nuclear reactors in
Fukushima Dai-Ichi have so far released only small amounts of
radioactive material unharmful to the general population outside
the 20-kilometer evacuation zone.  That could change in the unlikely event -- a worst-case
scenario -- that engineers are no longer able to cool down
either the reactors, or the spent fuel rods outside reactor 4.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. officials suspect a breach in reactor
2, which was damaged by a hydrogen explosion this morning.  Those most at risk right now are the 50 or so remaining
workers at the plant who are trying to put out fires, avoid
further explosions, cool the reactor cores with sea water and
re-submerge an array of spent fuel rods into a pool of water.  The highest measurement of radiation so far was taken
between two buildings on the plant complex -- at 400
millisieverts, it was 20 times the annual limit for nuclear
industry employees and uranium miners, according to the  World
Nuclear Association , a London-based advocate for the industry. A
radiation dose of 100 millisieverts a year is the lowest level
at which any increase in cancer is evident, the London-based WNA
said on its website.  The worst-case scenario, in which engineers are no longer
able to cool the rods -- both those inside the reactors and
those in a spent fuel rod pool that is currently leaking
radiation -- leading to a buildup of radioactive Cesium and
Iodine isotopes, which are then released either through an
explosion or a leak in the containment vessels, is highly
unlikely, according to scientists. In this scenario, winds
blowing inland could spread these radioactive isotopes over a
large area, perhaps exceeding the 20-kilometer evacuation zone.  The following questions and answers were created from
Bloomberg News interviews with experts on radiation poisoning,
nuclear reactor design and past nuclear accidents, and from
official websites of the World Nuclear Association, the Science
Media Centres of Japan and  Australia , the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva, the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  in Atlanta, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency in  Washington .  Q: What sorts of radioactive materials are we talking about, and
how harmful are they?  A: In the current situation, radiation can come from at least
four sources: the uranium fuel that is placed inside the fuel
rods, the spent uranium rods that are now exposed in reactor
number 4, the dispersal or venting of gases built up inside the
reactors from a chemical reaction that takes place between the
rods and their alloy casing if the rods become too hot, and the
seawater that is being used to cool the reactors.  Q: What is the potential for release from the spent fuel rods,
which are currently uncovered, and no longer submerged in water?  A: The spent fuel rods are kept under water to stop them from
burning through their casings, which are made of zirconium. In
at least one of the spent fuel ponds, the casings have began to
burn, exposing the fuel rods and releasing cesium into the air.
Since there are no explosions, or ventilation, the cesium will
likely form a layer around the area of the pond, and contaminate
it.  Q: How do they stop that?  A: The only way to stop that process is re-submerge the fuel
rods -- this can be done by helicopters, or by robotic means. If
the cesium buildup continues, workers trying to get close to the
reactors will be exposed to lethal doses of radiation.  The water will then have to mixed with boric acid to stop the
burnt uranium from mixing with water and reaching what
scientists call “recriticality.” At that point the fuel rods
themselves becomes a sort of open-air reactor, releasing
radiation into the sky.  Q: How much of that has been released, and what are the effects
of that?  A: The uranium fuel rods inside each reactor are still expected
to be largely intact. If the reactors are cooled down over time,
the rods will be disposed off as radioactive waste. The spent
rods, which were usually stored in a pool near reactor number,
are radioactive -- or hot -- and will be leaking radiation until
they are fully submerged with cool, distilled water and return
to a normal temperature.  At least one of the pools of spent fuel rods is completely dry
and out of control.  Trace amounts of Cesium-137 and Iodine-131 were found in the air
around the plant starting March 12, around 1:30 p.m. local time.
The two isotopes are produced when the fuel rods inside the
reactors overheat and react with their casings. Both are
radioactive and can cause health damage. Iodine has a half-life,
or reduces in mass and thus radioactivity, every eight days --
within two months, it leaves no trace behind. It can be
countered with doses of potassium iodide tablets, but only
within 24 hours of exposure. It is known to cause thyroid
cancer.  Cesium has a longer half-life of about 300 years. External
exposure to large amounts of Cs-137 can cause burns, acute
radiation sickness and even death. Exposure to Cs-137 can
increase the risk for cancer because of exposure to high-energy
gamma radiation. Internal exposure to Cs-137, through ingestion
or inhalation, allows the radioactive material to be distributed
in the soft tissues, especially muscle tissue, exposing these
tissues to the beta particles and gamma radiation and increasing
cancer risk.  Q: How much of this material is out there? A: So far, very small
amounts of cesium and iodine are reported to have been released,
mostly in a process when engineers are venting pressurized gases
out from near the reactors core, to chambers outside it, where
leaks and explosions have spread it out.  How much Cesium or Iodine remains inside the nuclear reactors is
the big unknown -- the fuel rods have been partially submerged
several times, and the temperatures have risen each time. If
engineers can get control of the reactors, and finish the
cooling process, then this radioactive material should be
entombed within the reactor itself.  If the cooling process fails for any reason, and the containment
chambers are sufficiently damaged, this material could leak out.
This is the worst case scenario.  Q: How far has the radiation leaked so far reached, and should
we be worried? A: Radiation levels near Namie, a town 20
kilometers northwest of the  Tokyo  Electric Power plant, reached
as high as 330 microsieverts per hour.  Kitaibaraki city, northeast of Tokyo, had the highest reading so
far of radiation at 11:40 PM local time, of 15,800 nanosieverts
per hour.  That’s about 1/15th of a millisievert. (See below)  Q: What level of radiation is dangerous to human health? A: One
hundred  millisieverts  a year is the lowest level at which any
increase in cancer is clearly evident. Above this, the
probability of cancer occurrence increases with higher doses.  A cumulative dose of 1,000 millisieverts would increase the
incidence of fatal cancer by about 5 percent. A single dose of
1,000 millisieverts causes temporary radiation sickness and
decreased white blood cell count, but not death. A single dose
of 5,000 millisieverts would kill about half those receiving it
within a month.  Air crew on flights over the  North Pole  between  New York 
and Tokyo are exposed to about 9 millisieverts of radiation a
year, and a chest x-ray radiates about 0.1 millisieverts. Humans
are exposed to about 2 millisieverts a year from naturally
occurring radiation in soil and cosmic rays.  Q: What are the health consequences of radiation?  A: Exposure to high levels of radiation can cause  acute
radiation syndrome , or radiation poisoning, resulting in
substantial damage to human body tissues, premature aging and
possibly death. Prolonged exposure to lower levels is also
associated with increased risk of ill health.  Q: What are the symptoms of radiation poisoning? A: The first
symptoms of acute radiation syndrome are typically nausea,
vomiting and diarrhea. These symptoms can start within minutes
to days of exposure and can last for days. After that, a person
with acute radiation syndrome may look and feel healthy for a
short time, then become sick again with loss of appetite,
fatigue, fever and possibly seizures and coma. This stage may
last a few hours or several months. Radiation poisoning also
typically causes skin damage.  Q: What is being done to protect human health? A:  Japan  has
distributed 230,000 units of stable iodine to evacuation centers
from the area around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi and Fukushima Daini
nuclear power plants. The iodine has not yet been administered
to residents; the distribution is a precautionary measure in the
event that this is determined to be necessary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 