-- 
Rajaratnam, Massey, Madoff, Devon Energy in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-16T10:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rajaratnam-massey-madoff-zijin-devon-energy-in-court-news.html
Rajat Gupta, while on the  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board in 2008, told Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  of the board’s talks on whether to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or Wachovia Corp., according
to a wiretapped recording.  Prosecutors at Rajaratnam’s insider trading trial yesterday
played a recording of a July 2008 discussion between the two
men, one of about 170 wiretaps the government said it plans to
present in Manhattan federal court. During the conversation,
Rajaratnam asked about a “rumor that Goldman may look to buy a
commercial bank.”  “Yeah, this is being discussing at the board meeting,”
Gupta replied, adding that it was “a divided” discussion.
Among the institutions that the Goldman Sachs board discussed
were Charlotte, North Carolina-based Wachovia, now part of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and New York-based insurer AIG, according to the
transcript.  Testimony in Rajaratnam’s trial continued yesterday with
former McKinsey & Co. partner  Anil Kumar , a government witness,
who described Rajaratnam’s relationship with Gupta. Before
prosecutors played the tape, Kumar testified that Gupta had
invested or planned to invest in several Galleon Group funds.  Prosecutors previously said that Gupta, who isn’t charged
with criminal wrongdoing, tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
transactions, including Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s 2008
investment in the bank. Yesterday’s recording was the first tape
played in which Gupta was a participant in the conversation.  On the recording, Gupta said some Goldman Sachs board
members believed commercial banking was a “low-return
business,” while others said such a bank was a “low-cost
source” of funding.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, and  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman
for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, declined to comment.  Rajaratnam’s attorney, John Dowd, later cross-examined
Kumar, focusing on his cooperation agreement with the U.S. Kumar
has pleaded guilty in the Galleon case and is testifying for
prosecutors in exchange for leniency. Kumar testified that
insider trading wasn’t part of the original consulting agreement
between him and Rajaratnam.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Juno Founders Sued by SEC Over $1.8 Million Fraud Claim  Juno Mother Earth Asset Management LLC and founders Eugenio
Verzili and Arturo Rodriguez were sued by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for defrauding clients out of $1.8
million.  Juno, which was an investment manager for three hedge
funds; Verzili, 44, of Miami Beach, Florida; and Rodriguez, 47,
of Costa Rica, looted assets from a hedge fund they managed in a
scheme that began in 2007, the SEC said in a lawsuit filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The defendants inflated and misrepresented Juno’s assets by
about $40 million, misappropriated funds and later concealed
Juno’s “precarious financial condition,” according to the
complaint.  “This action concerns defendants’ multi-faceted scheme to
defraud a hedge fund under their control as well as investors in
the fund,” the SEC said in the complaint.  Verzili and Rodriguez directed Juno to withdraw a funds for
improper purchases, including $9,500 a month in rent for an
apartment the two shared, as well as “travel, meals,
entertainment and department store purchases,” the SEC said.  Omar Ortega, a lawyer for the men, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. Juno Mother Earth Asset Management LLC,
11-CV-1778, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Porsche Sued by Greenlight, Tiger Over Short-Selling Losses  Porsche SE, the German automaker, was sued by hedge funds
Greenlight Capital Inc., Tiger Management LLC and other funds
over $1 billion in short-selling losses.  The funds accused Porsche of fraud, saying it hid its plan
to corner the market in  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court. The
funds had shorted, or bet against, Volkswagen stock and suffered
losses when Porsche revealed its holdings.  “Porsche lured the plaintiffs into a trap, making
plaintiffs believe VW shares were overvalued while hiding from
plaintiffs the risk of a massive short squeeze that would send
the price skyrocketing several hundred percent,” they said in
court papers.  Porsche was sued in federal court in New York over the same
allegations and won dismissal of the lawsuits last year.  Albrecht Bamler, a spokesman for Stuttgart, Germany-based
Porsche, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
after normal business hours.  The case is Glenview Capital LP v.  Porsche Automobil
Holding SE (PAH3) , 650678-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Massey Security Chief Pleads Not Guilty to Obstruction  The chief of security at the  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  West
Virginia coal mine where an explosion killed 29 workers last
year pleaded not guilty to federal charges that he obstructed
justice and made false statements to U.S. agents.  Hughie Elbert Stover, of Richmond, Virginia-based Massey’s
Performance Coal unit, was indicted last month by a federal
grand jury investigating the cause of the explosion, the worst
U.S. mine disaster in 40 years. The indictment is the first
criminal charge arising from the U.S. investigation of the April
5 blast at Performance Coal’s Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal,
West Virginia.  Stover, 60, of Clear Fork, West Virginia, is accused of
lying to an FBI agent and a U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration investigator about whether he instructed security
guards at the Upper Big Branch mine to announce the arrival of
safety inspectors. The U.S. also alleges Stover ordered the
disposal of security-related documents in January.  “The company takes this matter very seriously and is
committed to cooperating with the U.S. attorney’s office,” M.  Shane Harvey , Massey’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The matter remains under review and the company has
no further comment at this time.”  When asked yesterday at a news conference after the hearing
about the possibility of more indictments, R. Booth Goodwin,
U.S. attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia,
replied: “Stay tuned.”  The case is U.S. v. Stover, 11-cr-38, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of West Virginia (Beckley).  For more, click here.  Sixth Avenue Electronics Sued by GE Over $9.61 Million Debt  Sixth Avenue Electronics  City Inc., with more than 15
locations in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware,
was sued by a financing affiliate of  General Electric Co. (GE) 
seeking to collect $9.61 million in debt.  GE Commercial Distribution Finance Corp. contends it
provided inventory financing for Springfield, New Jersey-based
Sixth Avenue beginning in 2007, and that the electronics
retailer is in default of payments.  “Borrower has failed and refused to remit the past-due
payments,” and GE “is lawfully entitled to possession of the
inventory,” GE lawyers said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  A company spokesman, William Pereira, said in an e-mailed
message that Sixth Avenue has no comment “at this time.”  The case is Capital Solutions v. Sixth Avenue Electronics
City Inc., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Astellas Sued for Alleged Scheme to Delay Prograf Generics    Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  was sued by a drug wholesaler over an
alleged scheme to delay generic versions of immune-suppressant
Prograf.  Astellas illegally maintained a monopoly on the market for
tacrolimus, which it sells as Prograf, for almost two years by
filing a “sham” petition with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to require safety and efficacy tests for the
generics, Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. said in the complaint.  “The only material difference between generic drugs and
their brand name counterparts is price,” lawyers for the
wholesaler said in the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Delaware. “Astellas was keenly aware that it would
lose a substantial amount of its sales of Prograf very quickly
once AB-rated generics came to market.”  Prograf, given to transplant patients to avoid organ
rejection, has faced generic competition since August 2009 in
the U.S. when  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit began selling the first
copy of the drug. That month, the FDA also denied Astellas’s
petition, filed in 2007, which included a request that the
regulator require doctors be notified whenever a substitute oral
medicine is about to be provided to a transplant patient.  Stan Neve, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Astellas, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. v. Astellas Pharma
US Inc., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial    Ruth Madoff  Account Got $14 Million Via Fraud, Trustee Says  Ruth Madoff’s account at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
received “fraudulent” transfers of at least $14 million, said
the trustee liquidating her husband Bernard Madoff’s firm, who
wants to “recapture” $44.8 million.    Irving Picard , the trustee, said last week that he asked
the bank for the couple’s monthly bank statements, canceled
checks and other records from January 2002 through December
2008, to show other parties, or use in court filings. Bank of
New York had no objection to providing them, he said in the
March 10 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Money going into Ruth Madoff’s personal bank account came
from the imprisoned fraudster’s companies, which received
nothing in return, Picard said in previous filings. When Bernard
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme collapsed in 2008, the funds became the
property of his customers, Picard said in his 2009 lawsuit
against Ruth Madoff.  She is due to respond to the suit by March 31. While she
forfeited houses, jewels and bank accounts to the U.S.
government in June 2009, she remains “a person of substantial
means,” according to Picard.  In the Bank of New York account, some transfers masqueraded
as interest payments on loans made by Madoff companies, which
should have gone to the businesses and not to the owner’s wife,
Picard said. A $2.3 million deposit originating in the Madoff
brokerage was used “for the purchase of a yacht for the
personal enjoyment of Mrs. Madoff and her family,” Picard said.  Ruth Madoff’s lawyer, Peter Chavkin, and Amanda Remus, a
Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment on the case.  The case is Picard v. Madoff, 1:09-ap-1391, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Las Vegas Sands Must Face Suit Over Firing, Judge Rules    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the world’s biggest casino operator
by market value, must face a lawsuit by the former top executive
of its Chinese unit over his firing, a Nevada judge ruled.  State court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez in Las Vegas yesterday
rejected the company’s request to dismiss the suit by Steven
Jacobs. The former chief executive officer of  Sands China Ltd. (1928) 
claims the company breached his employment contract. Lawyers for
Las Vegas Sands argued the case should be heard in China, where
the company operates casinos in Macau.  Las Vegas Sands “controlled Mr. Jacobs’s employment in
every manner,” Don Campbell, a lawyer for Jacobs, told Gonzalez
at a hearing yesterday while arguing that the case should be
heard in her court.  Jacobs contends in court filings that he was fired after
clashing with billionaire Sheldon Adelson, the chairman and CEO
of Las Vegas Sands. Jacobs claims the disputes centered on his
resistance to alleged demands by Adelson to commit acts that
might violate U.S. law, according to the filings.  Lawyers for the casino company countered in their own
filings that Jacobs was dismissed for working on unauthorized
deals and violating company policy.    Ron Reese , a spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, declined to
comment on the judge’s decision.  The case is Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands Corp., A-10-627691,
Nevada District Court, Clark County (Las Vegas)  For more, click here.  U.S. Wins Delay in Deadlines for Quick Drill Permit Action  U.S. offshore regulators aren’t required to act this month
on certain Gulf of Mexico drilling permits delayed by the Obama
Administration’s ban, a federal appeals court said.  A three-judge panel yesterday granted the government’s
request for a reprieve from a court-ordered deadline without
comment.  U.S. regulators threatened to deny the seven Gulf drilling
permits that U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans
singled out for quick action if they were forced to act by his
deadlines. Feldman ordered government action by March 19 on five
permits and by March 31 on two additional permits.  The Interior Department had asked Feldman to delay his
order so that the U.S. Court of Appeals would have time to
review it. When Feldman didn’t respond quickly, the U.S. turned
to the appellate court.  Regulators claim the permitting process is a cooperative
dialogue between the agency and operators, which can take days
or months to complete. These seven permit applications are
incomplete and “cannot be approved in their current state,”
according to a March 9 filing by the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said
government lawyers would have no immediate comment on the
appellate court ruling.  The case is Ensco Offshore Services Inc. v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 11-30225, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Zijin Mining Falls After Getting Court Notice on Xinyi Dam  Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest publicly traded
gold producer, fell the most in eight months in Hong Kong after
receiving a notice from the Guangdong Province Xinyin City
People’s Court that it will hear a case started by 850 villagers
against the company.  The shares fell as much as 6 percent, the biggest drop
since July 13, and traded at HK$6.14 at 11:09 a.m. in Hong Kong
yesterday. In Shanghai, they fell as much as 6.1 percent, the
most since Nov. 16, to 7.61 yuan. They traded at 7.71 yuan
around 11.09 a.m.  Zijin Mining is being sued for 170 million yuan ($25.8
million) after a tailing dam collapsed last year, killing 22
people. A government investigation into the accident in December
placed the blame on the company, which was accused of breaching
dam construction regulations.  Zijin shouldn’t be held liable for the fact that it is a
shareholder of Xinyi Zijin, the regional unit that operates the
dam, and it will defend itself against the legal proceedings,
the Fujian province-based company said in a statement March 15
to the Hong Kong exchange.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Devon Energy, Billionaire Rees-Jones Liable for $116 Million  Devon Energy Production Co. and Trevor Rees-Jones must pay
the Dallas billionaire’s ex-partner $116 million for defrauding
him of his true share of a company that Devon later bought for
$2 billion, a Houston jury said.  A Texas state court jury awarded March 14 damages to D.
Bobbitt Noel Jr., a former minority partner in Chief Holdings
LLC, which Rees-Jones sold to Devon in 2006. Jurors found Rees-
Jones profited in excess of $360 million by selling Chief for 20
times the value he placed on the company when he bought Noel out
in 2004.  “We always thought justice would prevail, despite the
wealth and resources of the defendants,” Noel’s lawyer, Grant
J. Harvey of Gibbs & Bruns LLP in Houston, said yesterday in a
statement.  Noel sold his 5.76 percent stake in Chief Holdings to Rees-
Jones for $6.5 million in 2004, Harvey said. Jurors found that
if he had retained the interest, it would be worth $116 million
today.  Craig Haynes, Rees-Jones’s lawyer, said he still expects
the oilman to prevail. Noel signed a release of all claims and
promised never to sue Rees-Jones as part of the sale of his
stake, which may lead the judge to disregard the jury’s
findings, Haynes said.  “We are confident that release is going to be enforced as
a matter of law and that no judgment will be entered,” Haynes
said in a telephone interview. “There was another partner in
the same position and making the same claims as Noel, and his
release has been enforced in a different court.”  Devon, as successor in interest to Chief, also was found
liable by the jury for the fraud.  “Devon acquired Chief Holdings in 2006, two years after
the events in question occurred, and was named as a defendant
solely because it had assumed the legal liabilities of Chief
Holdings in connection with that acquisition,” Chip Minty,
Devon’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“The plaintiff did not allege any misconduct of any sort by any
persons at Devon.”  Minty said Oklahoma City-based Devon plans to appeal the
verdict and seek full payment of any judgment and legal expenses
from Rees-Jones, under an indemnity agreement. The lawsuit isn’t
anticipated to have any material effect on the company, he said.  The case is D. Bobbitt Noel Jr. v. Devon Energy Production
Co., 2008-39598, 127th Judicial District Court of Harris County,
Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 