-- 
Rajaratnam Lawyer Challenges Kumar’s Testimony on Insider Tips, Payments

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rajaratnam-lawyer-challenges-kumar-s-testimony-on-insider-tips-payments.html
  Anil Kumar , the former McKinsey &
Co. partner testifying for the government against  Raj Rajaratnam , was challenged by a defense lawyer over his claims
that he gave the defendant inside tips including earnings
information for  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and planned employee
firings at EBay Inc.  John Dowd yesterday cross-examined Kumar for a second day
in Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial in  Manhattan  federal
court. Kumar has pleaded guilty to leaking tips to Rajaratnam,
including AMD’s planned acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. in
2006. Dowd showed Kumar press articles and e-mails discussing
the possible acquisition before it was announced.  “So the deal was public,” Dowd said.  “No sir,” replied Kumar, who is on the witness stand for
a fourth day.  The two men frequently talked over one each other,
occasionally raising their voices toward the end of Kumar’s
testimony.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.  Rajaratnam, who co-founded Galleon Group LLC, claims his
trades were based on legitimate research.  EBay Firings  Dowd asked Kumar about stories in the press discussing  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s plans to fire 10 percent of its workers in 2008. He
showed Kumar articles from Barron’s and Bloomberg News reporting
that the online auction site was planning the firings.  “You didn’t provide Mr. Rajaratnam with any confidential,
nonpublic information about EBay, did you?” Dowd asked.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter later asked Kumar
whether there is a difference between the press stories about
the EBay firings and the information Kumar delivered to
Rajaratnam.  “Night and day,” Kumar answered. “It’s between actually
knowing if an event is going to happen and being part of the
noise in the system.”  Dowd asked Kumar about his testimony that he was paid $1
million for his tip about AMD’s acquisition of ATI, suggesting
instead that Kumar was being paid for legitimate consulting
work, including a role in the launch of New Silk Route, a
private equity fund investing in  South Asia .  “I did very little work in the beginning,” Kumar
testified.  Rarely Consulted  He said he was rarely consulted by Rajaratnam and Rajat K.
Gupta, an ex  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, who were among
the financial backers of the fund, about it.  “They treated me pretty poorly, Mr. Dowd,” Kumar he said.
“They treated me like I was irrelevant.”  Kumar testified that he and Gupta created a company called
Mindspirit LLC in 2001 as a vehicle for their two families to
make investments, not as a consulting company, as suggested by
Dowd.  Dowd and Kumar sparred at times, with Dowd accusing Kumar
of “making up” facts in the courtroom and of trying to get
“something for nothing” from the New Silk Route fund, in which
he said he invested $1 million.  “I was not worth $2 billion like Mr. Rajaratnam,” Kumar
replied.  Kumar told jurors on March 14 that after the AMD-ATI deal
was made public, Rajaratnam called him at home to thank him for
the information, saying, “We’re all cheering you at the office
right now.”  ‘A Star’  “‘You’re a star,’” Rajaratnam told Kumar, according to
the ex-McKinsey director. “‘I want to give you a million
dollars.’”  Under questioning by Streeter, Kumar told jurors he sent $1
million to the  U.S. Treasury  to cover the estimated tax
liability from the proceeds of his deal with Rajaratnam. He’s
put an additional $2.7 million into escrow to cover a possible
order of forfeiture when he’s sentenced, he said.  Streeter asked Kumar whether he thought at the beginning of
his deal with Rajaratnam that he would be passing on the
confidences of his McKinsey clients.  “When he first offered it to me, I thought it was for my
experience and my insights,” Kumar said. “I was mistaken.”  After Kumar’s questioning, prosecutors called a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  investor-relations official, Alexander Lenke, to
testify. Lenke said that Rajiv Goel, a former Intel treasury
executive, asked him about the company’s performance in January
2007 and that Lenke gave him some of the confidential numbers in
April 2007, before they were publicly reported.  Goel has pleaded guilty to  insider trading  and is expected
to testify that he tipped Rajaratnam about Intel’s performance.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 