-- 
Transgene Says Experimental Cancer Drug Has ‘Enormous Potential’

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-03-16T00:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/transgene-says-experimental-cancer-drug-has-enormous-potential-.html
  Transgene SA (TNG) , a French
biotechnology company, is “very confident” about the prospects
of an experimental cancer treatment now in clinical testing,
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Archinard said.  The compound, called JX594/TG6006 has “enormous
potential” and study results that the company hasn’t yet made
public “are very, very promising,” the 51-year-old executive
said in an interview in Paris yesterday. Transgene  acquired  some
rights to the product in September from San Francisco-based
Jennerex Inc.  “We could have, as a company, a top line that explodes
thanks to this single product,” Archinard said. The treatment
may garner annual sales of more than $1 billion from an
indication against  liver cancer  in  Europe  and other areas where
Transgene has rights, “and that’s only one indication in one
region,” the CEO said.  Trangene, based in Illkirch,  France , today said revenue
last year climbed 20 percent to 14.1 million euros ($19.7
million), helped by an initial payment from Novartis AG, which
last year acquired an option on rights to Transgene’s
experimental TG4010 lung cancer vaccine, and a higher research
tax credit.  The full-year loss widened to 34.2 million euros from 27.3
million euros in 2009, with research and development costs
climbing by about 30 percent to 42.5 million euros.  Research and development costs will rise further this year,
on higher expenses for clinical trials, said Archinard,
declining to elaborate. Recruitment of patients should begin in
the middle of the year for a mid-stage clinical trial of
JX594/TG6006 as a second-line treatment for liver cancer.  Cash Consumption  Transgene spent a net 28.8 million euros in cash last year,
excluding the amount raised in a stock sale and the money it
spent to invest in Jennerex. The company expects cash
consumption of 40 million euros this year. It had cash, cash
equivalents and other financial assets of 180.3 million euros at
Dec. 31.  Transgene is under pressure after  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  last
month ended an agreement to license the rights to the French
company’s experimental vaccine for cervical lesions. Roche
dropped the project because of “its own strategic reasons” and
not because of data about the drug, Transgene said in a  Feb. 22
statement .  Shares in the company have lost 20 percent since the
announcement, reducing Transgene’s market value to 373.6 million
euros. The stock shed 41 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 11.80 euros
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  