-- 
Transgaz Asks Romania to Sell More Shares for Investment Plans

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-16T12:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/transgaz-asks-romania-to-sell-more-shares-for-investment-plans.html
Transgaz SA,  Romania ’s state-owned
utility, asked the government to allow the sale of more shares
than planned on the stock exchange, to help finance upgrade
investments.  The natural-gas grid operator asked for approval for a sale
of as much as 14 percent, worth about 110 million euros ($153
million) on top of the 15 percent stake the government already
plans to offer on the stock exchange, Elisabeta Ghidiu, a
company spokeswoman, said in an interview in Bucharest today.
Transgaz hopes to sell at least a 7 percent stake, valued at 60
million euros, which would allow the state to retain a majority
in the utility, Ghidiu said.  “We sent the primary-offer proposal to the economy
ministry because we need money to fund our investments,” she
said. “I don’t expect them to agree with all of it, we want
them to approve the idea and then start working on it
together.”  Romania plans to sell minority holdings of its utilities
and the largest  oil company ,  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , to meet
international bailout conditions and cover infrastructure
investments. Transgaz is seeking funds to upgrade its outdated
gas pipes and for strategic development plans, including
connecting its  power grid  with other countries, Ghidiu said.  Transgaz plans to invest 183 million lei ($61 million) in
2011 for strategic development and 547 million lei in 2012, of
which 400 million lei are earmarked for the Nabucco pipeline to
bring Caspian gas to  Europe , in which the Romanian company is a
shareholder, Ghidiu said.  Sale Plans  The Balkan nation plans to select a manager for the sale of
stakes in Transgaz and power-grid operator  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  by
August this year and complete the offerings by the end of the
year, Victor Cazana, the Economy Ministry official in charge of
the sales, told reporters in Bucharest today.  “I know the state wants to sell the 15 percent stake by
the end of the year, but it usually takes five or six months to
select the sale managers, so I’m not sure that the year end
target can be met,” Ghidiu said.  Transgaz rose 2.3 percent to 266 lei as of 2:46 p.m. in
Bucharest trading, valuing the utility at 3.1 billion lei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  