-- 
Treasuries Fall, Snap Two-Day Gain, as Japan's Rising Stocks Damp Demand

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T08:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/treasuries-decline-as-gain-in-japan-stocks-reduces-demand-for-safer-assets.html
Treasuries fell, snapping a two-day
gain, after the  Federal Reserve  said the U.S. recovery is on
“firmer footing” and Japanese stocks rose, sapping demand for
the relative safety of government debt.  Bonds trimmed their advance yesterday after Fed policy
makers said the economic recovery is strengthening and labor
market conditions appear to be improving. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 
Stock Average rebounded from a 23-month low, even as workers
struggled to avert a meltdown at a nuclear plant north of  Tokyo .  “We have seen a substantial move in Japanese equities,”
said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate strategist at UniCredit
SpA in Munich. “Market sentiment is a lot better as opposed to
yesterday, and with respect to the Treasury market, it’s also a
factor that the Fed sounded a little bit more optimistic on the
growth outlook.”  Ten-year yields rose three basis points to 3.33 percent as
of 8:19 a.m. in  London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 fell 8/32, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 14/32.  The Nikkei 225 rose 5.7 percent. It was up as much as 6.6
percent after an 11 percent loss yesterday.  Helicopters were deployed to drop water on the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant today as officials said fuel rods
at two reactors may have been damaged. Japanese Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation levels at the plant rose
this morning, forcing an evacuation, but have since fallen.  U.S. Inflation  Treasury two-year notes erased gains yesterday after the
Fed statement.  In an upgrade of the economic outlook, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues removed language that the recovery
is “disappointingly slow” and that “tight credit” is holding
back  consumer spending .  “There’s a definite feeling at the Fed that the economy
has created a better foundation,” said  John Spinello , chief
technical strategist in  New York  at Jefferies Group Inc., one of
20 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “That
offsets the flight to quality.”  The Fed reaffirmed its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June. It is scheduled to purchase $5.5
billion to $7.5 billion of debt maturing from March 2015 to
August 2016 today as part of the  program .  U.S. government securities have returned 0.6 percent this
month, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. An index of
bonds around the world gained 0.5 percent, the indexes show. The
MSCI All Country World Index of stocks handed investors a 4.5
percent loss during the period.  Yield Bets  Yields indicate investors are cutting bets on U.S.
inflation. Five-year inflation swaps fell to 2.36 percent
yesterday from 2.62 percent a week ago. The securities allow
investors to exchange fixed-interest rates for returns
equivalent to the  consumer price index .  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, narrowed to 2.36
percentage points yesterday. It was the least in three weeks.  U.S. economic reports today will show housing starts fell
and producer prices rose in February, based on Bloomberg News
surveys of economists.  The Bank of  Japan  added 5 trillion yen ($61.8 billion) to
the financial system, on top of 8 trillion yen yesterday and a
record $15 trillion yen on March 14. Ten-year yields in the
nation increased one basis point to 1.23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  