-- 
Rembrandt Leads $1.4 Billion Art Fair as Dealers Vie for Buyers

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-03-16T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rembrandt-leads-1-4-billion-art-fair-as-dealers-fight-auctions-for-buyers.html
Works by Rembrandt and Renoir will
be among 30,000 items worth more than 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) offered at the world’s biggest art and antiques fair as
dealers vie with auction houses to lure wealthy buyers.  The Rembrandt portrait, priced at $47 million, and the $15-
million Renoir will be on show at the 24th annual European Fine
Art Fair,  Tefaf , in the Dutch city of Maastricht. The event,
owned and run by dealers, previews tomorrow.  Its 260 galleries, showing museum-quality artworks from
four millennia, are competing more than ever with auctions,
where rich collectors are bidding millions for trophies.  “We now see players in the art market with unlimited
means,” Jacques Billen, director of the Brussels-based
antiquities dealership Galerie Harmakhis said in an interview.
“The auction houses are extremely successful. Though the dealer
market is shrinking, Maastricht is still an opportunity to meet
people who are not looking for us.”  Tefaf’s dealers in antiquities are placed near specialists
in 20th- and 21st-century works in the 100,000 square-foot
exhibition space. As a result, about 10 percent of Harmakhis’s
buyers at the fair are contemporary art collectors, said Billen.  He is offering a stone fragment from an Egyptian water
clock commissioned by Alexander the Great. It is priced at
150,000 euros.  Rembrandt’s 1658 “Portrait of a Man with Arms Akimbo”
will be shown by the New York-based Old-Master dealer Otto
Naumann Ltd. The painting was acquired from the Las Vegas casino
magnate  Steve Wynn , who paid 20.2 million pounds ($32.2 million)
for it at Christie’s International in London in 2009.  Monet’s Wife  Renoir’s 1874 painting “Femme Cueillant des Fleurs,”
showing  Claude Monet ’s first wife Camille Doncieux in a sunlit
meadow, is offered by the London dealer Dickinson. The early
Impressionist work is being sold by the Sterling and Francine
Clark Institute, Williamstown,  Massachusetts .  Old Master dealers have been the mainstay of Tefaf. With
auctions now usually the starting point for the limited pool of
new buyers drawn to historic paintings, the event gives traders
a chance to see fresh faces. Last year, 72,500 visitors
attended, with 171 private planes landing at Maastricht airport
during the fair.  “People go to the auctions first, then come to dealers
when they feel more confident,” the London-based Old Master
specialist Jean-Luc Baroni said in an interview. “If we’re
going to meet new collectors, we’ll meet them at Maastricht.”  A panel of the Madonna and Child by the 16th-century
Mannerist painter Rosso Fiorentino is one of several
discoveries. It is priced at “several million pounds,” said
Baroni.  Chinese Art  Increasing attention will be focused on Chinese art,
following auction results such as the record 51.6 million pounds
bid -- if not yet paid -- by a Beijing-based collector for a
Qianlong-dynasty vase at an auction in  London  in November.  The London- and New York-based Asian art specialist
 Littleton & Hennessy  has priced an early Yuan-dynasty lacquered
bronze at $8 million.  Though Chinese dealers turn up in force at European
auctions of Chinese art, wealthy collectors from the region have
yet to make an impact at fairs such as Tefaf.  “I’m not expecting to sell to hordes of Chinese on my
stand,” gallery director James Hennessy said in an interview.
“It’s still quite difficult for wealthy mainlanders to leave
the country. I’ll be selling mostly to Europeans and
Americans.”  The fair runs through March 27.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 