-- 
Republican Senators Demand Obama Take Lead on Entitlement Cuts

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-16T22:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/republican-senators-demand-obama-take-lead-on-entitlement-cuts.html
Almost two-dozen Republican
senators are threatening to oppose increasing the U.S. debt
limit unless President  Barack Obama  leads efforts to begin
cutting government entitlement programs such as Medicare and
Social Security.  The 22 lawmakers, in a letter today to Obama, demanded he
work out an agreement similar to the 1983 deal between President  Ronald Reagan  and then-House Speaker Tip O’Neill, a
Massachusetts Democrat, that shored up the Social Security trust
fund.  “A similar show of leadership from you and from
congressional leaders of both parties is necessary to address
the long-term fiscal challenges facing our country,” the letter
said. “Without action to begin addressing the deficit, it will
be difficult, if not impossible, for us to support a further
increase in the debt ceiling.”  The government will reach the legal limit on borrowing
sometime between April 15 and May 31, according to the Treasury
Department.  White House Budget Director Jack Lew said lawmakers should
focus on passing a budget measure to fund the government through
September. The debt limit increase should be done “clean --
it’s irresponsible to do anything but extending the debt
limit,” he said.  The agreement between Reagan and O’Neill “was not
connected to a debt limit -- that was the result of a long
process that was about Social Security,” said Lew, who at the
time was an O’Neill adviser.  $1.3 Trillion  The federal government will spend $1.3 trillion this year,
or about 35 percent of its budget, on Social Security and
Medicare. The programs are projected to consume a steadily
increasing share of tax money in coming years due to rising
health-care costs and the aging of the population.  Enrollment in each will rise by one-third over the next
decade to about 60 million, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  “In order to ensure the long-term viability of these
programs, it is imperative that you lead a bipartisan effort to
address these challenges,” the letter to Obama said.  Its signatories were Dan Coats and Richard Lugar, both of
Indiana;  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina ; Kelly Ayotte of  New
Hampshire ; Richard Burr of  North Carolina ; Saxby Chambliss of
Georgia;  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma; Bob Corker of Tennessee; John Cornyn and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas; Mike Crapo and James Risch of Idaho; John Ensign of Nevada; Mike Enzi of Wyoming;
Mike Johanns of Nebraska; Ron Johnson of Wisconsin; Mike Lee of
Utah; Rand Paul of Kentucky; Rob Portman of Ohio; Marco Rubio of
Florida; Pat Roberts of Kansas, and Roger Wicker of Mississippi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  