-- 
Republican Defections in House Signal Difficulty Ahead in Budget Talks

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-16T16:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/republican-defections-signal-difficulty-ahead-in-budget-talks.html
Defections among rank-and-file  House Republicans  on the latest short-term U.S. spending bill
exposed divisions that may complicate negotiations with
Democrats on a broader budget plan.  In yesterday’s House vote, 54 Republicans opposed a  measure 
to fund the government until April 8, forcing their leaders to
rely on support from Democrats to pass the bill, 271-158. The
legislation aims to give lawmakers more time to break their
stalemate over funding the government through Sept. 30.  The stopgap measure goes to the Democratic-controlled
Senate, where a vote on it is likely tomorrow, said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s No. 3 Democrat. “We
believe it will pass” and be sent to President  Barack Obama  for
his signature, Schumer said.  Joining 186 House Republicans in backing the bill yesterday
were 85 Democrats. Republicans opposing it included Tea Party-
backed freshmen, other fiscal conservatives who wanted more
spending cuts and social conservatives seeking to include in it
policy directives on issues such as abortion.  The vote underscored the challenge for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, as he works to reach agreement with
Democrats on the longer-term 2011 budget. He shrugged off the
defections today.  “When was the last time you saw the government here in
Washington cut anything?” Boehner told reporters. “We never
thought it was going to be easy.”  ‘No Idea’  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking
House Democrat, said “we have no idea what Mr. Boehner can
agree to.” Hoyer added, “You can’t come to an agreement on any
kind of compromise with 54 people who can’t compromise with
their own leadership.”  Other Democrats said the vote shows that Boehner will have
to compromise with their party to enact a spending plan that
avoids a government shutdown.  “The real action is now in the  House of Representatives ,
because it’s becoming clearer and clearer that Speaker Boehner
is caught between a shutdown and a hard place,” said Schumer.  The House on Feb. 18 passed a measure for funding the rest
of this fiscal year that would cut $61 billion from 2010
spending levels. The bill also would make policy changes,
including a defunding of the Obama administration’s health-care
overhaul, Planned Parenthood and public broadcasting. The Senate
defeated it last week.  March 18 Deadline  Throughout this fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, lawmakers
have relied on stopgap measures to avoid a shutdown of non-
essential government services. The current spending authority,
enacted earlier this month and opposed by only six House
Republicans, expires March 18.  Republicans who opposed yesterday’s bill to fund the
government for three more weeks said another short-term measure
only postpones the debate over spending cuts and the policy
provisions. The bill would cut $6 billion in spending and omits
policy items.  “The American people sent us here to be bold and I don’t
think this a bold step,” said Representative Joe Walsh, a
freshman Republican from  Illinois  who was among those opposing
the measure.  Judson Phillips of the Tennessee-based Tea Party Nation
called on the group’s members to phone, e-mail and use social
networking tools to lobby lawmakers against the measure because
it didn’t include the policy provisions.  Other Lobbying  Also urging lawmakers to vote against the measure were the
anti-abortion Family Research Council, the  Club for Growth ,
which seeks limited government, and Heritage Action for America,
whose website says it advocates “conservative policy.”  After the vote, defectors said they strengthened the
Republican position in budget negotiations.  “I think we gain leverage” because Boehner “can say,
‘We’ve taken this thing as far as we can go, and we can’t do
anything more unless you give us something,’” said
Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican pressing to kill
any spending measure that doesn’t defund the health-care law.  House Republican leaders spent the early part of this week
working to shore up support for the short-term measure among
their most fiscally conservative members.  Boehner posted a video on his website March 14 saying the
House would use other legislation to press ahead on its effort
to stop funding for the health-care law.  ‘Stop This Gravy Train’  The Republican-led House will “do everything we can to
stop this gravy train and ensure this job-crushing health-care
law is never fully implemented,” the speaker said in the video.  Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey , a Republican
who voted “no” after supporting the previous stopgap spending
measure, said party leaders “worked it hard” to get backers
for the bill. He also said he didn’t believe there was any
dispute within the party about the overall goal of cutting
spending.  “We had a difference on strategy -- how to get there,”
Garrett said.  Also opposing the bill was Representative Jeff Flake, an
Arizona Republican who said the stopgap measure plays into
Democrats’ hands because postponing a decision on the entire
2011 budget makes it likely the fight will merge with an
upcoming battle over increasing the federal debt limit. He said
that debate should focus on bigger changes to  government
spending , such as cuts in entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “The longer we kick this can down the road, the more
difficult it is to get to the big stuff,” said Flake. “This is
small ball.”  Treasury Estimate  The Treasury Department estimates the government will reach
the current limit on  government borrowing  between April 15 and
May 31.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a statement the
latest stopgap spending bill will provide some “breathing
room” for lawmakers to work out an agreement on funding through
Sept. 30.  He urged quick action. “The president has been clear: with
the wide range of issues facing our nation, we cannot keep
funding the government in two- or three-week increments,”
Carney said.  “It is time for us to come together, find common
ground and resolve this issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  