-- 
RIM Strikes Microsoft Partnership, to Debut PlayBook ‘Very Soon’

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-16T21:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rim-strikes-microsoft-partnership-to-debut-playbook-tablet-very-soon-.html
  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  is teaming
up with Microsoft Corp. to handle the growing amount of data its
customers are using on mobile devices and plans to release its
BlackBerry PlayBook tablet computer “very soon.”  RIM is looking for ways to enhance the PlayBook’s appeal as
it prepares to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the tablet market. Apple,
which sold 7.33 million iPads last quarter, has said more than
65 percent of the Fortune 100 companies are testing or deploying
the iPad, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Lowe’s Cos. and  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H)   RIM has shown the PlayBook to a “significant” portion of
Fortune 100 companies and interest in the device is “very
high,” Jim Tobin, senior vice president, software and business
services, said in an interview today in Toronto.  The partnership with Microsoft is designed to make it
easier for customers to use what’s known as cloud computing, or
servers offsite that store information and can be accessed over
the Internet. Tobin said he sees about a quarter of RIM’s large
corporate customers shifting data into the cloud by the end of
this year, with half having made the shift by 2012.  Data stored in the cloud currently represents about
5 percent of the $1.5 trillion in corporate information
technology spending last year, according to industry data
supplied by IDC and Gartner Inc.  “It’s a more efficient model for everyone,” Tobin said. “As
the smartphone starts to handle more of the work effort versus a
desktop, and now you add the tablet, that’s the time” to move
away from storing information on computer hard drives and local
servers.  Trading Barbs  He declined to give any estimate of how much money the
shift will save RIM or its customers.  RIM plans to introduce the PlayBook this month or in early
April, co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Balsillie said last month.
Tobin declined to elaborate other than saying it will be very
soon. Apple’s iPad went on sale in April 2010 and the company
has since sold over 15 million of the devices.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell $1.25, or 2.1
percent, to $59.84 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The stock has climbed 24 percent since the PlayBook was
unveiled Sept. 27.  With the PlayBook yet to appear in stores, consumers have
been buying the iPad and tablets like Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc.’s Xoom, which went on sale last month. Both have screens
that measure about 10 inches (25 centimeters), compared to the
PlayBook’s smaller 7-inch screen. Balsillie and Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  exchanged barbs late last year after Jobs said smaller
tablets are “dead on arrival” because they are too small to
compete with the iPad.  “One other tablet is making some inroads and lots of
noise,” said Tobin. “The PlayBook is the only other relevant
game for enterprises right now, and for enterprises that have
embraced BlackBerry, it’s a natural game to jump on that
bandwagon really quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  