-- 
Ringgit Gains as U.S. Growth Damps Japan Risks; Bonds Advance

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-16T08:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ringgit-gains-as-u-s-growth-damps-japan-risks-bonds-advance.html
  Malaysia ’s ringgit rose from near a
three-week low after the  Federal Reserve  upgraded its growth
assessment for the world’s largest economy, helping damp concern
devastation from  Japan ’s earthquake will derail the global
recovery.  The currency climbed after slumping the most in more than
three months yesterday, when damage to Japan’s nuclear power
plants curbed demand for emerging-market assets. Asian stocks
halted a four-day loss after the Federal Open Market Committee
said in a statement the pickup in the  U.S. economy  “is on a
firmer footing, and overall conditions in the labor market
appear to be improving gradually.” Malaysian bonds gained.  “The Fed statement is an endorsement that things are
getting better,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior
currency strategist at Scotia Capital, a unit of  Canada ’s third-
largest banking group. “The optimism is there, it’s tempered,
but it should be supportive of Asian currencies.”  The ringgit gained 0.5 percent to 3.0515 per dollar as of
4:15 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, the most in two weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency depreciated 1 percent
yesterday, the biggest one-day loss since Nov. 23.  Policy makers kept the U.S. benchmark interest rate at a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, unchanged since December 2008,
and also affirmed plans to buy back $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to secure stronger growth.  “The Fed has turned less dovish in its FOMC statement”
with its assessment on economic recovery and the effect of
energy prices on inflation, according to a research note from
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. today. Manufacturing data in the U.S.
showed signs of improvement, the Kuala Lumpur-based lender said.  Malaysia shipped 61 billion ringgit ($20 billion) worth of
exports to the U.S. in 2010, its fourth-largest market after  Singapore ,  China  and Japan, according to trade ministry data.  Bonds Advance  Five-year notes advanced for a third day on speculation the
market will benefit from “second-guessing” that interest-rate
increases will be delayed as earthquake damage in Japan
threatens the global economic recovery.  The yield on the 4.262 percent bond due September 2016
dropped 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.54
percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The government sold an
extra 4 billion ringgit of the notes on March 14 at 3.567
percent yield.  “Bond investors are second-guessing if policy tightening
will be delayed beyond the next meeting in May as a result of
the earthquake impact on global growth,” said Ray Choy, head of
debt research at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“It buys some time for Malaysia and other Asian economies” in
terms of further policy normalization, he said.  Bank Negara Malaysia kept its overnight policy rate at 2.75
percent at a review on March 11, unchanged in four straight
meetings since July. Policy makers next meet on May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 