-- 
Robusta Coffee Demand Gains as Arabica Jumps, Castlestone Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-16T14:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/robusta-coffee-demand-gains-as-arabica-jumps-castlestone-says.html
Coffee roasters are buying more
robusta beans after the arabica variety climbed to a 14-year
high, according to Connor Noonan, an analyst at fund manager
Castlestone Management Ltd. in  London .  Arabica was at a premium to robusta of $1.57 a pound today,
12 percent below last week’s high of $1.79. That may signal
stepped-up buying of robusta as roasters raise the variety’s
share in their blends, driving prices higher.  “Robusta was so cheap that it sparked roaster demand,”
Noonan said by phone from London today. “Robusta needed to
price higher if New York levels stay as elevated as they are.”  Robusta gained 62 percent last year on NYSE Liffe in
London, less than the 77 percent jump for arabica traded on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Arabica climbed to a 14-year high of
$2.9665 a pound on March 9 of this year on speculation that
world production may fail to meet demand.  May-delivery robusta rose $67, or 2.8 percent, to $2,442 a
metric ton at 2:44 p.m. in London. Arabica for May delivery
added 5.3 cents, or 2 percent, to $2.6825 a pound in  New York .  The May robusta contract was $67 more expensive than beans
for July delivery, the widest gap since the market moved to a
so-called backwardation on March 9. That’s a market structure in
which front-month futures trade above later-dated contracts, and
it may signal concern about supply.  “The widening spread between May and July is also an
indicator of demand,” Noonan said.  Arabica is grown mainly in Latin America and favored for
specialty beverages such as those made by Starbucks Corp.
Robusta, used in instant coffee and espresso, is harvested
mostly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 