-- 
Romania Meets Bailout Terms as Boc Defeats No-Confidence Motion

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-16T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/romania-meets-bailout-terms-as-boc-defeats-no-confidence-motion.html
  Romania  has passed the last piece
of legislation needed to meet the terms of its international
bailout as Prime Minister Emil Boc defeated a no-confidence
motion tied to changes to the labor law.  Boc, whose governing coalition has a majority in the 470-
seated Parliament, defeated the first attempt by the opposition
to oust him in 2011 and the fifth since the beginning of last
year by 24 votes, Roberta Anastase, the president of the chamber
of deputies, said yesterday. The outcome automatically approves
the labor law, which introduces contracts for temporary workers
and increases sanctions for illegal employment.  “The current changes to the labor law protect the ones who
work honestly and will help create hundreds of new jobs,” Boc
told lawmakers before the vote. “In the second half of the
year, we’ll be able to reduce social-security contributions to
encourage the companies to hire more people.”  Romania, whose economy went through the worst recession on
record over the past two years, passed the 2011 budget, a
revised pension law and a law setting this year’s wages to curb
public spending, narrow the deficit and satisfy the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund , which provided a 20
billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout loan in 2009.  New Loan  The labor law amendments were the last legislative changes
required by creditors under the current agreement. The Balkan
nation plans to obtain a new 5 billion-euro precautionary loan
from the lenders in April.  Opposition parties plan to challenge the legislation in the
Constitutional Court, Crin Antonescu, the leader of the Liberal
Party, told reporters after the vote.  The ruling coalition, facing elections next year, has lost
public support over the measures taken to keep the bailout funds
flowing. President Traian Basescu on Feb. 15 said that Boc’s
Cabinet needs “another governing style” to “boost the
economy, not just get it out of the crisis.”  Media including news service  Mediafax , newspaper Gandul and
private television stations Realitatea TV and Antena3, have
cited unidentified people as saying that Boc may resign after
the vote to pave the way for a new government backed by the same
ruling coalition.  “I think the prime minister will be changed before the
internal elections of the Democratic  Liberal Party  in May,”
said Adrian Moraru, an analyst at the Institute for Public
Policies in Bucharest, in a phone interview. “I think he will
probably resign, that’s the simple way, as the President wants
to refresh the government after taking all the hard measures.”  About 8,000 people protested in front of the Parliament
building yesterday, demanding Boc’s resignation, according to
riot police data.  “What we started today doesn’t end here,” Bogdan Hossu,
leader of  Cartel Alfa , an umbrella group for unions that
includes more than 1 million state employees, said at today’s
protest. “We started gathering signatures to organize a general
strike of all the public sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  