-- 
Rosatom Says Bulgaria Nuclear Deal Must Be Signed by March 31

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-16T18:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rosatom-says-bulgaria-nuclear-deal-must-be-signed-by-march-31.html
Rosatom Corp.,  Russia ’s state
nuclear corporation, said Bulgaria must sign an agreement to
resume construction of a 2,000-megawatt nuclear power plant on
the Danube by March 31 or face cancellation of the project.  “If the nuclear plant construction agreement, the 12th in
line, is not signed by March 31, Rosatom will have no legal
grounds to continue working on the project,” Kiril Komarov,
chief of Rosatom’s nuclear energy unit, told reporters in Sofia
today. “If Bulgaria rejects the agreement, Rosatom will seek
compensations envisaged in the initial contract.”  Bulgaria contracted in 2005 Russia’s Atomstroyexport ZAO, a
unit of Rosatom, to build the plant for an initial price of 4
billion euros ($5.6 billion). The project has since stalled
because of lack of funding and disagreements over the price
increase caused by the delay.  Bulgaria agreed on Nov. 30 with  Fortum OYJ (FUM1V) , Finland’s
biggest utility, French engineering company  Altran Technologies
SA (ALT)  and Rosatom to set up a joint company to build and operate
the Belene nuclear power plant. The venture, in which Fortum and
Altran will each hold 1 percent, Bulgaria will own 51 percent
and Rosatom will hold 47 percent, hasn’t been set up.  Rosatom has set the new price at 6.3 billion euros and “is
no longer negotiating it,” Komarov said. Bulgaria estimates the
cost at about 5 billion euros. The Bulgarian Energy and Economy
Ministry declined to comment today.  Extra Safety Guarantees  Bulgaria’s Energy and Economy Minister Traicho Traikov said
on March 14 that he will seek additional safety guarantees on
the two Russian nuclear reactors being produced for the Belene
plant after an earthquake off  Japan  caused an explosion at the
Fukushima plant and raised the potential for a reactor meltdown.  As much as 40 percent of the Belene plant cost covers
modern safety controls, which were not available when the
Fukushima plant was built 40 years ago, Komarov said.  A Bulgarian idea to install one of the 1,000-megawatt
reactors, which Rosatom has already produced for Belene, at the
now operating Kozloduy nuclear plant, will “delay the
construction by at least another two to three years” and “the
price will be a lot higher,” Komarov said. Bulgaria has already
invested $1 billion to build the reactor foundation at Belene,
while at Kozloduy it will have to start “from scratch,” he
said.  Kozloduy,  Bulgaria ’s only atomic power plant, has two
Russian-made 1,000-megawatt reactors, which supply 38 percent of
the nation’s needs. The government is considering building one
or two new reactors at Kozloduy, also on the Danube River.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  