-- 
Rosneft Holds Talks With Chevron, China, India on Arctic

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T16:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rosneft-holds-talks-with-chevron-china-india-on-arctic-1-.html
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, is poised to expand Arctic exploration plans as
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  China  and  India  seek joint projects.  “We are looking at the Arctic with Chevron,” Eduard
Khudainatov, chief executive officer of the state-run company,
told reporters today in Moscow. “Every day a working group
meets in Moscow, a big group.”  Rosneft is also considering partnerships with Chinese and
Indian companies in the eastern Arctic, Khudainatov told
reporters today in Moscow. China National Petroleum Corp., China
National Offshore Corp. and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,
known as Sinopec, have expressed interest in the Magadan 1 and 2
areas, he said.  Russia is seeking partnerships with international oil
companies that have the technology to tap remote resources in
harsh climates as the world’s largest oil producing country aims
to keep output at about 10 million barrels a day. Soviet-era
discoveries in western Siberia are aging, making the development
of new regions vital for maintaining production levels.  Rosneft agreed with BP Plc in January to swap shares and
explore for resources in the Kara Sea. Later that month, the
state-run Russian oil producer signed an accord with Exxon Mobil
Corp. to explore in the Black Sea. A joint venture with Exxon
will probably be formed by October, Khudainatov said.  Chevron also has an agreement with Rosneft to explore a
deep-water block in the Black Sea.  Khudainatov didn’t name any Indian companies. Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. and Rosneft are partners at the Exxon Mobil-led
Sakhalin-1 project off  Russia ’s Pacific coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  