-- 
Rupert Murdoch, News Corp. Sued by Amalgamated Over Shine Group Purchase

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T21:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/rupert-murdoch-news-corp-sued-by-amalgamated-over-shine-group-purchase.html
Rupert Murdoch and his  News Corp. (NWSA) 
were sued over claims he is causing the company to pay about
$675 million for “nepotism” in its purchase of his daughter’s
U.K.-based television production company Shine Group Ltd.  There is no reason for the purchase other than to reward
Elisabeth Murdoch and perpetuate the family’s involvement in
senior management of the media empire, the Amalgamated Bank of  New York  and the Central Laborers Pension Fund said in the
complaint.  The bank sued as trustee for several funds, through which
it holds almost 1 million shares of News Corp., according to a
complaint filed today on behalf of the company in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington. Central Laborers, an Illinois-
based pension fund, also filed a separate complaint seeking to
inspect books and records outlining the company’s decision to
buy Shine.  “Although the transaction makes little or no business
sense for News Corp. and is far above a price any independent,
disinterested third party would pay for Shine, it is
unsurprising that the transaction was approved by News Corp’s
board,” lawyers for the bank said in the complaint.  Murdoch’s daughter is expected to join the board of News
Corp. upon completion of the deal, the company said Feb. 21.  Elisabeth Murdoch  founded Shine, which produces shows such as
“ MasterChef ,” in 2001.  ‘Family Candy Store’  The company supplies television content to U.K. TV
companies including the British Broadcasting Corp. Shine will be
an important part of the company’s expansion strategy for global
TV operations, Deputy Chairman  Chase Carey  said in February.  In its complaint, Amalgamated accused Murdoch of treating
the company “like a wholly owned family candy store.” The
transaction is the latest attempt to further the “selfish”
interests of News Corp.’s controlling shareholder at the expense
of the company, according to the complaint.  “The transaction violates the entire fairness standard
both on the basis of price and process,” lawyers for
Amalgamated said in the complaint.  Amalgamated is seeking unspecified damages.  Jack Horner, a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment.  The case is Amalgamated Bank v. Murdoch, CA6285, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  