-- 
Russia’s Political ‘Weaknesses’ Curb Growth, Shuvalov Says

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-03-16T17:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/russia-s-political-weaknesses-curb-growth-shuvalov-says-1-.html
  Russia ’s political system has “some
weaknesses” that weigh on the economy and hinder growth, said
Igor Shuvalov, one of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s two first
deputies.  “Some weaknesses in the political system” slow expansion,
Shuvalov said at a Moscow conference today, adding that the
shortcomings relate to institutions, the judicial system and the
ability of political parties to promote their programs.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  vowed to fight corruption,
attract foreign investors and modernize the economy to wean the
country off its dependence on commodities. U.S. Vice President
Joseph Biden said in Moscow on March 10 that Russia needs to
change its political and legal system, protect property rights
and uphold the rule of law to lure foreign capital.  The world’s largest energy exporter is the most corrupt of
the Group of 20 economies,  Transparency International  said in
its annual survey in October. Medvedev said in January that his
anti-corruption drive has produced “almost no success.”  ‘Considerable Transformation’  “We have to ensure in the next few years a considerable
transformation of society but without any shakeups,” Shuvalov
said, adding that Russia should avoid upheaval similar to recent
events in North Africa. “These countries face poverty, huge
shakeups and personal tragedies. We had all this 20 years ago.”  Russia will hold parliamentary elections in December and
presidential elections in early 2012.  Medvedev wants to run for the top position again,  Arkady Dvorkovich , the president’s top economic adviser, said last
year. Putin, who handed over the presidency to Medvedev, his
protege, in 2008 because of a constitutional ban on three
consecutive presidential terms, also hasn’t ruled out taking
part in the election.  “People vote for personalities and not for principles” in
Russia, Shuvalov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  