-- 
Saudi Arabia Demonstrators Hold Rallies in al-Qatif, Awwamiya

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-03-16T21:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/saudi-arabia-demonstrators-hold-rallies-in-al-qatif-awwamiya.html
About 1,000 people in  Saudi
Arabia ’s eastern city of al-Qatif defied a ban on demonstrations
yesterday and protested peacefully to demand the country’s
troops end their incursion into Bahrain.  Protesters chanted and held signs that called on the
government to stay out of Bahrain, according to Ali Hassan, 26,
who took part in the march. He said the march veered away from
security forces to avoid a confrontation. A separate protest was
held in the city of Awwamiya, according to Jasim al-Awwami, 27,
who participated in it.  Regional unrest, which has toppled the leaders of Tunisia
and  Egypt , has reached Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and
Bahrain, the island kingdom where a Sunni family rules the
majority Shiite population. In  Libya ,  Muammar Qaddafi  is
fighting rebels who seek to end his four-decade rule.  Major General Mansour al-Turki, an Interior Ministry
spokesman, disputed reports that security forces fired shots,
either at protesters or in the air to disperse them.  “Security forces will not use gunfire as a means to
enforce the law in any way, including preventing demonstrations
or sit-ins,” he said in a telephone interview. “Gunfire is
only used if policemen’s lives are threatened and the fire
should be directed only at the source of fire on condition it
does not endanger the lives of others.”  Pearl Roundabout  Bahrain’s Shiites make up about 70 percent of the
population and many retain cultural and family ties with  Iran ,
as well as with Shiites in Saudi Arabia, who are a minority of
about 10 to 15 percent.  Saudi Shiites have been holding protests every Thursday and
Friday for the past few weeks in towns and villages a short
drive from the Bahrain causeway connecting the two countries.  Bahrain security forces drove protesters from their
rallying point at the Pearl Roundabout in Manama yesterday
leaving two demonstrators and two police officers dead.  The military imposed a curfew on parts of Bahrain from 4
p.m. until 4 a.m. and banned protests and public gatherings
until further notice, an army spokesman said on state
television.  Bahrain this week declared a three-month state of emergency
after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states arrived to
help quell a month of protests driven by Shiites, who are
calling for democracy and civil rights. Some groups have
escalated their demands to include the overthrow of the Sunni
rulers, the Al Khalifa family, and the creation of a republic.  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.04, or 1.1 percent, to
$98.22 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:41 p.m.
yesterday. Oil is 20 percent higher than a year ago.  Protests are outlawed in Saudi Arabia, where the ruling
family applies a strict version of Sunni Islam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  