-- 
Scene Last Night: Courtney Love, Alexander Navab, Beatrix Ost

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-16T15:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/scene-last-night-courtney-love-alexander-navab-beatrix-ost-save-venice.html
Sitting next to a serpent proved
safe last night for Alexander Navab, the co-head of KKR & Co.’s
North American private-equity business.  The glittering bright-green creature slithered along the
eyes, cheek and neck of one of Navab’s dining companions,
jewelry designer  Blair Husain .  “A children’s face painter did it,” Husain said of her
reptilian decoration, part of her costume for the Save  Venice 
ball last night at the  Plaza  Hotel.  Many of the 500 guests at Un Ballo in Maschera wore
elaborate masks with feathers, rhinestones and beads. Some wore
lace over their eyes.  The goal of the New York-based organization is to protect
Venice’s art and architecture. It’s an endless job.  Save Venice has helped complete 400 projects since its
founding 40 years ago; it currently has 30 projects under way.
The $650,000 in proceeds from last night’s ball will go toward
the restoration of the church of San Sebastiano, according to
notes in the event program.  Writer and artist  Beatrix Ost  won the costume contest. She
wore a basket on her head and a corset made of “some old long
gloves I had around,” she said.  Courtney Love wore a long navy gown with her hair tied
back. It was easier to spot her once the celebrants removed
their masks to eat endive salad and filet mignon, washed down
with Principato Pinot Grigio and Querceto Chianti.  The conversation did occasionally turn to Venice. Event co-
chairman Adelina Wong Ettelson spoke of the incredible light.
“You cannot take a bad photograph there,” Ettelson said.  “I love just wandering around,” said Dayssi Olarte de
Kanavos, another co-chairman.  Fiona Rudin, vice chairman of the theater nonprofit New
42nd Street Inc., said she thinks of Venice as the most romantic
place in the world. It’s where her husband proposed marriage, at
the Bridge of Sighs.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 