-- 
SEC Notifies Freddie Mac Ex-CEO Syron He May Face Civil Claims

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-03-16T15:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/sec-notifies-freddie-mac-ex-ceo-syron-he-may-face-civil-claims.html
Richard Syron, the former chairman
and chief executive of  Freddie Mac , has been notified by U.S.
regulators that he may face civil claims for failing to fully
disclose the company’s exposure to risky mortgages, according to
two people who have been briefed on the matter.  Syron, who ran the government-sponsored mortgage finance
firm from 2004 to 2008, was recently given what is known as a
Wells notice informing him that the Securities and Exchange
Commission was considering a suit, said the two people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the action isn’t public.  The notice is one of at least three sent to a current or
former Freddie Mac official.  Daniel Mudd , the former head of  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac’s larger rival, received a Wells notice
March 11.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Syron didn’t immediately respond to a phone message left at his
home. E-mail and phone messages to his lawyer, Mark Hopson,
weren’t immediately returned.  Syron, 67, was told he may be sued for providing inadequate
disclosure of the extent of Freddie Mac’s risk of losses from
subprime mortgages, according to one of the people.  The notice to Syron was previously reported by the  New York 
Times today.  In their discussions with current and former officials at
Freddie Mac, SEC officials have maintained that the language
used by the mortgage firm in its disclosures didn’t properly
reflect the low quality of many of its mortgages, according to
one of the people briefed on the matter. The current and former
officials told the SEC that the company provided substantial
details on risk, including the credit scores of the people
taking out mortgages and the size of the loans relative to the
value of the homes.    Government Aid   Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac, set up by Congress to broaden mortgage financing,
were private companies operating with an implicit government
guarantee. They were placed under U.S. conservatorship in
September 2008 as losses on mortgages and mortgage securities
pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  The two firms have been sustained by more than $150 billion
in U.S. aid, and along with the  Federal Housing Administration 
now support more than 90 percent of the mortgage market.  Congress and the Obama administration are examining plans
for winding down the companies and building a new system for
housing finance that would rely more on private capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 