-- 
Singapore Exchange Sees Expansion of OTC Derivatives Clearing Within Asia

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-16T20:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/singapore-exchange-sees-expansion-of-otc-derivatives-clearing-within-asia.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  plans to
become the "multi-asset-class clearing hub" for over-the-counter
derivatives in  Asia , according to co-President Muthukrishnan Ramaswami.  The operator of the city’s securities market began clearing
standardized interest rate swaps in Singapore dollars four
months ago. It expects to add interest rate swaps in U.S.
dollars, British pounds, euros and yen, Ramaswami said in a
March 15 interview at a Futures Industry Association conference
in Boca Raton,  Florida .  “There’s natural interest for an Asian-time-zone
clearinghouse,” Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said
March 15 at the conference. SGX opened the first Asian
clearinghouse to handle over-the-counter derivatives. Bocker
said he expects as many as three more to emerge in the region.
“Clients want to have a clearinghouse that is not too
concentrated,” he said.  Clearinghouses, funded by their members, are designed to
reduce the effect of defaults by guaranteeing payments on
securities and derivatives, whose value is tied to an underlying
asset such as interest payments, currency or the weather. They
collect collateral on open trades every day to keep accounts
current and allow regulators to monitor prices and positions.  Use of exchange-traded derivatives in Asia is growing. The
markets traded 40 percent of global derivatives last year,
outpacing  North America , which accounted for 32 percent, for the
first time, according to data compiled by the World Federation
of Exchanges.  Takeover Offer  SGX, which is pursuing a takeover of Australia stock
exchange operator  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , will collaborate with clearinghouses
in other countries to reduce margin requirements when positions
can offset each other, reducing a broker’s overall risk. It’s
part of SGX’s bid to become the entry point in Asia for global
over-the-counter clearing and trading across asset classes as
foreign regulations seek to limit risks and create new
competition for products.  The exchange plans to clear foreign exchange forward
contracts by the end of July, Ramaswami said. An expansion of
SGX’s clearing of energy products will follow.  Some contracts currently traded between firms are expected
to move into clearinghouses around the world as regulators in
the U.S.,  Europe  and elsewhere push to reduce risk in the over-
the-counter market. The shift to clearing globally will also be
driven by new rules expected to increase  capital requirements 
for banks under the Basel III accord, Bocker said.  Basel Rules  The Group of 20 nations last year endorsed rules proposed
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that would triple
certain minimum  capital ratios . The rules are scheduled for full
implementation by 2019.  Margin offsets for over-the-counter products will help
customers shrink the payments to support positions in different
clearinghouses, Ramaswami said. SGX has had an arrangement with  CME Group Inc. (CME)  since 1984 that allows investors trading eligible
futures contracts in both marketplaces to clear transactions in
whichever country they want, letting them reduce their payments
for positions that negate each other.  “They can react at any time of day to news and have access
to the market in that product without their market being open,”
Ramaswami said. “It’s more cost effective.” The agreemnent
applies to products such as the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, S&P
CNX Nifty Index and Japanese  government bonds , he said.  SGX plans to expand its 12 clearinghouse members to include
Asian banks “of all shapes and sizes,” Ramaswami said. This
will allow big banks to trade with smaller ones without the risk
associated with bilateral transactions, he said. Three of the
clearinghouse’s dozen members are domestic firms, he said.  SGX is considering adding contracts to trade based on
electricity and carbon, Bocker said.  “We will be relentless in our aim to get new products to
the market,” even if some fail, he said. “Not all of them will
fly. Not all of them are instant successes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  