-- 
Skye Bank Earnings Will Be ‘Squeezed’ By Nigeria Rate Rise

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-16T16:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/skye-bank-earnings-to-be-squeezed-by-likely-nigeria-rate-rise-ceo-says.html
  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK) , Nigeria’s sixth-
biggest lender by market value, will see earnings “squeezed”
in the face of a likely rate increase by the central bank,
according to Chief Executive Officer Kehinde Durosinmi-Etti.  The Lagos-based bank’s net interest margin will decline to
about 7.5 percent from about 8 percent if the West African
nation’s central bank raises lending rates, Durosinmi-Etti said
in an interview yesterday in London.  “If interest rates go up we may not be able to push
because we are now doing more high-end corporate lending,” he
said. “We may not be able to move lending rates in tandem with
an increase in deposit rates, so that would squeeze our earning
capacity.”  Lamido Sanusi, the governor of the central bank of  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer, signaled in a March 4 interview that he
may raise the benchmark interest rate for a second time this
year as the government boosts spending before next month’s
election and food and oil costs soar. Sanusi increased the rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.5 percent on Jan. 25 to
help the central bank meet its target of bringing inflation
below 10 percent.  Sanusi “doesn’t have a choice,” Durosinmi-Etti said about
raising the rate. “It’s the rational thing to do. In a case
where the rates are fairly low, can they be sustained at those
levels if inflation stays high and the  money supply  is high in
the economy?”  Inflation, Growth    Nigeria ’s inflation rate declined to an annual 11.1 percent
in February, remaining above the central bank’s target rate.
Consumer-price growth compared with a 12.1 percent gain in
January, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said in a statement
released in the capital, Abuja, late yesterday. The monetary
policy committee will announce its rates decision on March 22.  Skye Bank’s growth this year “won’t be huge, but we’re
likely to see a decent increase in credit growth” on the back
of higher trade financing, Durosinmi-Etti said. “For the last
two years it’s been flat and we’re targeting a 20 percent credit
growth for 2011 and we have already seen a lot of deals coming
through.”  The bank has about $400 million in exposure to oil-industry
financing, which is likely to double this year from new
opportunities as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil
producer, agreed last year to sell four fields out of a total 34
blocks it holds in Nigeria, he said.  Skye Bank fell 0.9 percent to close at 8.8 naira by 2:30
p.m. in Lagos, the lowest level since Dec. 31, giving the
company a market capitalization of 116 billion naira ($740.7
million).  Return to Profit  The lender reported a return to profit in the nine months
through September, with net income of 8.55 billion naira for the
period, compared with a loss of 10.4 billion naira a year
earlier. Skye hopes to report its annual results for 2010 this
month after “a slight delay” across the industry because of a
proposed change to national accounting standards, Durosinmi-Etti
said.  Total loans stood at 412 billion naira as of December, of
which 11.49 percent were non-performing, he said. Skye Bank will
reduce the ratio to 6.98 percent by the end of this month when
it hands over bad loans to the Asset Management Co. of Nigeria,
the state-owned company set up to buy bad debts from lenders,
said Durosinmi-Etti.  “We will still pursue recoveries and there will be loan
growth and the overall ratio will drop further,” he said.  Nigeria’s central bank said November that it will buy 2.2
trillion naira of bad debts from commercial lenders after banks
amassed about $10 billion in bad debt that threatened to
collapse some of the operators in 2008. The central bank fired
the chief executive officers of eight of the country’s 24
lenders and used 620 billion naira to bail out the industry.
Skye Bank was not one of the bailed-out lenders.  Unit Sales  Skye will not suffer substantially from the sale of its
non-banking units in insurance, mortgage, stock brokerage and
trusteeship that represent about 8 percent of the bank’s assets,
he said. The sales are in line with a central bank directive and
Skye hopes to complete them by the year’s end, according to
Durosinmi-Etti.  The central bank said in September that it will no longer
allow the nation’s lenders to offer multiple services and that
they had to sell their non-banking units or adopt a holding-
company model. The directive was made because there was some
“high-level abuse” in the sector’s subsidiaries that
“jeopardized” customer deposits, Durosinmi-Etti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  