-- 
Seven Killed in Rebel Attack on Government Bases in Somalia

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-09T10:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/somali-clashes-between-peacekeepers-islamist-rebels-leave-19-people-dead.html
At least seven people were killed in
clashes between Islamic rebels and pro-government forces in
southwest  Somalia , local residents and officials from opposing
sides said.  Fighting erupted late yesterday in Luuq, 90 kilometers (56
miles) from the border with Kenya, after the Al-shabaab
movement, which the U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda,
attacked government bases and lasted until this morning.  “They have been exchanging heavy weapons including mortar
shells and cannons,” Abdurahman Bare Mo’laim, a businessman in
Luuq, said by telephone today. “Seven corpses have reportedly
been seen around the battle field zone this morning, mostly from
the warring sides.”  Somalia has been without a functioning central
administration since 1991, when ruler Mohamed Siad Barre was
ousted. The Horn of Africa country is facing its worst
humanitarian crisis since the early 1990s because of the
conflict and drought, according to Mohamed Ali Nur, Somalia’s
ambassador to  Kenya .  An army spokesman for Al-Shabaab said its forces had now
withdrawn from Luuq after briefly taking control. “We
successfully took over their bases for a while,” Sheikh Abdi
Aziz Abu Musab told reporters by phone. “We inflicted heavy
losses on them.”  Local residents and Ahlu Suna Wal Jama, a pro-government
militia, rejected this version of events.  “Al-shabaab attempted to capture Luuq district last night
but they have failed,” Sheikh Mohamed Hussein, a local
spokesman for Ahlu Suna Wal Jama, said by phone.  Separately, fighting in Mogadishu, the capital city,
between Al-shabaab and government forces supported by an African
Union peacekeeping mission, known as Amisom, left three
civilians dead and five others injured.  Ali Muse Sheikh, in charge of Mogadishu’s ambulance
service, confirmed the civilian casualties in the Bondhere
district in the northern part of Mogadishu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 