-- 
South African Retail Sales Growth Slows For First Month in Five in January

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-16T12:51:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/south-african-retail-sales-growth-slows-for-first-month-in-five-in-january.html
South African retail sales growth
slowed for the first month in five in January, adding an annual
6.4 percent from the previous month.  Sales growth decelerated from 8.3 percent in December,
Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 7.2 percent.  “It’s an indication that  consumer spending  is still
fair,” Johannes Khosa, an economist with  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,
said in an interview. “We expect growth to moderate itself
through the year. Consumers will start to worry that their debt
level is high and that interest rates will increase so they may
opt to pay for their debts rather than spending more.”  The central bank left its key rate unchanged at a 30-year
low of 5.5 percent in January, after cutting it three times in
2010, as price pressures picked up and the economic recovery
strengthened.  Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus yesterday said  South
Africa  faces “upside risks” to inflation due to rising oil and
food prices, which will be considered when the lender’s Monetary
Policy Committee sets its benchmark interest rate next week.
Inflation accelerated to a six-month high of 3.7 percent in
January.  Consumers in January faced rising import costs, as the rand
declined 8.3 percent versus the dollar. The currency has since
reversed some of those losses, gaining 2.7 percent by the end of
yesterday. The rand was trading at 6.987 against the dollar as
of 2:19 p.m. in Johannesburg from 7.029 before the data was
released.    Truworths International Ltd. (TRU) , South Africa’s largest
publicly traded clothing retailer, said on Feb. 21 that it’s
“cautious to assume that a sustained recovery in South African
consumer spending is evident.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 