-- 
South Africa’s Rand Declines for Second Day Versus Dollar on Risk Aversion

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-16T14:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/south-africa-s-rand-rebounds-as-stocks-commodities-rally.html
The rand declined for a second day,
touching a 2 1/2-week low against the dollar, as protests in
Bahrain added to Middle East tensions, prompting investors to
shun high-yielding assets.  The South African currency depreciated as much as 0.8
percent to 7.0415 per dollar, the weakest level since Feb. 25.
It traded 0.2 percent down at 6.9987 by 3.43 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Bahrain suspended  stock trading  because of a state of
emergency as  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil
reserves, sent troops into the neighboring kingdom to help quell
protests. In  Libya , government troops moved against rebels in
the east. In Japan, the nuclear crisis deepened after Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment vessel may have
been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant,
increasing the risks of radioactive leaks.  “There is plenty in the way of news flow that could still
impact negatively on risk appetite and thus on emerging
markets,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in an e-mailed note. “It is difficult to
justify a significant short dollar-rand position with all this
uncertainty still doing the rounds.”  Investors are looking for havens as tensions in the Middle
East and North Africa, together with the risk of an economic
slowdown in  Japan  after the nation’s worst earthquake, increase
the risks of investing in high-yield, emerging-market assets.  Reversing Gain  “Any worsening in the situation” in the Middle East and
North Africa, “combined with the financial aftershocks of the
Tohoku earthquake, is likely to lead to chaos in financial
markets,” Prieur du Plessis, chairman of Plexus Asset
Management in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients.  The rand’s decline reversed an earlier gain after stocks
and commodity prices rallied on speculation the sell-off caused
by Japan’s worst earthquake was overdone. The rand’s weakness
would likely be limited given the outlook for economic growth
and inflation, Bertenshaw wrote.  “Domestic fundamentals are generally still in favor of a
stronger rather than weaker rand in the months ahead,” he said.  Bonds retreated for the first day in three. The 13.5
percent government bond due September 2015 dropped 18 cents to
121.040. The yield rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 7.852 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  