-- 
Soviet Dog’s Space Capsule Could Fetch $10 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-03-16T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/soviet-dog-s-space-capsule-could-fetch-10-million-at-sotheby-s.html
A Soviet space capsule stands ready
for launch in the lobby of  Sotheby’s (BID)  New York headquarters.  The Vostok 3KA-2, a giant rusty ball, orbited the Earth on
March 25, 1961. It carried a life-size cosmonaut mannequin and a
live dog, and landed two hours after launch in a snow-blanketed
field about 700 miles from Moscow.  Three weeks later, cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin climbed into an
identical vehicle and became the first human to travel into
outer space.  The test capsule could fetch as much as $10 million when
auctioned on April 12, the 50th anniversary of Gagarin’s voyage.  “It has great historical and technological significance,”
said Cathleen Lewis, curator of international space programs at
the  Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum  in  Washington .
“It was the basis for their go or no-go decision for Gagarin’s
flight.”  Scorched and scratched on the outside, the ball looks
cramped on the inside. Most of the interior is taken up by an
ejection seat.  “It had tiny portholes so Gagarin would not be able to see
much,” said David Redden, vice chairman of Sotheby’s and head
of its special-projects department. “There was very little he
could control. He had to hope that everything was going to
work.”  The architect of the Soviet space program, Sergei Korolev,
tested five Vostok capsules before sending Gagarin.  The four-legged cosmonaut traveling on 3KA-2 was named
Zvezdochka and fared better than some of her canine predecessors
just by surviving. The documentary footage played at Sotheby’s
shows the dog looking alert, if slightly out of breath, when
removed from the capsule.  Dummy Buddy  Her dummy companion, nicknamed  Ivan Ivanovich , wore the
same spacesuit Gagarin would wear, and was ejected from the
capsule before landing, hitting the ground with a parachute.  The National Air and Space Museum has displayed Ivan
Ivanovich as part of its “Space Race” exhibition since 1997.
The item is on loan from  Ross Perot ’s foundation, which
purchased it at Sotheby’s in 1993, according to Lewis. It
fetched $189,500, Sotheby’s said.  Sotheby’s offered the test capsule in 1996, with an
estimate of $800,000 to $1 million. It didn’t sell and was later
acquired privately by an anonymous U.S. businessman directly
from the Russians, Redden said.  “We would love to have it,” said Lewis. “Unfortunately
we don’t have an acquisition fund to purchase something on this
scale.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 