-- 
Swap Margin Change Will Add Costs, Executives Say at Conference

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-16T20:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/swaps-margin-segregation-will-add-costs-florida-conference-executives-say.html
Swaps investors should be prepared
to pay more for clearing services if they want their margin
protected against being used to fund another investor’s default,
industry executives said during a panel discussion in  Florida .  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has proposed
divvying up margin payments of individual swaps users at
clearinghouses rather than allowing accounts to be treated as
one pool by banks representing multiple customers. Existing
futures markets allow banks to pool all their customer accounts
together when settling a day’s margins.  “What’s the cost? The assumption is there will be no
material cost to this, and I don’t think that’s a safe
assumption,” Christopher Edmonds, president of ICE Trust, the
world’s largest credit-default swap clearinghouse, said today at
the annual Futures Industry Association meeting in  Boca Raton ,
Florida.  A shift to segregating cash on a customer-by-customer basis
will either lead to higher margin payments or more money
required by the clearinghouse in what’s known as the guarantee
fund, said Kim Taylor, president of  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s
clearinghouse. A guarantee fund is comprised of lump sum
deposits investors must make that are proportional to their net
position. It’s used to cover a default if the margin isn’t
enough.  Some swaps users such as  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s
largest asset manager, favor the proposal because it would
prevent one customer’s margin from being used to offset a
deficit owed by another.  Goldman Sachs View  “If we pull them out of that, isn’t it going to increase
margin dramatically?” said Michael Dawley, co-head of futures
and derivatives clearing services at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and chairman of the Futures Industry Association.  “Clients continue to be frustrated about this issue,”
said Dawley, who moderated a panel of clearing executives. “It
would be good to figure this out as an industry to put this to
bed.”  The CFTC is working on rules to implement the Dodd-Frank
Act passed by Congress in July. The law mandates that most swaps
be guaranteed by clearinghouses to lessen systemic risk.  Additional customer margin protection won’t add costs to
clearing, said Roger Liddell, chief executive officer of
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of the world’s largest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse.  LCH.Clearnet’s Estimate  “The cost of it is zero,” he said.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  CME Group said in October that it may raise margin 50
percent to 100 percent to offset the increased cost of creating
individual accounts for thousands of swaps users, according to
CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , who raised cost concerns about
the proposal at the time. Intercontinental Exchange Inc. told
the CFTC payments at its clearinghouses may rise 63 percent,
O’Malia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 