-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop; Sonova Plunges After Cutting Forecast, Syngenta Gains

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-16T17:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/swiss-stocks-drop-sonova-plunges-after-cutting-forecast-syngenta-gains.html
Swiss stocks dropped, extending the
losses from the global selloff that followed Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record.    Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  slumped 23 percent, the largest retreat
in eight years, after the hearing aid maker lowered its sales
and profit forecasts.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest maker of
chemicals for agriculture, gained 2.2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies slipped 1.3 percent to 6,021.55 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has fallen 5.2 percent this week
as investors speculated that Japan’s tsunami-hit Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant will make further discharges of
radioactive vapor into the atmosphere. The broader Swiss
Performance Index decreased 1.4 percent.  “Market sentiment seems down for the count -- and it’s
difficult to predict where a second wind will come from,” said  Anthony Grech , head of research at IG Index in  London .  Japan’s government suspended its plan to use military
helicopters to drop water on the Fukushima facility today, even
as officials battled to prevent any of the four stricken
reactors at the site from suffering a meltdown. Clouds of white
smoke or  water vapor  rose from the power plant following a fire
at Dai-Ichi’s No. 4 reactor this morning. Radiation prevented
workers from establishing whether their efforts had extinguished
the blaze.  U.S. Housing Starts  U.S. housing starts declined more than forecast in February
to the slowest pace since April 2009 and building permits
slumped to a record low, signs that the housing market recovery
is limping along even as the rest of the economy improves.  Home construction dropped 22.5 percent to a 479,000 annual
rate, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The decline from January was the biggest since March 1984.  In Europe, Portugal’s debt rating was cut by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited a weaker outlook for economic
growth, risks to the government’s deficit-reduction plans and a
possible need to recapitalize the banks.  Sonova tumbled 23 percent to 89.15 Swiss francs after the
company cut its sales and profit forecasts for the year. The
Staefa, Switzerland-based company projected sales of about 1.6
billion francs ($1.76 billion) and earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization of 20-21 percent of revenue in the 12
months to the end of March. That missed the average analyst
estimate for full-year revenue of 1.68 billion francs. Sonova
will take a 150-200 million-franc goodwill impairment because it
recalled the Advanced Bionics LLC hearing aid.  Weatherford, LEM Holding    Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  slid 2.7 percent to 18.35
francs. The Geneva-based oil services company said in a
 regulatory filing  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that the Arab revolts in North Africa have disrupted its
operations. Weatherford revised its first-quarter per-share
earnings guidance to 18 cents and said its effective  tax rate 
will be approximately 27 percent in 2011.    LEM Holding SA (LEHN)  lost 7.1 percent to 534 francs, the largest
decline since June. The shares were cut to “hold” from “buy”
at Berenberg Bank.  Syngenta rallied 2.2 percent to 286.80 francs, its first
gain in seven days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  