-- 
U.K. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Drop to Two-Year Low on Rebound From Snow

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T14:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-k-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-drop-to-two-year-low-on-rebound-from-snow.html
U.K. unemployment claims
unexpectedly fell in February by the most in eight months,
adding to signs that the economy may be recovering from the
impact of the winter freeze.  Jobless benefit claims dropped 10,200 from January to 1.45
million, the lowest since February 2009, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . Economists forecast an increase
of 1,300, according to the median of 24 predictions in a
Bloomberg News survey. Unemployment based on International
Labour Organization methods rose by 27,000 in the three months
through January to 2.53 million, the highest since 1994.  “I don’t think you’ll necessarily see this magnitude of
falls going forward,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London, referring to the monthly data.
Still, “the  Bank of England  will see this data as further
evidence that the economy is resilient, and that supports the
view that the they may raise interest rates sooner than
expected.”  Recruitment company Reed said Feb. 28 that a gauge of new
jobs rose to a record last month as demand for workers in the
private sector soared. Unemployment may still increase as the
government implements a budget squeeze that includes 330,000
public job cuts. As inflation accelerates, the Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee has split on  interest rates , with
three of the nine members voting to raise the rate in February.  Wage Growth  The pound declined against the dollar today and was trading
at $1.6061, down 0.1 percent, as of 2:16 p.m. in London. Bonds
were little changed, with the yield on the benchmark U.K. 10-
year government bond at 3.53 percent.  Today’s figures showed wage settlements remain subdued,
supporting the Bank of England’s argument that above-target
inflation isn’t fueling demands for higher pay. Weekly pay
excluding bonuses rose 2.2 percent in the three months through
January from a year earlier, compared with a 2.3 percent pace in
the three months through December.  Including bonuses, pay growth accelerated to an annual 2.3
percent from 1.8 percent.  “Wage pressures are not concerning and suggest little
medium-term inflation threat,” said  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Financial Markets in London. “With significant
public-sector job losses still coming through, and the fact that
all of the job created in the U.K. since the end of the
recession have been part-time, suggest the slack in the labor
market will continue to depress medium term inflation.”  Unemployment ‘Mixed’  The U.K. unemployment rate based on ILO standards was at 8
percent in the three months through January, compared with 7.9
percent in the three months through October. That compares with
9.9 percent in the euro area, 8.9 percent in the U.S. and 4.9
percent in  Japan .  British employment rose 32,000 to 29.16 million in the
quarter through January, the statistics office said. The
employment rate was 70.5 percent.  A separate report from the statistics office showed that
the number of people employed in the public sector fell 45,000
to 6.195 million in the fourth quarter from the previous three
months. That’s the lowest level since the third quarter of 2008.  The data provided a “mixed” picture, Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field said. While “the rise in
employment was driven by a rise in private-sector full-time
jobs,” the increase in the ILO unemployment measure was “a
concern,” he told reporters in London.  Job-Cut Fears  U.K. consumer confidence stayed close to the lowest level
since March 2009 last month, according to GfK NOP Ltd. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  has warned the recovery is likely
to be “choppy” after the economy shrank 0.6 percent in the
three months through December.  The number of Britons who think they may be made redundant
rose in the quarter through December on concerns about
government spending cuts, the Chartered Institute of Personnel
and Development said on Feb. 4, citing a YouGov Plc survey. The
study found that 20 percent of 2,053 people questioned believe
“it is likely” they could lose their job, compared with 19
percent in a September survey, the group said.    Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
lender, said on Feb. 8 that it plans to cut 200 jobs in its
insurance division as part of its integration with HBOS Plc.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-largest bank, said on Feb. 2 that
it may eliminate as many as 285 U.K.-based jobs at its
Barclaycard unit and transfer the roles overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  