-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Tessa Jowell Said to Sue Police Over Phone Hacking

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-03-16T19:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-k-lawmaker-tessa-jowell-said-to-sue-police-over-phone-hacking.html
U.K. lawmaker Tessa Jowell sued
London police to find out if they obtained information that
indicates journalists hacked into her mobile phone, two people
familiar with the case said.  A complaint against the Metropolitan Police was filed by
Jowell, a Labour party member of Parliament, in London
yesterday, according to court records. The suit is seeking
information obtained during police investigations that suggest
her phone was hacked, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the claim isn’t public.    News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World newspaper has been sued by
more than half a dozen celebrities, including actress Sienna Miller, over claims that journalists or investigators accessed
their voicemail messages for stories. While most figures have
sued News of the World and later asked police for information,
Jowell filed her complaint directly against the Met.  Jowell, reached on her mobile phone today, said the filing
“speaks for itself” and declined to comment further.
Metropolitan Police spokesman Richard Jones confirmed in a
telephone interview that Jowell has issued a claim without
commenting on the subject of the suit. News of the World
spokeswoman Hayley Barlow also declined to comment.  Jowell, the former Olympics minister, said in January that
while she suspected her phone had been hacked, she was unsure if
it was done by journalists, the  British Broadcasting Corp. 
reported at the time. The police in January also said they were
re-opening a criminal investigation into phone hacking
allegations after receiving new evidence from News of the World.  Court Hearing  At a hearing today lawyers for Sky Andrew, a U.K. sports
agent who is suing News of the World newspaper over phone
hacking, asked a judge to force  London  police to hand over
notebooks that they obtained during a criminal investigation
five years ago into the activities of the paper’s former royal
editor  Clive Goodman  and Glen Mulcaire, a private investigator
employed by the paper.  Goodman and Mulcaire were jailed in 2007 for accessing the
mobile phones of members of the royal household.  Mulcaire admitted in 2006 to five other counts of phone
hacking relating to Andrew, publicist Max Clifford, model Elle Macpherson, soccer player  Sol Campbell , lawmaker  Simon Hughes 
and soccer executive Gordon Taylor.  The case is Jowell v. The Commissioner of the Police of the
Metropolis, Case No. HC11C00590,  High Court  of Justice Chancery
Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 