-- 
U.K. Stocks Drop For a Sixth Day on Japan; Barclays, Banks Fall

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-16T17:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-as-hsbc-trades-ex-dividend-ab-foods-gains.html
U.K. stocks dropped for a sixth
day, the longest stretch of declines in more than two years, led
by a sell-off in financial and basic resource companies as Japan
battles to prevent a nuclear meltdown.    Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-largest bank, and  Prudential
Plc (PRU) , the biggest U.K. insurer, both lost more than 3 percent in  London  trading, while Anglo American Plc and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  erased
earlier gains. International Consolidated Airlines Group SA sank
3.5 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 1.7 percent to 5,598.23 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, extending yesterday’s 1.4 percent
drop. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  slid 1.6 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 1.2 percent.  “With so much uncertainty about whether the nuclear
fallout can be contained, no one wants to get back into equities
until there’s a cast-iron all-clear from the Japanese
government,” said London-based Angus Campbell, head of sales at
Capital Spreads.  The benchmark FTSE 100 has tumbled 8.1 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 8 as political turmoil in the Middle East
sent oil prices surging and  Japan  battled to stop earthquake-
damaged nuclear reactors from leaking radiation.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. today said a reactor containment
vessel may have been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, deepening the crisis in the world’s third-largest
economy and increasing the risks of radioactive leaks.  Guenther Oettinger  Stocks extended the selloff after the European Union’s
energy chief, Guenther Oettinger, said the power plant risks
provoking a “major disaster.” He said his assessment was based
on information from the EU mission in Tokyo, the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  and media reports.  “There was a high degree of confusion in the market place
in response to these comments,” said Joshua Raymond, a London-
based market strategist on City Index. “One hopes that the
statement was closer to political sensationalism than imminent
danger to Japanese citizens.”  Barclays led financial shares lower, falling 3.4 percent to
282 pence. Prudential slid 3.1 percent to 673.5 pence while
asset manager Schroders Plc declined 2.3 percent to 1,691 pence.    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank and biggest
weighted stock on the FTSE 100 Index, fell 2.5 percent to 622.5
pence as the shares trade without the right to the latest
interim dividend.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND)  are also ex-dividend today.  Manic Miners  Anglo American, the world’s fourth-largest diversified
mining company, dropped 2.5 percent to 2,954.5 pence. Xstrata,
the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, slid 1.4 percent to
1,329 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining
company, declined 1.6 percent to 2,213 pence.  IAG led airlines lower. The parent company of British
Airways retreated 3.5 percent to 212.9 pence, EasyJet Plc fell
1.5 percent to 333.4 pence.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc retreated 10 percent to 60 cents
in Dublin trading, extending yesterday’s 14 percent selloff.
Ireland’s biggest life insurer said its purchase of deposits and
government-guaranteed bonds from Irish Nationwide Building
Society last month may have a “marginally negative” impact on
earnings and capital.    Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  rose 1 percent to 949.5 pence,
one of nine companies to gain on the FTSE 100 today. Credit
Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation for the sugar producer
and retailer to “outperform” from “neutral.”    Collins Stewart  also initiated coverage of the shares with
a “buy” recommendation and a price estimate of 1,300 pence.    3i Group Plc (III)  rallied 2.2 percent to 291 pence after Chief
Executive Officer Michael Queen bought 100,000 shares in
Europe’s largest publicly traded private equity firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  