-- 
Obama Seeks to Expand Loan Guarantees for Reactors, Chu Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-16T18:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-to-press-ahead-with-expanding-loan-guarantees-for-reactors-chu-says.html
The Obama administration will press
ahead with efforts to expand loan guarantees for new nuclear
reactors while investigating the failure of  Japan ’s power plants
after an earthquake, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said.  The U.S. Energy Department is seeking to add $36 billion in
loan-guarantee authority to the program’s existing $18.5
billion, Chu said today at a House Energy and Commerce Committee
panel hearing. President  Barack Obama  asked lawmakers to expand
the program in his February budget request.  An earthquake and tsunami in Japan on March 11 crippled
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant with
explosions, fires and radiation leaks. As Japan tries to avert a
meltdown at the plant, Obama and his energy advisers have said
U.S. nuclear reactors are safe.  U.S. nuclear plants are subject to “constant monitoring
and oversight,” Obama said in an  interview  yesterday with  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , television station KOAT.  Obama said he’s directed the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
“to make sure that we take lessons learned from what’s happened
in Japan and that we are constantly upgrading how we approach
our nuclear safety.”  Obama supports an expansion of nuclear power and increased
loan guarantees, and “that position has not been changed,” Chu
said.  ‘Very Closely’  Energy officials “don’t believe there is any danger”
posed by U.S. reactors, Chu said today. The administration will
look “very, very closely” at events in Japan to see if changes
are needed “at the current existing nuclear power plants and
any that are being considered” for construction, he said.  The committee will hold hearings on Japan’s crisis and the
implications for U.S. reactors, said Representative  Fred Upton ,
a Michigan Republican and chairman of the panel. There is
incomplete information on developments in Japan and “we need to
allow time for reflection and careful analysis,” Upton said.  The U.S. hasn’t issued a new nuclear construction license
in more than 30 years. The Obama administration is seeking the
guarantees, in which the U.S. backs construction loans against
default, “to help deploy a new generation of American nuclear
reactors,” Chu said. Nuclear power will help the U.S. meet
Obama’s goal of getting 80 percent of the nation’s electricity
from “clean” sources by 2035, he said.  The Office of Management and Budget “will include anything
like what is happening in Japan” when calculating fees that
power companies must pay for a loan guarantee, Chu said.  ‘Toxic Asset’  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said the U.S. shouldn’t be offering the guarantees. Such backing
for a new nuclear plant is “just like a toxic asset,” Markey
said, referring to the mortgage-backed securities involved in
the U.S. rescue of the financial system in 2008.  The U.S. needs “a seismic shift in our approach to nuclear
reactor safety,” Markey said.  Representative Henry Waxman of  California , who leads the
Democrats on the panel, said Republicans are too supportive of
nuclear power. There should be an investigation into the
“safety and preparedness of U.S. facilities,” Waxman said.  Chu refused to speculate on whether the emergency in Japan
will make it harder to win public support for new reactors in
the U.S. “Before we make wild extrapolations on anything, let’s
just find out what’s going on,” Chu told reporters after
testifying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  