-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Wednesday, March 16

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-03-16T12:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-wednesday-march-16.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  In the morning, Deputy Secretary Wolin will attend a
regular meeting chaired by the Vice President to assess progress
in  Iraq . This meeting, which will be held at the White House, is
closed press.  In the afternoon, Secretary Geithner will meet at Treasury
with  Inter-American Development Bank  (IDB) President Luis
Moreno. This meeting is closed press.  At 2 p.m. on Thursday, Secretary Geithner will testify
before the House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on
Financial Services and General Government on the President’s
Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 Budget request for the U.S. Department of
the Treasury. The Secretary will outline the ways in which
Treasury’s FY 2012 Budget continues support for the economic
recovery with targeted investments in areas intended to spur job
creation and economic growth; reforms the way the federal
government does business; and advances our national security and
global economic interests. He will also highlight nearly $1
billion in savings through program reductions, efficiencies, and
offsets in the FY 2012 Treasury Budget. The hearing, which is
open press, will be held in the Rayburn House Office Building.  Later in the afternoon, Secretary Geithner will meet with  Senator Graham  on  Capitol Hill . This meeting is closed press.  In the evening, the Secretary will meet with Irish Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  in Washington, DC. This meeting is closed
press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  