-- 
U.S. February Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-03-16T12:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-february-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
producer price report for February released by the Labor Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods increased 1.6
percent in February, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  reported today. This rise followed advances of
0.8 percent in January and 0.9 percent in December, and marks
the largest increase in finished goods prices since a 1.9-
percent advance in June 2009. At the earlier stages of
processing, prices received by manufacturers of intermediate
goods moved up 2.0 percent, and the crude goods index climbed
3.4 percent. On an unadjusted basis, prices for finished goods
advanced 5.6 percent for the 12 months ended February 2011, the
largest 12-month increase since a 5.9-percent rise in March
2010.
Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  Leading the broad-based increase in the index for finished
goods, prices for finished energy goods and finished consumer
foods moved up 3.3 percent and 3.9 percent, respectively. The
index for finished goods less foods and energy also contributed
to this advance, rising 0.2 percent.  Finished energy:  Prices for finished energy goods climbed 3.3 percent in
February, the fifth straight monthly increase. Accounting for
over forty percent of the February advance, prices for gasoline
rose 3.7 percent. Also contributing to higher prices for
finished energy goods were increases in the indexes for home
heating oil and residential electric power.  Finished foods:  The index for finished consumer foods surged 3.9 percent
in February, the largest increase since a 4.2-percent climb in
November 1974. About seventy percent of the February rise can
be traced to higher prices for fresh and dry vegetables, which
jumped 48.7 percent. Advances in the indexes for meats and
dairy products also were major factors in the increase in the
finished consumer foods index.  Finished core:  In February, prices for finished goods less foods and
energy moved up 0.2 percent, the third consecutive rise.
Accounting for about twenty percent of the February increase
was the index for passenger cars, which advanced 0.6 percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials,
supplies, and components advanced 2.0 percent in February, the
largest increase since a 2.7-percent rise in July 2008. About
half of the broad-based February advance can be attributed to
prices for intermediate energy goods, which climbed 4.3
percent. The indexes for intermediate goods other than foods
and energy and for intermediate foods and feeds also
contributed to this increase, moving up 1.1 percent and 2.6
percent, respectively. For the 12 months ended February 2011,
prices for intermediate goods climbed 7.8 percent, the largest
advance since rising 8.3 percent in May 2010.  Intermediate energy:  The intermediate energy goods index advanced 4.3 percent
in February, the largest increase since a 6.3-percent jump in
January 2010. Over thirty percent of the February monthly rise
can be traced to prices for  diesel fuel , which moved up 12.6
percent. Higher prices for gasoline and jet fuel also were
major factors in the February advance in the intermediate
energy goods index.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods and energy
climbed 1.1 percent in February, the seventh straight advance.
Accounting for thirty percent of the February rise, prices for
basic organic chemicals increased 4.5 percent. The iron and
steel index also moved up, contributing to the advance in
intermediate core prices.  Intermediate foods:  The intermediate foods and feeds index rose 2.6 percent in
February, the largest advance since a 4.1-percent increase in
July 2008. A 4.1-percent jump in prices for dairy products
accounted for nearly a quarter of the February advance in the
intermediate foods index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing rose 3.4 percent in February. For the 3 months ended
in February, prices for crude materials climbed 13.8 percent,
subsequent to a 6.7-percent increase for the 3 months ended
November 2010. Over three-fourths of the February over-the-
month advance is attributable to the index for crude foodstuffs
and feedstuffs, which jumped 6.7 percent. Also contributing to
the rise in prices for crude goods, the indexes for crude
nonfood materials less energy and crude energy materials moved
up 2.3 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs increased
6.7 percent in February. From November to February, prices for
crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs surged 12.1 percent, compared
with an 8.9-percent rise from August to November. Nearly thirty
percent of the February monthly advance can be traced to a 9.8-
percent jump in the grains index. Higher prices for fluid milk
and slaughter livestock also were major contributors to the
increase in the index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy moved up
2.3 percent in February. For the 3 months ended in February,
crude core prices rose 10.1 percent following a 9.8-percent
advance for the 3 months ended November 2010. A major
contributor to the February over-the-month increase was the
index for nonferrous metal ores, which climbed 4.4 percent.
Higher prices for grains also were a significant factor in the
rise in the crude core index.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials advanced
0.9 percent in February. From November to February, prices for
crude energy materials increased 17.8 percent after rising 2.1
percent from August to November. In February, a 7.6-percent
jump in the natural gas index led the monthly rise in prices
for crude energy materials.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:
The Producer Price Index for the net output of total trade
industries moved up 1.5 percent in February, the first increase
since October 2010. (Trade indexes measure changes in margins
received by wholesalers and retailers.) A quarter of the
February rise can be traced to a 12.0-percent advance in
margins received by pharmacies and drug stores. Higher margins
received by family clothing stores and merchant wholesalers of
nondurable goods also contributed significantly to the increase
in the total trade industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
transportation and warehousing industries rose 0.5 percent in
February, the fifth consecutive increase. Over one-third of the
February gain can be attributed to a 2.1-percent advance in
prices received by line-haul railroads. Increases in the
indexes for couriers and general freight trucking also were
factors in the rise in the transportation and warehousing
industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
traditional service industries moved down 0.2 percent in
February, subsequent to a 0.7-percent advance a month earlier.
Leading the February decline, prices received by the commercial
banking industry fell 4.8 percent. Lower prices received by
general medical and surgical hospitals and by wired
telecommunications carriers also contributed to the February
decrease in the total traditional service industries index.  The Producer Price Index for March 2011 is scheduled to be released on
Thursday, April 14, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  