-- 
CIA Worker Held in Shootings of Two Freed in Pakistan as Blood Money Paid

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-03-16T17:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-consulate-worker-held-over-shootings-of-two-is-released-in-pakistan.html
An American working for the Central
Intelligence Agency who was charged with killing two Pakistanis
has been freed after relatives of the slain men accepted
compensation under Islamic law, an official said.  The trial court in Lahore ordered the release of Raymond
Davis, who had been held by police since the shooting in the
city on Jan. 27. While the court action fulfills a demand made
by the U.S. government, it may lead to protests by conservative
religious parties that have vowed to oppose it.  “The legitimate relatives of deceased persons have agreed
in front of the judge to forgive Raymond Davis,” Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province, said in an
interview broadcast by Geo television. “Davis was freed after
the exchange of money in the court.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in Cairo, told
reporters that “the U.S. did not pay compensation” for Davis’s
release. Asked whether Pakistan paid the families, Clinton said
that was a question for the Pakistani government. She declined
to comment further when asked if a third party had paid the
families at the U.S.’s behest.  The U.S., Clinton said, is “grateful” that Davis has been
freed.  Diplomatic Immunity  The U.S. demanded Davis’ release, saying he had diplomatic
immunity and acted in self-defense during a robbery attempt by
two motorcyclists. Police say he murdered men who didn’t intend
to kill him. Pakistani law allows murder suspects to be set free
if they compensate the heirs of their victims by paying “blood
money.” A third Pakistani died when he was struck by a car
rushing to aid the American after the incident.  “I don’t think  Pakistan  could afford to antagonize the
U.S., and I don’t think they had any option but to free him,”
said  Talat Masood , an independent political analyst and retired
lieutenant general based in Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital. “Now
the biggest question is how far Pakistan’s religious parties can
exploit the issue. After all, an Islamic law was used to settle
this issue.”  Police clashed with protesters today outside the U.S.
consulate in Lahore, firing tear gas as the demonstrators burned
tires, the  Associated Press  reported.  “We appreciate” decisions by the dead men’s families
“that enabled Mister Davis to leave Pakistan and head back
home,” Clinton said. The U.S. remains committed to a strategic
relationship with Pakistan and is “looking forward to
continuing to strengthen it.”    Justice Department  Probe  The U.S. Justice Department is investigating the shooting
incident, Clinton said.  The families of the two men killed were paid $2.3 million,
the AP reported, citing a lawyer for the relatives of the
Pakistani men.  Davis worked as a security contractor for the CIA, a U.S.
official said Feb. 21. He provided security to U.S. personnel in
Pakistan, according to the official, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the case was pending.  The shootings triggered street protests in Pakistan, where
public opposition to U.S. policies is strong. The demonstrations
raised pressure on Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari, a key
U.S. ally in the fight against Islamic extremism. The Lahore
police chief had accused Davis of committing “clear-cut
murder.”  Diplomatic Treatment  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 14 said Pakistan
mustn’t prosecute Davis and he should be treated as a diplomat.
Some U.S. lawmakers this month questioned the wisdom of
providing aid to Pakistan as it refused to release Davis.  Husain Haqqani , Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S. told CNBC that
Pakistan was committed to finding a legal and diplomatic
solution to the case involving Davis.  CIA spokesman George Little, without mentioning Davis’s
case, said in an e-mail that “the agency and our Pakistani
counterparts have had a strong relationship for years” and that
“it’s our standing practice to work through” issues that
arise. “That’s the sign of a healthy partnership,” he said.  “This was a very important and necessary step for both of
our countries to be able to maintain our relationship and remain
focused on progress on bedrock national interests,” said
Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  Michigan Republican Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of
the House Intelligence Committee, said he was “happy Pakistan
has finally done the right thing.” As a diplomat, Davis
“should never have been arrested,” Rogers said in a statement.
“Irresponsible behavior like this jeopardizes everything our
two nations have built together.”  Flag Burnings  Since the shooting, Islamic religious parties have held
weekly protests in Lahore at which their supporters have burned
American flags and hung Davis in effigy while demanding he be
tried and executed for murder.  Members of the dead men’s families said they had come under
pressure from religious or militant parties, including Jamiat-i-
Islami and Jamaat ud-Dawa, to refuse any U.S. offer of money to
settle the case,  according to Arif Jamal , a Pakistani researcher
and author on militant groups, in a March 11 article for the
Washington-based journal Foreign Policy.  Davis’ release may “risk public protest or even violent
backlash,” Jamal wrote.  Pakistan’s fragile economy depends on foreign aid and
support by the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank .
Obama’s 2012 budget proposes $1.2 billion in assistance for
Pakistan, largely to support counterinsurgency training for
military posted along the border with  Afghanistan .  Davis is a former Special Forces soldier originally from  Virginia  who spent 10 years in the U.S. Army before leaving in
August 2003, the AP reported, citing Defense Department records.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  