-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as S&P 500 Drops to Lowest Level Since December

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-16T20:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-stock-futures-fall-apple-slides-on-downgrade-vera-bradley-advances.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the lowest level since December,
amid concern that Japan’s nuclear crisis will worsen.  The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ)  tracking 323 securities
slumped 3.7 percent. KB Home and  D.R. Horton  Inc. slid more than
2.2 percent, pacing declines in homebuilders, as housing starts
plunged to the lowest level in almost a year.  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  fell 3.8 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. cut its rating on the shares.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sank 4.5 percent
after JMP Securities LLC downgraded the maker of iPads.  The S&P 500 fell 2 percent to 1,256.88 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 242.12 points, or 2
percent, to 11,613.30, the biggest drop since August. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which measures
the cost of using options as insurance against declines in the
S&P 500, rose 21 percent to 29.40, the highest level since July.  “The risks have risen and you have to be mindful of
them,” said David Joy, chief market strategist at Columbia
Management in  Boston , which oversees $350 billion. “It’s
difficult to nail down what’s accurate information coming out of  Japan  and what isn’t. There’s concern that the problems at the
nuclear plants are far more serious than the problems associated
with the earthquake. In addition to that, there’s ongoing
housing weakness in the U.S. and a fear premium built into the
oil market. That’s why you have to hedge your bets.”  Emergency Meeting  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency will call an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis in Japan as a breach at the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant increased the risk of a
radioactive leak. IAEA Chief Yukiya Amano is flying to  Tokyo  to
talk with authorities today and will return for the meeting as
soon as possible, he told reporters in Vienna. It will be the
first extraordinary meeting of the agency’s 35-member board
since his election to succeed Mohamed ElBaradei two years ago.  The  S&P 500  pared its retreat after the  Associated Press 
reported Tokyo Electric Power Co. says a power line that may
solve the nuclear crisis at its facility is almost ready. Tokyo
Electric Power has not determined the timing for when a new
power line can restore electricity to a tsunami-crippled nuclear
power plant, Sakio Iwamoto, a spokesman, told Bloomberg News.
Iwamoto said he couldn’t confirm how much progress has been made
in installing the new power line.  The S&P 500 has slumped 3.6 percent over the last three
days after a 9-magnitude earthquake, the biggest in Japan’s
history, struck the northeast part of the country on March 11.  ‘Armageddon Scenario’  “Investors have priced in an Armageddon scenario,” said
Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $53 billion. “If we
find that there’s stabilization coming into those nuclear
facilities in Japan, investors will turn around and look at the
alternatives. People are wary, but at the same time there’s a
notion that the economic basis continues to show strength.”  Japan’s earthquake should have a “limited” impact on U.S.
growth, said  Alec Phillips , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist
based in  Washington . Disruptions to Japanese output could shift
demand to U.S. products, according to Phillips.  The iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund declined 3.7 percent to
$9.66 in U.S. trading, dropping to the lowest level since
September.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of mobile-phone
chips, and  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. maker of luxury leather
handbags, slumped at least 2.6 percent amid concern Japanese
sales will suffer.  Housing Starts  Earlier today, equity futures fell after the Commerce
Department said housing starts dropped 22.5 percent to a 479,000
annual rate. The decline from January was the biggest since
March 1984. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 566,000 rate. Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, fell 8.2 percent to a 517,000 annual pace.  The producer-price index climbed 1.6 percent from the prior
month, the most since June 2009, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The median projection in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.7 percent gain. The so-called core measure,
which excludes volatile food and energy costs increased 0.2
percent, matching forecasts.  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes declined 2.3
percent, as 11 of the 12 stocks retreated.  KB Home (KBH)  slumped 3.8
percent to $12.71. D.R. Horton sank 2.3 percent to $11.70.  IBM declined 3.8 percent to $153. The computer services
company was cut to “market perform” from “outperform” at
Sanford C. Bernstein. IBM, which makes up 10 percent of the
gauge, contributed 45.60 points to the index’s slump.  Apple fell 4.5 percent, the most since June, to $330.01.
The world’s most valuable technology company was cut to "market
perform’’ from “market outperform” at JMP Securities. Alex
Gauna, an analyst at the brokerage, citing risks related to
manufacturing partner Foxconn Technology Corp.  Pessimism Rises  Pessimism on U.S. stocks rose for the third straight week,
according to  Investor Intelligence’s  analysis of investment
newsletters between March 9 and yesterday. About 22 percent of
writers were bearish on U.S. stocks, up from 21 percent last
week, according to the New Rochelle, New York-based firm, which
has examined forecasts in newsletters since 1963. About 52
percent of investors were bullish, while 26 percent anticipate a
correction, or 10 percent decline, in the market.  Barclays Plc’s Barry Knapp forecast that the U.S. stock
market will dip in the third to fourth quarter this year, once
the  Federal Reserve  starts to unwind its stimulus program.  The Fed is “likely to keep the balance sheet static after
they stop expanding in June,” said Knapp, head of U.S. equity
strategy at  Barclays Capital , in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “In the September to
November time frame, they’ll allow it start contracting, and
that will be the necessary condition to trigger an equity market
correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  