-- 
U.S. Army Lays Off Hundreds of Humvee Workers Amid Budget Delay

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-03-16T22:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-army-lays-off-hundreds-of-humvee-workers-amid-budget-delay.html
The U.S. Army has laid off
“several hundred” contract employees performing Humvee
restoration work at depots in  Pennsylvania  and  Texas , including
employees of DynCorp International Inc., Army officials said.  Army Secretary John McHugh attributed the reductions at the
 Letterkenny Army Depot  in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and at the
 Red River Army Depot  in Texarkana, Texas, to Congress’s delay in
passing a federal budget. He also said that the lack of a budget
for the 2011 fiscal year has forced him to extend a hiring
freeze across the Army.  “Each day that we’re not provided with an appropriations
bill, it presents greater and greater problems,” McHugh said
today during testimony before the House Appropriations
subcommittee on defense.  Since Oct. 1, the start of the fiscal year, Congress has
funded the government with a series of stopgap measures known as
continuing resolutions, which continue funding at last year’s
levels and don’t authorize changes in programs.  The reductions at Letterkenny are equivalent to 288 full-
time positions, or about 10 percent of the depot’s workforce,
and affected employees of  Falls Church , Virginia-based DynCorp
and subcontractors of Alexandria, Virginia-based  Tiburon
Associates Inc. , Mark Sheffield, deputy commander of the
Letterkenny Army Depot, said in a telephone interview.  The depot, which also repairs Patriot missiles, generators
and other military equipment, has restored more than 20,000
Humvees made by AM General LLC since 2004, Sheffield said. The
facility’s workforce of 2,972 workforce includes 1,193
contractors, he said.  A spokeswoman for DynCorp did not immediately respond to an
e-mail request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 