-- 
U.S. Producer Prices Rise More Than Forecast, Led by Food

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-16T13:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-producer-prices-rise-more-than-forecast-led-by-food-1-.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in February, led by food prices at a more
than three-decade high and a surge in energy.  The producer-price index climbed 1.6 percent from the prior
month, the most since June 2009, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.7 percent gain. The so-called core measure,
which excludes volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2
percent, matching forecasts.  The cost of raw materials has risen further as expanding
economies in  Asia  and Latin America lift demand, and crude oil
has been pushed up by turmoil in the Middle East. Even so, firms
have limited scope to raise prices to shield profits, allowing
the  Federal Reserve  yesterday to maintain monetary easing to
spur growth while citing “subdued” underlying inflation.  “Outside of food and energy, the PPI gains are reasonably
tame,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc.
in  New York . “We’re at the point where  core inflation  will be
more up than down in coming months but still pretty tame at the
broad level.”  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
72 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Projections ranged
from a drop of 0.1 percent to a gain of 1.1 percent, after a 0.8
percent rise in January.  Contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
June rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,275.80 at 8:53 a.m. in New
York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to price, fell to 3.29 percent from 3.31 percent late
yesterday.  Food, Energy  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
survey showed. The core index rose 0.5 percent in January.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 5.6 percent
more for goods last month after a 3.6 percent rise in January.  Core wholesale prices climbed 1.8 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, in line with the median forecast in the
Bloomberg survey and following a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain
the prior month.  The cost of food increased 3.9 percent, the most since
November 1974, while energy prices rose 3.3 percent led by a 15
percent jump in home heating oil.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 2.0 percent from the
prior month, the biggest gain since July 2008.  Prices of crude goods increased 3.4 percent.  El Segundo, California-based  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  is among companies
that plan to try to raise prices to cushion their profits. The
world’s largest toymaker said the increases would be across all
its brands.  Costs Increasing  “Costs are going up,” Robert Eckert, Mattel’s chief
executive officer, said on a Feb. 2 teleconference. “We will be
raising prices,” and “it’s most likely high single-digits in
terms of price increases essentially across the whole line this
year.”  Oil futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  have
increased 22 percent from a year ago. Commodities, which
completed a sixth monthly gain in February, are retreating as
Japan grapples with the aftermath of its worst earthquake on
record and the ensuing tsunami.  The Fed is trying to speed up the world’s largest economy
through a second round of bond purchases that’ll pump $600
billion into the financial system by June. Along with the so-
called quantitative easing, the central bank indicated its
commitment to keeping the benchmark interest rate near zero for
an “extended period.”  Recent increases in oil and other commodity expenses “are
currently putting upward pressure on inflation,” Fed officials
said yesterday in a statement after their meeting. “The
Committee expects these effects to be transitory, but it will
pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation
expectations.”  Preferred Gauge  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier,
matching December’s year-over-year gain, the smallest in five
decades of record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. climbed 1.4 percent in February from the prior month,
more than the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey and led by
commodity costs, data showed yesterday.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.4 percent in February for a third month, and the core index
had a smaller gain compared with January, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The figures are due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  