-- 
U.S. May Rethink Bahrain Ties If Demos Persist, Academic Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-16T17:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-may-rethink-bahrain-ties-if-demos-persist-academic-says.html
The clearout by Bahrain’s security
forces of Pearl roundabout in the capital, Manama, is unlikely
to end protests, and the U.S. may have to rethink its ties with
the ruling family if violence persists, said  Toby C. Jones ,
assistant professor of history at  Rutgers University  and author
of “Desert Kingdom: How Oil and Water Forged Modern  Saudi
Arabia .” He spoke in a telephone interview today.  On the clearout:  “I think it will only redistribute efforts. Since last
Friday, there have been protests at the university, the
financial center, in Sitra. This has spread beyond Pearl Square.  “The regime’s decision to clear the square was largely
symbolic, but it doesn’t change the reality and people will
still take to the streets.  “It is an escalation; it’s a further provocation.  “This is basically going to be an effort to rule through
martial law, which will justify an iron-fist policy of dealing
with public displays. I don’t think the protesters have the
means to wage a civil war, this isn’t  Libya , but it will become
martial law with Saudi occupation that will breed continuing
simmering tensions. How will the Saudis define victory, what is
their exit strategy?”  “I think this will go on for the next few weeks at
least.”  On why they cleared out the square:  “I think what they would like to do is minimize the threat
to Manama directly. Pearl Square isn’t in the heart of the city,
but it’s a place from which the protesters can block traffic. If
you can drive them out, it changes the power dynamic and
complicates their efforts to put pressure on the government.”  On demands and expectations of the opposition:  “The expectations for what’s possible were set by what
happened in Tunisia and  Egypt  and events took place quickly, but
that’s not how change happens historically. It takes a long
time, a sustained amount of public pressure. So, the dynamic in
Bahrain is that if the protesters continue to emphasize they are
committed to peaceful opposition and they were willing to keep
going, I don’t see how the Bahraini government can continue and
maintain all their relationships.”  On the U.S.’s position:  “There will come a time when the numbers of killed and
injured become so high that it will force the U.S. to rethink
its relationship with the al-Khalifa family. It puts the U.S. in
a very difficult position because they are long time allies. The
U.S. is not angry or frustrated enough to sever relations but
there will come a moment when the relations are no longer
tenable based on the behavior of the regime.”  On Saudi involvement:  “They are clearly aligned with the al-Khalifa, there is
not much doubt about that. They would like to bottle this up. I
think it will complicate things.  “What the Saudis and the Bahrainis are doing in Bahrain is
one thing, but this is also provocation to the Iranians and this
could escalate into a regional conflict very easily, and this
can’t make the Americans happy.  “The temperatures are rising. If the Saudis continue to
use a sectarian framework to explain all this, which it’s not,
this has the possibility to spin out of their control.”  On the makeup of the opposition:  “Al-Haq isn’t radical. If that kind of language takes
hold, the Bahraini government wins.  “Al-Haq didn’t call for these demonstrations. This was
largely in the hands of human rights activists. The formal
opposition, including Al-Haq, were the first to respond, they
were dragged in by the youthful activists. They decided reform
wasn’t enough, they wanted fundamental change.  “The e-mails I get are desperate, pleading for the UN and
the U.S. to step in. Not, we are going to resort to violence.
People are basically powerless.  “I don’t think the (government’s) proposal was genuine. I
think the Bahrain government was stalling for time. I don’t
think the opposition will be happy with fulfilling the promises
of a decade ago. Those are half measures and it’s not enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 