-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for March 11 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-16T14:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-march-11-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged nearly 14.2 million
barrels per day during the week ending March 11, 239 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 83.4 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging 8.7 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.1 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged nearly 8.7 million barrels per
day last week, up by 381 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 8.3 million barrels per day, 536 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 648 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 161 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 1.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 350.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
4.2 million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 2.6 million barrels and are above the
upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.3 million barrels
last week and are in the lower limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 5.1 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged about 19.4 million barrels per day, remaining virtually
unchanged compared to the similar period last year. Over the
last four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged
about 9.1 million barrels per day, up by 1.4 percent from the
same period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has
averaged about 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four
weeks, up by 3.8 percent from the same period last year. Jet
fuel product supplied is 4.5 percent higher over the last four
weeks compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  