-- 
UBS, Ex-Client Tyne Trade Suits Over Investment Shortfalls, Breach of Duty

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-16T07:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ubs-ex-client-tyne-sue-each-other-over-payment-breach-of-duty.html
  UBS AG (UBSN)  sought in a Singapore
lawsuit to recoup $12.6 million that it claims former client
Scott Francis Tyne and his Telesto Investments Ltd. owe, after
Tyne sued the bank in Australia.  UBS alleged Tyne breached an understanding not to sue. Tyne
claims UBS breached its duty when it sold Kazakhstan bank bonds
to Telesto, according to a filing at Singapore High Court. A
closed hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.  BTA Bank, Kazakhstan’s biggest lender before its collapse,
Alliance Bank, AO Astana Finance and Temirbank, then controlled
by BTA, defaulted in 2009. BTA, Temirbank and Alliance reached
restructuring deals with creditors that allowed them to write
off about $11 billion of debt.  “These bonds were missold to me and all of UBS’s retail
clients,” Tyne, 46, said in a phone interview today. “I was
told that there was a certainty the government would stand
behind the banks when, in fact, there was massive internal fraud
by the banks’ management.”  UBS is pursuing a legitimate claim and has a strong case,
the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Kazakh prosecutors had issued international arrest warrants
for BTA’s former chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov and his associates
over claims they embezzled as much as $4 billion. Ablyazov had
fled to  London  and claims the bank was nationalized because he
opposed President Nursultan Nazarbayev.  Telesto borrowed $60 million from Zurich-based UBS and had
a $28.2 million shortfall in its account in October 2008 when
the value of its investments fell in the midst of the global
financial crisis, UBS said in its lawsuit. Tyne was the personal
guarantor for the loan.  Standstill Agreement  UBS had agreed to a standstill with Telesto, including not
liquidating the firm’s collateral or making further margin calls
until March 31,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank said in its filing.
Telesto, a trust company registered in  Jersey , the  Channel
Islands , waived its claims against the bank, UBS said.  The Swiss bank ended the standstill agreement in October,
claiming Telesto broke the understanding with claims against the
bank, according to the Singapore lawsuit. UBS demanded Telesto
and Tyne pay the $12.6 million owed, according to the bank. Tyne
said he’s appealing a Singapore court order for the Australian
lawsuit to be halted.  No Understanding  The agreed standstill between UBS and Telesto didn’t amount
to an understanding that Tyne wouldn’t make claims against the
bank, the Australian investor said in his Singapore court
filing.  There were “definitely contentions of lack of authority
and misrepresentations” by UBS in Telesto’s Kazakhstan bond
investment, Tyne said in court papers.  Tyne has also  sued  AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. in
Victoria,  Australia , claiming he and a partner lost as much as
A$1.9 billion ($1.9 billion) when the insurer canceled a
contract that gave them special terms for investing, which
allowed for risk-free arbitrage.  Hri Kumar of Drew & Napier LLC is acting for UBS and Eddee
Ng of Tan Kok Quan Partnership is representing Telesto and Tyne.  The case is UBS AG v. Telesto Investments Ltd. & Scott
Francis Tyne S801/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  