-- 
UBS Wins S$9.3 Million Ruling After Ex-Client Drops Lawsuit

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-16T11:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/ubs-wins-s-9-3-million-judgment-in-singapore-against-ex-client.html
Former  UBS AG (UBS)  client Ng Kok Keong,
who claimed the bank was negligent in giving him investment
advice, must pay UBS S$9.3 million ($7.3 million) after
withdrawing his countersuit, a Singapore court ruled.  Ng’s lawsuit against UBS was dismissed by Singapore High
Court Judge Quentin Loh after the retired auto parts dealer
retracted his counterclaim at the start of today’s hearing.  The verdict was issued after Ng removed Elizabeth Tay, his
former UBS banker, as his key witness yesterday. Ng, who had
been a UBS client since 1995, was also forced to retract some of
his claims during the trial. UBS had produced transcripts of
telephone conversations he had with the Zurich-based bank
refuting his allegations.  Loh also ordered Ng to pay more than S$1 million of
interest on the amount owed, or 5 percent a year from Oct. 2008,
and legal costs.  Ng and his wife Yow Sin May claimed they were conservative
investors with limited experience in the financial market and
accused UBS and their banker Lily See of negligence in providing
advice. The couple sued for as much as S$10 million.  Ng lied, when he claimed he wasn’t told UBS boosted his
credit limit and that he had wanted to close his account, to
avoid paying his debt,  Cavinder Bull , the bank’s lawyer said
during the trial.  The retired businessman said he didn’t intend to lie and
the claims were made based on his memory.  Thio Ying Ying represented the couple. The trial had been
scheduled to run until March 22.  The case is  UBS AG (UBSN) , Singapore Branch v. Ng Kok Keong & Yow
Sin May S390/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 Jschneider5@bloomberg.net  