-- 
NRC Chief Warns of Risks as Japanese Flee Tsunami Region

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-16T23:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/un-nuclear-watchdog-warns-of-serious-situation-at-japanese-nuclear-plant.html
  Japan ’s crippled nuclear power
plant is releasing “extremely high” levels of radiation that
could be life-threatening, the head of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission told lawmakers as hundreds of Japanese
fled south of areas hit by last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  All the water in one of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant’s spent-fuel cooling pools has drained, NRC Chairman
Gregory Jaczko told a House Energy and Commerce Committee panel
in Washington. “Radiation levels are extremely high, which
could possibly impact the ability to take corrective measures,”
he said.  Japanese officials denied that the water from the cooling
pools was gone, the  Associated Press  reported.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. workers are struggling to prevent
a nuclear meltdown at the complex, which has six reactors, 135
miles (217 kilometers) north of  Tokyo . With his nation still
reeling from strongest earthquake to hit it on record and a
resulting tsunami, Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said on
March 15 the danger of further radiation leaks has increased.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting on the crisis. Japan faces a “serious situation,”
Yukiya Amano, head of the  International Atomic Energy Agency ,
told reporters in Vienna before departing for talks with
authorities in Tokyo today.  Amano said fuel stored in units 4, 5 and 6 at the Tepco
facility is exposed and releasing radiation. Separately, Tepco
official Masahisa Otsuku said the No. 2 reactor’s containment
vessel may have been breached.  ‘Bad Movie’  “It looks like a bad movie,”  Angel Gurria , secretary-
general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, told a London news conference. “You wouldn’t
believe a movie that had the largest ever earthquake, a huge
tsunami and then, of course, several of the reactors are now
acting up.” Still, he said, Japan has “recovered with great
resilience from past tragedies.”  Japanese stocks rebounded as investors bet that the 9.5
percent drop on March 15, the biggest decline in 2½ years, was
excessive. The Topix index closed 6.6 percent higher yesterday.
Plywood-maker Kanematsu-NNK Corp. jumped 38 percent.  In the wake of Jaczko’s remarks, Nikkei 225 Stock Average
futures in  Chicago  showed the benchmark measure of Japanese
shares may drop today.  Reconstruction Needs  The earthquake and tsunami will boost the yen as the
economy’s focus shifts from exports to reconstruction,
increasing demand for raw-material imports and fueling the
commodity boom, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “The destruction of infrastructure will require a massive
reconstruction effort,” HSBC economists including London-based  Stephen King  and Madhur Jha said in a note to clients. “The yen
should rise to divert resources away from exports toward
domestic reconstruction.”  The yen was at 80.05 per dollar at 3:04 a.m. in Tokyo, the
strongest since April 1995, when it touched a post-World War II
high of 79.75.  Tepco said it’s building a power line to the Dai-Ichi
plant’s cooling systems, which were knocked out by the quake.
U.S. stocks pared losses after the Associated Press reported
that Tepco said the power line was almost ready. Later, company
spokesman Sakio Iwamoto said the timing hadn’t been determined.  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
caused explosions in at least three of structures surrounding
the station’s reactors, as well as a fire in a pond containing
spent fuel rods.  Spent-Fuel Pools  Temperatures in the spent-fuel-rod cooling pools of the
shuttered No. 5 and No. 6 reactors were rising to as high as 63
degrees Celsius (145 degrees Fahrenheit) at 2 p.m. yesterday,
said Tsuyoshi Makigami, head of nuclear maintenance at Tepco.
Water levels at spent fuel pools at the three inactive reactors,
Nos. 4, 5 and 6, dropped by about 2 meters, exposing the fuel
rods, Amano said.  Exposed to air, the fuel bundles could chemically react
with moisture, catch fire and spread radiation into the
atmosphere, said Edwin Lyman, a physicist with the Union of
Concerned Scientists, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “Spent fuel is pretty hot and so it is stored under water
to keep it cool,” said Kelley, who worked for 30 years at the
U.S. Energy Department. “If the water leaks or boils away, then
the fuel is exposed,” then after burning, the uranium corrodes
and releases cesium, contaminating the area, he said.  Peak-Level Threat  The NRC’s Jaczko said radiation at the Japanese site is
fluctuating and at peak levels “would be lethal within a fairly
short period of time.”  He told reporters later that the information came from NRC
staff that were dispatched to Japan to help with the response
and have been in contact with industry officials there.  Jaczko’s assessment prompted the U.S. to recommend American
citizens living within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of the plant
evacuate or take shelter indoors as a precaution against
possible  radiation exposure . That exceeded the Japanese
government’s recommendation of a 12-mile (20-kilometer) zone.  A core group of 50 workers remain at the plant to manage
the reactors, Tepco said. Those engineers were temporarily
evacuated yesterday when dangerous radiation levels were
detected, but have now returned, chief government spokesman  Yukio Edano  said.  Fleeing Region  For the past days, people have been fleeing the region
toward Tokyo. In the capital, supermarkets reported panic buying
of household goods and fears of nuclear contamination have
prompted some people to leave the city. Four-hundred kilometers
southwest of Tokyo in  Osaka , some hotels said they were fully
booked.  SAP AG, the world’s biggest business software company, said
it has reserved 520 rooms in Osaka and Kobe that employees and
their families can use. Austria’s ambassador in Japan is leaving
Tokyo because of the reactors’ “unpredictability” and will
work from Osaka, the state-run Austrian Press Agency reported.
The German government said yesterday it is moving part of its
embassy operations to Osaka.  The French and German embassies have recommended that all
their citizens leave Japan.  Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. is flying two
extra flights from Tokyo today due to “rapidly increasing
demand from people wishing to return home to  Hong Kong  and
elsewhere,” Chief Operating Officer John Slosar said in an e-
mailed statement.  Flights Diverted    Alitalia  SpA joined Deutsche Lufthansa AG in rerouting
flights away from Tokyo. Alitalia will divert its 14 weekly
trips to Tokyo from  Rome  and Milan to the southern city of
Osaka, which it already serves with four weekly flights, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  A magnitude 6 aftershock to the east of Sendai shook
buildings in Tokyo at 12:52 p.m. local time yesterday, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey . There have been more than 450
aftershocks since the magnitude-9 temblor left hundreds of
thousands stranded and without power, with disruptions to food
and water supplies. The Japanese government has dispatched
100,000 troops to the northeastern region.  The official death toll at 4 p.m. local time yesterday was
3,771 people, with 8,181 missing, the  National Police Agency 
said. The tsunami and fears of a meltdown at the plant forced
451,059 people from their homes.  Eleven of Japan’s 54 reactors have been operating for 35
years or more. Two of those rank among the 10 oldest operating
units in the world, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  