-- 
United Sees Drop in Japan Travel; Delta Halts Haneda Flights

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-17T12:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/united-continental-sees-measurable-u-s-japan-travel-drop.html
  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
reported a “measurable decline” in demand for Japan-bound
flights and signaled some flying may be cut as the crisis
deepens at the country’s earthquake-damaged nuclear plant.  “We are monitoring the markets closely and will continue
to provide the level of service that is warranted by demand and
which can be operated safely,” a spokesman, Andrew Ferraro,
said yesterday. He declined to comment on whether seating
capacity to Japan will be trimmed.  The Chicago-based carrier is the first major U.S. airline
to say Japan travel has waned after the quake, tsunami and
radiation leaks from the stricken power station. United
Continental and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines have been flying
as usual even as  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Italy ’s
Alitalia SpA rerouted Tokyo flights elsewhere in Japan.    Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  today suspended flights to and from
Tokyo’s Haneda airport, while saying its Tokyo-Narita hub
continues to operate normally. Customers booked to Haneda may
change flights to Narita with no fees or penalties, the Atlanta-
based airline said on its Web site.  United Continental’s full schedule of 183 weekly departures
to Japan for its United and Continental brands remains intact
except for a route between Guam and Sendai, where the airport
was damaged, Ferraro said in an e-mail.  ‘Constant Contact’  United Continental, the world’s largest airline, is in
“constant contact” with Japanese authorities to ensure
employees’ safety, Ferraro said. Shrinking demand for flights to  Japan  is part of a “modest” drop in all U.S.-Japan travel, he
said.  American’s planes are “pretty much full in both
directions,” Kurt Stache, the carrier’s international vice
president, said today in an interview in Helsinki. “As long as
there’s demand we will continue to fly, as long as it’s a safe
environment to fly into,” he said.  Delta managers are “consulting with nuclear and
radiological experts on the facts in Japan to ensure our crews
and operations are safe,”  Betsy Talton , a spokeswoman for the
Atlanta-based airline, said yesterday. “Our focus now is on
running a safe operation.”  Evacuations, Airlift  Fires, explosions and high radiation levels at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant about 135 miles (220 kilometers) north
of  Tokyo  spurred evacuations in the region and the creation of a
no-fly zone. The U.S. unit of Nissan Motor Co. suspended
business travel to Japan, and tour operators canceled trips.  The U.S. said today it was making arrangements to help
airlift citizens from Japan along with military and diplomatic
families. Travel will be on a reimbursable basis to “safehaven
locations in  Asia ,” the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo said.  Passengers on United, Continental and Delta have the option
of receiving refunds for some Japan tickets or to waive fees to
rebook flights, while Fort Worth, Texas-based American is
offering a free reservation change.  United offered $992.20 round-trip coach tickets to Tokyo
for flights leaving today from  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles ,
according to prices on its website yesterday. The United and
Continental airlines still operate as separate brands.  ‘Quite Low’  “A walk-up fare below $1,000 is quite low and likely
related to a drop in demand,” said Dan Toporek, a spokesman for
online travel agent Travelocity.com. “It’s too early to tell
what the long-term impact will be.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index slumped 6.4 percent from
March 11 through yesterday, outstripping the 3.6 percent drop
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Delta’s 9.2 percent slide
was the most among 12 carriers in the Bloomberg gauge, followed
by the 7.7 percent tumble for United Continental.  Delta has the most seating capacity generated in Japan
among the largest U.S. airlines, at about 7 percent, followed by
5 percent for United Continental and American’s 3.5 percent,
according to Gary Chase, a Barclays Capital analyst in  New York .  Overseas routes such as those to Japan are prized by the
largest U.S. airlines because the flights are more profitable.
With no discount competition, fares are higher, and United,
Delta and American are all seeking to expand international
operations, especially for business fliers.  The suspension of Japan business travel by Nissan Americas,
whose parent company is based in Yokohama, went beyond steps
taken at companies such as  ITT Corp. (ITT) , which is limiting
corporate visits to “urgent, essential trips.”  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
discouraged non-emergency travel, and  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  said travel to
Japan “is not recommended.”  Airlines now are carrying people trying to get out of Japan
and ferrying emergency-response workers into the country, said
Robert W. Mann, president of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port
Washington, New York.  “That will eventually come to an end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net  or
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  