-- 
Uralkali Says Potash to Rise, Market Similar to Record Year

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v ,   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-16T17:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/uralkali-says-potash-will-surge-as-market-similar-to-record-year.html
OAO  Uralkali (URKA) , planning a merger
next quarter to become the world’s biggest potash producer,
expects prices of the fertilizer to surge as market conditions
almost match the record year of 2008.  “We see very strong fundamentals for the potash business
now” and for the next five years, Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner told Bloomberg Television. “They are food
inflation and rising prices for agricultural commodities.”  Potash companies are increasing charges because of rising
demand as farmers seek to boost crop yields after prices for
their produce jumped. Corn prices have climbed 77 percent in the
past year in  New York , soybeans gained 40 percent and wheat
added 43 percent. Uralkali’s trading arm raised contract prices
for potash in  China  14 percent in January to $400 a metric ton.
China is the world’s biggest consumer of the fertilizer.  “From what we see on the spot markets, the price is
approaching $500 a metric ton and we believe that this level
will be overcome this year,” Baumgertner said in the interview.
“The business and economic environment is very similar to that
of 2008.” Some potash prices touched $1,000 a ton that year.  Uralkali plans to merge with domestic rival OAO Silvinit to
overtake Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. as the largest
producer. The combined company would also control as much as 45
percent of the world’s potash trade through its trading arm,
Baumgertner said, compared with about 40 percent for Canpotex,
an exporter used by Potash Corp., Mosaic Co. and Agrium Inc.  Trading Arm  Belarusian Potash Co., Uralkali’s trading arm, may boost
spot prices for  Brazil  by 18 percent to as much as $530 a ton
from May, industry researcher FMB Group said on Feb. 25. The
contract price for  India  may rise 22 percent from a year before
to $450 a ton in April, Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital analyst
said by phone. Baumgertner declined to comment on negotiations.  “We monitor prices for agricultural commodities carefully
and set our prices based on that,” he said. Uralkali expects
world potash output to reach a record 57 million to 60 million
tons this year, compared with 52 million tons last year.  The merged Russian company would need to see a potash price
above $550 a ton before expanding the untapped projects of  Uralkali (URKA)  and Silvinit, according to Baumgertner. Current
production costs for the companies are about $70 a ton.  Silvinit and Uralkali produced a combined 10.3 million tons
last year, according to their results. Potash Corp. produced 8.6
million tons in 2010, while Mosaic Co.’s output was 7.2 million
tons in the year ended November, the latest period available.  Valuation Boost  Baumgertner expects the merger to boost Moscow-traded
Silvinit’s market value, currently half of Uralkali’s even
though it produces more potash, as the company gains access to
investors in the London market, where Uralkali has a listing.  Silvinit was today valued at $7.5 billion on Moscow’s RTS
exchange, while Uralkali had a $16 billion valuation in London.
It would be “a fair assumption” a merger would unlock about $8
billion of Silvinit’s value, according to Baumgertner.  Cost savings of about $100 million would add as much as $1
billion to the market value of the merged company, which would
also hold a stronger position in client negotiations, he said.  Investors, led by Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , who
bought controlling stakes in Uralkali last year will probably
maintain their holdings for two to three years “until the
synergy effect from the merger with Silvinit is achieved,” said
Baumgertner, adding that this is his personal opinion.  Uralkali will likely maintain a dividend of about 40 to 50
percent of net income calculated using international standards,
he said. Kerimov and his partners may have spent about $7
billion to acquire the controlling stakes in Uralkali and
Silvinit and will seek to recoup their investment and pay
interest on loans with higher dividend payments, said Marina Alexeenkova, an analyst at OAO Gazprombank in Moscow.  Uralkali rose 0.6 percent to 216.19 rubles by the close of
Moscow trading. Silvinit added 0.3 percent to 27,277 rubles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ,
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .
Ryan Chilcote in  London  at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 