-- 
Vietnam Business Costs Higher for Foreign Companies, Study Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T09:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/vietnam-business-costs-higher-for-foreign-companies-study-says.html
Foreign companies in  Vietnam  face
higher start-up and regulatory costs compared with domestic
businesses, a joint Vietnamese-U.S. study says.  “Foreign investors are facing a much more difficult
regulatory environment than domestic investors,” Edmund Malesky,
a lecturer at the University of  California ,  San Diego , told a
conference in Hanoi today. He was lead researcher on the study
by the Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the  U.S.
Agency for International Development .  “It takes twice as long for foreign investors” to start a
business, Malesky said. That’s “to some extent disappointing”
given Vietnam’s commitments to the  World Trade Organization , he
said.  Vietnam joined the  WTO  in January 2007 and has been trying
to attract overseas investment to create more jobs and boost
economic growth. Pledged foreign direct investment dropped 32
percent to about $1.56 billion in the first two months of 2011
compared with a year earlier, the government said on March 2.  Out of 1,155 foreign-invested enterprises surveyed in
August, 64 percent said they had to wait over a month to receive
complete legal clearance, compared with 32 percent of the 7,300
domestic companies surveyed in May 2010, according the study.  Foreign businesses are inspected two to five times per year,
while domestic companies are checked about 1.5 times on average,
the report said. One-third of the foreign enterprises surveyed
had certificates conferring the right to use land, compared with
53 percent of domestic companies, the report shows.  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, Cherian Thomas  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  