-- 
Vitol Ranks Ahead of JPMorgan as CO2-Credit Developer

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-16T18:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/vitol-ranks-ahead-of-jpmorgan-as-co2-credit-developer-correct-.html
Vitol Group, the world’s largest
independent oil trader, was ranked as 2010’s most productive
developer of projects yielding tradable emission credits,
according to a survey by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Vitol Group’s Carbon Resource Management sought credits
last year for projects that may yield 11.1 million metric tons
of  United Nations-overseen  greenhouse gas credits through 2020,
according to the ranking. Climate Change Capital Ltd. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EcoSecurities unit tied for second place,
with projects that may yield 8.7 million tons and 8.6 million
tons, respectively, in the period. The margin is statistically
too close to call, according to a New Energy Finance statement.  Energy traders and banks have bought project developers to
create credits under the Clean Development Mechanism and Joint
Implementation programs instead of starting from scratch, said
Marisa Beck, a London-based analyst for New Energy Finance.
“Bigger players are better placed to manage these projects
because they can diversify the risks and achieve economies of
scale,” she said today in an interview.  New Energy Finance used public data to assess the
performance of companies seeking credits last year. The CDM is
the second-biggest greenhouse gas market by traded volume after
the European Union cap-and-trade program. Factories and power
stations in the EU can use CDM credits as a cheaper alternative
for compliance than permits sold by nations. They range from
wind farms in  China  to industrial gas-cutting plants in  Brazil .  Market Prices  Certified Emission Reduction credits from the program for
delivery in December, the industry benchmark, fell 0.2 percent
to 11.90 euros ($16.50) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London as of 11:20 a.m. They earlier today traded as
high as 11.96 euros a ton, their most expensive intraday level
since Nov. 25. Prices have fallen 1.3 percent from a year ago as
slow economic growth curbed demand.  Fourth in the ranking was Tokyo-based  Eco Asset Inc. , with
7.2 million tons, while  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Tricorona Carbon Asset
Management unit was fifth, with 6.5 million tons, according to
New Energy Finance. Noble Carbon Credits, a unit of Singapore-
based  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , was sixth, with 5.1 million tons
expected.  Vitol, based in Geneva, said last month it increased its
stake to 100 percent of Carbon Resource Management as part of a
strategy to develop emission-reduction projects after 2012.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Risks of Credits  Carbon Resource Management didn’t make last year’s rankings
by New Energy Finance. Barclays’ Tricorona unit was ranked third
last year, while JPMorgan’s EcoSecurities was fifth.  JPMorgan purchased EcoSecurities for about $206 million in
2009, while London-based Barclays bought Tricorona for about
$141 million in June last year.  New Energy Finance adjusted expected credits for risks,
including the chance the project would not be registered by the
CDM executive board, the possibility the supply of credits would
be delayed by regulators and the likelihood of operating risks,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  