-- 
Vivendi's GVT Division Subscriber Numbers Growing by 50%, CEO Levy Says

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-16T09:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/vivendi-s-gvt-division-subscriber-numbers-growing-by-50-ceo-levy-says.html
  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian unit GVT
Holding SA is seeing subscriber growth of 50 percent, allowing
it to increase revenue by 40 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Bernard Levy said.  Speaking at a roundtable at an Abu Dhabi media conference,
Levy said Vivendi plans to start a pay-television service in
Brazil by the end of the year. In the short-to-medium term, the
company has no plans for mobile services in the market, the CEO
of the Paris-based company said.  “What we are focused on is very quick growth of the
company, doubling the size every two years and launch of pay TV
before end 2011,” he said.  Levy is focusing on growth in  Brazil , while also seeking to
take full control of Vivendi’s two units at home -- SFR,  France ’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator, and Canal Plus
France, the country’s biggest pay-television operator. The
company owns 80 percent of Canal Plus France, with  Lagardere SCA (MMB) 
holding the rest. Vivendi owns 56 percent of SFR, and has said
it wants to buy  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake.  “We are in situation where a potential transaction could
be prepared,” Levy reiterated. “At the right price, there
would be interest in Vivendi to acquire 100 percent of SFR.”  If the transaction happens, Vivendi has sufficient loans
from current banking arrangements, Levy said, adding that the
company wouldn’t sell new shares to finance the deal. In a
speech at the same conference, he reiterated that the company
will focus on assets where Vivendi has full control.    Canal Plus   On Canal Plus, Lagardere has said it plans an initial
public offering of all or a part of its 20 percent stake.
Vivendi has expressed an interest in buying that stake, although
the two sides have disagreed on the price.  “Only Lagardere has the ability to stop that process to
IPO,” Levy said. “We have contact with Lagadere. We made a
proposal to Lagadere a few weeks ago that they rejected.”  If conditions are not met Vivendi will stay at 80 percent
ownership, Levy said.  Levy said he’s also concerned about the lack of progress in
China on “putting in place a true intellectual property rights
policy,” adding that “I don’t believe they have considered it
a priority.” Vivendi’s sales in  China  are comparable with “the
kind of revenue you’d find in a small eastern European
country,” he said.  The company will also invest and seek partnerships in the
Middle East and North Africa, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net . 