-- 
VIX Jumps for Third Day as U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Japan Concerns

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-16T20:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/vix-jumps-for-third-day-as-u-s-stocks-fall-amid-japan-concerns.html
The benchmark index for U.S. stock
volatility rose for a third day, heading for the biggest weekly
gain since May, as traders snapped up more options to guard
against equity declines spurred by  Japan ’s nuclear crisis.  The VIX, as the  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, gained 21 percent to 29.40 today, the highest
level since July, after rising as much as 29 percent. It has
advanced 46 percent in three days, which would be the biggest
weekly increase since the period including May 6, the day
equities briefly lost $862 billion in market value before
recovering most of the drop. The VIX measures the cost of
insuring against declines in the  S&P 500 , which fell 2 percent
to 1,256.88.  Concern that Tokyo Electric Power Co. is losing control of
a facility grew after the United Nations’ nuclear agency said it
will call an emergency meeting to discuss the crisis in Japan as
a breach at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant increased the risk of a
radioactive leak. The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
three reactor cores containing fuel are damaged. The U.S.
Embassy recommended American citizens living within 50 miles (80
kilometers) evacuate or take shelter indoors.  “A lot of people don’t know what’s going on, and when you
don’t know what’s going on and there’s panic, the VIX is up,”
said Luke Rahbari, a VIX options trader and managing partner at
Stutland Equities LLC on the CBOE floor in Chicago. “It’s just
total lack of information and fear. Even if there was
information, how could you really interpret it and the long-term
effects?”  Futures, Options  VIX April futures jumped 6.2 percent to 24.90, while the
most-active VIX options, the April 30 calls, more than doubled
to $2.10.  Options prices also rose and stocks fell after U.S. housing
starts decreased more than forecast to the lowest level since
February 2009 and producer prices topped forecasts. Crude gained
as  Saudi Arabia  sent troops to neighboring Bahrain to help quell
protests and Libyan forces battled rebels. Oil for April
delivery rose 80 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at $97.98 a
barrel in  New York .  In  Europe , the benchmark gauge of stock-market volatility
advanced for a sixth day, the longest streak of advances since
October. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, gained
14 percent to 35.23. The Euro Stoxx 50 stock index dropped 2.3
percent to 2,721.24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  