-- 
Volkswagen, GM Lead First Europe Car Sales Gain in 11 Months as Fiat Falls

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-16T09:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/volkswagen-gm-lead-first-europe-car-sales-gain-in-11-months-in-february.html
  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Opel brand led the first increase in European car sales in
11 months as new models attracted buyers in markets such as
Germany, France and Poland.  Registrations in the region rose 1.4 percent in February
from a year earlier to 1.01 million vehicles, the  European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association  said today in a statement.
Sales by the VW group rose 9.1 percent, while Detroit-based GM
sold 8.3 percent more cars.  Fiat SpA (F) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and PSA
Peugeot Citroen all lost sales compared with the same month in
2010, according to the statement.  Demand in Germany and France, the two largest auto markets
in the European Union, expanded 15 percent and 13 percent,
respectively. In 10 central and eastern European countries that
have joined the EU since 2004, sales increased 13 percent,
accelerating from 7.4 percent growth in January.  “European markets began to stabilize last year, and that
stabilization seems to be broadening to the region’s periphery,”
said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS
Automotive who estimates industry sales will resume growth this
year. “It’s too early to make a definite call before March, and
we’ll have to see whether the events in  Japan  will affect
production chains in coming months” as manufacturers work to
recover from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Price Cuts  Fiat,  Renault SA (RNO) , Peugeot and VW are among carmakers that
have been wooing customers with price cuts, cheaper financing or
free options as government “cash-for-clunkers” incentives
expired during the economic recovery. State assistance has
helped European manufacturers avoid factory closures on a scale
seen in the U.S., leaving the industry with overcapacity across
the region.  Car-market growth was held back by declines of 21 percent
in Italy, 28 percent in  Spain  and 7.7 percent in the U.K.,
according to the Brussels-based association, or ACEA.  “We’re seeing a revival in countries that, like Germany,
are benefiting from good economic data,” said  Stefan Bratzel ,
director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach,  Germany .
“You also have to consider the base effect from the car-
scrapping incentives that have run out. I’d be careful to
characterize this as a turnaround.”  Volkswagen’s preferred shares rose as much as 2.9 percent
to 112.50 euros, the biggest intraday gain since Feb. 28, and
were up 2.2 percent as of 10:15 a.m. in Frankfurt. Shares of
Renault, which posted a 3.1 percent European sales increase in
February, rose as much as 2.8 percent in Paris.  New Passat  VW,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, sold 226,126 vehicles for a
market share of 22 percent, including the Audi, Skoda and Seat
brands. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer, which
introduced a new version of its Passat model in November, aims
to overtake  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the global leader by 2018.  Renault, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based carmaker
that plans online sales of its Dacia vehicles, increased
European registrations last month to 113,342 cars. Its larger
French peer Peugeot sold 141,894 vehicles in the region, 5
percent fewer than a year earlier. Fiat, with headquarters in
Turin, Italy, saw deliveries drop 17 percent to 76,808,
including Lancia and Alfa Romeo cars.  Opel, the GM brand aiming to return to profit this year
excluding restructuring costs, surged 8.9 percent to 72,542 cars
sold, while  Chevrolet  also increased registrations.  Nick Reilly ,
head of Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel and its U.K. sister
brand Vauxhall, said at the Geneva motor show in early March
that a revamped Meriva minivan and the Astra Sports Tourer are
helping win market share and growth in profitability.  Ford’s Profit Strategy  Ford continued to shed market share as registrations
dropped 12 percent to 73,133 vehicles. Stephen Odell, Ford’s
European chief, reiterated at the Geneva motor show in early
March that the Dearborn, Michigan-based manufacturer prefers
selling cars at a profit to winning customers with discounts.  Luxury carmakers, including Audi,  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz cars, which didn’t benefit as
much from incentives targeted at smaller and more fuel-efficient
models, are aiming for record global sales this year. European
registrations by Audi rose 15 percent last month, BMW excluding
the Mini marque gained 13 percent and Mercedes-Benz increased
3.3 percent.  Industrywide sales in the region fell to 13.8 million
vehicles in 2010 from 16 million in 2007, the last year
deliveries gained, ACEA figures show.  Headwinds for automakers this year include the rising price
of steel, Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said on
March 1 at the Geneva show. An increase in the cost of oil may
push buyers to shift to cars that use less fuel, BMW CEO Norbert Reithofer said a day earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 