-- 
Volvo Names Construction Unit’s Chief Persson to Succeed Johannson as CEO

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 
2011-03-16T15:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/volvo-names-persson-to-replace-johannson-as-ceo-in-september.html
  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-
largest truckmaker, named Olof Persson to take over as chief
executive officer from Leif Johansson when he retires.  Persson, 46, currently head of the construction-equipment
unit, will begin his new position leading the company from Sept.
1, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company said in a statement
today. Persson will become deputy CEO as of May 1.  “Persson is exactly the right candidate to take Volvo to
the next level,” Christer Gardell, whose Violet Partners LP is
the third-largest shareholder, said in a telephone interview.
“He strengthened the margins at the construction-equipment
division, and now he will continue that on the group level.”  Volvo has the “potential” to reach a return on sales of
at least 10 percent, Gardell said. The company last year posted
an operating margin of 6.9 percent on 14.7 billion kronor ($2.29
billion) in profit. Johansson said on Dec. 8 he would step down
in the summer of 2011 after 14 years leading Volvo.  Volvo rose as much as 4.05 kronor, or 4.1 percent, to
102.60 kronor, the biggest intraday gain since Jan. 25, and was
up 2 percent as of 4:02 p.m. in  Stockholm  trading. The stock has
dropped 15 percent this year, valuing the truckmaker at 214
billion kronor.  Volvo,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Scania AB (SCVB)  are increasing production
as sales rebound. Volvo last month raised its 2011 forecast for
heavy-truck deliveries in  North America  and  Europe . Volvo
expects industry sales this year for Europe and North America at
220,000 vehicles in each of those regions, up from a previous
prediction of 200,000 in each market.  Cost Control  Persson’s challenges will include ensuring Volvo’s costs
don’t escalate as it ramps up production again, Morten Imsgard,
an analyst with Sydbank A/S in Aabeenraa,  Denmark , with an
“overweight” rating on the shares, said by telephone.  “His strategy should also be to focus on the North
American market, which seems to be moving along quite well at
the moment,” Imsgard said.  Persson is an economist and holds a BA from Karlstad
University. He began his career at ABB Ltd. and held a number of
executive positions including at Bombardier Inc. He took over as
the head of the Volvo Aero unit in 2006 and has been a member of
the executive board since then.  Persson said his ”international background” will be an
asset for him in his new job.  “I have a very good understanding of the Volvo culture but
on the other hand I also have many years of experience from the
outside, for instance  China  and other markets,” he said in an
interview in Stockholm today.  “I’m demanding,” he said of his leadership style. “Once
we’ve taken a decision I’m very stubborn when it comes to
following up and making sure we deliver.”  Volvo will announce his successor at the construction-
equipment unit, which he has led since 2008, “in the near
future,” the company said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 