-- 
Wal-Mart’s Million-Worker Bias Case May Mean ‘Rough Justice’ for Companies

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/wal-mart-gender-bias-case-may-mean-rough-justice-for-companies.html
More than 100  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
workers paint a similar picture in sworn complaints about the
company: Local managers made sexist decisions about promotions
and pay, and top officials did nothing to stop them.  The U.S. Supreme Court is poised to consider whether those
allegations warrant a class-action suit of unprecedented size,
potentially on behalf of more than 1 million female Wal-Mart
workers. At issue is whether the claims point to a companywide
practice of alleged discrimination or instead amount to isolated
anecdotes at a company with almost 1.4 million employees.  The case, set for argument March 29, marks the court’s
first look in 12 years at the standards for certifying a class
action. Worker advocates say a victory for Wal-Mart would crush
efforts to force change at companies steeped in bias, while
corporate groups say a ruling allowing the suit might unleash a
wave of employment, antitrust and product-liability suits.  “It has a huge impact for large employers,” said Lisa Blatt, a  Washington  appellate lawyer at Arnold & Porter LLP who
filed a brief supporting Wal-Mart for the company-backed Retail
Litigation Center. “If you’re an employer with a million
people, you’re subject to these nationwide, massive, sprawling
lawsuits.”  By any measure, the suit against Wal-Mart is massive,
threatening the country’s largest private employer with billions
of dollars in damages. Filed in 2001, the suit aims to cover
every woman who worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s
Club’s stores at any point since December 1998, including those
not hired until years after the suit was filed.  At Least A Million  In letting the suit go forward, a federal appeals court
said the class would consist of 500,000 women, a number that
included only current employees. In certifying the class in
2004, a trial judge said the group had more than 1.5 million
members, including former employees. Both figures may be low
given that Wal-Mart says it has employed 3 million women since
the 2004 order.  “I have no doubt that the class would exceed a million,”
said Brad Seligman, the lead lawyer for the women.  Wal-Mart says the size of the class is only part of the
problem. At the time of the certification order, the company’s
hourly employees worked in 53 departments and with 170 job
classifications. The company had divided its retail operations
into 41 regions, each with its own vice president, and had 3,400
stores, each with a manager who was afforded significant
discretion in making pay and promotion decisions.  Sprawling Class  Allowing such a sprawling class would deprive the company
of its right to contest the claims of each woman individually,
says Theodore Boutrous, Wal-Mart’s lead lawyer.  “Class actions can be helpful for efficiency, and there’s
an attraction to that. But at some point they can start chopping
away rights,” he said.  More than 20 companies are supporting Wal-Mart at the high
court, including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Wal-Mart contends in its appeal that the suit doesn’t
adhere to the rules that govern class actions in federal court.
Under those rules, claims must have common questions and the
representative plaintiffs must be typical of the class as a
whole.  Seligman says the claims of the Wal-Mart workers -- a group
that includes six women seeking to serve as class
representatives and more than 100 who filed sworn  statements 
about their experiences -- meet that standard. The women tell
stories about being leapfrogged by more junior male colleagues
into management positions and about supervisors who quietly
directed promotions to their male friends.  Gender Stereotypes  “They have a system that fosters the use of gender
stereotypes at all levels of the company without safeguards to
protect against that,” Seligman said. Many of the Wal-Mart
workers don’t have enough money at stake to warrant pressing
individual suits, he said.  A second issue in the case is potentially even more
consequential, according to David Frederick, an appellate lawyer
at Kellogg Huber Hansen Todd Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington.  The question is whether the workers must meet the standards
that normally apply to class actions seeking damages or instead
the looser requirements for plaintiffs seeking an injunction.
The answer is in dispute in part because courts traditionally
consider back pay to be an injunctive award.  ‘Hugely Important’  A ruling for Wal-Mart on that issue would be “hugely
important for lots of cases outside the employment context,”
Frederick said. He said such a decision could endanger some
consumer-fraud suits.  A federal trial judge certified a class of past and current
employees, saying that “rough justice is better than the
alternative of having no remedy at all for any class member.”  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
on a 6-5 vote, upheld that ruling as to women who were working
when the lawsuit was filed. The appeals court said the trial
judge might be able to create an additional class for former
employees.  Writing for the 9th Circuit majority, Judge Michael Daly Hawkins said that a class action was better than “clogging the
federal courts” with individual suits. “Mere size does not
render a case unmanageable,” Hawkins said.  In dissent, Judge Sandra Ikuta said, “Never before has
such a low bar been set for certifying such a gargantuan
class.”  The  Supreme Court  is scheduled to rule by the end of June
in the case,  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 