-- 
Wall Street’s Best Bargain May Be Wall Street Office Space

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-03-16T16:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/wall-street-s-biggest-bargain-may-be-wall-street-office-space.html
The best deal on  Wall Street  might
be its office space.  Asking rents for buildings at the one-time mecca of global
finance have fallen to among the lowest in  Manhattan  after
ranking as some of the priciest as recently as 2008. Wall Street
landlords are seeking rates about 18 percent less than the city
average, hurt by years of exodus by financial firms looking for
bigger, more modern offices, according to brokerage Studley Inc.  The six-block lower Manhattan street is now home to
residences, architects, engineers and media companies along with
the securities firms that long dominated the area because of its
proximity to the  New York  Stock Exchange at the corner of Wall
and Broad. The planned purchase of the exchange’s parent by  Germany ’s  Deutsche Boerse  AG would be the latest evolution as
the street’s anchor comes under foreign ownership.  “As far as the  Wall Street  cachet, I think it’s nice, but
I don’t think it’s what it was 20 to 25 years ago,” said Marc Shapses, an executive managing director at Studley and a
downtown leasing broker for two and a half decades. “Between
technology and everything else, I don’t think people need to be
right by the exchange anymore.”  The commercial history of Wall Street -- so-named because
of the wall that protected the northern end of the Dutch colony
New Amsterdam -- began at the East River end of the street,
where merchants and traders gathered by the docks, said Carol
Willis, director of New York’s Skyscraper Museum. The museum’s
 The Rise of Wall Street  exhibit closed in January.  Buttonwood Tree  Those merchants’ gatherings at Wall and Water streets in
the 1790s would evolve into the Buttonwood Agreement, named for
a tree where  stock brokers  would meet to do business. The NYSE
traces its history to that pact.  By 1850, “the Wall Street of business and finance would be
established in stone,” Willis said.  A century and a half later, the lure of the stock exchange
has receded.  At the end of February, asking office rents on Wall Street
were about $36.51 a square foot, compared with the average of
$38.56 for all of downtown and $44.74 for the city, according to
New York-based Studley, which represents tenants. Were the
street its own submarket, only four of 20 Manhattan areas would
rank lower for rents, the firm’s data show. It would have been
seventh-highest as recently as the second quarter of 2008.  Decline in Demand  “What you’re talking about is really symptomatic of the
whole downtown market,” said Ruth Colp-Haber, founding partner
of Wharton Property Advisors Inc., a brokerage firm that
represents Manhattan office tenants. “Very rarely do I hear a
firm that wants a Wall Street address.”  Demand for downtown space, like in much of the city, froze
after the global credit crisis and plunge in financial-industry
jobs. Wall Street was hurt by two additional factors:  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s decision to sublease space at a building a
block south, and departures at  Donald Trump ’s 40 Wall St., the
biggest multitenant tower on the street, according to Shapses.  Goldman Sachs subleased 600,000 square feet (55,740 square
meters) of space it rented and never used at 77 Water St., a 26-
story tower built in the late 1960s, Shapses said. The bank
sought rents lower than the area’s average, which pressured
nearby landlords to reduce their asking rates, particularly at
older  buildings  like those on Wall Street, he said.  Clinton Foundation  Competitive pricing attracted the William J. Clinton
Foundation, former President  Bill Clinton ’s humanitarian action
organization, to 77 Water, said Roshan Shah, senior vice
president at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. in New York. He and
colleague Keith Caggiano are negotiating a lease for the
foundation to take the 18th floor.  “Price was probably the most paramount factor,” Shah
said. “Being a nonprofit, they are very cost-sensitive, and
they want to make sure their funds are going to the causes they
support. Goldman is certainly in a position to undercut the
market.”  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment. The negotiations were reported earlier today by the
Wall Street Journal and New York Post.  At  40 Wall , Manhattan’s sixth-tallest building,  American
Express Co. (AXP)  vacated about 240,000 square feet, mostly on floors
16 to 22, said Brad Gerla, executive vice president at CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc., which represents the tower. Law firm
Herzfeld & Rubin PC also departed, leaving 67,000 square feet.  40 Wall Vacancies  The building represents about 1.3 million of Wall Street’s
8.5 million square feet of offices, so what happens there tends
to affect the street’s overall rents, Shapses said. The property
was 31 percent vacant as of last month, according to  CoStar
Group Inc. (CSGP) , a Washington-based real estate data service.  Wall Street had an office vacancy rate of 15.9 percent as
of the end of February, higher than downtown’s overall rate of
10.7 percent, Studley data show.  The Trump Organization has been marketing 40 Wall St.’s
space at $33 a foot for lower floors and $45 a foot for floors
50 through 61, most of which were occupied by Herzfeld,
according to Gerla. There are about 70,000 square feet of leases
he expects to have signed in the next two to three weeks, he
said.  Interest in those spaces is as likely to come from an
architectural firm or a broadband-service provider as a
financial company. Fewer than half of the tower’s 450,000 square
feet of new tenants in the past two years are traditional
securities firms, Donald Trump Jr., who manages the building for
his father’s company, said in an e-mail.  Best Value  One of Trump’s tenants is HAKS Engineers, a construction-
management firm with more than 400 employees that moved to 40
Wall’s 11th floor in 2006. The company was lured by the street’s
prices and its proximity to City Hall, about nine blocks to the
north, said Chief Financial Officer Shahid Akhtar.  “Obviously there’s a value and recognition in a Wall
Street address, but we weren’t specifically looking to be on
Wall Street,” Akhtar said. “We looked at several places
downtown and this presented the best value.”  What’s left of the traditional traders who once dominated
the street tend to be specialists and trade-execution firms that
still benefit from the proximity to the New York Stock Exchange,
such as Direct Access Partners LLC. The firm moved into the 42nd
floor of 40 Wall last year.  New Residents  James Craig, co-founder of Direct Access, called the
changes he’s seen in 30 years on the street “kind of
startling,” in part because of an influx of people living in
the neighborhood. From 1997 to 2008, nine Wall Street office
buildings were converted to rental or condominium housing -- or
in one case, a hotel -- creating more than 2,900 dwellings,
according to the  Alliance for Downtown New York.   “It’s something as simple as coming up from the 4 and 5
subway in the morning -- now there’s as many people going down
those stairs as coming up,” Craig said. “To me, years ago,
Wall Street was a destination. Now people get on the subway from
there and go to other places.”  For M.R. Beal & Co., a municipal-bond firm on the sixth
floor of 110 Wall St., it helps business to have “Wall Street”
on the letterhead, said Chief Operating Officer Stanley Grayson.  “Everyone in the country knows what Wall Street is,” he
said. “That’s an important thing for us -- for a small,
minority-owned firm. And at the time we moved, there was great
space in lower Manhattan, and it was affordable, high-quality
space.”  14 Wall  At 14 Wall, the former Bankers Trust Building across from
the stock exchange, the tenant roster includes many firms not
directly connected to trading. The 99-year-old tower now
includes the headquarters of architectural firm Skidmore Owings
& Merrill LLP; F.J. Sciame Construction Co., which restored New
York’s Guggenheim Museum; and offices of New York University’s
medical center.  Another tenant is TheStreet.com Inc., the news and
investing website that reflects both the area’s financial
history and possible future as a home to media companies. The
New York Daily News; American Media Inc., publisher of the
National Enquirer; and Omnicom Group Inc., the world’s second-
biggest advertiser, have leased offices on nearby streets in the
past two years. Conde Nast Publications Inc. is nearing
completion of a deal to move its headquarters to One World Trade
Center, which is rising about six blocks to the northwest.  ‘Good Price’  The owners of 14 Wall also donated the building’s 30,000-
square-foot basement vaults to the  Lower Manhattan Cultural
Council  for use by artists, said Joshua Zamir, managing
principal of Capstone Equities, which co-owns the 1.1 million-
square-foot tower with Washington-based  Carlyle Group .  “We’ve invested $50 million of capital to create a world-
class office location,” Zamir said. “Given that the rents are
a little bit lower than they were in 2007, someone really has an
opportunity to take advantage of getting in at a good price.”  The property has attracted lucrative offers in the past.
The sale of the building’s site in 1910 was “the most expensive
land conveyance in the history of the world,” said Willis of
the Skyscraper Museum.  About 39 percent of offices downtown, from Canal Street to
the foot of Manhattan, are rented to financial firms, according
to statistics from Cushman & Wakefield Inc. In 2001, the
percentage was 48 percent. A decade earlier, it was 64 percent.  Plaza District  “The big players in finance, the most profitable, the  hedge funds  and private-equity firms, they don’t want to be down
there,” said Colp-Haber of Wharton Property. “They all want to
be in a pretty narrow corridor uptown in the Plaza District.”  Rents for Plaza District offices, the Midtown home of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , KKR & Co., and  Carl Icahn ’s Icahn Enterprises,
are the priciest in the city. They average $65.69 a foot, or 80
percent higher than on Wall Street, according to Studley. Prices
for high floors in some top-end buildings exceed $100 a foot.  Two financial giants --  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  -- still have headquarters on Wall Street.
Citigroup also owns and completely occupies 111 Wall St., near
the East River.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, has its North
American headquarters at 60 Wall. That 47-story skyscraper,
completed in 1988, was the street’s last major new building. It
was commissioned by J.P. Morgan & Co., which sold it to
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank in 2001 after being acquired by
Chase Manhattan Corp. to become  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Deutsche
Bank in 2007 sold the tower to Paramount Group.  $500 Million Check  JPMorgan’s departure ended a presence of more than 120
years on Wall Street, going back to the days when John Pierpont Morgan Sr. personified the power of The Street.  “You might have seen him walking around the corner the day
he wrote Andrew Carnegie a $500 million check for all his
companies,” said Annaline Dinkelmann, a former Morgan Stanley
information technology specialist who now runs  Wall Street
Walks , a company that conducts walking tours of the financial
district.  BNY Mellon owns and occupies 1 Wall St., a 52-story Art
Deco tower completed in 1931 as the headquarters of Irving Trust
Co., one of the bank’s predecessors. The company in May said it
was considering moving out and selling the building to find
offices with better meeting space and state-of-the-art
technology. In November, it told employees it would stay.  Staying Put  “We did not find a building that met our requirements,”
Ron Gruendl, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Given
the current economic environment, we were not willing to make
any move that would increase expenses, and decided that, over
time, we would continue to invest in our current facilities.”    NYSE Euronext (NYX) , parent of the stock exchange, agreed last
month to be acquired by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse. Nasdaq
OMX of New York is in talks with lenders to fund a possible
rival bid, two people familiar with the matter said this week.  A takeover by Deutsche Boerse would be indicative of the
street’s long decline as the center of the trading universe, a
trend which goes back to the 1950s, said Richard Sylla, a
financial historian at New York University’s Stern School of
Business and chairman of the  Museum of American Finance.  The
museum occupies the former Bank of New York banking hall at 48
Wall St., on the spot where the company, founded by  Alexander
Hamilton , had been since the beginning of the 19th century.  “There was a time when it made sense to be on Wall Street
because you could meet a lot of other people in finance face to
face just by walking a little bit,” he said. “If there’s a
nicer place to locate a financial services firm than old
downtown New York, you go there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  