-- 
Western Digital-Hitachi Deal to Proceed After Japan Events

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-16T23:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/western-digital-hitachi-deal-to-proceed-after-japan-events-1-.html
  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  said its
plans to acquire a hard-disk drive unit from  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  for
about $4.3 billion are unchanged by the March 11 earthquake,
tsunami and aftermath in Japan.  “The recent events in Japan have not changed our plans to
proceed with our acquisition,” Steve Shattuck, a spokesman for
Western Digital, said in an e-mailed statement. “At this point,
we don’t expect those events to affect or delay the closing.”  The deal would be Hitachi’s biggest asset sale ever as the
Tokyo-based company, which has more than 850 units, tries to
focus on making power plants, trains and other infrastructure.
Hard-disk drives have been facing increased competition from
faster and smaller flash drives, used in products such as Apple
Inc.’s MacBook Air and iPhone.  The 9.0-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami have
left 3,771 people dead and 8,181 missing, according to a toll
released at 4 p.m. local time yesterday by the  National Police
Agency . There have been more than 450 aftershocks since the
temblor, leaving hundreds of thousands without power, along with
disruptions to food and water supplies. Fuel at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant is exposed and releasing radiation,
according to the head of the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Other companies also have said they are proceeding with
planned purchases of Japanese assets following the disaster.
American International Group Inc. said yesterday that it would
move forward with the purchase of shares of Fuji Fire and Marine
Insurance Co. that it didn’t already own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  