-- 
West African Stock-Market Trading Value Halves After Relocation

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-16T09:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/west-african-stock-market-s-trading-value-halved-after-relocation-to-mali.html
The value of shares traded on West
Africa’s regional stock market more than halved after the
exchange was forced to relocate from  Ivory Coast  because of a
political crisis, the head of the bourse said.  Trading restarted on March 1 after being suspended on Feb.
11 to allow the  Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres , or
BRVM, to move its offices to Bamako, the capital of neighboring  Mali . Transactions worth 86 million  CFA francs  ($182,342) were
conducted yesterday, compared with a daily average of 200
million to 500 million CFA francs last year, BRVM head Jean-Paul
Gillet said.  “We managed to restart the operations of the bourse after
we reconstructed the system and the environment,” Gillet said in
a phone interview from Bamako. “The volume of transactions has
been a bit affected, but the prices haven’t dropped as there has
been no haste in selling.”  BRVM’s former offices in Abidjan, Ivory Coast’s commercial
capital, were seized on Feb. 9 by security forces loyal to
Lauren Gbagbo, the nation’s incumbent leader who says he won a
Nov. 28 presidential election. International bodies including
the  African Union  say his rival,  Alassane Ouattara , won the vote
and is the legal president of the country. The dispute sparked
violence that left almost 400 people dead and pushed the country
to the brink of civil war, according to the  United Nations .  Financial Crunch  The political crisis deepened in February into a financial
crunch after at least 10 commercial banks closed their offices
amid escalating violence. No Ivory Coast traders have
participated in trading since the reopening because most of them
work with intermediary companies associated with banks that shut
down, Gillet said.  “Given the situation in the country, Ivorian companies face
difficulties in taking part in trading, so we mostly have
international clients at the moment,” Gillet said. “Companies
can’t work from Abidjan because members of their staff are
missing or their offices are closed.”  The BRVM has a market value of 3.5 trillion CFA francs,
according to Johannesburg-based Securities Africa. France
Telecom SA’s Senegalese unit,  Sonatel (SNTS) , is the biggest company on
the bourse by market value, worth 1.65 trillion CFA francs.
Eight banks, including Societe Generale SA’s Abidjan-based SGBCI
unit and Ecobank Transnational Inc. are listed.  Companies from francophone West African nations and Guinea-
Bissau, where Portuguese is spoken, trade their shares on the
BRVM. Ivorian companies dominate the market, accounting for 33
of the 39 listings, according to the bourse’s website.  The BRVM’s Composite Index reached 174.89 on Jan. 11, the
highest this year. The guage has dropped 7.5 percent since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 