-- 
Yen Strengthens to Record Against Dollar on Radiation Concern

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-16T20:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/yen-strengthens-to-record-against-dollar-on-radiation-concern.html
The yen rose to a post-World War II
high versus the dollar as risk of radiation leaks from crippled
nuclear plants in  Japan  added to speculation insurers and
investors will redeem overseas assets to pay for damages.  The four-day rally in the yen prompted speculation the Bank
of Japan may intervene for the first time since September in an
effort to counter repatriation flows and shore up the
competitiveness of Japanese companies. The yen erased earlier
losses after Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment
vessel may have been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, deepening Japan’s nuclear crisis and increasing the
risk of radioactive leaks.  “It’s a mix of  risk aversion  and repatriation that’s
driving the yen to strengthen,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If there is
repatriation coming back to Japan, the stronger yen is making it
even more expensive to purchase yen.”  The yen gained as much as 1.2 percent to 79.59 per dollar,
passing its a post-World War II high of 79.75 reached in April
1995.  Yen Path  In an attempt to slow the yen’s 15 percent appreciation
last year, the Bank of Japan sold 2 trillion yen ($25 billion)
in September in the nation’s first currency market intervention
since 2004. Governments and central banks intervene by selling
or buying currencies to influence prices.  The yen has strengthened 3.9 percent since Japan’s
strongest earthquake on record last week caused a 7-meter (23
foot) tsunami that engulfed the northeast coast and damaged
nuclear reactors.  The currency touched 80.22 on Nov. 1 as the  Federal Reserve 
announced a second round of so-called quantitative easing to
purchase $600 billion in Treasuries. The U.S. is Japan’s second
biggest trading partner.  The currency reached its previous postwar high three months
after Japan’s 6.9-magnitude Kobe earthquake, on speculation that
bilateral talks to open up Japan’s auto market to U.S. exports
would fail. Nearly two-thirds of the U.S.’s $66 billion trade
deficit with Japan in 1994 came from cars and auto parts, and
the Clinton administration repeated threats in April 1995 that
unsuccessful negotiations might lead the U.S. to impose
sanctions.  The dollar rebounded as the  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed,
meaning foreigners had fewer dollars to sell, and the U.S.
reached an auto agreement with Japan in late June, hours before
100 percent tariffs on Japanese luxury car imports were set to
go into effect.  The  Bank of Japan  added 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) in
one-day Operations today.  The BOJ has added 28 trillion yen to
the financial system since March 14 after Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to keep pumping cash into the economy to
stabilize markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  