-- 
Yen Reaches Record High Against Dollar on Repatriation Demand

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-16T21:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/yen-hits-highest-against-dollar-since-1995-on-radiation-concern-in-japan.html
The yen rose to a post-World War II
high versus the dollar as risk of radiation leaks from crippled
nuclear plants in  Japan  added to speculation insurers and
investors will redeem overseas assets to pay for damages.  The four-day rally in the yen prompted speculation the  Bank
of Japan  may intervene for the first time since September in an
effort to counter repatriation flows and shore up the
competitiveness of Japanese companies. The euro fell for the
first time in four days after a Portugal credit downgrade
revived concern about the region’s debt crisis.  “Speculators are becoming increasingly confident about
pushing the  currency pair  around,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration. “Everyone is curious to
find out why they chose not to defend the 80 level. Wow. That’s
all I have to say, just wow.”  The yen gained to 77.48 per dollar at 5:42 p.m. in  New York 
after passing its post-World War II high of 79.75 reached in
April 1995, from 80.72 yesterday.  “We’ve breached 79.75 and there was enormous support there
initially and that’s given way with stop losses on a New York
close in extremely thin conditions with absolutely no signs of
the Bank of Japan and the selling has just snow-balled,” said
Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney.  Market Moves  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped, erasing its 2011
gain, and Treasuries rallied. The  S&P 500  fell 2 percent to
1,256.88 and the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield fell as low as 3.14
percent, the least since Dec. 8.  “There are real concerns that if it’s a disorderly move
down in dollar-yen, the BOJ may start to intervene,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at
Bank of America Corp. in New York. “This time around there will
be support for unilateral intervention. In order for Japan to
regain competitiveness, they need a weaker yen. They can now
build an economic case for that.”  In an attempt to slow the yen’s 15 percent appreciation
last year, the Bank of Japan sold 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in
Sptember in the nation’s first currency market intervention
since 2004. Governments and central banks intervene by selling
or buying currencies to influence prices.  ‘Destabilizing Event’  “A surge in the yen could be a destabilizing event,” said
Robert Sinche, global head of foreign exchange strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “I would expect that they would intervene and that
U.S. and European authorities would be fine with them
intervening here. If there’s activity required now, it would be
the  Federal Reserve  acting on behalf of the Bank of Japan.”  The Australian and New Zealand dollars dropped to the
weakest this year against the greenback as concerns about the
impact of the nuclear disaster in Japan spurred investors to
sell riskier assets.  The Australian dollar fell to as low as 97.35 U.S. cents,
the least since Dec. 2, before trading at 97.89 cents as of 8:32
a.m. in Sydney. The kiwi dollar slid to 71.30 U.S. cents, the
lowest since Sept. 2.  The Aussie tumbled 3.5 percent to 75.56 yen, while the  New
Zealand  currency dropped 4.5 percent to 55.39 yen.  Krona Drop  Sweden’s krona dropped against most major currencies,
falling 1.3 percent to 6.4826 per dollar and 2.7 percent to
12.28 yen.   Mexico ’s peso dropped 1.3 percent to 12.1503 per
dollar and the British pound lost 0.3 percent to $1.6030.    Norway ’s krone earlier gained against the dollar after
Norges Bank left its key rate at 2 percent and Deputy Governor
Jan F. Qvigstad said policy makers raised their forecast for
future increases “slightly.”  The krone dropped 0.1 percent to 5.6683 per dollar and
weakened 1.5 percent to 14.04 yen.  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3897 per dollar from
$1.3998.  The euro dropped after  Portugal  was cut two steps by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday to A3, four levels from so-
called junk status. The company cited the nation’s “less
supportive” economic environment and said its outlook remained
negative given Portugal’s “subdued growth prospects” and risks
that the government won’t be able to implement deficit-reduction
plans.  Swiss Record  The Swiss franc advanced to a record against the greenback
on investor demand for a refuge amid turmoil in the Middle East
and Japan. Bahrain closed its stock exchange as clashes between
security forces and anti-government protesters intensified.  Concern that violence may spread to neighboring  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer, damped demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “The focus will remain on Bahrain as well as Japan,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “For the time being,  risk
aversion  will still be something that’s more dominant in the
market right now.”  The franc appreciated 0.9 percent to 90.77 centimes per
dollar after touching 90.72, the strongest level since at least
1971, when Bloomberg records begin.  Carry Trade  The yen may continue to strengthen as investors unwind
carry trades amid reduced demand for assets from higher-yielding
countries. In a carry trade, investors borrow where yields are
low, such as in Japan, to fund purchases in higher-returning
countries.  The carry trade of borrowing in yen and selling it to buy
the currencies of  Australia , Norway, New Zealand and  Brazil  has
lost 45 percent this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a loss of 22 percent using the
U.S. currency and return of 8.3 percent in the yen in January
and February.  Japanese investors own about $3.9 billion of rand-based
Eurobonds, known as uridashi, more than the $3 billion of
Brazilian reais and $765 million in Turkish lira, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s mutual funds held 2.8
trillion yen ($34.6 billion) in Brazilian stocks and bonds as
their fourth-largest foreign assets, leaving the real among the
most “vulnerable” during the selloff, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Yen Gains  The yen has strengthened 7 percent since Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record last week caused a 7-meter (23 foot)
tsunami that engulfed the northeast coast and damaged nuclear
reactors.  The Bank of Japan added 5 trillion yen in one-day
operations today.  The BOJ has added 28 trillion yen to the
financial system since March 14 after Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
pledged to keep pumping cash into the economy to stabilize
markets.  The currency touched 80.22 on Nov. 1 as the Federal Reserve
announced a second round of so-called quantitative easing to
purchase $600 billion in Treasuries. The U.S. is Japan’s second
biggest trading partner.  The currency reached its postwar high three months after
Japan’s 6.9-magnitude Kobe earthquake, on speculation that
bilateral talks to open up Japan’s auto market to U.S. exports
would fail. Nearly two-thirds of the U.S.’s $66 billion trade
deficit with Japan in 1994 came from cars and auto parts, and
the Clinton administration repeated threats in April 1995 that
unsuccessful negotiations might lead the U.S. to impose
sanctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  