-- 
Dollar Gains Versus Yen as Nuclear Radiation Risk Spurs Demand for Safety

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-16T07:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/yen-pares-loss-dollar-climbs-as-nuclear-concern-spurs-demand-for-safety.html
The dollar rose against the yen as
fires and aftershocks hampered efforts to contain radiation at a
crippled Japanese nuclear power plant and the Asian nation’s
central bank pumped more funds into the financial system.  The U.S. currency gained against nine of its 16 most-traded
peers as officials battling to prevent a nuclear meltdown said
fuel rods at two reactors at the power station north of  Tokyo 
may have been damaged. The yen weakened as Asian stocks rose and
the Bank of  Japan  added 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) in one-day
operations. The euro halted three days of gains versus the
dollar after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Portugal ,
reviving concern about  Europe ’s ability to solve its debt
crisis.  “I hate to say it in an emergency like this, but people
know the  U.S. economy  is holding firm and find it easy to buy
the dollar as a safe haven,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank. “The nuclear problem is the
biggest risk right now. The yen will remain volatile until we
see a clear picture of the situation.”  The dollar gained to 80.95 yen as of 6:58 a.m. in  London 
from 80.72 in  New York  yesterday. It advanced to $1.3985 per
euro from $1.3998 yesterday. The yen was at 113.19 per euro from
112.99, after earlier dropping 0.4 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 3.1 percent
today, led by a 5.7 percent rally in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average from an 11 percent plunge yesterday.  Radiation Concern  About 70 percent of the uranium-plutonium fuel rods at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station’s No. 1 reactor and a third of
the No. 2 reactor’s fuel may have been impaired, Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said. The power plant was damaged by a tsunami that
followed Japan’s biggest earthquake on record on March 11.  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen fell to
13.27 from 14.08 yesterday, the highest since May 26. The
volatility has risen 58 percent since the magnitude-9.0
earthquake. Implied volatility is a measure of expected price
swings and the key gauge for option prices.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, held yesterday’s gain and traded at 76.405.  Prices paid to producers in the U.S. probably increased in
February on higher costs for energy and food, a report today is
forecast to show. The Labor Department’s producer price index
likely rose 0.7 percent after a 0.8 percent gain in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Firmer Footing’  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that the U.S.
recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while higher energy prices
are likely to have a temporary effect on inflation.  The dollar is likely to strengthen against the yen
“particularly with the  Bank of Japan  standing ready” and
injecting liquidity into the economy, said Michael McCarthy,
chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.  The BOJ has added 28 trillion yen to the financial system
since March 14 after Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to keep
pumping cash into the economy to stabilize markets.  “The BOJ will have no choice but to add to monetary
easing, which may ease the yen’s appreciation,” said Tomokazu
Matsufuji, a dealer in Tokyo at SBI Liquidity Market Co., a unit
of financier SBI Holdings Inc. “Policy makers may intervene
verbally if the yen strengthens rapidly beyond around 80.60 per
dollar.”  The euro fell against the greenback after Portugal’s long-
term debt rating was cut two steps to A3 from A1 by Moody’s,
which cited a “subdued” growth outlook, risks to implementing
the government’s deficit-reduction plans, and a possible need to
recapitalize its banks.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “The government faces significant challenges, not least a
less supportive economic environment,” Moody’s said in a
statement dated yesterday. The country’s gross domestic product
is expected to “decline this year and experience a weak
recovery at best in 2012,” according to the statement.  Finance ministers from the 17 euro countries failed on
March 14 to decide how to bring the emergency aid fund up to its
full 440 billion euros ($615 billion) from around 250 billion
euros currently. Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said a “few
points of detail” might not be settled by the March 24-25
summit. He called another gathering of euro-area finance
ministers for March 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  