-- 
Yen Reaches an Almost 16-Year High Versus Dollar on Japan's Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-16T15:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/yen-reaches-an-almost-16-year-high-versus-dollar-on-japan-s-nuclear-crisis.html
The yen approached a 16-year high
versus the dollar as  Japan ’s nuclear crisis intensified,
increasing speculation Japanese companies and investors will
repatriate funds to help pay for earthquake and tsunami damages.  The yen strengthened for a fourth straight day after Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said a reactor containment vessel may have
been breached at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant,
increasing the risk of radioactive leaks. The euro fell for the
first time in four days after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded  Portugal ’s credit rating, reviving concern about the
region’s ability to solve its debt crisis.  “The pressures will be for dollar-yen to go lower on
repatriation and reinsurance flows,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya ,
head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York . “People have been using the dollar as a funding
currency more than the yen.”  The yen gained 0.3 percent to 80.45 per dollar at 11:23
a.m. in New York, from 80.72 yesterday. It earlier touched
80.34. The currency reached 80.22 yen on Nov. 1, the strongest
since April 1995, when it touched a post-World War II high of
79.75.  The dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.3920 against the euro,
from $1.3998 yesterday.  Reactor Damage  Pressure in the containment chamber of Dai-Ichi’s No. 2
reactor fell “substantially” today, said Masahisa Otsuku, a
Tepco nuclear maintenance official. The company suspected damage
following an explosion in the reactor building yesterday.  The  Bank of Japan  added 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) in
one-day operations today.  The BOJ has added 28 trillion yen to
the financial system since March 14 after Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to keep pumping cash into the economy to
stabilize markets.  “Why it hasn’t gone any further is the expectation that
one of the few things the BOJ can do here besides add tremendous
amounts of liquidity is to intervene, and so I think the market
believes that they’ll be very active at 80, and just doesn’t
want to test that,” said Robert Sinche, global head of foreign
exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  In an attempt to slow the yen’s 15 percent appreciation
last year, the Bank of Japan sold 2 trillion yen in September in
the nation’s first currency market intervention since 2004.
Governments and central banks intervene by selling or buying
currencies to influence prices.  The euro dropped after Portugal was cut two steps by
Moody’s yesterday to A3, four levels from so-called junk status.
The company cited the nation’s “less supportive” economic
environment and said its outlook remained negative given
Portugal’s “subdued growth prospects” and risks that the
government won’t be able to implement deficit-reduction plans.  Carry Trade Unwind  The yen may continue to strengthen as investors unwind
carry trades amid reduced demand for assets from higher-yielding
countries. In a carry trade, investors borrow where yields are
low, such as in Japan, to fund purchases in higher-returning
countries.  The carry trade of borrowing in yen and selling it to buy
the currencies of  Australia ,  Norway ,  New Zealand  and  Brazil  has
lost 45 percent this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a loss of 22 percent using the
U.S. currency and return of 8.3 percent in the yen in January
and February.  Japanese investors own about $3.9 billion of rand-based
Eurobonds, known as uridashi, more than the $3 billion of
Brazilian reais and $765 million in Turkish lira, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s mutual funds held 2.8
trillion yen ($34.6 billion) in Brazilian stocks and bonds as
their fourth-largest foreign assets, leaving the real among the
most “vulnerable” during the selloff, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Dollar Path  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, advanced for the
first day in four, gaining 0.4 percent to 76.624.  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that the U.S.
recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while higher energy prices
are likely to have a temporary effect on inflation.  The Swiss franc advanced to a record against the greenback
on investor demand for a refuge amid turmoil in the Middle East
and Japan. Bahrain closed its stock exchange as clashes between
security forces and anti-government protesters intensified.  Concern that violence may spread to neighboring  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer, damped demand for
higher-yielding assets and increased commodity prices. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials rose 1.1
percent after falling 3.6 percent yesterday.  Global Focus  “The focus will remain on Bahrain as well as Japan,”  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “For the time being,  risk
aversion  will still be something that’s more dominant in the
market right now.”  The franc appreciated 0.2 percent to 91.46 centimes per
dollar after touching 91.32, the strongest level since at least
1971, when Bloomberg records begin.  The Swiss central bank may keep borrowing costs near zero
to prevent the franc from appreciating further after Japan’s
earthquake pushed the currency to a record, clouding export
prospects.  The  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, may
keep its benchmark interest rate at 0.25 percent, according to
all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Zurich-based
central bank will publish its decision at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Policy makers won’t hold a briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  