-- 
Yen Gains on Speculation of No Intervention Before G-7 Officials Meeting

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-17T21:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-16/yen-strengthens-to-post-wwii-high-against-dollar-on-repatriation-demand.html
The yen strengthened against the
dollar, surging to a post-World War II high, on speculation  Japan  will delay intervention to limit the currency’s advance as
the nation struggles to avert disaster at a nuclear-power plant.  The yen soared 4.5 percent in 26 minutes as markets closed
in  New York  yesterday and re-opened in  Asia  amid speculation
automated trades to limit losses were taking place. Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said Group of Seven officials will meet
today to discuss the aftermath of last week’s earthquake in
Japan. The Swiss franc gained on demand for a haven and higher-
yielding currencies, such as the  New Zealand dollar , fell.  “In the 77 yen to 78 yen region, there’s a heightened
likelihood of intervention, especially if we get there after the
G-7 meeting,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. “There
could be some sort of endorsement of action by the Japanese. If
they have that, intervention could be more powerful than if they
did it on their own.”  The yen gained 0.9 percent to 78.89 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York, after touching 76.36. Japan’s currency traded at
110.61 per euro from 110.62, after climbing to 106.61 yen, the
strongest since Sept. 13. The euro appreciated 0.9 percent to
$1.4021, after rising to $1.4053, the highest since Nov. 8.  G-7 Call  The G-7 discussions will begin at 6 p.m. New York time and
encompass currencies, Noda told reporters in the capital. Japan
will brief officials on the damage to the economy, he said. Noda
declined to comment on any possible intervention.    New Zealand ’s dollar dropped the most among the major
currencies, and Australia’s currency slumped, as the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average fell as much as 5 percent, damping demand for
higher-yielding assets.    Switzerland ’s franc advanced to 88.52 centimes per dollar,
a record high, before trading at 89.85. up 1.1 percent. The
Swiss central bank left its key interest rate at 0.25 percent
today, as expected by all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The currency appreciated versus all major counterparts.  “The markets are in a panic and everyone’s diving into the
havens,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney. “When you’re seeing
this amount of volatility, that’s usually bad for so-called risk
currencies like the Aussie and the kiwi.”  Aussie, Kiwi    Australia ’s dollar declined 1.2 percent to 77.33 yen, and
fell 0.4 percent to 98.03 U.S. cents. New Zealand’s dollar
dropped 1.4 percent to 71.78 U.S. cents.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, fell as much as 1.1
percent to 75.848 in the biggest intraday decline since Jan. 13.    Canada ’s dollar gained as oil climbed the most in three
weeks on concern unrest in North Africa and the Middle East will
spread, reducing shipments from the region.  Canada’s currency rose 0.7 percent to 98.48 cents per U.S.
dollar. Crude, the nation’s largest export, added as much as 4.1
percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 24.  The euro gained against most major counterparts as
borrowing costs eased during the first bond auction in the so-
called periphery nations since European leaders agreed on March
12 to boost the rescue fund and tighten enforcement on debt
limits.  Spanish Bonds    Spain  sold 3.22 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of 10-year
bonds at an average yield of 5.162 percent, compared with 5.2
percent on Feb. 17, the last time similar-maturity securities
were sold.  North of Tokyo more than 300 workers are racing to prevent
a meltdown and spread of radiation from the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power station, an increase from a core group of 50
engineers yesterday, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said. The nation’s
most powerful earthquake on record triggered a tsunami that
killed thousands and damaged the reactors’ cooling systems.  “The strength of the yen in the near term will depend
heavily on the ongoing developments in the nuclear power
plant,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “If that situation were
to escalate, then there’s a risk the yen could re-test the
levels we saw overnight. The counter to that would be the risk
of intervention by central banks has significantly heightened.”  Yen Gains  The Japanese currency strengthened yesterday after the head
of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant is releasing “extremely high”
levels of radiation that could be life-threatening.  The  Bank of Japan  sold 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in
September to slow the currency’s appreciation, its first such
action since 2004. The central bank added 6 trillion yen to the
financial system in a one-day operation today, bringing total
emergency injections this week to 34 trillion yen.  The yen, which has gained 5.2 percent since the March 11
earthquake, has been supported by speculation that local
insurers and investors are redeeming overseas assets to pay for
damages and reconstruction.  “The Japanese have to repatriate yen and the repatriation
will continue as the crisis deepens,” said Kurt Magnus,
executive director of currency sales at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Sydney. “My target is 72 on dollar-yen because of the technical
breach of the 1995 low. There is no support because we’ve never
been down here before.”  Post-World War II High  The yen’s surge earlier helped it surpass the previous high
of 79.75, reached in April 1995 in the wake of an earthquake
that devastated the city of Kobe.  Demand for options that protect against gains in the yen
versus the  U.S. dollar  surged to a nine-month high today.  The so-called risk reversal rate for one-month options on
the dollar versus the yen surged to as much as a 2.5 percentage
point premium in favor of calls granting the right to buy
Japan’s currency over puts giving the right to sell, the largest
since June. The premium has expanded from as small as 0.21
percentage points on March 11.  Implied volatility measured by the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index for seven major currencies touched 14.13, the highest
since June, before retreating to 12.95.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  