-- 
AMC Networks Falls on First Day of Trading After Spinoff

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-01T20:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/-mad-men-amc-networks-slides-on-first-day-after-spinoff-from-cablevision.html
AMC Networks Inc., the media company
whose programs include “Mad Men” and “Breaking Bad,” slid on
its first day of trading after being spun off from  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC)   AMC fell $3.65, or 8.4 percent, to $39.85 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. AMC rose 24 percent from
June 17 to June 30 while trading on a “when issued” basis.  “It’s very hard to figure out what the company is worth
because they’re not giving guidance and it’s been part of
Cablevision for quite a while,” John Tinker, senior media
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in an interview.
Tinker downgraded his rating on the shares to “hold” from
“buy” given the stock’s increase over the past two weeks.  AMC could be a takeover target for other media companies or
private equity firms, said Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins
Stewart LLC in New York. The prospect of a possible acquisition
may lead to “the potential for a premium” over the company’s
financial fundamentals, he said.  “A larger media company with a bigger ad sales force could
probably take advantage of AMC,” said Eagan, who predicted a
takeover could occur in 2012 at the earliest.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , Viacom Inc.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  News
Corp . all own TV networks with scripted dramas, similar to the
kind of original programming from AMC.  AMC Assets  The New York-based company, formerly known as Rainbow
Media, owns television channels IFC, WE tv, Sundance Channel,
and AMC, which airs the Emmy-award winning “Mad Men” about the
1960s New York advertising industry. Cablevision is focusing on
its cable-systems business and last year spun off Madison Square
Garden Co., owner of the New York arena and sports teams.  Charles Dolan will serve as executive chairman of AMC while
maintaining his role as chairman of Cablevision.  AMC also owns independent movie distributor  IFC Films ,
AMC/Sundance Channel Global, an international programming
business, and distribution unit AMC Networks Broadcasting &
Technology. As part of the spinoff, AMC Networks completed its
previously announced financing of about $2.43 billion of new
debt, the company said in a statement.  Cablevision rose 63 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $25.96 on the
New York Stock Exchange. Shares are up 9.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  