-- 
A-Tec Soars as Insolvent Austrian Group Gets Investor Bids

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-01T16:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/a-tec-sees-way-open-to-reorganization-after-getting-bids-1-.html
A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) ,  Austria ’s third-
biggest insolvency case since World War II, rose 12 percent in
Vienna trading after saying the “way is now open” to
reorganization following binding investment offers.  A-Tec closed at 2.55 euros, the highest price since June
15, paring the stock’s decline this year to 31 percent. Trading
volume was almost six times the three-month average for the
group, which sought protection from creditors Oct. 20.  Executives and creditor trustees are assessing bids for
A-Tec’s assets, the Vienna-based engineering company said today
in a statement. The company didn’t identify or specify the
number of investors who met the June 30 deadline or disclose the
offers’ value.  A-Tec struck a deal with creditors in December that would
allow the company to restructure if it attracted at least 250
million euros ($363 million) in capital, creditor committee
spokesman Hans-Georg Kantner said at the time. A-Tec’s
supervisory board will examine the bids on July 5 and a buyer is
likely to be voted on at a shareholder meeting in mid-August,
Format magazine reported yesterday.  Central European private-equity company Penta Investments
Ltd., Essar Group of  India , French private-equity firm Astorg
Partners, an unidentified London-based financial investor and a
Chinese “industry giant” have made offers for A-Tec, Format
reported, without saying where it got the information.  The insolvency filing by A-Tec, which is majority-owned by
Chief Executive Officer Mirko Kovats, ranks in Austria’s postwar
history behind those of retail chain Konsum and construction
company Maculan Holding AG, according to the KSV creditors’
association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  