-- 
African Union Calls for Qaddafi to Stay Out of Libya Talks to End Conflict

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-01T22:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/african-union-calls-for-qaddafi-to-stay-out-of-libya-talks-to-end-conflict.html
African leaders called on Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  not to take part in talks to resolve the
nation’s conflict between his forces and rebels seeking to end
his four-decade long rule.  An African Union proposal adopted today said that Qaddafi
shouldn’t be involved in the talks, which would decide who will
be part of a political transition. The rebel National
Transitional Council, based in east  Libya , has previously
rejected any solutions involving Qaddafi. Rebel representatives
were not immediately available to comment on the AU proposals,
which included a call for a cease-fire.  “The cease-fire shall be linked to, and followed by, a
political process, which will commence with a consensual and
inclusive transitional period,” said the resolution, which was
distributed to reporters at the close of a two-day AU summit in
 Equatorial Guinea ’s capital, Malabo. The resolution called for
the transition period to end with democratic elections.  The five-month long civil war in Libya, a north African
nation with the continent’s biggest oil reserves, has driven up
the price of crude and spread tens of thousands of refugees
throughout the region.  Demanding End to Air Strikes  The AU has lamented Western powers ignoring the continent’s
own solution to the conflict, which it outlined in a March road
map. The 53-member body has repeatedly demanded an end to North
Atlantic Treaty Organization air strikes against Qadaffi’s
fighters.  Talks to end the conflict will begin in Addis Ababa, the
Ethiopian capital, “very soon,” South Africa President  Jacob
Zuma  told reporters.  The AU requested the  United Nations Security Council  to
lift a freeze on Libyan assets and asked for the creation of a
peacekeeping force to monitor the cease-fire. Both parties
should agree to an amnesty law, the AU said.  African leaders also slammed a June 27 arrest warrant
against Qaddafi, his son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military
intelligence chief Abdullah al-Senussi by the International
Criminal Court. They decided not to cooperate with the warrant
and asked the UN Security Council to annul it.  The court discriminates against Africans and has failed to
indict Western leaders for incidents such as the invasion of
 Iraq , Equatorial Guinea’s President Teodoro Obiang Nguema
Mbasogo told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Malabo at   fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 