-- 
SBI Magnum Fund Beats Rivals Betting on Indian Pizza, Underwear Makers

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-07-01T03:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/magnum-fund-s-srinivasan-beats-peers-by-betting-on-india-pizza-underwear.html
R. Srinivasan, whose SBI Magnum
Emerging Businesses Fund has beaten 99 percent of peers in 2011,
is buying more shares of Indian consumer goods companies and
drugmakers on optimism their earnings will be sheltered from
rising borrowing costs.  Srinivasan, whose company is a unit of  India ’s largest
bank, in May raised holdings in  Page Industries Ltd. (PAG) , which
sells Jockey International Inc.’s undergarments,  Jubilant
FoodWorks Ltd. (JUBI) , a licensee of Domino’s Pizza Inc., and Divi’s
Laboratories Ltd., according to Value Research Ltd. His 3.5
billion rupee ($78 million) fund rose 19 percent in the year to
yesterday, beating the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index’s
6.5 percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising interest rates have dragged the Sensitive Index down
8.1 percent this year. Srinivasan favors consumer goods makers
even with valuations at about an 80 percent premium to the stock
gauge. Rising salaries may make the nation of 1.2 billion people
the fifth-largest consumer market by 2025,  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu  said in January.  “Consumer companies have pricing power,” Srinivasan, 40,
said in an interview in his Mumbai office. “Valuations are
already at a premium to their historical averages for a lot of
stocks in the consumer space. Quality, even at a higher price,
has outperformed and that is something we’re holding on to.”  Srinivasan’s company, SBI Funds Management Pvt. is a  State
Bank  of India unit that had 417 billion rupees in assets on
March 31, making it the nation’s sixth-biggest money manager.  Indian stocks have declined after the central bank raised
rates four times this year to tackle rising consumer and food
prices. The $1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the
three months through March 31, the weakest pace in five
quarters.  Earnings Impact  The  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao June 16
said he’s willing to risk a slowdown in growth to curb inflation
running at more than twice the rate in the U.S. and almost four
times  Germany ’s. About 33 percent of the companies in the Sensex
reported profits that missed analysts’ forecasts in the three
months ended in March, compared with less than a quarter that
did so a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You’ll see more earnings downgrades,” Srinivasan said.
“Inflation is a serious concern but the monetary stance is also
tightening in a way that is bound to affect growth. Since the
end of last year, most of my portfolios have been defensive and
that view continues into the second half as well.”  Indian stocks will underperform in coming months amid
uncertainties over policy tightening and the impact on demand,
BNP Paribas said June 20. BNP pared its end-2011 estimate for
the Sensex to 20,500 from 23,600. The index closed at 18,845.87
yesterday.  Spending Boom  The central bank expects the South Asian country to expand
at “around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.5
percent in the previous 12 months. That pace is still the
fastest after  China  among  Asia ’s biggest economies. The U.S.
will grow 2.6 percent in 2011 and the euro region will expand
1.7 percent, according to World Bank estimates.  Retailers of branded foods and clothes, auto-part makers
and providers of financial and health-care services are among
businesses benefiting from a boom in spending, said Srinivasan.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Index
of 10 companies trades for 27 times earnings, compared with 15
times for the Sensex. The Bombay Stock Exchange Consumer
Durables Index is valued at 19 times.  “While accepting that the consumer sector has very good
potential, the question is price,” Sunil Singhania, head of
equities at Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s
biggest money manager with $23 billion in assets, said in an
interview at his office in Mumbai on June 27. “Valuations have
meant that we don’t have much exposure to that sector.”  Price Surge  Consumer goods and appliances companies accounted for 26
percent of the Emerging Businesses Fund on May 31, followed by
finance companies. Among the top holdings, Page has doubled in
the past year, Jubilant FoodWorks has more than tripled,  Agro
Tech Foods Ltd. (ATFL) , a producer of branded foods, has climbed 18
percent and  Hawkins Cookers Ltd. (HAWK) , a maker of kitchen appliances,
has rallied 43 percent.  Manappuram General Finance & Leasing Ltd. (MGFL) , which provides
loan against gold, has rallied 50 percent in the period.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest phone company, is among
the biggest three holdings in two other equity funds managed by
Srinivasan. The stock has surged 50 percent in the past year.  The  fund manager  said he’s “underweight” on
infrastructure firms, energy companies and developers. The 25-
member CNX Infrastructure Index has lost 9.8 percent this year
to yesterday, after falling 4 percent in 2010.  “Infrastructure companies are trading at very attractive
valuations, but a lot of them have never generated a reasonable
return on capital consistently,” he said. “You want to be in
decent and quality companies, especially when you are cautious
on the markets and don’t see a crazy bull run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  