-- 
Airlines Win Approval to Use Plant-Based Biofuels on Commercial Flights

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-01T18:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/airlines-win-approval-to-use-plant-based-biofuels-on-commercial-flights.html
Airlines won final approval from a
U.S.-based technical-standards group to power their planes with
a blend made from traditional kerosene and biofuels derived from
inedible plants and organic waste.  The decision published today on the  website  of ASTM
International allows airlines to fly passenger jets using
derivatives of up to 50 percent biofuel made from feedstocks
such as algae and woodchips. It will help carriers that account
for 2 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions reduce
pollution blamed for damaging the Earth’s atmosphere.  “We’re extremely pleased to see the approval of the first
group of biofuels for aviation,” Billy Glover,  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
vice president of environment and aviation policy, said in an e-
mail. “The ASTM Emerging Fuels Taskforce, co-led by Boeing and
the  Federal Aviation Administration , worked for years to enable
aviation to diversify its fuel sources and reduce our
environmental footprint.”  Airlines already have conducted test flights using the
fuel. Air France-KLM Group on June 29 operated the world’s first
commercial flight using a blend including cooking oil. It’s
planning 200 similar test flights from Amsterdam to Paris
starting September. Boeing did a trans-Atlantic flight with fuel
from the camelina plant.  Engine Impact  ASTM gave preliminary approval for the new blends in early
June and published detailed rules for refiners to follow today.
 General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s biggest jet engine maker, said
it doesn’t expect the new fuels to have any impact on the
function of its motors.  The 27-nation European Union is prodding airlines toward
cleaner fuels by forcing them to cap emissions or buy permits
for the excess, beginning next year.  Companies that may benefit from opening the $139 billion-a-
year aviation fuel market include  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V)  of  Finland ,
U.S.-based Solazyme Inc. and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s UOP
unit, which is developing a fuel-making technology.  “This is an important milestone for the aviation industry
and for biofuel producers that bet on drop-in fuels,” said
Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  ‘Clear Winners’  “Neste Oil, Diamond Green Diesel Holdings LLC and
Honeywell’s UOP are clear winners with this announcement as they
are the main proponents of hydrotreated vegetable oils and
fats,” Rodriguez Labastida said. “Neste Oil is the only  oil
company  with commercial plants producing biofuels that could be
used in airplanes.”  Honeywell’s UOP has licensed its technology to Gap Energia
SGPS SA in  Portugal , Rentech Inc. in the U.S., ENI SpA in  Italy 
and Petroleo Brasileiro SA in  Brazil , he said.  “Today’s announcement is a major step in its efforts to
commercialize advanced low-carbon biofuels,” said Jonathan Wolfson, chief executive officer of Solazyme.  Airbus estimates that fuel from plant-derived sources may
account for 30 percent of airlines’ consumption by 2030.  The plane maker, with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , plans in the
coming weeks to undertake a six-month trial using planes with
one engine powered 50 percent by biofuel from jatropha, camelina
and animal waste. Lufthansa is aiming to blend clean fuel with
kerosene at up to 10 percent of the total by 2020.  Only one other type of clean jet fuel is currently cleared
for use. This was approved in 2009 and is made from feedstocks
including biomass, natural gas and coal.  ‘First Step’  “Approval for plant-oil based biomass jet fuels is only a
first step,” Glover said. “Boeing, our customers, and many
other stakeholders will build on this first achievement to
enable these next groups of aviation fuels to be approved.”  Airbus and Boeing, which together manufacture about 80
percent of the world’s passenger planes, are planning to set up
biofuel production chains across the world.  Airbus is working on a supply hub in  India  where it’s
talking with government and airline officials. Its aim is to
form joint ventures and partnerships with growers, transporters
and refiners.  Boeing is negotiating with companies across the supply
chain in  South America . Fuel from inedible plants or waste
doesn’t put price pressure on crops as can fuel from corn, sugar
cane or soy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  