-- 
Thais Vote as Polls Show Shift to Pro-Thaksin Party

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-03T11:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/thais-to-vote-as-power-may-shift-to-thaksin.html
(Corrects description of company in 12th paragraph.)  Thais will decide the outcome today
of the latest round in a feud that has dominated the country’s
politics for a decade and which polls say will be won by allies
of  Thaksin Shinawatra , the man at the center of the divide.  A clear majority in the 500-seat Parliament in today’s
election for the pro-Thaksin Pheu Thai would see his sister
Yingluck Shinawatra, who heads the party, become Thailand’s
first female prime minister. It may also raise the prospect of a
return by Thaksin, who was deposed in a 2006 coup and has been
shaping Pheu Thai’s strategy from exile in Dubai.  “Those most committed to the 2006 coup hold to the hope
that their long-denied objectives of breaking Thaksin forces can
still be executed,” said Michael Connors, a Thai scholar at La
Trobe University in  Melbourne . “But the last five years prove
otherwise, and they now confront a mobilized movement with depth
well beyond what anyone imagined.”  While army chiefs have said they won’t carry out a coup if
Pheu Thai wins, concern of post-election violence has rattled
the stock market and heightened concerns that prolonged protests
will harm a  tourism industry  that makes up 7 percent of gross
domestic product. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has said Pheu
Thai will grant Thaksin amnesty if it wins in an effort to
galvanize opponents of the former premier who view him as a
corrupt billionaire aiming to topple the monarchy.  Thaksin’s Return  “If Thaksin was able to come back in this country and
control the government, there’s a lot of people who are very
scared about the personal impact to themselves because of their
involvement with the coup,” said  Andrew Stotz , a strategist at
Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock
brokerage. “All those people are putting every effort to
persuade the smaller parties to stay with the Democrat party.”  About 70 percent of  Thailand ’s 67 million people are
eligible to vote. Polling stations opened at 8 a.m. and close at
3 p.m. Unofficial results are expected to be announced after 8
p.m., according to Election Commission spokesman Paiboon
Lekprom. The agency will certify winning candidates within 30
days, after which Parliament will meet to pick a prime minister.  Abhisit arrived at a polling station near his home in a
bullet-proof black Range Rover at 10:10 a.m., which he said was
an auspicious number. Yingluck and Thaksin’s three children cast
their votes at separate polling stations earlier in the day.  ‘Clear Victory’  Chalerm Yoobamrung, a former interior minister and Pheu
Thai candidate, told a rally July 1 in Bangkok that the party
would win “a clear victory” of between 280 to 320 seats.
Abhisit said June 14 that his Democrat party would be happy if
it won more than 200 seats.  A poll released June 19 by the Bangkok-based Suan Dusit
Rajabhat University gave Pheu Thai 52 percent of the vote and
the Democrats 34 percent. The poll of 102,994 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus 7 to 10 percentage points. Of
the 500 seats up for grabs, 375 are chosen in constituencies and
125 through proportional representation.  If Pheu Thai fails to win a majority, it would need to
cobble together a coalition with smaller parties that won 17
percent of seats in the 2007 election to form a government. The
party accused the army of meddling in the 2008 parliamentary
vote in which its coalition partners and a group of Thaksin
defectors switched sides to give the premiership to Abhisit.  “I want people to stop talking about a coup,” Defense
Minister Prawit Wongsuwan said after casting his vote today.
“The military has a duty to make sure the country is peaceful.
They do things to benefit the country, the people and to protect
the institution. There is nothing to worry about.”  ‘Sense of Injustice’  If Pheu Thai wins a plurality and the Democrats end up
forming the next government with the help of military pressure
on the smaller parties, pro-Thaksin supporters will feel
aggrieved, Singapore-based political risk firm Vriens & Partners
said in an election report released last month.  “It would infuriate all those who had voted for Pheu Thai,
and who would feel that, based on its plurality, it should be
accorded the opportunity to form a coalition government without
interference from the military,” the report said. “The larger
Pheu Thai’s victory margin is, the greater the sense of
injustice.”  Bhum Jai Thai, a party composed of Thaksin defectors who
helped shift power to Abhisit three years ago, said Pheu Thai
was inflating its numbers so it could claim electoral fraud if
it was unable to form a government. Party spokesman Supachai
Chaisamut said Bhum Jai Thai may win 70 seats in the election.  Thaksin, 61, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest
mobile-phone company, has maintained his popularity among poorer
northern Thais who make up a majority of the population and
recall his policies of affordable health care and cheap loans.
Parties linked to him have won at least 15 percent more seats
than the Democrats in the last four elections.  Stocks Slide  Abhisit, 46, became prime minister in a 2008 parliament
vote two weeks after a court disbanded the ruling pro-Thaksin
party for election fraud. Thaksin’s Red Shirt supporters have
blockaded parts of the capital since to push for an election,
leading to violence that killed 91 people a year ago.  The SET Index dropped 3 percent in June, the biggest
monthly decline since January, with state-owned  Thai Airways
International Pcl (THAI)  losing 18 percent. The baht fell 1.4 percent
in that time, declining two months in a row for the first time
since the end of protests a year ago.  The  Asian Network for Free Elections , the only foreign
group monitoring the polls, said last week an excessive number
of extra ballots were printed in violation of Thailand’s
election laws, raising fears of electoral fraud. Pheu Thai also
complained that the Election Commission used a smaller version
of its logo on the ballot paper than that of the other 41
parties running, increasing the risk of spoiled votes.  Court Challenges  Since the 2006 coup, courts have disbanded two pro-Thaksin
parties and disqualified two prime ministers backed by his
allies. Thailand has had 10 coups since absolute monarchy ended
in 1932, and of its 27 prime ministers in that time, 12 have
been military leaders.  “Thailand is still a semi-democracy,” said Somjai Phagaphasvivat, a lecturer at Thammasat University in Bangkok.
“Violence, division and polarization will remain a hallmark of
Thai democracy for the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  