-- 
Alberta Cross Get Bluesy, Cults Grabs Brooklyn Hometown Crowd

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/alberta-cross-get-bluesy-cults-grab-brooklyn-hometown-crowd.html
Petter Stakee’s blond hair jutted
from a black top hat as the five-piece Alberta Cross opened at
 The Rock Shop  on June 21 with a new song called “Magnolia.”  Bassist Terry Wolfers pushed out a smooth bass line while a
repetitive chorus etched the tune in our heads -- not bad for
something new.  The band followed up with material off their 2009  debut
album , “Broken Side of Time.” Alec Higgins’s keys and Sam
Kearney’s guitar solo took us into “Old Man Chicago.” The band
hit its groove and this breezy number had the crowd singing.
“The Thief and the Heartbreaker” got the audience in one
uniform head-bop.  Started in the U.K. in 2007 by Stakee and Wolfers, Alberta
Cross really took shape after the two moved to  Brooklyn  later
that year. They have built a following around their bluesy style
of rock.  The band tried out more new material with “Money for the
Weekend,” which had an arena rock sound led by Stakee’s gritty
soulful voice. A cover of  John Lennon ’s “Steel and Glass” had
the crowd rejoicing at Stakee’s spot-on delivery.  The group ended the set by inviting up folk artist Cory
Chisel for a take on an Alberta Cross gospel number called
“Rise From the Shadows.” With an old video camera in hand,
Chisel filmed the guys performing from the stage before taking
on backing vocals. Stakee made his way into the audience and
leaned on a lucky few as he laid down the lead.  The encore was a heavy rocking “ATX,” with guitars
howling, crowd clapping and a send-off jam to wrap it up.  An EP is on the way but in the meantime you can catch the
band on July 6 at the Ottawa Bluesfest and July 8 in  Chicago  as
part of the Dave Matthews Band Caravan tour.  Hometown Cheers  On June 9, a capacity crowd at the  Music Hall of
Williamsburg  treated Cults, another five-piece, to hometown
cheers. The group was founded less than a year ago by New York
University film students Madeline Follin and Brian Oblivion
after they morphed from posting a few tracks by themselves on
the Web to selling out this local venue.  Follin’s long black hair framed a pale face as she sang the
opening lines to “Abducted,” which tells of a bad breakup. She
swayed side to side and traded vocals with Oblivion.  He remarked that the show was the band’s “official record
release” as the self-titled debut had been released two days
earlier. The album successfully captures the group’s ‘60s-style
fuzzed-out pop sound, but the live show delivers the essence.  For “Most Wanted,” Follin’s innocent youthful voice was
complimented by a simple beat, glowing keys, small guitar riffs
and some prerecorded vocal samples. The warm number was quickly
followed by a splashier “You Know What I Mean,” with snapping
drum-pad and single guitar notes.  Breakout Single  A xylophone played the opening sounds to “Go Outside,”
the band’s breakout single. Simple in structure and lack of
effects, it proved once again that a good beat and melody are
all you need.  The too-brief set wrapped up in 40 minutes with “Oh My
God.” Oblivion jumped in the crowd for his final guitar solo
and Follin belted out a huge “Thank you!”  Cults will be back in  New York  for a free show at the
Central Park SummerStage on Aug. 7. The band also has summer
dates on the West Coast leading up to this show, including the
Lollapalooza Festival in Chicago.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in July. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 