-- 
America Movil Reversal of $1 Billion Fine Isn’t Done Deal, Officials Say

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-01T20:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/america-movil-reversal-of-1-billion-fine-isn-t-done-deal-officials-say.html
America Movil  SAB, the wireless
carrier controlled by  Carlos Slim , doesn’t have a guaranteed
victory in its bid to overturn a $1 billion fine for
anticompetitive practices after a legal development in its favor
this week, two antitrust commissioners said.  Luis Alberto Ibarra Pardo and Miguel Flores Bernes, who
both voted against the fine in April, said they won’t
necessarily vote the same way when considering America Movil’s
appeal. Banco Santander SA said this week the two commissioners
are making a reversal of the record fine more likely.  “Each case is reviewed on its own merits,” Ibarra Pardo
said yesterday in an interview in the  antitrust  agency’s office
in Mexico City. “There are arguments, from the economic point
of view and the legal point of view, that could be
contradictory.”  Ibarra Pardo and Flores Bernes both voted this week to bar
Eduardo Perez Motta,  Mexico ’s antitrust chief, from the vote on
America Movil’s appeal, saying he had shown bias on the matter
in radio and TV interviews in May. That recusal made a vote to
overturn the fine more likely, said Gregorio Tomassi, a
Santander analyst, in a research note dated yesterday.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, fell 2 centavos to
15.78 pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading. The
shares have dropped 11 percent this year. Tomassi, based in
Mexico City, recommends buying the shares.  Breaking a Tie  Perez Motta and another commissioner, Rodrigo Morales
Elcoro, voted in favor of the fine in April. The result was a 2-
2 tie because the fifth commissioner, Agustin Navarro Gergely,
had recused himself because of a conflict of interest. As
president,  Perez Motta ’s vote broke the tie.  America Movil, which controls 70 percent of Mexico’s
wireless market, committed anticompetitive practices in the
market for fees charged to connect calls from rivals’ networks,
the commission concluded with that vote.  With Navarro Gergely recused and Perez Motta unable to
participate, the remaining three commissioners would overturn
the fine if their votes remain the same as before. Morales
Elcoro and Perez Motta declined to comment yesterday.  “It’s very unfortunate. I don’t like being in this
situation, and I wish all of my colleagues could participate in
the vote,” Flores Bernes said yesterday in a phone interview.
“But the law is the law.”  In a dissenting opinion to the decision exempting Perez
Motta from the appeal vote, Morales Elcoro said the recusal
didn’t have a solid legal foundation.  ‘Way to Censor’  “They’re taking this incident as a way to control the
public communication of the commission,” he  wrote . “They’re
converting the incident as a way to censor a technical
opinion.”  The  opinion  issued by Ibarra Pardo and Flores Bernes cited
examples of TV and radio interviews in which Perez Motta argued
against America Movil’s claims that the amount of the fine
couldn’t be based on previous antitrust violations by the
company, a concept known as “reincidence,” because the alleged
violations were different in nature.  “You don’t have to re-commit the same infraction for it to
be considered reincidence,” Perez Motta said in a May 10
interview on TV Azteca SAB’s network, according to the opinion.
“That’s an abuse of dominance.”  Perez Motta’s removal from the appeal process won’t have a
chilling effect on antitrust officials’ ability to express their
opinions, Ibarra Pardo said. While commissioners should be
transparent about their opinions after a vote, they can’t
express their views on pending matters, he said.  Future Votes  Part of Perez Motta’s duties include representing the
antitrust agency in public, and his comments to news media in
the past generally won’t affect his ability to participate in
future votes, Flores Bernes said.  “This decision was made based on specific declarations
about a specific company when we were in the process of
resolving an appeal,” he said.  The commissioners’ opinion in the decision on Perez Motta’s
recusal said that America Movil presented its appeal to the
antitrust agency on May 30, after the Perez Motta interviews
took place. He was disputing arguments America Movil presented
to news media in statements and interviews, the opinion said.  Slim, 71, was declared the world’s richest man in March for
a second year by Forbes magazine. America Movil represents about
62 percent of his $72.6 billion in publicly disclosed holdings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  