-- 
Andy Murray Loss to Nadal Extends Britain’s 75-Year Wimbledon Heartache

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-01T20:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/andy-murray-loss-to-nadal-extends-britain-s-75-year-wimbledon-heartache.html
The latest effort to end more than
seven decades of British tennis futility at Wimbledon ended with
a forehand winner and a groan from the Centre Court crowd.  Andy Murray , the first U.K. man to reach the semifinals at
the All England Club three years in a row, was a loser again on
the sport’s biggest stage, beaten by  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  for
the second consecutive July.  The score this time -- 5-7, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4. Nadal will meet
Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  for the title in two days. Murray and
his fans will have another year to wait to see if  Fred Perry  in
1936 can be supplanted as the last British man to win Wimbledon.  “It’s tough,” Murray said in a news conference. “I’m
giving it my best shot each time. I’m trying my hardest. That’s
all you can do.”  Tim Henman reached four Wimbledon semifinals as the British
hope, the last one in 2002, losing to the eventual champion each
time. With Henman now a British Broadcasting Corp. commentator,
Murray has lost three consecutive semifinals at Wimbledon, twice
to Nadal and to  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in 2009.  “I feel sorry for Andy Murray, because he’s a pro at a
time where there is Rafa and  Roger Federer , who are the best
players to ever have played the game,” Charlie Monbiot, a 26-
year-old corporate finance worker, said outside Centre Court
after the match. “He’s quite unfortunate in that regard.”  Home-Grown Talent  None of the other three tennis Grand Slam events -- the
Australian Open, French Open and the U.S. Open -- have gone even
half as long without a home-grown champion. Virginia Wade was
the last Briton to win in London, in 1977. The last man from
Britain to reach the Wimbledon singles final was  Henry “Bunny”
Austin , who lost to American Don Budge in 1938.  Murray also lost all three Grand Slam finals he’s played.
Six-time Wimbledon champion Roger Federer defeated him in the
2008  U.S. Open  and the 2010 Australian Open championship
matches, while Djokovic was his conqueror at this year’s
Australian Open.  The Centre Court crowd of 15,000 was cheering for Murray.
About 4,000 more fans occupied Murray Mound --- previously known
as Henman Hill, the rise outside Court 1 where the match was
broadcast on massive video screens.  Murray started off well, dictating the points in the first
set as he produced six aces and won the point 83 percent of the
time after his first serve landed in. He took the first set
after Nadal hit a backhand into the net.  No Errors  Nadal, a 10-time major champion, didn’t lose his serve
again over the next three sets, breaking Murray five times in
the entire match. The Spaniard reduced his error count to zero
in the second set, while Murray made 12. Nadal made only seven
unforced errors in all, to 39 for his opponent. Murray did top
the count on winners, 42-37.  “It’s got to happen soon, if it is going to happen,” said
Will Sermon, a 29-year-old television broadcasting worker, as he
sat on Murray Mound drinking a beer while dressed as the BBC
commentator Sue Barker. “Because he’s coming into his prime
now.”  Just like last year, Murray was the only British man to
reach the second round.  The British media had been reporting daily on almost every
aspect of his advance to the semifinals, from interviewing his
grandfather about the player’s 6,000 calories-a-day sushi diet
to the player’s movie choice on his days off and his Playstation
competition with Nadal.  Camping for Tickets  The All England Club said 173 fans had been camping outside
the grounds overnight to get a ticket for the semifinal. On the
morning of the match, an unofficial ticket seller outside the
nearby Southfields station of  London  Underground was offering
tickets for the men’s final for 3,000 pounds ($4,800) each,
compared with 500 pounds for the women’s final between 2004
champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and Petra Kvitova of the
 Czech Republic .  The British royal family also took an interest in Murray.
 Prince William  and his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, watched
him beat  Richard Gasquet  of  France  in the fourth round from the
royal box on Centre Court. Murray said he would have shaved if
he had known they’d be there.  Two years ago, William’s grandmother,  Queen Elizabeth II ,
sent Murray a letter after he won a Wimbledon warm-up tournament
at London’s Queen’s Club. British hopes had been growing after
Murray won that tournament for the second time this year,
shortly after reaching his first semifinal at the  French Open .  “It’s very frustrating, he’s such a good player,” Monbiot
said. “Andy needs to raise his standard, he’s got the
ammunition to do it. But he also needs to get lucky. Someone
needs to knock out Rafa before he plays him. Then he’ll have a
chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  