-- 
Anglo Irish Bank Renamed After ‘Appalling’ Past Failings

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-07-01T12:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/anglo-irish-bank-renamed-after-appalling-past-failings-1-.html
Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society, which are merging, will be renamed
as the government moved to wind down the lenders damaged by
their “appalling failings.”  The merged entity will be renamed the Irish Bank Resolution
Corporation, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in an e-mailed
statement. Irish Nationwide said today its assets and
liabilities have been transferred to Anglo Irish under a
government’s plan to wind down the two Dublin-based
institutions, which received a combined $50 billion in taxpayer
rescue funds.  The government is changing the merged entity’s name “to
remove the negative international references associated with the
appalling failings of both institutions and their previous
managements,” Noonan said in an e-mailed statement.  Ireland had to accept an 85 billion-euro ($123 billion)
international package last November after the rescue of lenders,
led by  Anglo Irish , became too costly to handle alone. The
collapse of Ireland’s decade-old property boom in 2007 has led
to a tripling in unemployment and a 15 percent contraction in
the economy.  The European Commission approved the plan to wind down
Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide Building on June 29. The name
change won’t take effect until “integration processes,” have
been worked out, Irish Nationwide said.  Noonan said last month he wants to impose losses on
unguaranteed senior bondholders of Anglo Irish and Irish
Nationwide as the state seeks to offset the cost to taxpayers.
Noonan said he wouldn’t act unilaterally and that he will seek
to negotiate the matter with the  European Central Bank  in the
“autumn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  