-- 
Manufacturing Growth in U.S. Likely Slowed in June on Japan Parts Shortage

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-01T11:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace-in-june.html
U.S. manufacturing probably expanded
in June at a slower pace as shortages of parts and components
from Japan prompted factories to limit production.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 52 last month, the lowest level since August 2009, from
53.5 in May, according to the median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion. Another report may show dimmer job prospects and
pricier goods weighed on consumer sentiment in June.  The slowdown in manufacturing, tied to the March earthquake
and tsunami in Japan, may reverse as supplies and auto
components flow from that nation’s factories to the U.S. Federal
Reserve officials said last week that the “temporary”
restraint on American production will abate, setting the stage
for a pickup in the industry and the economy through year’s end.  “We’ve likely seen the low point in the first half of the
year, which partly reflects the supply-chain disruption from
 Japan ,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “We should see a rebound in manufacturing
activity and hopefully employment, which will spur a modest
pickup in  consumer spending  and economic growth.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM will release the figures at 10
a.m. today New York time. Estimates ranged from 49 to 55.  Asia to  Europe   Other figures today showed manufacturing growth is slowing
from  China  to Europe. China’s factory index fell in June to the
lowest level since February 2009, while in the 17-nation euro
area, a gauge slipped to an 18-month low. German manufacturing
expanded at the weakest pace in 17 months, while  Italy , Ireland,
 Spain  and  Greece  contracted.  At 9:55 a.m., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s
final survey of U.S. consumer sentiment for June is projected to
show households were less optimistic. Economists forecast a
decline to 72 from a May reading of 74.3, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The preliminary June index was 71.8.  A Commerce Department report at 10 a.m. may show
construction spending cooled in May as homebuilders compete with
growing inventory of previously owned properties.  Figures yesterday from the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago indicated the automobile industry improved by the end of
June. The group’s business barometer climbed to 61.1 from May’s
56.6 as orders and production picked up.  Regional Figures  Economists watch the index for an early reading on the
national manufacturing outlook. The Chicago group says its
membership includes both factories and service providers, making
the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The report was at odds with data showing manufacturing in
the regions covered by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia
and  New York  unexpectedly shrank in June.  A shortage of Japanese-made vehicles after the March
natural disaster also led companies to offer smaller discounts,
deterring buyers. Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million
annual rate, the slowest since September and down from a 13.1
million pace a month earlier, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  Fed policy makers attributed some of the slowdown in the
first half of the year to “factors that are likely to be
temporary.” They lowered projections for economic growth this
year to 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent, down from forecasts of 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent in April.  Bernanke on Manufacturing  “The effects of the Japanese disaster on manufacturing
output are likely to dissipate in coming months,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters on June 22 after the Fed’s two-
day policy meeting.  Reports last month suggest a recovery may already be at
hand. U.S. factory output climbed 0.4 percent in May on rising
demand for machinery and computers, Fed data showed June 15.
Autos and parts production fell 1.5 percent compared with a 6.5
percent plunge in April.  In Japan, industrial output increased in May by the most
since 1953, led by carmakers that restored operations,
government figures showed June 29.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
is among companies projecting business will improve. The
Memphis, Tennessee-based carrier this week forecast full-year
earnings that may top analysts’ estimates as demand climbs.  “The near-term softness in the economy will be temporary
as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs and the
Japanese economy recovers,” Frederick Smith, chairman and chief
executive officer of FedEx, said on a June 22 conference call.
“The industrial sector will lead growth in the U.S. and
overseas in the next two years, supporting shipping demand.”  Manufacturing shares have outpaced the broader market over
the past year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery
Index, made up of 54 companies including Caterpillar Inc., Deere
& Co. and Cummins Inc., has climbed 55 percent in the year ended
June 30 through yesterday, compared with a 28 percent increase
for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  