-- 
Manufacturing Slowdown in Asia Creates a Rates Dilemma for Central Bankers

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-01T07:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/manufacturing-slowdown-in-asia-creates-a-rates-dilemma-for-central-bankers.html
Manufacturing growth is slowing in
Asian economies from  China  to South Korea, creating a dilemma
for central bankers considering higher  interest rates  to combat
inflation.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index by the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing fell to the lowest level since February
2009, while a gauge by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
for  India  showed manufacturing in June grew at the slowest pace
in nine months. South Korean exports rose the least in 20 months.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth are damping
demand for Asian goods, putting pressure on policy makers to
delay further rate increases even as prices gain. Inflation
quickened to the fastest pace since 2008 in China, exceeded 20
percent in  Vietnam  last month and prompted protests in India.  “We are seeing a global slowdown in growth so it may not
be necessary for imminent tightening across the region,” said
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research in Hong
Kong at HSBC. While the easing expansion may curb price
pressures, “one big risk for  Asia  is that inflation remains
more sticky than expected and that will reduce the scope for
policy accommodation.”  Inflation pressures have prompted Asian central banks to be
among the quickest to withdraw monetary stimulus as growth
accelerated following the global recession in 2009. India, South
Korea,  Thailand  and Taiwan raised their benchmark rates last
month to contain rising prices, while China ordered lenders to
set aside more cash as reserves.  China Manufacturing  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said its
Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9 in June compared with 52
in May. Manufacturing, which accounts for about half of China’s
economy, is moderating as government policies curb demand for
housing and cars, power shortages crimp output and monetary
tightening limits company funding.  The People’s Bank of China has paused for 12 weeks in
raising benchmark rates, the longest gap since increases began
in October. China’s inflation was 5.5 percent in May, exceeding
the government’s annual target of 4 percent.  In  South Korea , where export growth slowed to 14.5 percent
in June from 22.4 percent in May and a purchasing managers’
index by HSBC and Markit Economics eased, consumer-price gains
exceeded the central bank’s target for a sixth straight month in
June. Prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier after a 4.1
percent increase in May, the country’s statistics department
said today. The Finance Ministry yesterday cut its growth
forecast for 2011 to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.  Indonesian Inflation  Thailand’s inflation held near a 32-month high in June
after food prices increased, with consumer prices climbing 4.06
percent from a year earlier. In contrast, Indonesia’s inflation
slowed for a fifth straight month in June.  A measure of India’s manufacturing output fell to 55.3 in
June from 57.5 in May, according to the Purchasing Managers’
Index compiled by HSBC and  Markit Economics . Price gains in the
world’s second-most populous country may accelerate after the
government last week raised the cost of diesel and cooking gas
for the first time in a year. The  Reserve Bank  of India has
raised interest rates 10 times since mid-March 2010.  Asia still relies on U.S. and European demand for its goods,
even as Group of 20 nations push to rebalance the world economy
so global growth depends less on such a relationship and more on
domestic demand. Asian economies accounted for 35 percent of
world exports in 2009, compared with 25 percent a decade earlier,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Europe Impact  The fallout from a European debt crisis would be the most
severe for  Hong Kong , Singapore, Vietnam and  Malaysia , Tai Hui,
head of Southeast Asian economic research at Standard Chartered
Plc, said in a June 29 note.  “These economies would likely see the greatest impact on
their headline growth due to the combination of their high
exposure to external trade in general, and to European Union
trade in particular,” Hui said. “Exporters in China, India and
Vietnam would also face significant challenges since they have
the largest trade exposure to the European Union.”  U.K. manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in almost two
years in May as weak domestic demand led to a drop in production
and new orders, a gauge based on a survey by Markit Economics
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply last month.
The June data is due today.  U.S. manufacturing probably expanded in June at a slower
pace as shortages of parts and components from  Japan  prompted
factories to limit production, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
index is due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  