-- 
Applebee’s Tries ‘Girls’ Night Out’ to Win Five Guys Burger Fans

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-07-01T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/applebee-s-tries-girls-night-out-to-win-five-guys-burger-fans.html
As twenty-somethings flock to  Five
Guys Burgers and Fries , eateries such as Applebee’s,  Ruby
Tuesday Inc. (RT)  and Chili’s are trying to win them back with
“Girls’ Night Out” parties, new menus and rehabbed stores.  Already struggling to revive sales in the wake of the
recession,  Brinker International Inc. (EAT) ’s Chili’s and DineEquity
Inc.’s Applebee’s risk losing young professionals unless they
remake themselves, said Brad Swanson, who runs the restaurant
group at KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., an investment banking and
equity research firm.  “If you have a little bit of money and you’re educated,
you want a boutique feel, less chain,” said Swanson, who is
based in Atlanta.  Sales at full-service restaurants -- which include casual-
dining chains such as Chili’s and Applebee’s -- fell 1.3 percent
to $166 billion last year, compared with a 6 percent rise for
fast-casual chains such as Five Guys,  Chipotle Mexican Grill
Inc. (CMG)  and  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA) , says researcher  Technomic Inc.   The fast-casual chains -- which feature counter service and
limited seating -- are squeezing profit and sales at Chili’s and
Applebee’s, exacerbating a decline that began with the
recession, which started in late 2007 and lasted two years.  Sales at Dallas-based Brinker have declined for three
years. Revenue may slump 3.6 percent to $2.75 billion this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
at DineEquity, based in Glendale,  California , has slid in eight
of the last nine quarters. Analysts forecast a 21 percent drop
in sales to $1.05 billion in 2011.  Victims  Ruby Tuesday shares have slumped about 17 percent this
year. DineEquity shares have risen 5.9 percent and Brinker has
advanced 17 percent, compared with a 45 percent gain for
Chipotle and 24 percent rise for Panera.  Stacey Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Chili’s, and Lucy Neugart, a spokeswoman for Applebee’s, declined to comment for
this story. Greg Ashley, the vice president of finance for Ruby
Tuesday, also declined to comment.  The casual-dining chains, known for cheap eats and big
portions, may be victims of their own success. Sales at Brinker
and Applebee’s almost doubled from 2000 to 2006 and rose 64
percent at Ruby Tuesday, as they ramped up store openings.  When consumers began eating out less, casual dining became
“plagued with oversaturation,” said Darren Tristano, an
executive vice president with Chicago-based Technomic.  The timing couldn’t have been better for burger joints such
as Five Guys, which were attracting new, younger customers, and
looking to expand.  ‘Been There’  “We’re getting a lot of people from casual-dining
chains,” said David Prokupek, chief executive officer of the
Smashburger chain. Sales at so-called better-burger eateries
surged 16 percent last year, according to Technomic.  Millennials -- consumers in their 20s and 30s -- are saying
“been there, done that, and I want something new,” said Dennis Lombardi, executive vice president at restaurant consultant WD
Partners in Dublin,  Ohio .  Sarah Perry, a 27-year-old arborist at the Morton Arboretum
in the Chicago suburb of Lisle,  Illinois , would rather dash into
a Five Guys for a cheeseburger and fries than sit down at a
casual-dining restaurant.  “Chili’s and Applebee’s have such a negative connotation
with just being cheap food,” said Perry. Five Guys “burgers
are really fresh -- you don’t get that stale, come-from-the-box
sort of taste.”  Lunch Combos  The casual-dining chains also face increasing competition
from Chipotle and Panera. Colorado-based Chipotle has generated
double-digit sales growth since  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  spun it off in
2006. Revenue at Panera, which operates more than 1,400 bakery-
cafes across the U.S., rose 14 percent last year.  Chili’s is trying to lure customers with its Big Mouth
Burgers and $20 dinner-for-two specials. It’s touting lunch
combos priced from $6 to $8 that Chili’s President Wyman Roberts
said “positions us better against fast casual.”  “Lunch had been particularly impacted over the years, with
the growth of fast casual and a more value-conscious consumer,”
Roberts said on a conference call in April.  Applebee’s is opening fewer restaurants to focus on
remodeling existing ones at about $200,000 a pop. The company
plans to have almost a third of its 1,862 U.S. locations
refurbished by the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer
Julia Stewart said during a conference call in May.  To appeal to twenty-somethings, the chain is touting
‘Girls’ Night Out’’ parties on Facebook.  Burger Ubiquity  Maryville, Tennessee-based Ruby Tuesday spent $9 million on
new marketing in the past year and is giving customers free
fresh baked garlic biscuits with meals, Chief Executive Officer
Sandy Beall said in April.  The burger chains aren’t standing still. Five Guys Chief
Executive Officer Jerry Murrell plans to add 600 new locations
in the next two years, for a total of about 1,400. Smashburger,
which has 100 stores, is targeting Miami and  Los Angeles  for new
locations, CEO Prokupek said in an interview this month.  Still, ubiquity may bite them, said Todd Hooper, a San
Francisco-based restaurant strategist at Kurt Salmon.  “There are too many of these better burgers popping up,”
he said. “Hamburgers are one of the top favorite foods in this
country, but I think it’s going to limit the growth of these
concepts because there are too many of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 