-- 
Apple, Partners Said to Beat Google Alliance for Nortel Patents

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/apple-allies-said-to-beat-at-least-two-rival-groups-for-patents.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  tried to join at least
one other bidder to buy a patent portfolio from Nortel Networks
Corp. before losing to a $4.5 billion offer from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
its partners, a person who attended the auction said.  The biggest patent auction in history involved multiple
rounds, negotiations that went into the early morning and at
least three alliances of bidders who pushed the final offer to
more than five times the starting price, said two people who
were not authorized to reveal details of the auction.  “This was probably the most extraordinary bankruptcy
auction I’ve ever been involved with,”  Fred Hodara , who
represented Nortel’s official committee of unsecured creditors,
said in an interview.  The winning group includes some Apple competitors-turned-
partners:  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., Ontario-based Nortel said in a
statement. Bankruptcy courts in the U.S. and  Canada  must approve
the bidding results before the sale is final, Nortel said.  The purchase will give the winners control over more than
6,000 patents and applications that cover wireless and Internet
technologies.  “This is by far the biggest patent auction in history,
both in terms of number of patents sold and in terms of the
price tag,” said Alex Poltorak, chairman and chief executive
officer of Suffern, New York-based General Patent Corp. “Nobody
expected the price to get this high.”  Google spokeswoman Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg declined to
comment. Nortel’s lead bankruptcy attorney, Jim Bromley,
declined to comment, said Ashley Baldev, a spokeswoman for the
law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP .  Secret Procedure  The names of all the other bidders, the offers they made
and most details were kept secret throughout the four-day
auction, Nortel attorney Derek Abbott said. Like all the
participants who spoke publicly about the auction, Abbott and
Hodara declined to provide any details they considered
confidential.  One of the groups that bid was led by patent-buying firm
RPX Corp., of San Francisco, company co-founder and chief
executive officer John A. Amster said in an interview yesterday.  The price and the determination of the bidders will
probably never be repeated, Amster said. The circumstances of
the auction, including the fact that it was overseen by a
bankruptcy court, the size of the portfolio and the court-backed
guarantee that the patents would be sold and not pulled off the
block at the last minute, made the sale unique, he said.  RPX’s bids were made with the backing of 20 clients, Amster
said. RPX buys patents in order to prevent them from being used
against their clients in lawsuits.  The result may drive more money into the market for
intellectual property, possibly fueling more lawsuits, Amster
said.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 