-- 
Apple Gets Mixed Ruling in S3 Patent Case Before ITC

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-01T20:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/apple-gets-mixed-ruling-in-s3-patent-claims-before-u-s-itc.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  received a mixed ruling in
the patent-infringement case brought by closely held S3 Graphics
Co. over a type of chip used to play video games on mobile
devices.  Apple violates two S3 patents and was found to not have
infringed two others, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge
James Gildea said in a  notice  today on the Washington-based
agency’s website. The findings are subject to review by the six-
member commission, which can block imports of products that
infringe U.S. patents.  S3, whose Texture Compression feature is used in Nintendo
Co.’s Wii and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation portable gaming systems,
claimed Apple was infringing four patents. The Fremont,
California-based company’s image compression technology allows
for access to encoded large color and 3-D image files to present
lifelike animation in video games.  The ITC complaint targets Apple’s Macintosh computer,
iPhone, iPad tablet and iPod Touch as well as video games for
those devices. Cupertino, California-based Apple makes its
products overseas and imports them into the U.S. for sale.  The ITC will decide within 60 days whether it will review
the judge’s decision. The case is scheduled to be completed by
Nov. 1, according to information on the commission’s website.  Apple is involved in more than a dozen patent cases at the
ITC, a quasi-judicial trade agency that has become a de facto
arbiter for disputes over intellectual property rights.  The commission yesterday ordered a judge to take a second
look at a case brought by Eastman Kodak Co. over an image
preview feature in mobile phones. The ITC also said in a
separate case that Apple wasn’t violating patent claims brought
by Taiwanese chip designer Elan Microelectronics Corp. over
touch-controlled screens,  The case In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices with
Image Processing Systems, 337-724, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  