-- 
Argentina, Uruguay Flights Canceled on Volcanic Ash as Soccer Cup Starts

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-01T17:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/argentina-uruguay-flights-canceled-on-volcanic-ash-as-soccer-cup-starts.html
Volcanic ash from an eruption in
southern Chile disrupted air travel to Buenos Aires and
Montevideo, Uruguay today as Argentina prepares to host the
first game of South America’s Copa America soccer tournament.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , the region’s biggest airline by market
value, suspended air travel to and from the two cities, it said
in an e-mailed statement today. Aerolineas Argentinas SA, the
country’s biggest carrier, also canceled flights at Buenos
Aires’ two airports, it said in a statement on its website.  The ash has also disrupted travel in  Australia  and  New
Zealand . Aerolineas Argentinas’s Auckland and Sydney route is
running on an “irregular” schedule, the airline said. Lan
Airlines on July 1 and 3 will operate a special flight to Sydney
via Papeete, Tahiti, “climatic conditions permitting,” it
said.  “Lan is constantly monitoring events,” the airline said
in the statement.  Seismic activity at the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex, which erupted on June 4, is decreasing,  Chile ’s
geological and mining authority known as Sernageomin said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday. Authorities are
characterizing eruptions as “minor” and don’t rule out an
increase in intensity, it said.  Airports in southern Chile are operating normally, the
country’s aeronautical authority known as DGAC said in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  Argentina is hosting the  Copa America , or America’s Cup,
soccer tournament, which starts tonight in the city of La Plata
with the host country facing off against  Bolivia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  