-- 
Arsenal to Sign Lille Striker Gervinho for $17.6 Million: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-01T05:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/arsenal-to-sign-lille-striker-gervinho-for-17-6-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Gets Gervinho  Arsenal is on the verge of signing Ivory Coast striker
Gervinho from French club Lille for 11 million pounds ($17.6
million), the Sun  reported . Gervinho, who has agreed to a four-
year contract worth 60,000 pounds a week, may sign on July 4
when he returns from vacation, the newspaper said.  “I chose Arsenal because it’s a young group within which I
will be able to integrate easily,” the Sun cited Gervinho, 24,
as saying. “I could develop more over there. There’s only a few
details left to sort out.”  Clichy Deal Close  Arsenal defender Gael Clichy is close to joining Manchester
City on a four-year contract that will lift his weekly wage to
more than 90,000 pounds, the Independent  reported . City is happy
with a transfer fee that could rise to as much as 10 million
pounds and talks are progressing well, the Independent added.  O’Shea Surprise  The Gunners are considering a surprise move for Manchester
United’s John O’Shea as they seek defensive cover for Clichy,
the Daily Mirror  reported .  Bolton’s Gary Cahill remains Arsenal’s top target, though
it is not yet clear if manager Arsene Wenger will pay the 17
million-pound fee, the Mirror said. O’Shea, 30, has been told
that he can leave United after 12 years, the newspaper added.  Pastore Bid  Chelsea made a 45 million-pound bid for Palermo’s Argentine
playmaker Javier Pastore, according to the Italian club’s
president, Maurizio Zamperini, the Mirror  reported .  “Pastore is a phenomenal player and there are three or
four clubs interested in him,” the Mirror cited Zamperini as
saying. “Chelsea are one of the clubs concerned, but we have to
wait to see what (Andre) Villas-Boas, the new coach, decides.”  Rossi Available  Tottenham is ready to rekindle its interest in signing
Villarreal’s Giuseppe Rossi after the 35 million-pound rated
striker’s agent said a proposed move to Barcelona was definitely
off, the Daily Mail  reported .  Spurs manager Harry Redknapp faces a fight for Rossi after
Atletico Madrid identified him as a potential replacement for
Sergio Aguero, who has been linked with Juventus, Real Madrid
and Chelsea, the Mail added.  Looking Overseas  John W. Henry, Fenway Sports Group’s principal owner, said
Liverpool won’t pay inflated transfer fees for British players,
the Mail  reported . Although the club still intends to sign Aston
Villa’s Stewart Downing and Blackpool’s Charlie Adam, the Reds
may be forced to look overseas for other acquisitions to keep to
their budget, the newspaper said.  “We are determined to build,” the Mail cited Henry as
saying. “As long as we stay within the parameters UEFA has set
forth under its Financial Fair Play rules, we will have
flexibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  