-- 
Martin Feldstein Urges a Tax-Break Cap to Reduce U.S. Deficit: Tom Keene

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-01T16:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/martin-feldstein-urges-a-tax-break-cap-to-reduce-u-s-deficit-tom-keene.html
Lawmakers should cut the  U.S. budget
deficit  by limiting individuals’ tax deductions and credits,
said  Martin Feldstein , former president of the  National Bureau
of Economic Research .  “We don’t want to see higher marginal tax rates,”
Feldstein, who served as chief economic adviser to President
 Ronald Reagan , said today in a Bloomberg Radio interview. “But
I think we can see more spending cuts that are characterized as
revenue increases by putting a cap, putting a limit, on the
amount that individuals can take in the form of so-called tax
expenditures.”  Most Republican members of Congress have signed a pledge
from the anti-tax advocacy group Americans for  Tax Reform  saying
that any elimination of tax breaks must be accompanied by an
equal reduction in taxes elsewhere. Republicans say deficit cuts
must be part of an agreement to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit.  Limiting the tax breaks Americans get “for doing
everything from buying a fuel-efficient car to installing solar
panels” would narrow the deficit, Feldstein, 71, a Harvard
University economics professor, said on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “That’s spending, but it’s built
into the tax law.”  Feldstein said lawmakers should put a dollar limit on the
breaks taxpayers can get from prominent rebate programs
including mortgage-interest, state and local deductions.  Debt Ceiling  Democrats and Republicans are trying to negotiate an
agreement to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, when the Treasury
Department says it will no longer be able to meet U.S.
obligations. President  Barack Obama  says higher taxes on the
wealthiest Americans should be on the table, while Republican
leaders say they won’t agree to raise the ceiling if tax
increases are used to reduce the deficit.  The stakes in this deficit debate are higher than in the
past because the  Congressional Budget Office  forecasts that the
ratio of debt to gross domestic product will rise to 100 percent
from 70 percent, while previously there was an expectation that
the deficit would decline in four or five years, Feldstein said.  “This is really a disastrous fiscal outlook,” he said.
“What they’re talking about -- say, a trillion dollars of
spending cuts -- sounds like an enormous number. Yet in reality
it’s just a small part of the increase in the national debt
that’s currently coming at us.”  Falling  home prices  and weakening consumer confidence are
weighing on the recovery as well, said Feldstein, who also
criticized the Democratic-backed 2009 fiscal stimulus as “badly
designed.”  The housing market is “an enormous drag on the economy,”
Feldstein said. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities fell 4 percent for the year ended April 2010, the
biggest decline in 17 months, the group reported on June 28.  Separately today, a report showed confidence among U.S.
consumers dropped more than anticipated in June, according to
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  