-- 
Asian Stocks Rise for Fourth Day on Greece Vote, U.S. Manufacturing Growth

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-01T10:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/asian-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-on-greece-vote-u-s-manufacturing-growth.html
Asian stocks rose, sending the
regional benchmark index to its longest winning-streak since
February, on optimism  Greece  will avoid default and after U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in June,
lessening risk for bank earnings and exports.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s largest
publicly traded bank, rose 2.1 percent in  Tokyo . Samsung
Electronics Co., an electronics maker that gets about 42 percent
of sales from the U.S. and Europe, increased 3.5 percent in
Seoul.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , Japan’s biggest maker of industrial robots,
jumped 5.5 percent after a report showed a surge in orders.  “The most negative fears about global growth have been
soothed in the past 24 hours,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-
based head of investment markets research at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “Events in the U.S. and Greece were weighing on global
growth expectations and risk appetite, but the U.S. data was
reasonable and Greece has passed a major hurdle.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.5 percent to 135.59,
as of 7:13 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its highest close since June
1. Three stocks rose for every two that dropped on the measure.
Through yesterday, the gauge tumbled 4.2 percent from this
year’s high on May 2, amid concern a slowing U.S. economy,
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and  China ’s steps to curb
inflation will crimp earnings.  China, Japan Data  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.5 percent after
the country’s largest companies said they plan to boost capital
spending this fiscal year at almost twice the pace forecast by
economists. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.2 percent.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.4 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent after an
index of Chinese manufacturing dropped to the lowest level since
February 2009 in June, indicating Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign
to tame inflation has damped growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy. Markets in  Hong Kong  are closed for a holiday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1
percent today. The index advanced 1 percent yesterday after
Greek lawmakers passed an austerity plan required to keep rescue
aid flowing.  Stocks rose across the region this week, with the benchmark
MSCI Asia Pacific Index headed for a 2.6 percent gain, as Euro-
area finance ministers moved closer to giving Greece another
bailout and German banks agreed to roll over their Greek bond
holdings, giving the country more time to pay its debts.  German Rollover  Shares of financial companies advanced amid speculation a
resolution to the Greek crisis would help lower costs for banks
relying on debt markets for funding. Mitsubishi UFJ gained 2.1
percent to 398 yen in Tokyo.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest publicly traded bank by market
value, increased 1.3 percent to 2,500 yen.  Exporters climbed after a gauge of U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly improved and confidence among consumers in the
world’s biggest economy rose to the highest level in 10 weeks.
Samsung Electronics, the second-largest maker of mobile phones
by sales, climbed 3.5 percent to 855,000 won in Seoul.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , the No. 1 carmaker, added 1.1 percent to 3,335 yen
in Tokyo.  Fanuc jumped 5.5 percent to 14,110 yen. Orders at the maker
of factory automation tools rose to a record in the three months
ended March 31, increasing 14 percent from the previous quarter,
according to a report by Nomura Holdings Inc. Demand for
industrial robots in the U.S. and Europe drove the growth, the
report said.  Japanese stocks increased after the Bank of Japan’s
quarterly Tankan survey showed large companies plan to increase
hiring and investment as demand rebounds this year from a March
earthquake. The survey, the first to fully reflect the impact of
the disaster, also showed sentiment among big manufacturers fell
last quarter the most since 2009.  ‘On Track’  HTC Corp. (2498) , a Taiwanese smartphone manufacturer that gets
about half its sales from America, increased 4.6 percent to
NT$1,010. The maker of handsets that run Google Inc.’s Android
operating system yesterday said it’s “on track” to meet its
second-quarter guidance. Shares fell earlier this week amid
speculation the company would miss a shipment target.  PT Astra International, Indonesia’s biggest automotive
retailer by sales, climbed 3.2 percent to 65,550 rupiah in
Jakarta after CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets reiterated its “buy”
rating on the stock, saying earnings will be boosted by rising
demand for cars in the country.  Among stocks that declined, Lynas Corp., an Australian rare
earth miner, slumped 12 percent to A$1.75 after  Malaysia  imposed
extra safety conditions that have delayed work on a refinery
it’s building in the Southeast Asian country.  The company will meet the requirements, Chief Executive
Officer Nicholas Curtis told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur 
yesterday, adding that the refinery may be commissioned by the
end of this year and be in production by the second half of
2012. Lynas had planned to complete the plant in September, it
said on June 20.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5 percent by the  S&P
500  and a drop of 1.1 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 