-- 
Asian Currencies Gain on Rate Increases, Diminished Greek Default Threat

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-07-01T22:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/asian-currencies-set-for-biggest-gain-this-year-on-rate-increase-outlook.html
Asian currencies had their biggest
weekly advance since April, led by  South Korea ’s won and the
Malaysian ringgit, as regional central banks raised interest
rates and concern eased that Greece will default.  Taiwan  raised borrowing costs on June 30 following
increases last month in  India  and Korea, boosting the yield
advantage for the region’s debt. Overseas investors were net
buyers of more than $1.6 billion of stocks in India, Indonesia,
Korea,  Thailand , Taiwan and the Philippines this week. Lawmakers
in Greece backed a bill to authorize an austerity plan required
to keep rescue aid flowing.  The vote in Greece “has allowed investors to think beyond
the euro-region and realize that growth prospects in  Asia  are
stronger than rest of the world,” said Mirza Baig, a Singapore-
based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. “The regional
central banks are raising  interest rates  and that shows the
confidence of policy makers in their economies. We have seen
inflows into equities.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.56
percent, the most since the week ended April 1. The won rose 1.2
percent this week to 1,069 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit strengthened 1.2 percent to
3.01 and India’s rupee added 0.9 percent to 44.59.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s drive to stave off
the euro area’s first sovereign default was boosted when
lawmakers approved a budget-cutting package.  Rate Increases  Taiwan’s central bank raised the discount rate on 10-day
loans to banks to 1.875 percent from 1.75 percent. All 18
economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision,
after increases of the same amount in each of the previous four
quarters.  The won advanced for a second week after a government
report yesterday showed inflation accelerated. Consumer prices
rose 4.4 percent, after a 4.1 percent gain in May, exceeding the
central bank’s target for a sixth straight month. Exports
increased 14.5 percent in June from a year earlier, resulting in
a trade surplus of $3.3 billion.  “The rise in consumer prices is reinforcing  market
sentiment  that authorities may allow the won to appreciate, in
order to alleviate price pressure,” said Byeon Ji Young,
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul .  Exports Rise  The ringgit completed the first weekly gain in a month
after global funds added to holdings of the nation’s assets.
Foreign investors raised ownership of ringgit-denominated debt
by 93 percent in May from a year earlier to 181.5 billion
ringgit ($60.3 billion), according to  data  published Bank Negara
Malaysia late yesterday.  Exports rose 11 percent in May from a year earlier after
having increased 11.1 percent the previous month, according the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
government data due on July 5.  “The market is reacting to the positive headlines even
though Greece by no means is out of the woods yet,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained 0.7 percent to 8,538
against the dollar,  Singapore ’s dollar appreciated 0.8 percent
to S$1.2268, the Philippine peso appreciated 0.8 percent to
43.125 and Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.4 percent to NT$28.788.
Thailand’s baht weakened 0.4 percent to 30.80 before July 3
elections that may trigger political unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  