-- 
Massachusetts Echoes Wisconsin as Budget Curbs Union Power

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-01T20:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/massachusetts-echoes-wisconsin-as-budget-curbs-union-power-1-.html
Massachusetts  lawmakers led by
Democrats passed a $30.6 billion budget that includes a
provision curbing collective bargaining by municipal workers on
health-care costs.  The change echoes efforts in Wisconsin and  Ohio , where
Republicans placed broader limits on negotiations by government
employees as deficits widened. While Massachusetts Governor
 Deval Patrick , a Democrat who won a second term last year,
sought  similar curbs  in his  2012 budget  proposal, he hasn’t said
whether he supports the Legislature’s modified version.  “It’s a huge message to organized labor,” said Paul Grogan, president of the Boston Foundation, a nonprofit that
funds research and social services in the city. “If there’s not
an outbreak of pragmatic accommodation then they’re going to be
rolled over. It’s not limited to Republican governors beating up
on labor.”  States from  California  to  Connecticut  have slashed worker
benefits amid the worst fiscal crisis since the Depression. At
least 20 states have sought to cut personnel-related medical
expenses in the past year, from excluding certain procedures to
imposing across-the-board increases in employee costs, according
to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Removed From Bargaining  The 351 towns and cities in Massachusetts would no longer
be required to bargain with municipal unions over elements of
health-care plans such as deductibles and co-pays under a
provision included in a state budget  compromise  drafted
yesterday. The Senate passed the budget in a 33-4 vote today
after the House backed it 150-2.  The measure also lets municipalities switch workers’
coverage to the state’s Group Insurance Commission, which
doesn’t negotiate co-pays and deductibles with unions. Local
governments may save a combined $100 million in the first year
after joining the state plan because its premiums haven’t risen
as fast, at 8.1 percent a year, as the average municipality’s
provider, at more than 13 percent, according to a 2007 study by
the  Boston  and Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundations.  The compromise gives municipal unions 30 days to respond to
proposed health-care plan changes and creates three-person
panels to review differences, with labor getting one seat. The
municipalities would also have to share 25 percent of the
savings they achieve with employees.  ‘Important Reform’  “Municipal leaders have been calling this the single most
important reform of the past decade,” said Geoffrey Beckwith,
executive director of the Massachusetts Municipal Association in
Boston, a group representing local governments. “It’s a very
good compromise.”  Massachusetts cities and towns could have saved more than
$3 billion in 10 years by joining the state health plan had the
measure been adopted in 2001, the taxpayers group has  estimated .  The move to curb collective bargaining sparked protests in
April when the House passed its version of the measure. Robert
Haynes, president of the Massachusetts AFL-CIO,  likened  the vote
to attacks on unions in  Wisconsin , where Republican Governor
 Scott Walker  signed a law restricting collective bargaining to
just wages for most government employees.  The version passed by the Senate met with a muted  response 
from the state AFL-CIO, which said the upper chamber’s bill
“seems to provide some protections for retirees and the very
sick,” including the three-member panels to review health-care
changes sought by towns and cities.  ‘Meaningful Voice’  “We’ve essentially agreed that costs are going to be
shifted to the employees,” Paul Toner, president of the
Massachusetts Teachers Association, which represents about
107,000 workers, said before the compromise was reached.
“That’s our sacrifice. But we want to have a meaningful voice
in how those changes are made.”  Patrick, who has begun serving as a surrogate for President
 Barack Obama  at state Democratic Party events as the president
gears up for his re-election campaign next year, told unions to
“dial it down” when he spoke at the protest against the House
measure in April. “This is not Wisconsin,” he said.  A municipal health-care bill that provides “real savings”
to cities and towns and a “meaningful role” to unions would
get his signature, the governor said in the  April 29  “Evening
Real Time With Bill Maher” show on  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Home Box
Office cable-television channel.  Governor Reviews  Patrick is still reviewing the budget deal, Alex Goldstein,
a spokesman, said today by e-mail. He declined further comment.  “Unions are good,” Patrick, who was co-chairman of
Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, said to Maher in April.  “Unions are good and what the Democrats did in
Massachusetts is not good for unions,” Maher replied.  The state’s $30.6 billion budget holds the line on tax
increases and counts on health-cost savings from programs
including Medicaid as well as $185 million in one-time revenue
from a  reserve fund  to help close a $1.9 billion gap. While the
fiscal year starts today, Patrick has 10 days to sign the plan
and can reject specific items without vetoing the entire
package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  