-- 
Australia Stocks Post First Quarterly Loss in Year as Oil Prices Retreat

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-01T16:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/australia-stocks-post-first-quarterly-loss-in-year-as-oil-prices-retreat.html
The biggest decline in Australian
energy companies since 2010 dragged equities to their first
quarterly loss in a year.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 4.8 percent to 4,608 and
dipped to as low as 4,451.7 on June 20, down 10 percent from its
April 11 high to complete a so-called correction. Energy stocks
led the retreat, falling 11 percent on average and matching
losses in oil futures traded in  New York . Financial firms led by
Bank of Queensland Ltd. dropped 4.6 percent amid the highest
 interest rates  in the developed world.  Australian shares are being squeezed by government attempts
to curb inflation at home and in its biggest export market,
 China , and a 27 percent gain in its currency against  U.S. dollar 
in the past 12 months, which makes products more expensive to
overseas customers. Australian banks slumped as demand for
mortgages, accounting for 63 percent of outstanding loans, grew
at the weakest annual pace in 34 years.  “On top of all these global worries, Australia has its own
overlay of factors that explains why our market is down more
compared with global averages,” said Sydney-based  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
has almost $100 billion under management.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which has lifted official
interest rates by 1.75 percentage points since October 2009,
said in a May report that further increases are likely to be
needed in order to contain inflation. Australia’s benchmark
interest rate, the overnight cash rate target, is 4.75 percent
compared with near zero in the U.S.  Energy Producers  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  helped lead
declines in energy producers that were twice as large as in the
rest of the world, on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s biggest steel
producer, slumped 39 percent.  BlueScope’s slump deepened after May 12, when the company
said the stronger dollar and “demand weakness” in domestic
pipe and tube markets mean it will report a net loss in the
second half of the financial year, rather than breaking even.  The MSCI World Index overall lost 0.3 percent in the
quarter, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.6 percent.  “The strong Australian dollar has made exporters less
competitive, while the whole equity market struggles with
interest-rate rises,” said James Holt, Sydney-based director of
BlackRock Investment Management ( Australia ) Ltd., which oversees
about $40 billion. “On the other hand, we may be near the end
of the interest-rate cycle, and much of the dollar’s rise might
now be done, so it’s possible to be constructive.”  ‘Less Competitive’  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company and
Australia’s largest oil producer, dropped 5.9 percent in the
quarter, the biggest drag on the benchmark index. Rio Tinto
Group, the No. 2 mining company by sales, retreated 2.1 percent.  Rio Tinto said June 28 that the rising Australian dollar
and labor shortages were pushing up costs and putting pressure
on project expansion.  “From a financing viewpoint, we are seeing some projects
overrunning their costs,”  Sam Walsh , chief executive officer of
the London-based company’s iron ore unit, told reporters after a
business presentation in Perth. “All this means the projects
are going to be harder to bring on.”  BHP said on June 24 that the dollar and “broader
inflationary pressures” contributed to raising the cost of
expanding its Worsley aluminum project in Western Australia
state by more than half.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
slumped 12 percent, while  Santos Ltd. (STO) , the third largest, slid
13 percent.  Uranium Companies  Mining companies sank as an index of metals traded in
 London  dropped 3 percent through June 30, driven by reports
showing that manufacturing growth in China, the U.S. and  Europe 
slowed in May. Speculation that rising inflation may prompt
Chinese authorities to raise interest rates cut the shares.  Uranium miners  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  and  Energy Resources of
Australia Ltd. (ERA)  tumbled more than 30 percent as the crisis at
Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant continued to roil the
global nuclear-energy market. Paladin’s valuation, at 1.6 times
its assets, has fallen so much it may become a takeover target,
Citigroup Inc. said in a June 21 report.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut Greece’s credit rating and  Standard
& Poor’s  said Italy’s was at risk, deepening concern over
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The U.S. Federal Reserve reduced
its outlook for U.S. growth and said it will conclude its
current round of asset purchases at the end of June, adding to
worries that the global economy will slow.  Credit Growth  Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender by
market value, declined 8.5 percent in the quarter after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered its rating on Australia’s four largest
banks to Aa2 in May, its third-highest grade and the first
downgrade of the country’s biggest lenders in more than a
decade.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  dropped 7.6
percent. Chief Executive Officer Mike Smith told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television on May 8 that credit growth won’t
return to the pace seen before the global financial crisis as
businesses and households boost savings and cut debt. ANZ is the
worst performer among Australia’s four largest banking stocks
this year.  Valuations for Australian stocks have fallen to 16.1 times
reported earnings, a 15 percent drop from this year’s high of
19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stocks in the
S&P/ASX 200 are valued at 13.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with about 12.8 times on the world benchmark
and 13.8 times on the Asian gauge.  “If you had the dry powder available, you’d be very happy
to be able to deploy it now,” said Prasad Patkar, a  money
manager  who helps oversee about $1.7 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “When we look back at this market in
a year’s time, it will prove to have been a great buying
opportunity.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 