-- 
Australian Federal Police Charge RBA Banknote-Making Firms With Bribery

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-07-01T06:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/australian-central-bank-s-note-printing-unit-charged-with-foreign-bribery.html
The Australian central bank’s note-
printing units and six people including former managers have
been charged with bribing officials in  Malaysia , Indonesia and
 Vietnam  to win currency contracts.  Securency International Pty and Note Printing Australia Ltd.
were charged over alleged payments to foreign public officials
between 1999 and 2005, the Australian  Federal  Police said in a
statement on its website. The  Reserve Bank of Australia , which
owns NPA and 50 percent of Securency, said in a statement it
condemns corrupt behavior of any kind and no one at the bank has
been accused of wrongdoing.  Today’s arrests are the first under Australia’s decade-old
foreign bribery laws and coincided with related bribery charges
against two individuals in Malaysia by that nation’s Attorney-
General’s Chambers following an investigation by the country’s
anti-corruption commission, the AFP said. The RBA said in
November last year that it will sell its stake in Securency.  “It’s clearly embarrassing for the  Reserve Bank , but I
think the market would make a clear distinction” between their
monetary policy and note printing functions, said Nigel Stapledon, a former Treasury and Westpac Banking Corp. economist
who lectures at the University of New South Wales’ school of
business in Sydney. “I don’t think that it’s going to have any
material effect on people’s judgment of their performance on
monetary policy, which is more critical.”  ‘Full Confidence’  Australian Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten , speaking after
the announcement, told reporters in Melbourne that he has “full
confidence in the Reserve Bank of Australia.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said after the announcement that
“the Reserve Bank condemns in the strongest terms corrupt or
questionable behavior of any kind.”  “Companies associated with the Reserve Bank and their
staff must, like the bank itself, meet the highest standards of
integrity and fully comply with the law,” Stevens said in an e-
mailed statement.  Police said today a team of up to 20 officers had worked on
the investigation, resulting in charges against six men from the
state of Victoria aged between 50 and 66. The six men appeared
in a  Melbourne  magistrate’s court today.  The charges carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in jail
and/or a fine of A$1.1 million ($1.2 million), AFP’s statement
said.  ‘Clear Message’  “This sends a very clear message to corporate Australia
that the AFP will diligently chase and enforce the laws on
foreign bribery,” said Chris McDevitt, AFP manager special
references commander, in a press conference today in Melbourne.  The AFP will allege that during the period 1999-2005,
senior managers from Securency and NPA utilized international
sales agents to bribe foreign public officials in order to
secure banknote contracts, according to today’s statement.  Malaysia’s Attorney-General Gani Patail said his department
is cooperating with colleagues in Australia and  Bank Negara
Malaysia , the nation’s central bank.  The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission has charged
Mohamad Daud Dol Moin, a former assistant central bank governor,
for allegedly accepting a 100,000 ringgit ($33,000) bribe
related to a contract to print polymer bank notes, the
commission said in an e-mailed statement today from  Kuala Lumpur .
Collin Goonting, a lawyer for Mohamad Daud, said in a telephone
interview his client pleaded not guilty.  University Scholarship  The AFP said it will allege that in Vietnam a foreign
official received a bribe paid in the form of a university
scholarship to secure a banknote contract on behalf of Securency,
the statement said.  Vietnam will consider the case “seriously and
objectively,” Pham Anh Tuan, deputy chief of the secretariat of
the Office of the Anti-Corruption Steering Committee said by
phone from Hanoi today.  The AFP statement said the charges brought against the
companies are “not a reflection that individual board members
were complicit or had knowledge of any illegal activity.”  Australian central bank Governor Stevens said the RBA
“deeply regrets that the governance arrangements and processes
in the companies at that time were not able to prevent or detect
the alleged behavior that has led to today’s charges.”  Sale Talks  Securency Chairman Bob Rankin said in an e-mailed statement
that the company is “considering its legal position.” Since it
became aware of the allegations in May 2009, Securency’s board
has taken steps to ensure compliance with ethical business
practices, the statement said.  Securency is in talks with potential buyers, Managing
Director Philippe Etienne said in a phone interview today.  “The business is currently in a divestment process,” he
said. “I don’t expect the RBA to be shareholder in the medium
term.”  Formed in 1996, Securency is a joint venture between the
RBA and Innovia Films, and supplies materials used in the
printing of banknotes and security documents, according to
Securency’s website. NPA, fully owned by the RBA, printed
Australia’s first polymer banknote in 1988, while Innovia Films
produces the base material that’s been used in bank notes issued
in 31 nations, including Malaysia, Vietnam and  Indonesia , the
website says.  Test Case  The RBA’s share of Securency’s profit before income tax in
2009-10 was A$9.5 million, according to the central bank’s 2010
annual report. NPA earned a profit after tax of A$4.3 million in
2009-10.  Michael Ahrens, spokesman at Transparency International
Australia, a group that has lobbied governments for tougher
anti-corruption laws, said today’s charges are “a test case.”  The Australian foreign bribery law isn’t as good as
legislation in the U.S. or the U.K., where a new law comes into
effect today, because it sets the bar too high to win
convictions, Ahrens said. Civil prosecutions, such as those
available in the U.S. and U.K., require only that the weight of
the evidence tip in favor of the prosecutors to win a conviction.  In  Australia , prosecutors must prove their case beyond a
reasonable doubt, Ahrens said. “We need to adopt a more modern
piece of legislation,” he said. “There are too many hurdles,
it’s too technical.” He said he was surprised police laid
charges, even after a two-year probe.  “I was doubtful they would be willing to take the
plunge,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net  