-- 
Axel Weber’s Move to UBS Puts Onus on Deutsche Bank to Plan CEO Succession

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-01T16:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/axel-weber-s-move-to-ubs-puts-onus-on-deutsche-bank-to-plan-ceo-succession.html
Axel Weber’s decision to join
 Switzerland ’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  robs  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  of a potential
replacement for Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and adds
to pressure on  Germany ’s biggest bank to map out a  succession
plan , investors said.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, plans to appoint former
Bundesbank president Weber as chairman in 2013, the Zurich-based
company said today. The 54-year-old Weber, who was a candidate
to lead Deutsche Bank, told Ackermann and supervisory board
Chairman  Clemens Boersig  that he’d be joining the Swiss bank
before today’s announcement, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  With Weber out of the running for top posts at Deutsche
Bank, the focus returns to internal candidates such as Anshu Jain, 48, who heads the corporate and investment bank and
oversees the largest share of revenue, and Chief Risk Officer
Hugo Banziger, 55. Investors including Hermes Equity Ownership
Services, which represents more than 20 pension funds and asset
managers, have urged the Frankfurt-based bank to pick a
replacement for Ackermann, whose contract expires in 2013.  “The issue of succession had quieted down and now the
questions arise again,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage
about $18 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment in Berlin.  While Weber wasn’t the “preferred candidate” of investors
because of his lack of experience running a commercial bank,
questions remain about Jain’s ability to fulfil the “political
component” of leading one of Germany’s most important financial
institutions, Roehmeyer said.  Ackermann’s Greece Role  That role was on display yesterday, when Ackermann stood
beside German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin to
announce an agreement by the country’s banks and insurers to
roll over Greek debt holdings, helping to prevent the euro
region’s first sovereign default. Ackermann, 63, has run the
bank since 2002.  Armin Niedermeier, a Frankfurt-based spokesman for Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Deutsche Bank advanced 36 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 15.69
euros in Frankfurt trading today, bringing the gain this year to
6.9 percent.  Boersig, who is leading the search for a successor, said at
Deutsche Bank’s shareholder meeting on May 26 that the process
is proceeding in a “clear, structured” way and the supervisory
board will make a decision at the appropriate time.  Choosing UBS  Hermes Equity Ownership Services said before the annual
meeting that the current approach and public debate “harm not
only potential candidates but in particular Deutsche Bank as a
company,” according to a letter to Boersig that was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Weber may have decided to look for other jobs after Boersig
hesitated to make a formal offer, raising doubts about his
chances for the top post, Spiegel reported on its website,
without saying where it got the information. He met with UBS
Chairman Kaspar Villiger in Zurich on May 10 and six weeks later
was presented to the bank’s executives in  New York , the magazine
said.  Weber, a German national, was the president of the
Bundesbank from April 2004 to April 2011 and a member of the
European Central Bank’s Governing Council. He was a frontrunner
to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president of the ECB until he
announced his departure from the Bundesbank in February.  Dual Leadership?  Boersig, 62, had talks with Weber about possibly joining
Deutsche Bank, a person familiar with the matter said today. He
was also considered as a potential co-chief executive alongside
Jain, to assuage concern in Germany over having an investment
banker and non-German speaker as sole head of the company,
people familiar with the matter said in May.  “Jain is probably the only person who doesn’t benefit from
this, as it reduces the chance of having dual leadership,” said
 Christian Hamann , an analyst at Hamburger Sparkasse who
recommends investors hold Deutsche Bank stock. “I would’ve been
more worried if Weber had gotten the job at Deutsche, because it
would mark the arrival of yet another outsider.”  Weber asked the Bundesbank for permission to join UBS, as
is required under his contract, and the request will be
considered at a meeting on July 12, the Frankfurt-based central
bank said in a statement today.  Joining a Swiss bank may make it easier for the
Bundesbank’s board to approve the switch from central banking to
a commercial lender without any concerns about a conflict of
interest. In his capacity as Bundesbank president, Weber was
also in charge of supervising the country’s lenders.  Jain, Banziger, Neske  Weber would make a better chairman than CEO because he has
political and regulatory connections and lacks commercial
banking experience, analysts said in February, when speculation
arose that he might succeed Ackermann.  While Ackermann’s contract runs until the spring of 2013,
he may leave earlier and could designate a successor by the end
of this year, people familiar with the matter have said.
Deutsche Bank has qualified internal candidates including Jain,
Banziger, and consumer-banking chief  Rainer Neske , 46, and isn’t
in a rush to pick a successor, according to a person familiar
with the supervisory board’s deliberations.  Deutsche Bank’s board failed to agree on a successor in
2009, and instead extended Ackermann’s tenure for three years.
Boersig put himself forward as Ackermann’s replacement and was
rebuffed by labor union representatives on the board, people
familiar with the matter said at the time.  Under one scenario, Ackermann may consider taking over the
supervisory board as chairman to steer the selection of a new
CEO, one of the people said. In that position, he could select
someone like Jain as sole head or as a co-head alongside retail
banking head Neske, or a different candidate, the person said.  Ackermann has previously said he’s not interested in
becoming chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 