-- 
Axel Weber to Succeed UBS Chairman Villiger in 2013 After Bundesbank Role

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-01T10:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/axel-weber-to-be-nominated-for-election-to-ubs-board-to-succeed-villiger.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  plans to appoint Axel Weber as
chairman, easing concern over succession at  Switzerland ’s
largest bank and ending speculation the former Bundesbank
president might take a top post at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Weber, 54, will be nominated to the board of directors at
the next shareholders meeting on May 3, 2012, the Zurich-based
bank said in a statement today. If elected, the board plans to
appoint Weber as vice chairman next year, and as chairman, to
succeed Kaspar Villiger, in 2013.  “With Axel Weber’s nomination, I am pleased that I can
present a board member and future chairman who is an
internationally renowned personality with an outstanding
reputation,” Villiger, 70, said in the statement. “He has
extremely broad expertise in international finance and banking
as well as strong leadership experience.”  Weber was a frontrunner to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as
president of the  European Central Bank  until he announced his
departure from the Bundesbank in February. He was also
considered a potential candidate to succeed Deutsche Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , people with knowledge of the
matter said in May. UBS has been looking for successors for its
top posts after bringing Villiger, a former Swiss finance
minister, and CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 67, out of retirement in 2009
to rebuild the bank following the biggest loss in Swiss
corporate history.  “From a top-down perspective, it’s clearly very
positive,” said  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “His contacts within Europe and globally
will be very useful to UBS. And in a very fast changing
regulatory environment he’ll be a great asset to have within the
firm.”  ‘Attractive Prospect’  UBS rose 15 centimes, or 1 percent, to 15.48 francs by
12:08 p.m. in Swiss trading, leaving the stock up 0.9 percent
this year. That compares with a 4 percent decline in the 49-
company Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Weber, a German national, was the president of the
Bundesbank from April 2004 to April 2011 and a member of the
ECB’s Governing Council. In his role at the Bundesbank, he also
served as a member of the board of directors of the  Bank for
International Settlements , German governor of the  International
Monetary Fund , a member of the steering committees of the
European Systemic Risk Board and Financial Stability Board.
Prior to that, he was a professor of economic theory and
international economics, teaching at various German
universities.  Earnings Target  “Being able to help shape the bank’s future is an
attractive prospect,” Weber said in the statement. “Stability
and a long-term strategic outlook are key. The successful path
that has already been forged, the strong global client base and
the balanced business model provide a good basis.”  Weber asked the Bundesbank for permission to join UBS, as
is required under his contract, and the request will be
considered at a meeting on July 12, the Frankfurt-based central
bank said in a statement today.  UBS aims to double its pretax earnings from last year to
about 15 billion Swiss francs ($17.8 billion) by 2014, a target
that has been questioned by analysts as stricter  capital
requirements  constrain profit growth at the investment-banking
unit.  “The pressure is mounting on UBS,” said Abouhossein, who
has an “overweight” rating on the company. “If they don’t cut
their target this year, the pressure on management will be even
bigger.”  Gruebel has said that UBS may review its targets in the
light of new regulatory requirements around the world. Asked in
March whether after two years into his post there are at least
another two years in front of him as CEO, Gruebel told Swiss
magazine Bilanz “It looks like that at the moment.”  ‘Insular Culture’  UBS overhauled the responsibilities of its board and
management in 2008 after criticism from shareholders, including
the bank’s former president, Luqman Arnold, who blamed the
“ineffective corporate governance and insular culture” for
risk failures that led to the second-biggest writedowns and
losses from the credit crisis among European lenders.  The bank abolished the three-person chairman’s office, a
creation of Marcel Ospel that held ultimate responsibility for
risk, and spread its responsibilities among committees on the
board. The chairman is supposed to keep a “close working
relationship” with the CEO and other executives, providing
advice and support while “respecting the fact that day-to-day
management responsibility is delegated to the group executive
board,” UBS’s new organization regulations say.  UBS will pay Weber 2 million francs and give him 200,000
shares that he’s prohibited from selling for one year if he’s
elected to the board. He will also receive an annual salary of
1.5 million francs and 150,000 UBS shares, blocked for four
years, in the vice chairman position. His annual compensation
will rise to 2 million francs and 200,000 blocked shares if he
becomes chairman.  The bank, which paid 26.6 million francs in total
compensation to then-chairman Ospel for 2006, scrapped bonuses
for the chairman as part of a pay system revamp introduced in
2009 after the bank was rescued by the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 