-- 
Banks Should Disclose More Pay and Bonus Details, Basel Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-01T13:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/banks-should-disclose-more-pay-and-bonus-details-basel-says.html
Banks should be forced to reveal pay
policies that may encourage irresponsible risk taking, global
regulators said in rules aimed at pressuring lenders to curb
compensation and take back bonuses if performance is poor.  Lenders should disclose the main criteria used to decide on
bonus awards, according to rules published today by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . They should also reveal
figures on how much they cut planned bonuses and claw back money
already paid out when individual bankers or the firms perform
worse than expected, the Basel group said.  The measures “will support effective market discipline”
by allowing potential investors to assess the soundness of a
bank’s pay polices and risk strategy, the committee said in a
statement on its website. Investors should be able to make
“meaningful assessments” of whether banks are acting
responsibly, the committee said.  Regulators across the world are targeting bankers’ pay and
bonuses to prevent a repeat of the excessive risk taking and
focus on short-term profits that they say contributed to the
global financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. They have called for
payouts linked to success instead of rewarding failure.  Bonus Premium  Lenders should reveal at least annually the policies and
criteria they have in place for deciding on cuts to planned
bonus awards and clawbacks, the Basel group said.  The European Union led the way last year by imposing limits
on cash payouts and the size of bonuses across the 27-nation
region. They include provisions for national regulators to take
back bonuses paid to senior managers whose risks are later found
to have caused losses at a financial firm.  Rules introduced to curb bonuses may lead to some increases
in initial awards to offset the risk of possible clawbacks,
 Simon Gleeson , a financial-regulation lawyer at Clifford Chance
LLP in  London , said in a telephone interview.  “If an employee knows there is that risk of losing part of
their bonus they will demand a premium on it,” said Gleeson.  Today’s measures from the Basel committee “could be the
first step in finding out how the bonus rules have increased
bonus levels of the industry.”  Banks should reveal the amount they pay out in bonuses each
year, and how many staff receive one, the Basel committee said.
They should also release information on what percentage of bonus
payments have been deferred, and how much is paid out in shares
instead of cash.  Capital Base  Under the EU’s system, supervisors can also force a bank to
withhold money to bolster its capital base, rather than pay out
bonuses, if the lender’s reserves are too low.  The Basel measures may also help to show the extent to
which a bank can make up its losses by clawing back bonuses,
Gleeson said.  “Where they are clearly going here is -- can we quantify
and state publicly the amount of a bonus pool which is actually
loss absorbing,” Gleeson said. “These rules may help us start
to quantify that.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  almost doubled compensation for
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein to $19
million for 2010 even as earnings dropped 38 percent and the
stock was little changed, according to the New York-based firm’s
proxy statement in April.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in May about 19 percent of
shareholders voted against the bank’s executive pay report,
marking the biggest protest over compensation among the U.K.’s
five biggest banks this year.  Moderation  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
has said that he will take further action after banks failed to
heed “calls for moderation” in this year’s bonus round.  European banks are at a competitive disadvantage in
employee compensation compared with their U.S. counterparts
because of differences in rules imposed by regulators, human-
resources company Mercer said last month.  The “unlevel playing field” is caused by the different
U.S. and European approaches to deferred bonuses, Mercer said.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including  Brazil ,  China ,  India ,  Germany  the U.K. and
the U.S. to agree on capital rules and other requirements for
banks.  Today’s measures add to beefed up capital and liquidity
rules endorsed by the Basel committee. The group approved plans
on June 25 forcing lenders whose collapse would roil the global
economy to hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in additional
core capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 