-- 
Bank of America Tells District Judge $500 Million Lehman Order Was ‘Error’

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-01T18:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bank-of-america-appeals-lehman-judge-s-500-million-order.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , ordered by a
judge to return $500 million in deposits to bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and pay interest, said “the judgment was
error” and should have been in the bank’s favor.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck signed the judgment in May
after a November finding that the biggest U.S. bank took
Lehman’s deposits in the 2008 financial crisis to offset
unrelated derivative obligations, and must return them. He set
interest at 9 percent from November 2008 to December 2010. The
judge ignored a “controlling  New York  statute” when he
disregarded covenants in the loan agreement that allowed Bank of
America to take the deposits, the bank said in a filing today in
U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  “The bank exercised its lawful right,” said Bank of
America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , as it asked a
district judge to rule in its favor. “The  bankruptcy court 
imposed an unlawful waiver of rights.”  Banks that previously did business with Lehman, the fourth-
largest investment bank before its 2008 failure, are fighting
the defunct firm’s efforts to claw back money to pay other
creditors. Lehman lost an $11 billion lawsuit against  Barclays
Plc. (BARC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is trying to get an $8.6 billion
Lehman suit dismissed.  Lenders ‘Uneasy’  Lehman’s lenders, including Bank of America, became
“increasingly uneasy” about the investment bank’s financial
health in the summer of 2008, Peck wrote in November. Later that
year, Bank of America took collateral posted by Lehman to cover
overdrafts, using it to offset amounts owed on unrelated
derivatives deals, according to the ruling.  The bank didn’t first ask Peck for relief from the
bankruptcy law provision that prevents such seizures, called the
automatic stay, Peck said.  Under laws governing derivative transactions, “the setoff
was permitted without relief from the automatic stay,” Bank of
America wrote in its filing.  Separately, Lehman said today that creditors holding claims
of more than $100 billion signed their agreement to its latest
liquidation plan, almost three years after it failed.  The appeal is Bank of America NA v.  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 11-cv-03958, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  