-- 
BOE Likely to Hold Rates at Record Low

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bank-of-england-will-probably-maintain-stimulus-as-recovery-ebbs.html
Bank of England  policy makers will
keep their benchmark interest rate and bond program on hold next
week as manufacturing and consumer-confidence data add to signs
the economic recovery is faltering, economists forecast.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , will leave the key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent on July 7, according to all 51 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. It will also keep its bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($322 billion), said all 32 economists in a
separate poll.  Economists at Citigroup Inc., Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG pushed back their forecasts for the first U.K.
rate increase in the past two weeks, with the latter saying
yesterday there will be no move until February. Some policy
makers said last month there may be a need to expand stimulus as
concerns about growth overshadowed an inflation rate that stayed
at 4.5 percent in May, more than double their target.  “There’s not really a great deal of pressure on the bank
to raise  interest rates  at the moment when the data looks so
shaky,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank in
London. “Inflation pressure won’t ease really until the first
part of next year, but the longer they leave this, the more
likely inflation expectations become destabilised. This is
something they’ll want to avoid.”  U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly slowed in June to
its weakest since September 2009 as waning global demand reduced
orders, according to a survey published yesterday by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply .
A services-industry survey due to be published by Markit and
CIPS on July 5 will show expansion eased to a four-month low,
according to the median of 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg poll.  British consumer sentiment fell in June, erasing part of
the boost provided by an extra public holiday for the royal
wedding, as Britons lost confidence in the economy, a report by
GfK NOP Ltd. on June 30 showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  