-- 
Bats Options Program, Criticized by Rivals, Gets SEC Approval

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-07-01T16:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bats-options-program-criticized-by-rivals-gets-sec-approval.html
Regulators approved a program
proposed by Bats Global Markets  over the objections of  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and other exchanges that allows market-makers
operating on Bats to give certain brokers better options prices.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
allow Bats Exchange Options Market to introduce a so-called
 directed-order program . The plan was criticized by the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , NYSE Euronext,
 International Securities Exchange  and BOX Options Exchange. The
SEC’s  approval order  was published today.  Bats  first proposed  a directed-order program in December.
The Lenexa, Kansas-based company withdrew that after exchanges
objected and suggested a different version of the plan in March.
The program will be run on a six-month pilot basis that ends on
Jan. 30, 2012, the SEC said.  Bats will provide “plenty of data for public consumption so
people can determine the efficacy of the directed-order
program,” said Randy Williams, a Bats spokesman. The exchange
will also submit monthly reports about the program to the SEC.  The Bats exchange had 4.1 percent of options volume last
month, according to data  compiled  by Chicago-based OCC, which
clears all equity derivatives contracts in the U.S. The largest
individual market is the CBOE, with 25.4 percent.  CBOE Holdings,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX each had
between 24 percent and 27 percent of total options volume last
month, OCC data showed. CBOE Holdings, whose total volume was
the industry’s highest, and Nasdaq and NYSE, both of which are
in New York, each run two options markets. ISE accounted for
16.3 percent and Boston-based BOX had 2.4 percent. NYSE Euronext
plans to merge with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG, which
owns ISE in New York.  ‘Discriminatory’  Nasdaq OMX said the Bats proposal is “discriminatory” in
a  letter  to the SEC dated June 24. The program “will make
trading standardized options incrementally darker and less
transparent by enabling market makers to trade exclusively
against orders directed to them without exposing the orders to
other market participants,” it told the SEC.  The Bats program allows market makers to send the exchange
two prices on options contracts. One would be displayed publicly
while the other, assuming the first price is quoting at the
national best bid or offer, would improve that price and be
hidden.  That second, better price would be available only to
brokers directing orders to that market maker. Others couldn’t
access it. While no broker would be able to see the hidden
orders, evidence such as trades being executed on the exchange
at prices that improve the national best bid or offer could tip
them that other hidden orders may exist.  Public Quotes  The Bats market maker’s hidden order can trade against a
directed order up to the number of contracts the market maker is
quoting publicly, Bats told the SEC. If other hidden orders are
submitted at prices equal to or better than the market-maker’s
non-displayed price, those bids or offers would trade first.  Some options exchanges currently have programs that allow
brokers to send orders to specific market makers, who can then
receive up to 40 percent of the contracts as long as they’re
quoting at the industry’s best price. The rest of the contracts
are distributed to other firms quoting at that price.  NYSE Euronext  told the SEC  on June 17 that a Bats  letter  to
the SEC dated June 2 contained “multiple inaccuracies” and
misstatements about how current “preferencing and directed-
order mechanisms” function. It said the Bats program “will
have a significant and damaging impact on the options industry
as a whole, and create a less competitive atmosphere for the
investing public.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 