-- 
Bayer Agrees to Pay $750 Million to End Lawsuits Over Gene-Modified Rice

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bayer-to-pay-750-million-to-end-lawsuits-over-genetically-modified-rice.html
A  Bayer AG (BAYN)  unit agreed to a
$750 million settlement resolving claims with about 11,000 U.S.
farmers who said a strain of the company’s genetically modified
rice tainted crops and ruined their export value.  The settlement, announced yesterday, ends scores of
lawsuits filed against the Bayer  CropScience unit  of the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company by farmers in Texas,
 Louisiana , Missouri,  Arkansas  and  Mississippi .  The U.S. Agriculture Department said in August 2006 that
trace amounts of the company’s experimental  LibertyLink  strain
were found in U.S. long-grain rice. Within four days, declining
rice futures cost U.S. growers about $150 million, according to
a complaint filed by the farmers. News of the contamination
caused futures prices to fall about 14 percent.  “From the outset of this litigation, we made it clear to
Bayer that the company needed to step up and take responsibility
for damaging American rice farmers with its unapproved rice
seeds,” Adam Levitt, a plaintiffs’ lawyer, said yesterday in a
statement. “This excellent settlement goes a long way toward
achieving that goal.”  Bayer confirmed the settlement in its own press statement
minutes later.  “Although  Bayer CropScience  believes it acted responsibly
in the handling of its biotech rice, the company considers it
important to resolve the litigation so that it can move forward
focused on its fundamental mission of providing innovative
solutions to modern agriculture,” Greg Coffey, a spokesman for
the company, said in the statement.  Herbicide-Resistant  The accord is contingent upon the participation of growers
representing at least 85 percent of the U.S. long-grain rice
acreage planted between 2006 and 2009, the company and
plaintiffs’ lawyers said separately.  Bayer and  Louisiana State University  had tested the rice,
bred to be resistant to Bayer’s Liberty-brand herbicide, at a
school-run facility in Crowley, Louisiana.  The genetically modified variety cross-bred with and
“contaminated” more than 30 percent of U.S. ricelands, Don Downing, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said at the start of the
first farmers’ trial in November 2009.  Exports fell as the  European Union ,  Japan ,  Russia  and other
overseas buying ceased or was slowed for testing of U.S.-grown
long grain rice, the growers said.  “Our clients and other rice farmers were devastated by the
loss of markets around the world,” said a third plaintiffs’
lawyer, Scott Powell of Hare, Wynn, Newell & Newton.  Trace Amounts  The company denied the testing program was negligently
managed and claimed sale prices rebounded after the initial
drop. It said the trace amounts of the LibertyLink rice posed no
threat to people.  Juries in the first six cases to be tried awarded farmers
about $54 million in total compensatory and punitive damages
before the company settled a seventh case three days into an
October 2010 trial at the U.S. courthouse in  St. Louis .  It paid the  Texas  growers $290,000, Downing said then.  Under yesterday’s accord, farmers who sustained market
losses will be compensated for each acre of rice they grew on an
annual declining scale encompassing the years 2006 through 2010.  A grower who participated in all five seasons would receive
$120 per acre for 2006, $80 per acre for 2007, $60 per acre for
2008, $40 for 2009 and $10 for 2010 for a maximum of $310 per
acre.  Compensation Pools  Two other compensation pools have been created under the
pact: one for farmers who planted two contaminated varieties and
another for growers who didn’t plaint tainted strains yet
suffered damages beyond market loss. Those latter claims, if
disputed by Bayer, would be subject to binding arbitration.  “In the farming community, most people live by the
principle that if you harm a neighbor, you make it right,”
Downing said in his press statement yesterday. “After almost
five years of litigation,” Bayer has finally made an effort to
make it right.”  The federal case is In re Genetically Modified Rice
Litigation, 06-md-01811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta
t ;  dbeasley4@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 