-- 
Munger Says Bankers’ ‘Megalomania, Insanity’ Fueled U.S. Property Bubble

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-01T18:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/berkshire-s-munger-says-wall-street-megalomania-insanity-fueled-bubble.html
Charles Munger, the vice chairman of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said  Wall Street  and mortgage sellers
drove real-estate prices to unsustainable levels through
reckless bets.  “The bubble in America was caused by some combination of
megalomania, insanity and evil in, I would say, investment
banking, mortgage banking,” Munger, 87, said today at a
conference in Pasadena, California.  Munger is hosting a “Morning With Charlie” to replace the
annual shareholder meeting of Wesco Financial Corp., the
Berkshire unit that he ran as chief executive officer. Wesco is
no longer publicly traded after Berkshire, led by Chairman
 Warren Buffett , acquired its remaining stock last month.  Munger used the meeting to fault ex-Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. CEO Richard Fuld and to call for effective
financial regulation. Munger, a Republican, praised  Elizabeth Warren , the adviser who was appointed by President Barack Obama
to set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and said
there was too little oversight under ex-Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan .  Greenspan, who was chairman from 1987 to early 2006,
nurtured a devotion to free markets in part through his
association with  Ayn Rand , the novelist and philosopher who
espoused laissez-faire capitalism. Greenspan told Congress a
month after Lehman’s 2008 failure that a “once-in-a-century
credit tsunami” had engulfed financial markets and conceded his
free-market ideology shunning regulation was flawed.  “Alan Greenspan is a smart man,” Munger said. “He just
totally overdosed on Ayn Rand at a young age.”  ‘Swan Song’  Today’s question-and-answer session with Munger may be the
last of its kind, the Omaha World-Herald  reported  last month.
“This is likely to be the swan song,” Munger told the newspaper.
“I’m 87 years old, and there comes a time.”  Munger helped Buffett, 80, build Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire into a $190 billion company in industries from
insurance to railroads. Munger, who joins Buffett taking
questions at Berkshire’s annual meetings, began today’s event
with remarks on regulation and bankers such as Fuld.  “I would guess that Dick Fuld has not a single ounce of
contrition wherever he sits today,” Munger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Pasadena  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  