-- 
BHP May Add to $23 Billion in Share Buybacks as Profit Surges to a Record

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-01T09:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bhp-may-add-to-23-billion-in-share-buybacks-as-profit-surges.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  may add to almost
$23 billion spent since 2004 buying back stock as the world’s
largest mining company seeks to deploy cash generated by record
profit, analysts and investors said.  BHP said yesterday it completed a $10 billion share
 buyback , six months ahead of schedule. Spending that amount
again would still leave scope for a $65 billion acquisition in
the second half without “excessive” stress on the Melbourne-
based company’s balance sheet, said  Richard Knights , an analyst
at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London .  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  has had three deals
totaling more than $100 billion aborted or rejected in the past
four years including a bid for rival Rio Tinto Group and last
year’s hostile offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. BHP
expanded its latest share buyback in February after failing to
buy Potash. Investors may be in no rush to see more deal making.  “The investment community will certainly be telling
management that if they can’t deploy that capital efficiently,
then it should be returned to shareholders,” Tony Robson, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said by telephone.  BHP is due to report 2011 fiscal year earnings on Aug. 24.
Net income will jump 75 percent to a record $22.3 billion
according to the average estimate of 14 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP,
declined to comment.  Dividends Increase  BHP, which also produces coal, oil and aluminum, has spent
$22.6 billion buying back shares 15 percent of its stock since
2004 and has increased its dividend almost fivefold in the same
period.  BlackRock Inc.’s  Evy Hambro , portfolio manager of its World
Mining Fund, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in April
that BHP should start a new buyback once the current program was
completed. BlackRock is the largest shareholder in the London-
and Sydney-listed stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shares have declined 3.3 percent in Sydney trading this
year and 3.8 percent in London. The Bloomberg World Mining Index
has dropped 6.1 percent this year, after increasing 27 percent
in 2010 and 96 percent in 2009.  “Given the pullback in the market, it’s more likely than
not that they do announce another  capital management 
initiative,” Knights said in an interview.  Kloppers, 48, has continued to pursue takeovers after
ending its pursuit of Potash. BHP agreed to buy Chesapeake
Energy Corp.’s Fayetteville shale-gas assets for $4.75 billion
in cash on Feb. 22, more than doubling its U.S. oil and gas
reserves.  ‘Twice Bitten’  “Twice-bitten in this instance, third time shy,”  Charles Kernot , director of metals and mining at Evolution Securities in
London, said by telephone. “If he is going to do anymore M&A,
it’s got to be, I suspect, more along the lines of the shale-gas
transaction that they completed rather than any hostile
approach.”  Expanding in energy would likely lead to fewer regulatory
obstacles for BHP compared with mining, Paul Cliff, an analyst
at Nomura International Plc, said by phone.  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL)  may become a more attractive target should its shares stay
“depressed” following cost increases and a delay at the Pluto
gas venture, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including Sandra McCullagh in Sydney wrote in a report last week.  Woodside,  Australia ’s second-largest oil producer, has been
the subject of takeover speculation since Royal Dutch Shell Plc
sold part of its stake in 2010. Woodside, which had a market
value of A$32.4 billion ($35 billion) at the close of Sydney
trading today, would be the “most logical choice” for BHP
because of the potential cost savings following a merger,
Nomura’s Cliff said.  ‘Spend Wisely’  “All cash should be spent wisely if there’s no sensible
project that they feel is going to deliver its cost of capital
and the return,” Shaun Manuell, who helps oversee about $1
billion in Australian stocks at Equity Trustees in  Melbourne ,
said by phone. “BHP should look for good projects that will
generate good cash return otherwise go for more capital
management.”  Mining takeovers reached the second-highest value on record
last year, worth about $148 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In the first half, the value of deals was about
$78 billion.  “If they’re happy with that outlook and the  cash flow  is
well above the capital requirement, I think they’ll continue to
introduce additional capital management initiatives as they see
fit,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in global
equities as a portfolio manager at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  