-- 
Bill Clinton Predicts Speedier Unemployment Declines Will Help Obama

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bill-clinton-predicts-speedier-unemployment-drop-will-aid-obama.html
Former President  Bill Clinton 
predicted President  Barack Obama  will win a second term in part
because the U.S. unemployment rate may drop more quickly than
expected.  “I believe he’ll win because I think he’s got a better
economic record than he’s gotten credit for,” Clinton said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. He’ll “have more credible
positions than his opponent, if the Republicans stay anywhere
near where they are right now.”  The Democratic former president, interviewed in Chicago
during his  Clinton Global Initiative  conference, said U.S.
unemployment, at 9.1 percent in May, may drop more quickly than
most analysts assume.  The jobless rate is projected to be 8 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News in June. No president since World War
II has won a second term with unemployment higher than 7.2
percent on Election Day.  When asked whether Republicans might be tempted to refuse
any compromise that would help the economy as Obama campaigns
for re-election, the former president said that would be a risky
move.  “That’s a pretty big gamble,” he said, “if they don’t
want to be caught working for the failure of the economy. I
wouldn’t think that would be a good thing.”  Adding Jobs  Clinton said he wouldn’t be surprised if Obama could get
the  unemployment rate  down faster than people think with a few
basic steps. Speeding up the hiring of people, quickening the
pace of retrofitting buildings to make them more energy
efficient, and streamlining the settlement of bad mortgage debt
could add millions of jobs to the economy, he said.  “If you could do those three things, I wouldn’t be
surprised if you could create 50 percent more jobs than anybody
thinks is possible,” Clinton said.  As a former president, Clinton, 64, said he has “more
sympathy” for the challenges Obama faces. He said the two men
spoke “a few weeks ago,” although he is more likely to share
ideas with Vice President  Joe Biden , White House National
Economic Council Director Gene Sperling or  General Electric Co. (GE) 
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt , who leads Obama’s
Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.  “I try never to bother him,” Clinton said of Obama. “I
really go out of my way not to do that.”  ‘Clever’ Politics  Clinton laughed and dismissed as “clever” politics recent
compliments by  Mitch McConnell , the Senate Republican leader,
who said he was nostalgic for the Clinton administration’s pro-
trade and pro-business approach.  “Bill Clinton’s got a leg in the grave -- it’s safe to say
something nice about him,” the former president said. “Senator
McConnell is a very adroit politician. And he would like to
defeat the president and have a candidate of his own choosing.
So I’ve become kind of a convenient foil.  ‘‘But I get tickled,’’ he said. ‘‘All these guys that used
to, you know, say I was the worst thing since Attila the Hun,
all of a sudden now they want to build statues to me.’’  On the still-emerging Republican presidential field for
2012, Clinton called the crop of potential candidates ‘‘so
unpredictable now.’’  He offered praise for Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah
governor who was Obama’s ambassador to  China , calling him a
‘‘creative governor’’ who ‘‘did a good job for us in China.’’  Praise for Bachmann  Clinton complimented some of the other Republican
candidates as well, including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who is making his second White House bid, and U.S.
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  ‘‘Governor Romney’s doing a better job this time than he
did four years ago,’’ he said.  On Bachmann, who formally announced her presidential bid on
June 27 in  Iowa , Clinton said: ‘‘She comes across as having
vigor and energy and believing what she says. I don’t agree with
what she’s saying, but she comes across as real.”  Chicago  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s first chief of staff,
said in a separate interview that he expects the current
president will have a “tough” re-election fight. Still, like
Clinton, he predicted Obama will get credit for improvements in
the economy.  “The American people know straight up that the president
of the  United States  inherited one of the worst conditions the
country had been in over 70 years,” said Emanuel, 51. “The
question is who has the ideas for the future. And I think
they’ll see him with the right priorities and the right values
versus another candidate.”  Gay Rights  Obama has drawn criticism from some traditional allies,
including gay-rights advocates, who say he has failed to show
enough leadership, as  New York  and other states have approved
same-sex marriage and civil union laws. Emanuel defended his
former boss’s record on gay rights.  “To the president’s credit, under his watch a 10-year
battle on hate-crime legislation was signed into law,” he said.
“That’s a milestone. Under his watch, the repeal of ‘don’t ask,
don’t tell’ was a milestone in the march of civil liberties in
this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  