-- 
Bill Clinton Backs Tax Holiday on Foreign Profits, With Caveats

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bill-clinton-backs-tax-holiday-on-foreign-profits-with-caveats.html
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton
endorsed a tax holiday on repatriating offshore profits with
conditions, taking a position contrary to the Obama
administration.  “I favor it under certain circumstances,” Clinton said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Al Hunt yesterday in
Chicago. He suggested an approach that would give companies a 20
percent tax rate on repatriated profits, which could be reduced
to 10 percent if they “reinvest it in increasing employment in
America.”  In a separate interview, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
endorsed a repatriation holiday, which many Republicans favor,
with a 15 percent rate on profits brought back to the U.S. if
the tax receipts were placed in an infrastructure bank, an idea
that Democrats support. The main Republican proposal in Congress
includes a 5.25 percent rate and a penalty for job cuts.  “You would take two ideas that both parties have advocated
singularly and combine them to solve a national problem,” said
Emanuel, who was White House chief of staff under President
Barack Obama and also worked in Clinton’s White House. “Now,
there’s challenges to it, but that’s just one idea.”  Clinton said that approach was worth considering. He also
nodded to opponents of a repatriation holiday, saying that
“they have a good argument.” The former president was in
Chicago for a two-day meeting of the  Clinton Global Initiative ,
focusing on U.S. job creation.  $1 Trillion Offshore  U.S. multinational corporations have more than $1 trillion
in profits outside the country that would be taxed if brought
back to the U.S. Companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  have been lobbying Congress for a tax
holiday similar to one enacted in 2004.  Among the opponents of a repatriation holiday is the
Treasury Department under Obama and Secretary Timothy Geithner.
The Obama administration has warned that a tax holiday wouldn’t
create jobs and noted the cost in forgone revenue, which is
estimated at $78.7 billion over 10 years.  “Repatriation we will be happy to consider in the context
of overall corporate reform,” Geithner told the Senate Finance
Committee in February. “If we can do corporate reform right,
we’ll have a chance to help on that front. But we’ll not support
it outside the context of comprehensive reform.”  Under current law, U.S.-based companies don’t have to pay
taxes on profits they earn outside the country until they bring
the money home. When they repatriate the money, they face a 35
percent top corporate tax rate. They receive credits for taxes
paid to other governments.  Foreign Taxes  The problem with a repatriation holiday is that companies
haven’t actually paid taxes in the countries where they earned
the income, said Edward Kleinbard, a law professor at the
University of Southern California.  “They are advocating for completing the circle of global
aggressive tax planning under which they will pay close to no
tax anywhere in the world,” said Kleinbard, who was chief of
staff at the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  In 2004, Congress allowed companies to bring money home at
a 5.25 percent tax rate as long as they submitted plans for
domestic investment. Studies later found that much of the money
was used to buy back shares and pay dividends. The Joint
Committee on Taxation  estimates  that a new repatriation holiday
would encourage companies to move more profits offshore in
anticipation of another holiday.  Clinton is the latest Democrat to express openness to a
repatriation holiday, joining Senators Charles Schumer of New
York and Kay Hagan of North Carolina, who both voted against a
similar proposal in 2009.  Infrastructure Bank  In comments last week, Schumer linked the possibility of a
repatriation holiday to an infrastructure bank.  Emanuel said yesterday that estimates of revenue losses
from a repatriation holiday don’t consider the benefits of
infrastructure.  Kleinbard said the potential revenue losses are real,
albeit smaller if the tax rate were set higher than 5.25
percent.  “You’re starting $80 billion in the hole with
repatriation, so you’re not really raising any money until you
get back to zero,” he said. “So there’s no net money to go
into an infrastructure bank or anything else.”  Kleinbard added that the details of how companies are
allowed to use foreign tax credits against their repatriated
income would be important.  Some congressional Republicans, including House Minority
Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia and Representative Kevin Brady of
Texas, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, support a repatriation holiday.  Other Republicans, including Ways and Means Committee
Chairman Dave Camp, say they would prefer to consider
repatriation as part of a broader overhaul of the tax code.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  