-- 
BMW Boosts U.S. Luxury Sales After Losing to Lexus for 13 Years

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-01T23:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bmw-widens-u-s-luxury-sales-lead-as-lexus-falls-in-first-half.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW
brand outsold  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz last month, expanding
its lead as the top-selling luxury auto brand in the U.S. so far
this year.  BMW’s U.S. sales, helped by deliveries of the new 5 Series
sedan and sport-utility vehicles, rose 13 percent last month to
21,637 compared with a year earlier, the Munich-based automaker
said yesterday in a statement.  Mercedes sales rose 13 percent to 20,652 in June while
deliveries by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus fell 38 percent to
10,773, as the Japanese make lacked inventory following the
March 11 earthquake that disrupted manufacturing.  After six months of sales, BMW looks poised to outsell
Lexus in the U.S. for a calendar year for the first time since
1997. BMW’s sales through June rose 13 percent to 113,705.
Deliveries of Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes vehicles rose 7
percent to 110,926 in the U.S. while  Lexus ’s fell 18 percent to
88,010. Lexus has been the top-selling luxury auto brand in the
U.S. on an annual basis for the past 11 years.  “They’re too far behind now to catch up,”  Jim O’Donnell ,
head of BMW’s U.S. operations, said yesterday of Lexus in a
telephone interview.  Last year, Toyota finished 9,216 sales ahead of BMW to be
the top selling luxury brand in the U.S. for the 11th straight
year. Mercedes finished in third place. The results exclude
Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand,
which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  German Duel  The German brands have duked it out for years in the U.S.
market. BMW has outsold Mercedes since 2001. The narrowest lead
came in 1997 when BMW delivered 202 more vehicles than Mercedes
did, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “There is very good momentum” for BMW, said  Jesse Toprak ,
an industry analyst with Truecar.com, a  Santa Monica ,
California-based website that tracks automotive sales. “I don’t
know if Benz will be able to catch up.”  O’Donnell expects the brand’s sales to increase 12.5
percent this year, helped by a redesigned 5 Series sedan and X3
sport-utility vehicle, he said.  BMW’s sales in the second half of the year will benefit
from the introduction of another all-wheel-drive version of the
5 Series, the 528i xDrive, he said.  “That used to account for 25 percent of our 5 Series
sales, so that will be a big lift for us in the last quarter,”
O’Donnell said.  New Mercedes  Mercedes deliveries last month were helped by the
redesigned E-Class, sales of which rose 19 percent, and M-Class,
up 45 percent, the company said.  An updated version of the C-Class will be introduced in
September further boosting sales, Ernst Lieb, head of Mercedes’s
U.S. unit, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We get full availability really in the last quarter and
we think it’s going to be really good sales for us,” he said.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac luxury brand sales fell 7.9
percent last month to 10,860, according to the  Detroit  based
automaker. It was the second time this year that more Cadillacs
were sold in the U.S. than Lexus vehicles.  BMW and Mercedes will probably be aggressive with
incentives in coming months, Kurt McNeil, Cadillac’s vice
president of sales, said.  “They’ll get real creative,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Lacking Adventure  Beyond Toyota’s production problems, Lexus may be
struggling to attract affluent shoppers whose tastes have
shifted following the recession toward brands that express
creativity and originality, said Andrew Sacks, president of the
Affluence Collaborative, a market-research firm based in  New
York City .  Lexus “is very middle of the road, it’s kind of bland,
it’s safe,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s
still hard to justify what’s still a good bit of money that’s
not a thrilling adventure.”  U.S. deliveries of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand rose 17
percent to 10,051 vehicles last month, the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based company said in a statement.  Porsche SE, the Stuttgart-based automaker merging with
Volkswagen, sold 2,546 vehicles in the U.S., a 19 percent
increase, the company said yesterday in an e-mail.  Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti sold almost 6,300 vehicles, a
24 percent decline from a year earlier, the Yokohama, Japan-
based company said in a statement.  Honda Motor Co., based in  Tokyo , said in a statement that
sales for its Acura brand fell 20 percent to 8,708 last month.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold 7,361 Lincoln luxury vehicles in June,
a 17 percent increase from a year earlier, according to a
statement from the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.  Land Rover deliveries rose 13 percent to 3,152, while
Jaguar sales fell 14 percent to 1,389, Mumbai-based  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT)  said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  