-- 
BNDES Says Pao de Acucar Bid Is Non-Hostile, Should Succeed

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-07-01T21:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bndes-says-pao-de-acucar-bid-is-non-hostile-should-succeed-2-.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar’s proposed merger of assets with  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s
Brazilian unit would create value and isn’t hostile, according
to the nation’s state development bank.  BNDES, as the Rio de Janeiro-based lender is known, said it
is confident an agreement between the involved parties will be
reached, as the deal has “high potential to create value for
all,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz teamed up with Banco
BTG Pactual SA and BNDES this week to propose the merger with
Carrefour’s unit in  Brazil .  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the
Saint-Etienne, France-based grocer that shares control of Pao de
Acucar with Diniz, said the proposal was a “long-standing
illegal planned financial transaction” as it wasn’t discussed
by both controlling shareholders.  Diniz said the negotiations were carried out in an
“absolutely legitimate” and legal manner, according to a
statement published in O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper today.
BNDES, which may provide 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) toward
the transaction in exchange for a stake in Carrefour, said the
deal could provide “attractive returns for the bank” and that
it is committed to respecting laws and contracts.  The BNDES “statement strengthens Casino’s power to block
the deal in the way it was originally designed if the company is
not satisfied with terms, as seems to be the case,” Banco Safra
SA analysts Erick Guedes and Fernando Labes said in a note e-
mailed to clients today.  Carrefour dropped 0.6 percent to 28.16 euros, while Casino
rose 0.9 percent to 65.56 euros in Paris. Pao de Acucar advanced
1.2 percent to 72.99 reais in  Sao Paulo . The Brazilian retailer
had gained 12 percent since June 27, the day before the proposal
was announced.  Casino’s Chief Executive Officer is visiting Brazil to meet
with BNDES on Monday, July 4, Portal Exame reported today.
Casino’s press official in Paris declined to comment on the
report. BNDES declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Later in the day, BNDES sent another statement by e-mail
saying its support for the transaction depends on a “friendly
understanding” among all the companies involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino, in Sao Paulo, at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  