-- 
Boeing’s Dreamliner: The Long Wait Is Almost Over

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-07-03T06:43:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/boeing-787-shadow-flights-in-japan-signal-jet-delay-almost-over.html
Boeing Co. ’s  787  landed in  Japan 
early today to start a weeklong dress rehearsal with All Nippon
Airways Co., signaling the end is near on a delay of more than
three years for the world’s first composite-plastic jet.  The Dreamliner, which landed at Tokyo’s Haneda airport,
will make test flights on ANA’s normal domestic routes, with
pilots and mechanics from both companies working alongside each
other. The exercise will ensure the plane can fit into airport
parking slots and use boarding bridges and fuel hoses, said
Megumi Tezuka, an airline spokeswoman.  “It’s been a long wait,” said Hidetaka Sakai, an ANA
spokesman who watched today’s landing. “We want to compete with
global air companies with this plane.”  The trip is one of the final validations ahead of the 787’s
entry into service as soon as next month. Boeing missed the
original May 2008 delivery target, stalling its ability to book
profit from a model with an average list price of $202 million
and forcing customers to reshuffle their plans.  “People are going to be happy to see the plane arrive in
Japan,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The key will be when demand
for air travel rebounds.”  ANA,  Asia ’s largest listed airline by sales, suffered a 20
percent drop in domestic travel in April, the month after a
record earthquake and tsunami disrupted air service in the
country and led to the world’s worst nuclear crisis in 25 years.  Adding Flights  The Tokyo-based carrier is counting on the twin-engine
Dreamliner to help add flights to  China ,  Europe  and the U.S.
while paring fuel costs. Japan Airlines Co., which has 35 of the
787s on order, has said it will start service to  Boston  from
 Tokyo  with the jet next year, the first direct link between the
city and Asia.  Crews from Chicago-based Boeing began tests for extended
operations and function and reliability this week as they work
toward flight certification by U.S. and Japanese authorities.  Boeing and ANA plan joint tests starting July 5, with
flights between Tokyo’s Haneda and  Osaka ’s Itami airports, as
well as Okayama, Hiroshima and Osaka’s Kansai. The companies
 scripted the trials to the half hour  in meetings that ran seven
hours a day for five days, according to Boeing’s website.  The service-ready testing “is more about the system
working than the airplane,” said  Lori Gunter , a Boeing
spokeswoman in Everett,  Washington , where the Dreamliners are
assembled. “It’s about ANA being ready to operate and Boeing
being ready to support.”  Boeing Relief  For Boeing, getting the Dreamliner into service this
quarter would end a series of seven postponements that led to
late penalties and analysts dubbing the company’s fastest-
selling plane the “7-Late-7.” Boeing’s 27 percent slide from
the initial, October 2007 delay through June 30 was almost twice
the drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The 787 is the first airliner with a fuselage and wings
made of composite-plastic materials instead of aluminum. The new
materials and manufacturing system, along with parts shortages
and other problems, hampered development. Suppliers around the
world build whole sections and fly them to Everett.  The Dreamliner also is the first with all-electric
operating systems that, along with the lighter-weight plastic,
promise to shave fuel usage by 20 percent compared with similar-
sized planes and let it fly farther than a 747 jumbo jet. Boeing
marketed the 210- to 250-seat  Dreamliner  for long-haul routes
not busy enough to fill a larger aircraft.  Domestic Routes  ANA plans to use its 55 Dreamliners on order to replace the
similar-sized Boeing 767 in the airline’s fleet, beginning with
domestic routes. The carrier’s initial order for 50 jets in 2004
was valued at $6 billion at list prices.  “We’re very excited,” said Tezuka, the ANA spokeswoman.
“We’re confident we will get the delivery of our first plane
soon.”  ANA is already preparing its staff to receive the plane,
which Boeing has promised will happen in the third quarter. Two
of the carrier’s pilots tested the plane on a U.S.  flight  in May
2010, and 10 more who will be the first crews to operate it in
Japan completed their training last month.  Boeing has done some tests with employees serving in the
role of passengers, Gunter said. The first Dreamliner began
flying in December 2009, and seven jets have made more than
 1,500 flights  around the world since, looking for severe weather
and other conditions to test the plane to its limits.  ‘Big Buzz’  Several hundred plane spotters braved an early Sunday
wakeup to witness the Dreamliner’s 6:21 a.m. touchdown at Haneda.  “I felt cool and calm as we landed this morning,” said
ANA pilot Masayuki Ishii. “But when I saw so many people had
come out to the airport to catch a glimpse of the plane, I was
moved.”  The 787 last month made an appearance at the  Paris Air Show 
where Boeing let aviation executives, analysts and reporters
onto the jet to show off its new interior features such as
dimming windows and LED lighting.  The rehearsal is “big news in Japan,” said Ken Herbert,
an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  San Francisco . “You get
the ground staff and everyone all excited about it, and it’ll
get a big buzz.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  