-- 
Borders Group Has $215.1 Million Offer From Najafi Unit to Buy Stores

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-01T16:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/borders-group-has-215-1-million-offer-from-najafi-unit-to-buy-stores.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt
bookstore chain, agreed to sell its business to Najafi Cos.’
Direct Brands LLC, a direct marketer that owns Book-of-the-Month
Club.  The deal, which still requires an auction to test for
higher bids, would save Borders from liquidation, the bookstore
said yesterday in court papers.  Najafi, a Phoenix, AZ-based private-investment firm, bid
$215.1 million for Borders stores and would assume $220 million
of liabilities. The deal also needs bankruptcy court approval,
to be sought at a hearing July 21, after a July 19 auction.  “We are pleased to take another important step forward as
we position Borders for a vibrant future and sustainable
earnings growth,” Borders Group President Mike Edwards said in
a statement.  Borders has a backup bid to liquidate all its assets from
liquidators including Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partner LLC. It pursued a “dual-track process”
so it can proceed with a sale to liquidators if it isn’t
acquired as a going concern, according to earlier court filings.  If Najafi’s offer succeeds, “the debtors will continue in
business as a retailer and thousands of jobs will be saved,”
lawyers for Borders wrote in court pleadings.  Liquidators’ Bid  The liquidators offered to pay $252 million to $284
million, or about 72 percent of the cost value of the
bookstore’s merchandise in an earlier round of bidding, Holly Felder Etlin said in court papers. Etlin, a managing director of
Borders’ adviser AlixPartners LLP, noted that the liquidators
bid didn’t include the
$220 million in liabilities that would be included in the Najafi
deal.  The Najafi offer will need to be enough to repay Borders’
bankruptcy operating loan, Etlin said.  When Borders filed for bankruptcy, it borrowed $505 million
from lenders led by General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit,
saying it needed the money to cover expenses while it
reorganized. On June 20, Borders reached a deal with its lenders
on an amendment to that loan which cost it $1 million.  The company has said it seeks to complete a sale by July
29.  Borders, the second-largest U.S. book chain after  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February, listing assets of
$1.28 billion and liabilities totaling $1.29 billion. It
recorded a loss of $479.9 million for the year ended Jan. 29 on
sales of $1.67 billion  Out of Favor  Najafi bought  Bertelsmann  AG’s North American Direct Group
division in 2008. Direct Brands operates such businesses such as
Book-of-the-Month Club, Doubleday Book Clubs and Columbia House.
Najafi makes investments “often in industries out of popular
favor,” according to the statement.  Najafi bought the French Direct Group Business of CD and
DVD clubs from Bertelsmann,  Europe ’s biggest media company, in
May.  Borders’ agreement with Najafi includes $15 million to fund
a windup of its Chapter 11 case, and a break-up fee for BB
Brands, LLC, a subsidiary of Direct Brands LLC, if a higher
offer is received.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , was founded 40 years
ago as a single used-book store. The company, the second-largest
book chain after Barnes & Noble Inc., had 642 stores in February
when it filed for court protection. It closed 237, leaving 405
operating.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 