-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Gains on Interest-Rate Bets, U.S. Manufacturing Report

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-01T20:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bovespa-stock-index-futures-little-changed-as-industry-offsets-commodities.html
The Bovespa stock index advanced,
posting its biggest weekly gain in almost one year, after a
manufacturing index unexpectedly rose in the U.S., Brazil’s
second-biggest trading partner, and traders pared bets for
higher borrowing costs in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Homebuilder MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA led gains by
companies that depend on credit growth. Vale SA, the world’s
largest iron-ore producer, jumped the most in 10 months after
saying its board approved a plan to spend as much as $3 billion
to repurchase stock.  The Bovespa rose 1.6 percent to 63,394.34 at the close of
 Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. The benchmark
equity gauge fell 10 percent this year through yesterday and
trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates, the lowest
since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The measure rose 3.9 percent this week, the most
since the five days ended July 23. The real strengthened 0.4
percent to 1.5574 per  U.S. dollar .  “Stocks are cheap,” Alexandre Ghirghi, who helps manage
about 150 million reais ($96 million) at Metodo Investimentos in
Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “All the market needs
to perform better is more foreign investment. A better outlook
in the U.S. surely helps.”  Investors pulled 1.48 billion reais from Latin America’s
largest equity market in the year through June 8, according to
the exchange.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace
in June, a sign the industry is rebounding after shortages of
parts and components from  Japan  slowed production.  ISM Survey  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
55.3 last month from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said today. Economists estimated the index would drop to 52,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  In the Brazilian interest-rate futures market, yields on
most contracts declined. Yields on the contract due in January
2014 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 12.59
percent.  MRV Engenharia rose 4.6 percent to 13.55 reais. Vale rose
4.5 percent to 46.63 reais, the most since Sept. 1.  Tam SA, Brazil’s biggest airline by market value, gained
1.6 percent to 34.04 reais. The company may sell shares of its
tourism business next year, Sao Paulo-based newspaper  Valor
Economico  reported, citing Paulo Castello Branco, vice-president
for planning and alliances.  There is a “real possibility” Tam could separate the unit
and sell shares in an initial public offering in Sao Paulo, the
newspaper said, citing Branco.  PDG Realty  Homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes
rose 2.4 percent to 9 reais after saying it agreed to buy a
controlling stake of REP - Real Estate Partners Desenvolvimento
Imobiliario SA, a Brazilian shopping mall developer.  After the transaction, PDG Realty will increase its stake
in REP to 54 percent from 25 percent, according to a regulatory
filing.  The Bovespa rose yesterday, paring a third quarterly drop,
as raw materials producers advanced and a report showed business
activity expanded at a faster pace than expected in the U.S.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge lost 13 percent from a
November high on concern quickening inflation may hurt domestic
demand, while a slowdown in global economic growth could cut the
appetite for commodities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  