-- 
Brazil Consumer, Real Estate Stocks to Gain, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-01T15:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/brazil-consumer-real-estate-stocks-to-gain-credit-suisse-says.html
Brazilian consumer and real-estate
stocks are poised to gain on prospects for the cycle of
interest-rate increases to end or pause this quarter, Credit
Suisse Group AG said.  Credit Suisse added card-payment processor  Cielo SA (CIEL3) ,
consumer-goods maker  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  and homebuilder PDG Realty
SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes to its “model portfolio” of
Brazilian stocks for July, according to a note to clients dated
yesterday from analyst Andrew T. Campbell. Credit Suisse reduced
its “defensive” position, removing phone operator
 Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA (TLPP3)  from the portfolio and paring
its allocation to utility Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais .  “The outlook for  Brazil  has improved,” Campbell said in
the note. “Inflation inertia in certain categories is still
likely to be an issue in Brazil for the coming months, but the
risk of an inflation spike, or of inflation staying above the
high end of the  Central Bank ’s target range for a prolonged
period, has decreased in our view.”  The benchmark Bovespa index dropped 10 percent in the first
half of 2011 after the central bank increased  interest rates 
four times to 12.25 percent. As annual inflation may have peaked
in May, Credit Suisse expects policy makers to raise borrowing
costs twice more to 12.75 percent by August before holding the
rest of the year.  Credit Suisse kept Brazil at a “market weight” allocation
within  Latin America  as additional measures may be needed to
cool the economy next year, and “earnings growth may slow
abruptly in 2012,” according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  