-- 
Brazilian Real Rises to the Strongest Level Since 1999 on Greece Outlook

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-07-01T21:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/brazilian-real-reaches-strongest-level-since-august-2008-on-greece-outlook.html
Brazil ’s real rose to the strongest
level since 1999 as investors increased demand for higher-
yielding assets amid easing concern about Greece’s debt crisis.  The real gained 0.5 percent to 1.5560 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, from 1.5633 yesterday. The currency earlier
touched 1.5534, the strongest level since Jan. 19, 1999. The
real has gained 3.1 percent this week, from 1.6046 on June 24.  Euro-area finance ministers are set to approve the next aid
payment due Greece and outline a second rescue after banks lined
up behind debt-rollover plans and Greek lawmakers approved a
budget-cutting package on a second ballot. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  gained approval yesterday from lawmakers to
implement a package of budget cuts and asset sales. The real
reaching a 12-plus year high “is very significant,” said Jorge Perez-Duarte, managing director for emerging-market foreign
exchange at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto.  “The Greek problems seem to be at least postponed,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based  Latin America  economist at 4Cast Inc,
said by phone. “That’s the story of the week.”  Brazil’s policy makers raised the overnight rate for a
fourth straight meeting last month, to 12.25 percent, and said
they would increase rates for a “sufficiently prolonged”
period to slow the fastest inflation since 2005.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.46
percent, paring its rise for the week to five basis points,
indicating that traders are betting on borrowing costs
increasing to 12.75 percent by the end of this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Growth  Investors are seeking to take advantage of the gap between
Brazilian borrowing costs and near-zero rates in the U.S. as a
looming solution to  Greece ’s credit problems spurs optimism,
said Deives Ribeiro, a currency manager at Fair Corretora de
Cambio e Valores.  Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 4 percent this
year after a 7.5 percent expansion in 2010 that was the fastest
in more than two decades, according to the median estimate of 19
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Brazil’s industrial production
rose 1.3 percent in May from April, and 2.7 percent from the
year-ago period, the national statistics agency said today.  “The Brazilian story is still pretty appealing,” Perez-
Duarte said in a telephone interview. “They’re growing at a
good pace, a lot of direct investment. What’s not to like,
right?”  Foreign Direct Investment  Policy makers projected a current account deficit at $60
billion this year, and $55 billion of foreign direct investment,
unchanged from its forecasts three months ago, Tulio Maciel,
head of the central bank’s economic research department, said on
June 27.  The government has changed tax rules three times since
March 29 to slow the real’s appreciation, which is eroding
exporters’ profits and widening the current-account deficit.
Last October, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled a levy on
overseas investors’ purchases of local debt. In January, policy
makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini set
 reserve requirements  on short dollar positions held by local
banks.  The central bank said it bought dollars twice in the spot
currency market today, first at 1.5554 reais and then at 1.5566
each. The purchases are part of an effort by policy makers to
curb the currency’s 24-percent rally over the past two years.  While it’s unclear the real will continue to trade at
today’s high, further gains could trigger “a sharp
appreciation” and additional government measures to curb the
currency’s gains, said Perez-Duarte.  “They just don’t like to see this happening very fast
because it creates problems for the export economy,” he said.
“If we really break this level, you could have a sharp
appreciation if it’s sustained, just because this is such an
important technical level. It could trigger some people jumping
into reais, so that then might make them uncomfortable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  