-- 
Bright Food Said to Consider Bidd for Penfolds Owner Treasury Wine Estates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T10:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/bright-food-said-to-consider-bidding-for-australia-s-treasury-wine-estates.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  Shanghai ’s
biggest food and dairy producer, is considering making an offer
for Australia’s Treasury Wine Estates Ltd., according to two
people familiar with the matter.  The closely held milk producer has had internal talks about
making a bid for the Melbourne-based company, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
Treasury, a former Foster’s Group Ltd. unit, has a market value
of A$2.2 billion ($2.4 billion). Rebecca Smith, a spokeswoman
for the world’s second-largest winemaker, declined to comment.  Treasury was split off by Foster’s on May 10 after more
than A$2.5 billion of writedowns so the brewer could focus on
its 50 percent share of the Australian beer market. The vintner
is  Australia ’s largest with brands including Penfolds and
Lindemans. It also owns Beringer of the  Napa Valley .  Bright Foods is considering Australian wine assets for
acquisition, Pan Jianjun, a Shanghai-based spokesman, said by
phone today. He declined to name any companies being evaluated.  Foster’s in September rejected an offer worth as much as
A$2.7 billion from an unidentified private-equity bidder for the
wine unit, saying it “significantly” undervalued the business.
The Melbourne-based brewer itself rejected a A$9.5 billion bid
from rival SABMiller Plc last month. London-based SABMiller said
it would continue to pursue talks on the deal.  Bright Food may raise as much as 6 billion yuan ($928
million) this year by selling bonds and listing a unit to fund
acquisitions and boost production capacity, Chairman Wang Zongnan said in an interview on April 1. It lost a bid to buy 50
percent of French yogurt maker Yoplait in March.  -- Michael Wei  and Brett Foley. With assistance from Robert Fenner in  Melbourne . Editors:  Dave McCombs , Paul Jarvis.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  