-- 
Burundi to Start Nickel Production Next Year, 35 Years After Its Discovery

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-07-01T12:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/burundi-to-start-nickel-production-next-year-35-years-after-its-discovery.html
Burundi, one of the world’s poorest
nations, plans to start nickel production next year, more than
35 years after first discovering the stainless steel-making
ingredient, as the country addresses a lack of power and
transport infrastructure.  Feasibility studies, carried out by the closely held South
African company Burundi Mining Metallurgy International, are
almost finished and mining work is expected to begin early next
year, said Evelio Mushimantwari, director general of the
department of geology and mines, in an interview yesterday in
the capital, Bujumbura.  The Central African nation, about the same size as the U.S.
state of  Maryland , has about  285 million metric tons  of nickel
reserves, according to a report by the African Development Bank.
Exploitation of the metal, discovered in 1974, has been hindered
by a lack of infrastructure following civil war in the mid-1990s
that halted development and limited economic growth.  Burundi’s nickel-ore reserves stretch from the south to the
northeast of the country, according to Didace Birabasha,
permanent secretary at the Ministry of Minerals and Energy. The
landlocked nation plans to build a $3.5 billion railway with
Tanzania and  Rwanda  to boost investment into the region,
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete said on March 18.  First nickel output will start at Musongati, in Burundi’s
southeast province of Rutana, Mushimantwari said.  World’s Ten-Largest  The deposit is Burundi’s largest, with reserves of about
180 million tons, making it one of the world’s ten largest
undeveloped resources, according to the  African Development
Bank ’s report.  The country plans to eventually produce about 2 million
tons of nickel ore a year, Mushimantwari said, without being
more specific. The government has secured 50 megawatts of power
to start production, and it plans to source as much as 100
megawatts more as metal output increases, he said.  Nickel, the worst-performer on the  London  Metal Exchange
this year, may extend declines this year as China leads a switch
among users to a low-cost substitute, hurting refined metal
prices, according to Morgan Stanley.  Prices are at risk of reaching a “bear-case scenario” of
$10.42 per pound ($22,976 a ton) this year on “greater than
anticipated levels of substitution” from nickel pig-iron
production in  China , analysts  Peter Richardson  and Joel Crane
wrote in a report on June 28.  Three-month delivery nickel fell 0.8 percent to $23,229 a
ton as of 1:30 p.m. in London today, extending its decline so
far this year to 6.2 percent.  The assassination of Burundi’s president in 1993 sparked a
civil war that led to the deaths of more than 200,000 people
over almost 12 years, according to the CIA World Factbook. The
country has a population of about 8.7 million people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  