-- 
California Schools Say Brown’s Budget Shield for Teachers Spells Trouble

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/california-schools-say-brown-s-budget-shield-for-teachers-spells-trouble.html
California’s new budget may put
school districts already facing financial pressures into deeper
peril, under a provision that Republicans say was a concession
to unions by Democrats who run the Legislature.  The $86 billion budget Governor  Jerry Brown  signed
yesterday bars administrators from dismissing teachers in the
fiscal year that begins today, even if their aid is cut because
state revenue fails to meet forecasts. The measure may force
districts to pay for those salaries out of emergency reserves.  “This just doesn’t make any sense, so there has to be some
special interest involved,” said Senator Jean Fuller, a
Bakersfield Republican and former school superintendant.
“Certainly it’s either poorly written or it has priorities that
are not in the best interest of parents and students.”  California has 143 school districts that either won’t meet
or may not be able to meet their financial obligations in the
next two fiscal years, according to the State Superintendent of
Public Instruction, including 13 that can’t pay their bills. The
state had the second highest-paid teachers in the U.S. as of
2009, while  California  ranked 43rd in per-pupil spending,
according to the National Education Association.  The new budget triggers $1.5 billion of additional cuts to
schools midway through the year if the state’s nascent economic
recovery doesn’t produce $4 billion of extra revenue Democrats
wrote into their spending plan. The budget anticipates receipts
exceeding official projections by at least that much.  Barring Job Cuts  An education measure that accompanied the fiscal 2012
spending plan requires school districts to assume the same level
of funding that they got in the fiscal year that ended yesterday
and prohibits personnel reductions from those levels.  That means if revenue falls short, schools must find other
ways to absorb budget cuts, such as forcing teachers and support
workers to take unpaid days off and shortening the academic year
by a week. Those steps would require union approval, since the
legislation didn’t give district administrators the power to
impose the measures unilaterally.  “There’s a real challenge when you’ve already started the
school year,” said Debra Brown, a  lobbyist  for the California
School Boards Association. “There’s not much else you can do.”  Her group wrote a letter to Brown yesterday urging him to
repeal the rule against cutting jobs. It would constrain
districts’ ability to balance their budgets in the event of
midyear cuts from Sacramento, the association said.  ‘Troubling’ Provision  To require school board members to “disregard their duty
to balance local budgets in a reasonable and responsible manner
is troubling,” Vernon Billy, the group’s executive director,
said in the statement.  If unions balk at concessions, schools may be forced to use
reserve accounts set aside to finance emergency needs such as
dealing with a structure fire or a legal judgment.  “The budget is essentially limiting schools to only one
tool in their toolbox -- furloughs -- for dealing with mid-year
cuts,” said Bob Blattner, a lobbyist for school districts with
Blattner & Associates. “Furloughs are the equivalent of a two-
handed saw; if the local bargaining units don’t help from their
end, the tool is useless.”  Using so-called rainy day funds may cost districts their
required county-level budget certifications, which assure
creditors that they can pay their bills in the current and next
two fiscal years. So the Democrats’ education measure shortens
the financial certification period to one year from three.  Dangerous Elimination  School Services of California, an education consultant in
 Sacramento , warned that eliminating that early-warning system
could prove ruinous.  “Just the notion that school agencies will not be required
to submit multiyear budget projections is a road to disaster,
especially if the state turns around and cuts funding for
schools under the ‘trigger provision’ adopted as part of the
state budget,” Ron Bennett, School Services’ president, said in
a letter to Brown urging him to veto that provision.  The education finance measure was backed by the 325,000-
member California Teachers Association, the state’s largest
teacher union. The union spent $2.4 million on political
campaigns in 2009 and 2010, according to secretary of state
records. The union contributed to Democrats Brown, Assembly
Speaker John Perez and Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Robert Blumenfield, whose committee wrote the bill.  Purpose of Measure  The provision is intended to give school administrators
reassurance that they won’t need to take drastic measures during
the school year, said Ana Matosantos, Brown’s budget director.  “It was trying to make sure that folks do not plan for the
contingency because the contingency is not the plan,” she told
reporters yesterday in Sacramento.  Brown, in a message after signing the bill, said school
boards retain the power to trim their own budgets to deal with
losing federal funds and student enrollment.  The teachers’ association lobbied for the measure along
with protections in the budget bill, said Dean E. Vogel, the
union’s president. Vogel said school districts issued about
20,850 layoff notices in March, of which 8,500 have been
rescinded.  “That’s one way to frame it -- protecting jobs -- but what
we’re really trying to do is protect the learning environment
for kids,” said Vogel, who taught kindergarten and first grade
in Vacaville before rising to the head of the union. “Our
schools are under tremendous pressure right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  