-- 
Pao de Acucar Losing Brazil Support for Merger as Casino Escalates Dispute

-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 
2011-07-02T13:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/casino-naouri-brazil-bndes-said-to-plan-july-4-meeting-in-rio-de-janeiro.html
Brazil’s development bank may pull up
to $2.9 billion of funds for Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar’s merger with  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s local assets
after  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  called the plan illegal.  BNDES, as the  state bank  is known, said yesterday its
participation in the proposed merger depends on a “friendly
understanding” among all involved. The BNDES funding is about
85 percent of the money needed for the plan orchestrated by
Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves ’s Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Casino has criticized the BTG proposal because it would
prevent the Saint-Etienne, France-based retailer from taking
over Pao de Acucar under a 2006 agreement. Instead, Carrefour
will get 50 percent of the bigger, merged entity in the world’s
second-largest developing economy and allow Pao de Acucar
Chairman Abilio Diniz keep his post.  “There’s certainly an open war between partners,”
Alexandre Povoa, president of Rio de Janeiro-based Modal Asset
Management, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “BNDES
won’t want to put money into a company where everybody is
fighting each other.”  Casino Chief Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri will
meet with BNDES president  Luciano Coutinho  in Rio de Janeiro on
July 4 to discuss BTG and Diniz’s plan, said a person familiar
with the plan yesterday who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to speak publicly about the talks.  Congress Hearing  BTG’s Gama, the investment fund that proposed the plan,
said in an e-mail that the combination is friendly, and urged
shareholders to approve the deal. Frederic Croccel, a spokesman
for Casino, said the company had no official reaction to the
bank’s statement. BNDES declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement. Officials representing Pao de Acucar had no immediate
comment.  Casino and Carrefour are seeking to offset falling earnings
at home by expanding into emerging markets. Casino gets a
quarter of sales from  Latin America , while Brazil is the second-
largest contributor to Carrefour’s revenue after  France .
Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy is the world’s No. 2 among
developing nations after  China , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In a June 30 statement, BNDES said the deal has “high
potential to create value for all.” The combined company would
have about 35 percent of Brazil’s retail industry, according to
Raymond James & Associates Inc. estimates.  Casino called the proposal a “long-standing illegal planned
financial transaction” in a June 28 statement.  Diniz said yesterday the negotiations were carried out in
an “absolutely legitimate” and legal manner, according to an
advertisement published in O Estado de S. Paulo and Valor
Economico newspapers in  Brazil .  Stock Gains  BNDES, which would have 18 percent of the company that
would control the merged entity, said the deal could provide
“attractive returns for the bank” and that it’s committed to
respecting laws and contracts.  Under the proposal, BTG’s Gama would become the biggest
shareholder in Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour with
an 11.7 percent stake, which may increase to as much as 17.7
percent.  Opposition lawmakers in Brazil have criticized BNDES for
financing a private transaction that may lead to market
concentration, according to the lower house’s website. A formal
request was made at the lower house for BNDES’s Coutinho and
Brazil’s Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel to participate in a
hearing to discuss the state lender’s role in the retail merger.  Pao de Acucar has gained 12 percent since June 27, the day
before the proposal was announced. Yesterday it advanced 1.2
percent to 72.99 reais in  Sao Paulo . Carrefour dropped 0.6
percent to 28.16 euros, while Casino rose 0.9 percent to 65.56
euros in Paris.  Bigger Stake  To protect its interest in Pao de Acucar, Casino said on
June 29 it bought an additional 6.2 percent stake in the
Brazilian retailer, bringing its overall stake to 43.1 percent.
Diniz said on the following day that he asked its controlling
shareholders, managers and board members to stop trading the
shares after the merger proposal was introduced.  The BNDES “statement strengthens Casino’s power to block
the deal in the way it was originally designed if the company is
not satisfied with terms, as seems to be the case,” Banco Safra
SA analysts Erick Guedes and Fernando Labes said in a note e-
mailed to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  