-- 
Plastic-Bag Ban Spurs ‘Exploding’ Sales for Cereplast

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-01T20:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/cereplast-may-be-profitable-by-year-end-on-exploding-sales-1-.html
Cereplast Inc. (CERP) , the U.S. maker of
plant-derived resins, said it may be profitable by the end of
the year because of “exploding” European demand for
environmentally friendly shopping bags.  The company will meet its forecast for sales rising to as
much as $34 million this year, from $6.3 million in 2010, Chief
Executive Officer Frederic Scheer said today in a telephone
interview. Revenue may climb to $100 million next year, he said.  Cereplast, based in El Segundo,  California , will be
profitable at an annual sales rate of $35 million and with a 25
percent gross margin, which should occur in December or early in
2012, he said. Cereplast rose as much as 9.5 percent in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, the most since Dec. 17.  About 85 percent of sales are in  Europe , where  Italy ’s ban
on plastic shopping bags and legislation in other countries
favor renewable plastics, Scheer said. A third line at
Cereplast’s Seymour, Indiana, plant will start up on Sept. 1,
boosting resin output to 80 million pounds a year. Seymour will
be sold out by mid-2012 and a 220 million-pound capacity plant
in Cannara, Italy, will begin production at the end of 2012.  “The European market is really exploding,” said Scheer,
who is also Cereplast’s chairman and largest shareholder.
“After 20 years of struggling in this industry, all of a sudden
we see the industry taking off.”  Cereplast rose 35 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $4.79 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  Shipping Times  The Italian plant will cut shipping times to key customers
to a few days from as much as six weeks currently, improving
margins, Scheer said. Purchasing the facility and getting it
ready for bio-resin production will require as much as 12
million euros ($17.4 million) of  project financing , he said.
Cereplast qualifies for subsidies and reduced loans under
Italian law, he said.  “There is a tremendous amount of legislation which is
going our way in Europe and the rest of the world,” Scheer
said. “ India ,  Brazil  and even in  Africa  you have regulations
that are pushing the use of biodegradable and compostable
products.”  PepsiCo Inc. and Coca-Cola Co.’s development of bottles
made from renewable materials is putting pressure on other
companies to meet consumer demand for environmentally friendly
packaging, regardless of legislation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  