-- 
Chavez Says He’s Fighting Cancer in Cuba

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-01T12:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/chavez-says-he-s-fighting-cancer-in-cuba.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
he is being treated for cancer in Cuba after doctors on the
communist island detected a tumor during an emergency operation
this month that had been shrouded in mystery.  Chavez, in a videotaped message read yesterday from Havana,
said he was recovering favorably after doctors removed the tumor
in a second, previously undisclosed operation since arriving to
Cuba on June 8. The 21st century socialist revolutionary gave no
date for his return, saying only that his treatment “can’t be
rushed.” Yields on the nation’s benchmark bond plunged today.  “I feel like I’m emerging from a dark abyss and beginning
the climb back,” said a thinner-looking Chavez, standing behind
a podium flanked by a Venezuelan flag and portrait of his hero,
19th century South American revolutionary  Simon Bolivar .  Chavez, 56, said he remains in charge of his nation’s
affairs from Cuba and is in constant contact with his cabinet,
which immediately swore its allegiance to the convalescing
leader. Still, with nobody in the government matching Chavez’s
clout with the poor, his hold on power may be challenged by the
opposition if he doesn’t return home soon, said Luis Vicente Leon, director of Caracas-based pollster Datanalisis.  “Chavez’s condition is much worse than expected and now we
need to see if he’s able to recover from this physically and
emotionally,” Leon said in a telephone interview from Miami.
“We need to see what’s the Chavista strategy to prevent people
from seeing the revolution in a weaker light.”  Silence, Seclusion  Chavez’s seclusion and silence since traveling to  Havana 
has been fueling speculation for weeks that his condition was
far worse than he and officials had let on. Before yesterday’s
address, he had spoken to the nation only once before, on June
12, when he called into a television program to say that he
underwent an operation to remove a pelvic abscess.  Chavez, who plans to seek re-election for a third term next
year, said he continues to receive “complementary treatments”
to kill the cancerous cells found by his doctors.  Reading from a speech -- a sight unfamiliar to Venezuelans
accustomed to seeing their president set national policy during
near-daily television appearances lasting sometimes six hours --
he said he had neglected his health too long. He compared his
illness to the most difficult moments of his life, like his
jailing in 1992 after leading a failed coup attempt and his own
brief removal from power in 2002.  Aware of Anguish  “I have been very aware of a degree of anguish and
uncertainty that has been spreading in recent days and nights in
the body and soul of the Venezuelan nation,” Chavez said.
“Beyond the manipulations of some well-known sectors, these
feelings were, and are, an inevitable part of human nature.”  The prospect of Chavez’s prolonged absence could further
embolden the opposition, which was strengthened after winning
the majority of votes in congressional elections last September.
Support for Chavez fell to near the lowest in eight years in
March as a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar and the fastest
inflation among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg erode the
purchasing power of his working-class base.  Falling Yields  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
securities due in 2027 plunged 64 basis points to 12.43 percent
at 7:40 a.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Since June 10, the yield has fallen 132 basis points.  An opposition win in elections would cause Venezuela’s
borrowing costs to drop 500 basis points, or 5 percentage
points, RBS Securities Inc wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “This development may open a period of unprecedented
social and political uncertainty in Venezuela,”  Alberto Ramos ,
a senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
New York said in a research note. “This increases the odds that
the political opposition to the regime could prevail in the
presidential elections and deliver a regime shift in terms of
the policy approach in 2013.”  Vice President Elias Jaua last night urged his compatriots
to rally around the convalescing leader. The 41-year-old
sociologist, who under Venezuela’s constitution would succeed
Chavez if the president were to die, resign or be declared unfit
to rule, said the government would continue to function normally
in the leader’s absence.  Revolutionary Discipline  “There’s no time for sadness,” Jaua, surrounded by the
rest of Chavez’s cabinet, said in a live televised address from
the presidential palace. “Unity is what’s needed now. We call
on all the social movements and revolutionary forces to show the
maximum discipline.”  Jaua called on Venezuelans to unite by marching in the
streets July 5 to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Venezuela’s
independence from  Spain . The government yesterday cancelled a
summit of heads of state from  Latin America  to coincide with the
bicentennial.  Loyal Military  Henry Rangel Silva, the head of the military, downplayed
criticism that the government was keeping Chavez’s illness a
secret. The Chavez ally said constitution will be respected and
that the armed forces will guarantee order.  “We didn’t inform the country earlier about his condition
because we didn’t want to alarm people,” Rangel Silva said on
state television.  A small group of red-shirted Chavez supporters gathered in
downtown Caracas last night to express support for their leader.
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  posted a message on
Twitter this morning saying “we pray for the health and speedy
recovery” of the Venezuelan leader.  “This can happen to anyone,” Jean Carlos Fernandez, a 29-
year-old private security guard who says he voted for Chavez,
said in an interview in Caracas. “What worries me is that they
could use this to overthrow him.”  Dr. Fidel  Opposition leaders, while criticizing the government’s
handling of the political crisis, stopped short of calling for
his replacement as they had in recent days.  “The vice president and ministers should ask for
forgiveness from Venezuelans since they’ve created an opaque
situation with misinformation that has generated this anguish,”
Ramon Guillermo Aveledo, executive secretary of the Democratic
Unity Table alliance, said in an interview with Globovision.  Chavez, in his 15-minute speech last night, said he
initially sought treatment in Havana at the urging of his ally,
former Cuban President  Fidel Castro .  “He interrogated me almost like a doctor, and I confessed
to him almost like a patient,” said Chavez.  Aside from a videotaped image released this week of Chavez
chatting with Castro about fellow socialist icon Salvador Allende, who was removed as Chile’s president in a 1973 coup,
Venezuelans hadn’t seen their president until last night. His
only other communication were messages sent from his  Twitter
account  on June 25.  While it’s uncertain how long the normally hands-on leader
will remain in Cuba, Chavez ended his address last night vowing
to return.  “For now and always, we will live and conquer,” Chavez
said. “Until my return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at  dcancel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  