-- 
China’s June Home Prices Ease in Eight of 10 Biggest Cities, SouFun Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T08:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/china-s-june-home-prices-ease-in-eight-of-10-biggest-cities-soufun-says.html
China’s June  home prices  eased in
eight of the country’s 10 biggest cities as the government
expanded efforts to curb the risk of asset bubbles in its
housing market, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Home prices in cities including Beijing and  Shanghai  either
posted slower gains or declines from May, SouFun said in an e-
mailed statement today. Hangzhou and Tianjin are the only two
among the 10 biggest cities that reported gains following a drop
in May, the nation’s largest real-estate website owner said.  The increase in nationwide home prices slowed to 0.4
percent last month from 0.5 percent in May, the 10th straight
month of gains, SouFun said, as 75 of 100 cities surveyed
reported higher prices. Concerns of tighter credit and further
curbs prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to lower the outlook for
Chinese developers to “negative” from “stable” last month.  “Price growth in big cities slowed, but it takes time for
a nationwide adjustment,” said Peter Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-
based property analyst at China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank. “The situation with a
shortage in housing supply is just gradually improving.”  Nationwide home prices rose 5.2 percent last month from a
year earlier, SouFun said.  More Measures  Average home values nationwide climbed to 8,856 yuan
($1,370) a square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun said. The
government this year raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements and imposed purchase restrictions in some cities.
The central bank also raised  interest rates  four times since
October, when it increased borrowing costs for the first time in
three years.  A gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose 0.9 percent to a two-month high at the 3 p.m. close,
the biggest gain among five industry groups on the benchmark
measure.  Month-on-month gains in Shanghai home prices slowed to 0.1
percent from 0.3 percent in May, while those in Beijing dropped
0.1 percent after rising 0.2 percent in May, according to SouFun.
Housing values in Shenzhen, the southern Chinese business center,
increased 0.1 percent, easing from the 1.1 percent climb in May,
it said.  Nationwide, the central Chinese city of Zhengzhou posted
the biggest advance of 2.7 percent from May, while the Sanya
tourism resort in the southern Hainan province posted the
largest decline of 0.9 percent among the 100 cities surveyed,
SouFun said.  Restrictions  Purchase restrictions and tight mortgage supply have muted
demand, while transactions showed significant decline in major
cities, wrote analysts including  David Ng  of Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc on a note yesterday.  Developers’ sales rose as the strategy for quick sales help
offset some of the effects from the government’s tightening,
said  China Real Estate Information Corp. (CRIC) , known as CRIC, in an
e-mailed statement today.  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, sold 64.4
billion yuan of homes in the first half, the most among 30
developers tracked by the research agency. Evergrande Real
Estate Group followed with 42.9 billion yuan, CRIC said.  “Home prices will gradually fall this year, as the
completion of social housing will dilute the market,” Freddy Lee, chief executive officer of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , said in a
June 23 interview in  Singapore , who forecast a 5 percent to 10
percent decline in home prices in 2011 as the country plans to
build 10 million affordable homes this year.  The government’s indexes of new and existing homes for June
are due on July 18.  Nationwide home prices may start to decline in the first
half of next year if the government’s policies are prolonged,
Bai said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Chua Kong Ho  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  