-- 
Manufacturing From Asia to Europe Cools, Posing Dilemma as Prices Increase

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-01T14:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/china-manufacturing-growth-cools-as-wen-s-inflation-campaign-damps-growth.html
Manufacturing growth is slowing from
 China  to Europe, creating a dilemma for central bankers
considering higher interest rates to combat inflation.  China’s factory index fell to the lowest level since
February 2009, while in the 17-nation euro area, a gauge slipped
to an 18-month low. German manufacturing expanded at the weakest
pace in 17 months, while Italy, Ireland, Spain and Greece
contracted. In the U.K. and India, output growth also slowed.  “There is a broad-based slowdown taking place in the
manufacturing sector,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London, said by telephone. “But it’s
still too early to jump on the view that we’re heading toward an
environment where activity will be contracting.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth are damping
demand for goods, putting pressure on policy makers to delay
further rate increases even as prices gain. Inflation quickened
to the fastest pace since 2008 in China, exceeded 20 percent in
Vietnam last month and sparked protests in India. Euro-area
inflation remained at 2.7 percent in June, exceeding the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling for a seventh month.  A rebound in U.S. manufacturing may ease concern about a
global slowdown. A report today showed factory production
unexpectedly accelerated in June, indicating that the industry
is recovering from shortages of parts and components from  Japan 
following the March earthquake and tsunami.  Factory Index  Price pressures have prompted Asian central banks to be
among the quickest to withdraw monetary stimulus as growth
accelerated following the global recession in 2009.  India , South
Korea, Thailand and Taiwan raised their benchmark rates last
month to contain rising prices, while China ordered lenders to
set aside more cash as reserves.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet reiterated yesterday that
policy makers are ready to raise the benchmark interest rate
further from 1.25 percent to fight inflation threats even as
governments struggle to contain Greece’s debt crisis. They will
hold their next monetary policy meeting on July 7 in  Frankfurt .  The ECB can “easily” raise rates “without inflicting any
pain on the economy, which continues to grow very slowly,”
RBS’s Peruzzo said.  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said its
Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9 in June compared with 52
in May. Manufacturing, which accounts for about half of China’s
economy, is moderating as government policies curb demand for
housing and cars, power shortages crimp output and monetary
tightening limits company funding.  Inflation Moderates  “The Chinese PMI pointed at both growth and inflation
moderation, which likely soothed concerns about excessive
monetary tightening ahead,” said  Valentin Marinov , a currency
strategist at Citigroup in  London . “If the Chinese economy
slows down further, this could intensify concerns about a hard
landing and add to the headwinds for risk appetite.”  The People’s Bank of China has paused for 12 weeks in
raising benchmark rates, the longest gap since increases began
in October. China’s inflation was 5.5 percent in May, exceeding
the government’s annual target of 4 percent.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s factory
index rose to 55.3 last month from 53.5 in May, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists estimated the index
would drop to 52, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  South Korea   In South Korea, where export growth slowed to 14.5 percent
in June from 22.4 percent in May and a purchasing managers’
index by HSBC and  Markit Economics  eased, consumer-price gains
exceeded the central bank’s target for a sixth month in June.
Prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier after a 4.1 percent
increase in May, the statistics department said today. The
Finance Ministry yesterday cut its 2011 growth forecast to 4.5
percent from 5 percent.  A measure of India’s manufacturing output fell to 55.3 in
June from 57.5 in May, according to an index compiled by HSBC
and Markit Economics. Price gains in the world’s second-most
populous country may accelerate after the government last week
raised the cost of diesel and cooking gas for the first time in
a year. The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised interest rates 10
times since mid-March 2010.  “We are seeing a global slowdown in growth so it may not
be necessary for imminent tightening” across  Asia , said
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC in
 Hong Kong . While the easing expansion may curb price pressures,
“one big risk for Asia is that inflation remains more sticky
than expected and that will reduce the scope for policy
accommodation.”  Euro Area  Markit’s gauge of euro-area manufacturing tumbled to 52 in
June from 54.6 a month earlier.  Germany , the region’s largest
economy, saw its measure fall to 54.6 from 57.7, Markit said,
while  Greece ’s reading of 45.5, up from 44.5 in May, “signaled
a further solid deterioration in business conditions for Greek
goods producers.” A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly slowed in June as
waning global demand reduced orders. The British gauge fell to
51.3 from a revised 52 in May, the lowest level since September
2009. The median forecast 26 of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of 52.3.  “The previously robust recovery in the industrial sector
is rapidly losing steam,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief European
economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said in a note.
“Hopes that a sustained rebalancing of an economy toward the
industrial sector would help to offset the weakness of consumer
sector are fading fast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  