-- 
Chubu Electric Faces Third Lawsuit to Shut Hamaoka Nuclear Plant

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-01T05:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/chubu-electric-faces-third-lawsuit-to-shut-hamaoka-nuclear-plant.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. said a
lawsuit was filed in a Japanese court calling on the company to
close down its only nuclear plant, the third pending case
against the station.  The suit was filed today with the Shizuoka District Court,
Chubu Electric spokesman Akio Miyazaki said by phone from  Tokyo .
The Hamaoka nuclear plant southwest of Tokyo was shut in May at
the request of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  so its tsunami defenses
can be fortified.  The case was filed almost four months after Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant had reactor meltdowns
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, causing the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986.  Hamaoka, about 190 kilometers (118 miles) southwest of
Tokyo, lies close to an active fault line. The government has
estimated there is an 87 percent chance of an 8-magnitude
earthquake hitting near the plant within the next 30 years.  Thirty-four people including Tsuyoshi Yoshiwara, the
president of Johnan Shinkin Bank, a Tokyo-based credit union,
are behind the suit, Kanako Kurimura, a lawyer representing the
group who is also among the plaintiffs, said by phone yesterday
from Shizuoka city.  Gen Mikami, the mayor of Kosai, a city located about 60
kilometers west of the plant with a population of 62,000 people,
is one of the plaintiffs, she said. Yoshiwara and Mikami are
taking part as private citizens.  Tsunami Defenses  Chubu Electric shut down the units at Hamaoka for as long
as three years to take protective measures, including building a
sea wall. Seawater leaked into one of the plant’s reactors as it
was shut down.  The plaintiffs want the utility to shut it permanently,
according to Kurimura. Two other court cases against the Hamaoka
plant are pending, according to Chubu Electric spokesman Koki
Saguchi.  The Shizuoka court in 2007 rejected a suit claiming Chubu
Electric had underestimated the size of earthquakes that could
hit the plant and the potential for serious damage to its aging
reactors. The plaintiffs appealed the decision to the Tokyo High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  