-- 
Clinton’s ‘Tech Camp’ Teaches Activists Web Savvy, Subversion

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-01T19:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/clinton-s-tech-camp-teaches-activists-web-savvy-subversion.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and U.S. companies including Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  are teaming up to teach activists how to protect
themselves from official harassment as they use social media to
organize protests.  “We have to be willing to keep coming up with new ways of
getting over, under, around and through the walls and other
techniques that are used to prevent people from freely
communicating,” Clinton said yesterday at a training session in
Vilnius,  Lithuania , for about 80 activists.  Clinton visited the training session, which her department
calls “Tech Camp,”  as part of a three-day trip to Hungary and
Lithuania, where she attended a meeting of the  Community of
Democracies , a group of more than 100 nations that work to
promote freedom.  Her broader goal has been to use the example of the
protests sweeping the  Middle East  to reinforce the message that
open government and Internet freedom benefit societies and
economies the world over.  French President Nicholas Sarkozy’s technology adviser was
there to coach participants, along with executives from San
Francisco-based Twitter Inc.,  Palo Alto , California-based
Facebook Inc., Microsoft and Luxembourg-based Skype Technologies
SA.  Internet Freedom  Ensuring Internet freedom so activists can use social media
sites such as Twitter to organize and communicate safely is
“one of the highest priorities during my time as secretary of
state,” Clinton said yesterday.  The State Department has spent about $50 million to teach
activists how to circumvent firewalls and protect themselves in
repressive nations, said an administration official who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record. The Vilnius technology camp
is the third they’ve held since December 2010, after sessions in
Santiago,  Chile , and Jakarta,  Indonesia .  The gray-paneled conference room where Clinton spoke was
crowded with activists from 22 different countries, their chairs
two rows deep along the walls in some places. Most were from
Eastern Europe. The 20 trainers came from  France , the U.S.,
Kenya and the UK.  Alec Ross, Clinton’s senior adviser for innovation, said
one of the trainers’ goals is to teach activists to do their
online work more securely. One activist said he attended the
U.S.-backed technology camp in Lithuania to learn how to keep
his group safe online when it uses social media to organize
protests in Belarus. He requested anonymity because he heads an
organization that hasn’t been officially registered, a crime
punishable by six months to two years in jail in the Republic of
Belarus.  Crushing Protests  Belarus President Alexandr Lukashenko has used force to
crush post-election demonstrations that began in December and
jailed seven of nine candidates who ran against him. Clinton,
speaking in Vilnius today, said Lukashenko’s regime “brutally
represses the human rights of its citizens.”  During the first of two eleven-hour days at the technology
camp, the activist and his colleagues broke into groups to
identify challenges.  Among the issues discussed were what to do when a
government drowns out Twitter alerts with a flood of messages
carrying a group’s special identifying mark, or “hashtag,” as
 Syria  has done. Other questions raised were how to connect
social activist groups within a country, how to create real-time
maps of events during a crisis and how to communicate in a
difficult environment.  On the second day, the groups worked on the problems and
presented solutions they had found with their trainers.  Internet Companies  Ross said having Internet company representatives present
allows them to understand the difficulties activists encounter
on the ground.  “You can’t take for granted in San Francisco people are
going to understand what to them might be low-level traffic over
a hashtag, but which to people in a small country might be
flooding a hashtag,” Ross said.  The group working on that question couldn’t find a good
answer. In response, the Twitter representative said his company
would work on ways to screen spam, Ross said.  Clinton met with civil society groups from  Kenya  to
 Cambodia  during her trip, touted the ‘Tech Camp’ and announced
help for non-profit groups threatened by their governments.
Clinton also urged established democracies to assist countries
such as Libya and  Egypt  that are trying to make the transition.  Tunisia, Moldova  Clinton praised the Community of Democracies’ new
“Democracy Partnership Challenge.” That program will pair
emerging democracies -- Tunisia and Moldova this year -- with
more established ones to provide advice on issues such as
holding elections and building an independent judiciary.  The Community of Democracies has also set up a “Lifeline”
funding mechanism to help groups that are coming under pressure
from their governments, she said. The $12 million dollar fund
can be used to help activists who might be injured or jailed in
the course of their work, said the administration official.  Clinton told the activists yesterday they were part of “a
global movement” and urged them “to create solidarity with
each other in order to maximize your impact.” As the two-day
camp ended, one of the working groups announced they would
gather e-mail addresses to test and share with their fellow
participants new ways to get around Internet firewalls.  The Belorussian and a compatriot said the experience had
given them a sense of comfort as they return to deal with what
they called the daily threat of life and work in their country.  2903130Z US <EQUITY> CN
MSFT US <EQUITY> CN
798754Z US <EQUITY> CN
391316Z LX <EQUITY> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Vilnius at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  