-- 
Colombia’s Central Bank Says Some Members See 4.25% Rate as ‘Expansive’

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-07-01T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/colombia-s-central-bank-says-some-members-see-4-25-rate-as-expansive-.html
Colombia ’s central bank said some
board members at last month’s meeting considered a quarter-point
interest rate increase as “expansive” monetary policy while
one called for a pause to prevent stifling economic growth.  Policy makers on June 17 raised the overnight rate for the
fifth straight meeting by 25 basis points to 4.25 percent,
matching the forecast of 22 of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank met before a report showed that the economy
grew faster than expected in the first quarter.  Most members called for the rate increase to help ease
growth in  consumer credit  and reduce the risks of financial
imbalance and volatility in  interest rates , output and
employment, according to the minutes posted on the central
bank’s website today. Retail sales in  South America ’s fourth-
biggest economy have surged as bank lending accelerates and
unemployment declines. Still, consumer prices remain within the
central bank’s target and indicators such as industrial output
suggest that slack remains in the economy.  “The board remains clearly divided on the next policy rate
moves which increase the likelihood of a tactical rate pause in
the very near term -- possibly already in July -- and the
adoption of non-rate macro-prudential measures to contain the
exuberance of credit growth,” said  Alberto Ramos , a senior
Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in a
research note to investors.  Policy Balance  Colombia’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in more
than three years in the first quarter, according to data
released a week after the central bank meeting. The economy
expanded 5.1 percent in the quarter from a year earlier, the
most since 2007.  “Although some uncertainties have been introduced into the
growth of GDP, especially because of external risks and progress
of public works projects, available information shows a strong
momentum in domestic demand,” the bank cited a majority opinion
in  minutes  of the June 17 board meeting.  One board member called for a pause to the rate increases
in June as inflation remains within the bank’s target range of
between 2 percent and 4 percent, economic growth is close to its
“historic level” and consumer, retail and industrial
confidence show signs of waning. The member sought to pause
until July when the board could analyze new information.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.02 percent in May, from
2.84 percent the previous month, and up from a five-decade low
of 1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate
after inflation, at 0.98 percent, is the lowest in  Latin America 
among nations that target inflation. Urban unemployment in May
fell to 11 percent.  Yield Gap, Targets  One other member voted in favor of the increase while
raising concern that the interest rate differential between the
U.S. and Colombia may be too wide and causing an “alarming”
increase in foreign borrowing. He called for macro-prudential
measures to be considered going forward to avoid “over using”
the interest rate.  A policy maker also noted that “both total and core
inflation as well as expectations are controlled and anchored to
the goal.”  Overseas loans jumped to $3.9 billion in the year through
May, up from $2 billion a year earlier, according to the  central 
bank.  The export and foreign investment boom in the oil and
mining industry creates few jobs and is an “unmistakable
symptom of Dutch disease,” the minutes cited the board member
as saying.  Foreign direct investment  jumped to $5.75 billion in the
year through May, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
compared with $3.68 billion in the first five months of 2010.  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 1,762.30 per dollar at 2:06
p.m. New York time, from 1,770.78 yesterday. The currency has
jumped 1.8 percent so far this week, the biggest increase since
the period ended Jan. 7.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helen Murphy at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 