-- 
Colombian Peso Posts Biggest Weekly Gain Since January on Rising Inflows

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-07-01T19:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/colombian-peso-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-april-on-rising-inflows.html
Colombia’s peso rose, posting its
biggest weekly jump since January, amid rising investment flows
into the South American nation and as optimism  Greece  will avoid
a default lifted demand for higher-yielding emerging-market
currencies.  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 1,762.30 per dollar at 3:33
p.m. New York time, from 1,770.78 yesterday. The currency jumped
1.8 percent this week, the biggest increase since the period
ended Jan. 7.  “Risk appetite has improved a lot, helped by Greece,”
said Po Jeng, an analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest
brokerage. “Foreign direct investment into oil and mining has
increased significantly, and portfolio investment is also on the
rise.”  Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($123
billion) in a second bailout aimed at preventing default and
ending the euro-region’s debt crisis, according to an Austrian
Finance Ministry official.  Foreign direct investment jumped to $5.75 billion in the
year through May, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the central bank. That
compares to $3.68 billion in the first five months of 2010.  Foreign investment into stocks and bonds jumped eight-fold
to $841 million in the five months through May from a year
earlier, according to the central bank.  Central Bank Minutes  Colombia ’s central bank said in  minutes  of its June 17
meeting that it discussed the peso’s appreciation and that one
board member called on the 25 basis point increase to 4.25
percent to be the last in order to avoid widening the difference
between Colombian and U.S. rates.  The rise in the rate differential has led to an
“alarming” increase in overseas borrowing, the board member
said, according to the minutes.  Overseas loans jumped to $3.9 billion in the year through
May, up from $2 billion a year earlier, according to figures
from the central bank.  Banco de la Republica may seek to limit foreign borrowing
to ease gains in the peso, said Andres Pardo, the head analyst
at financial services holding company Corp. Financiera
Colombiana, known as Corficolombiana.  The minutes also showed “some” central bank board members
consider that the current 4.25 percent overnight lending rate is
“still expansionary.” The bank met before a June 23 report
showed that the economy grew a faster-than-expected 5.1 percent
in the first quarter.  “Considering the GDP report came out after the last
central bank meeting, the odds are higher that most board
members are going to vote for a rate increase,” said Pardo, who
forecasts the central bank will raise the key rate to 4.50
percent in the July 29 monetary policy meeting. The bank may
“pause after July to analyze the external context,” Pardo
said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 rose
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 7.87 percent,
according to the stock exchange. The bond’s price dropped 1.115
centavos to 116.972 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  