-- 
Commodity-Futures Trade in China Plunges 30% as Rules Restrain Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T03:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/commodity-futures-trade-plummets-30-in-first-half-on-speculation-curbs.html
Commodity futures trading in  China ,
the largest buyer of copper and soybeans, tumbled 30 percent in
the first half as regulators clamped down on speculation and as
the central bank mopped up liquidity to ease rising inflation.  Volume on the bourses in Shanghai, Dalian and Zhengzhou
totaled 470 million lots in the first six months, compared with
672.05 million lots a year ago, according to the  China Futures
Association . The first-half data include lead and coke futures
started in March and April and are counted once for each trade.  China commodity futures were the most traded in the world
last year, the China Securities Journal reported on Dec. 31,
citing China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Shang
Fulin . The three exchanges raised margins and suspended trading
fee discounts in November in an attempt to curb price surges as
inflation accelerated.  “Speculators’ intraday trading dropped a lot as a result
of these changes,” said Zhu Bin, assistant general manager of
 Nanhua Futures Co.   “We do not expect the regulator to relax
the controls.”  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, Dalian Commodity Exchange,
and Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange raised the margin requirements
across the board in November and cut the discount fees for
intraday trading. The bourses also acted to curb “abnormal”
trades between related accounts.  “China’s futures market lacks institutional investors, so
as these rules squeeze out speculators, there’s no substitution
to provide the liquidity,” Zhu said.  Price Pressure  Consumer prices jumped 5.5 percent in May from a year ago,
the fastest pace in 33 months. The People’s Bank of China has
raised reserve requirement ratio 9 times to a record 21.5
percent, and  interest rates  four times since October.  “The aggregated impact of the reserve requirement
increases on futures market is significant, ” said Shen
Zhaoming, an analyst at Changjiang Futures Co. “It affected
both liquidity and open interest.”  The total open interest of commodity futures in China
climbed to a record of 5.5 million lots in October, and fell to
3.4 million lots in mid-December, after the anti-speculation
policies rolled out, according to Changjiang Futures. The open
interest was 4.13 million lots as of yesterday’s close.  “The low liquidity poses challenges to producers when they
want to hedge,” especially aluminum makers, said Wang Feihong,
a senior analyst at China Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co. Wang
has studied the industry for more than 16 years.  Aluminum Plummets  The trading volume of Shanghai aluminum futures in June
totaled 491,292 lots, or 2.46 million tons, down 63 percent from
a year ago. China is the world’s largest aluminum producer, and
makes more than 1 million tons every month of the light metal
used in beverage cans and window frames.  Lead futures launched in March were the least traded on the
Shanghai bourse, while coke futures in Dalian were the second
least traded, according to the data. The lead futures contract
size is 25 metric tons, five times the other base metals
futures. Coke futures started trading in April.  “We developed some clients along the industry chain before
lead futures launched, and they have opened accounts, but the
poor liquidity kept most of them away,” Nanhua’s Zhu said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  