-- 
Stocks Rise, Treasuries Drop on Manufacturing Data; Corn Tumbles

-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-01T18:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/commodities-austraila-dollar-decline-on-china-manufacturing-stocks-gain.html
Stocks climbed, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index extending its largest weekly gain in a year, as
a U.S. manufacturing index unexpectedly rose and  Greece  moved
closer to averting a default. Treasuries fell and corn tumbled
for a third day.  The  S&P 500  advanced 1.3 percent to 1,338.08 at 2:40 p.m.
in New York, while the MSCI All-Country World Index gained 1.3
percent. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose for a fifth day.
The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities dropped 0.7 percent as corn
tumbled to the lowest level since December and crude oil dropped
for the first time in four days. The Swiss franc depreciated
against all 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  A U.S. report from the  Institute for Supply Management 
today showed manufacturing growth unexpectedly picked up in
June. Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($124
billion) in a second bailout aimed at preventing default,
according to an Austrian Finance Ministry official. Factory
output growth fell to the lowest level since February 2009,
according to the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  “We had a positive surprise with U.S. manufacturing
data,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion. “That not only indicates that the recent soft
patch is temporary, it also tells you that we’ll continue to see
strength in global growth. In Europe, they are buying themselves
more time away to solve their debt crisis. We should see a
decent second half for the economy and the markets.”  Four-Day Gain  The S&P 500 climbed 1 percent yesterday, completing its
biggest four-day gain since September, after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won a second vote to implement his
78-billion euro austerity package, qualifying the country for
the next tranche of financial aid from the European Union.  The U.S. benchmark index ended June with a 1.8 percent
decline, spurring the first quarterly loss in a year, on concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis and weaker-than-expected economic
data. The index was still up 5 percent for the first half of
2011 as government stimulus measures, takeovers and higher-than-
estimated corporate earnings lifted investors’ confidence.  Stocks jumped today after the ISM said its factory index
rose to 55.3 in June from 53.5 the prior month. Economists
projected the gauge would drop to 52, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The report is a sign industry is rebounding after shortages
of parts and components from  Japan  slowed production, and may
ease concerns after other figures today showed manufacturing
growth is slowing from China to Europe. China’s factory index
fell in June to the weakest level since February 2009, while in
the 17-nation euro area, a gauge slipped to an 18-month low.
German manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in 17 months,
while  Italy , Ireland,  Spain  and Greece contracted.  Consumer Confidence   Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan said today its final
index of sentiment fell to 71.5 from 74.3 in May.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  rallied at least
1.5 percent, pacing gains among companies most-dependent on
economic growth. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy
for economic growth, rose 2.2 percent.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  tumbled
14 percent after a trade panel failed to reach consensus on the
camera company’s claims that Apple Inc. and Research In Motion
Ltd. infringe its image-preview technology.  More than 4.1 billion shares changed hands today ahead of
the July 4 holiday in the U.S., 4 percent less than at the same
time a week ago.  Treasuries Slump  Treasuries fell as the manufacturing report reduced concern
the U.S. economic recovery is stalling. Benchmark 10-year notes
headed for their steepest weekly loss in almost two years, as
yields rose five basis points to 3.21 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.4 percent in the second quarter after losing 0.1
percent in the first three months of the year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Corn fell for a third day, losing 3.7 percent, after the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday U.S. farmers
planted a bigger crop than analysts were expecting. Prices
reached $5.755, the lowest for the most-active contract since
Dec. 13. The grain is up 55 percent in the past year.  Crude oil fell 0.6 percent to $94.89 a barrel. Futures
tumbled as much as 2.1 percent on the weak economic data from
China and Europe, then pared losses after the U.S. manufacturing
report. The U.S. and China are the world’s two largest oil-
consuming countries, and manufacturing numbers are used as
indicators for fuel demand growth.  Oil prices  have risen 22
percent in the past year and 4.1 percent this week.  Seeking Higher Yields  The Swiss franc, considered a haven, slid 1 percent versus
the euro and the dollar, as investors sought higher-yielding
currencies. The euro gained less than 0.1 percent versus the
dollar, to $1.4506, and is heading for a 2.2 percent weekly
advance. The yen depreciated versus 15 of 16 major peers,
falling the most against the Swedish krona.  The yield on the Greek two-year note rose eleven basis
points, following three days of declines. European Union finance
chiefs will hold a conference call tomorrow to free up a fifth
installment of aid to Greece from last year’s bailout. Greece
needs that 12 billion-euro payment to meet a 6.6 billion-euro
bond maturity in August.  European Stocks  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell two basis points to 215.
The gauge is down from a peak of 243 basis points June 24 and is
heading for the biggest weekly decline in more than a year.  Three shares advanced for every two that fell in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which rose 0.8 percent. The Stoxx 600 has
gained 4.1 percent this week, the biggest jump since July.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent, while the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.9 percent. The Nikkei-225
Stock Average advanced 0.5 percent after Japanese companies said
in a Tankan survey they will boost  capital spending  4.2 percent
in fiscal 2011, exceeding analysts’ forecasts for a 2.4 percent
gain. Russia’s Micex Index climbed 1.9 percent after President
 Dmitry Medvedev  lifted curbs on domestic-share trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in  New York  at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  