-- 
Connecticut’s ‘Anti-Christie’ Governor Malloy Plans Worker Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/connecticut-s-anti-christie-governor-readies-worker-cuts-2-.html
Governor Dannel Malloy, who described
himself as the “anti-Christie” for his conciliatory approach
toward Connecticut’s state workers, has changed his tune after
they spurned his plan for pay and benefit concessions.  The Nutmeg State governor, 55, a Democrat who was  endorsed 
by public-sector unions in his campaign last year, can start
firing thousands of workers to close a $1.6 billion budget gap
after the Democratic-controlled Legislature in Hartford passed
his plan in a special session early yesterday.  While lawmakers failed to back a separate proposal to curb
collective bargaining on some benefits, the strategy marks a
reversal for Malloy. In February, he said he was the antithesis
of New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , contrasting his approach
of negotiating concessions with the Republican’s attacks on
unions. He abandoned that tack when workers rejected givebacks
last week, opening the gap in his $40.1 billion, two-year plan.  “The irony is he so wanted to be the anti-Christie and
couldn’t be,” said Jonathan Pelto, a Democrat and former deputy
majority leader of Connecticut’s House of Representatives. “He
so wanted to pull this off but didn’t.”  The longest recession since World War II triggered an
avalanche of measures across the U.S. targeting government
workers, with states enacting wage freezes and benefit cuts.
Some, including  Wisconsin , took most issues, such as health care
and pensions, off the negotiating table. Lawmakers offered 856
bills concerning collective bargaining in legislative sessions
this year, according to data from all 50 states reported by the
 National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  Shared Sacrifice  Malloy, who won election by less than 6,500 votes in
November, pledged to forge a shared sacrifice among taxpayers
and state employees to close a budget hole estimated at $6.2
billion over two years. In February he unveiled a package of tax
increases, raising levies on sales and income, combined with a
placeholder for about $2 billion in union concessions.  Lawmakers ultimately adopted most of his proposals, in May
passing the spending plan for the biennium that started
yesterday. It raises taxes by $2.6 billion, the biggest increase
in state history. The budget anticipated the acceptance of $2
billion in concessions from Malloy’s promised deal with the
state’s 15 labor unions.  “Make no mistake: come July 1,  Connecticut  will have an
honest, balanced budget in place,” Malloy said May 4 in a
statement. “No smoke, no mirrors.”  Waiting for Jobs  Christie, 48, who slashed local and school aid by $1.3
billion after taking office last year and campaigned for
freezing teachers’ pay, lost no time in February pouncing on
Malloy’s proposal. Appearing on  MSNBC ’s Morning Joe program on
Feb. 23, the Republican said he would be “waiting at the border
to take Connecticut’s jobs” when the state raised taxes.  Malloy responded in a briefing with reporters in Hartford,
when asked about Christie’s comments.  “I suppose I’m the anti-Christie,” Malloy said. “Their
governor has to be their governor. I have to be the governor
here. I assure you that when everything is said and done, our
taxes will be lower than  New Jersey ’s.”  New Jersey residents bear the highest state and local tax
burden, at 12.2 percent of income in fiscal 2009, followed by
 New York , at 12.1 percent, and Connecticut at 12 percent,
according to the  Tax Foundation , a nonprofit research group in
 Washington . Connecticut was the only one of the three to enact
tax increases this year.  Union Vote  The war of words resumed this week after four of
Connecticut’s government unions voted against the $1.6 billion
package of wage and benefit concessions that Malloy had agreed
to with labor leaders, killing the deal. The givebacks were less
than originally proposed partly because state tax revenue has
grown faster than forecast, narrowing the budget gap.  “All I know is  Dan Malloy  was lecturing me about look how
he could get it done,” Christie said this week in another
Morning Joe appearance. “He’s conciliatory. He negotiates with
people. He got these big concessions in return for big tax
increases.”  “So now what do the people of Connecticut have?” Christie
said. “Big tax increases with no concessions, ‘cause the unions
stuck it to him. The fact of the matter is, what these folks in
the public-sector unions respect is strength.”  Public Spat  Malloy responded yesterday,  appearing  on the MSNBC cable-
television show and alluding to Christie’s weight at one point.  “People say things that sometimes don’t make any sense,”
the Democrat said. “This is a debate that’s more important than
who’s got the bigger belt. It’s about policy.”  Asked to respond,  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman,
suggested the Connecticut governor should focus on issues in
Hartford.  “Malloy’s failure to deliver on contract talks, public-
sector union concessions and his imposition of historically
large tax hikes in Connecticut speaks for itself,” Drewniak
said by e-mail. “That’s some record.”  The Connecticut House voted 78-56 at 12:14 a.m. and the
Senate 21-14 at 2:29 a.m. yesterday to give Malloy the  authority 
to cut spending in the executive, legislative and judicial
branches by as much as 10 percent over the next three months.  Job-Cutting Plan  Malloy this week presented his plan for slashing about
6,500 jobs, including eliminating 1,000 that are vacant. The law
gives unions until Aug. 31 to revive the concession deal to
avoid some of the cuts.  “If they choose to ratify the agreement that was recently
turned down, and if they do so in a timely fashion, much of the
pain that’s been inflicted over the past few days can be
reversed,” Malloy said yesterday in a statement.  The Senate passed the governor’s proposal to change
benefits including the way pension payments are calculated,
making them no longer subject to collective bargaining. The
House didn’t take up the bill, according to Doug Whiting, a
spokesman for the Democratic leadership.  “A negotiated solution is what everyone wants right now,
and respecting the collective-bargaining process is the best way
to allow that to happen,” Larry Dorman, a spokesman for the
State Employee Bargaining Agent Coalition, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  