-- 
Contador Starts Tour de France With Saxo Bank Blessing as Race Host Curses

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-01T07:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/contador-starts-tour-de-france-with-saxo-bank-blessing-as-race-host-curses.html
Saxo Bank A/S increased its backing
of three-time  Tour de France  champion  Alberto Contador , even as
most fans in the host nation don’t want him in this year’s race
while he’s waiting for a final dismissal of doping allegations.  Saxo, a Copenhagen-based online trader and asset manager,
agreed to pay more to stay on as sponsor of Contador’s team
through 2012, co-Chief Executive Officer Lars Seier Christensen
said in an interview without disclosing terms of the renewal. It
costs Dutch lender Rabobank Group 15 million euros ($21.4
million) a year to be the main sponsor of its cycling team.  Contador, 28, will be among the cyclists starting the
three-week, 2,100-mile race tomorrow, five weeks before the
Court of Arbitration for Sport considers an appeal against his
acquittal by the Spanish cycling federation for doping at last
year’s event. If he loses, he may be stripped of that title and
have his result erased from this month’s race. Paris-based
pollster Ifop found 63 percent of the French public don’t want
him in their national race.  “People assume there’s no smoke without fire” said Nigel Currie, the director of London-based sponsorship agency
BrandRapport.  Saxo Bank is backing cycling as companies balk at
bankrolling a sport tarnished by doping scandals. As cycling’s
ruling body, the International Cycling Union, appeals Contador’s
acquittal, the U.S. government is investigating record seven-
time Tour winner  Lance Armstrong  in connection with doping
accusations when his team was sponsored by the U.S. Postal
Service. Armstrong, who ended a two-year comeback in February,
denies wrongdoing. Two of his former teammates,  Floyd Landis  and
Tyler Hamilton, both of whom have failed drug tests, say doping
was commonplace.  Sponsor Search  The Milram team, supported by a German dairy company,
folded after last season. A squad backed by Taiwan-based  HTC
Corp. (2498) , the biggest mobile phone maker, may have to wind down if
it can’t get backing for next season, even though it includes
15-time stage winner Mark Cavendish,  Agence France-Presse 
reported, citing team owner Bob Stapleton. Team spokesman Kristy
Scrymegeour didn’t return a call and e-mail.  Contador was cleared of wrongdoing by the Spanish
federation after testing positive for what cycling’s ruling body
called a “very small” trace of the stimulant clenbuterol at
the 2010 Tour. He blamed the positive result on eating
contaminated meat. Ifop, which surveyed 1,013 people between
June 7 and 9, found 63 percent didn’t want him to race compared
with 19 percent who did. Eighteen percent were undecided.  “It’s certainly not a worldwide view in my opinion,”
Christensen said. “People will realize at some point when they
think through it that Contador has rights like other bicycle
riders. The guy is acquitted, and hence he’s free to ride.”  Escape Clause  BrandRapport’s Currie said he’d be “amazed” if there
isn’t a clause in Saxo Bank’s contract with the team that allows
it to cancel the deal should Contador lose the appeal.
Christensen declined to say if there is such a stipulation.  “It’s a concern if the HTC team can’t find a sponsor
because they’re one of the most attractive teams: They’re
forward-thinking, they’ve got  Mark Cavendish  and they win a lot
of bike races,” said Anthony McCrossan, founder of Southampton,
England-based Cyclevox, which has acted as a consultant for the
Cervelo team. “Cycling has gone through some pain to clean
itself up, and maybe there’s a bit more to come.”  Contador is the 18-25 favorite with Malta-based bookmaker
BetClic Ltd. to win the Tour de France, meaning a successful $1
bet would return 72 cents plus the original stake. Two-time
runner-up  Andy Schleck  of the Leopard-Trek team is the 7-4
second favorite followed by  Cadel Evans  of the BMC Racing Team
and Rabobank rider Robert Gesink at 24-1.  The race starts with a 191.5-kilometer (119-mile) stage
tomorrow between the Passage du Gois and Mont des Alouettes in
the Vendee region of western  France .  Cycling Entertaining  Sponsoring a team is a chance for Saxo Bank to entertain
hedge-fund clients and its own staff at the Tour and promote its
new retail business that is targeting “the affluent part of the
mass market,” Christensen said. The bank opened its first
branch in Copenhagen in May.  Saxo Bank’s VIP clients at the Tour will dine with team
owner Bjarne Riis and ride in a helicopter after a stage in the
Alps. Riis, a Dane who won the 1996 Tour, confessed to doping in
2007. They will also get a chance to meet Contador during the
race, Christensen said.  “In cycling you can get a little closer” to athletes than
in other sports, Christensen said. “But obviously they can’t
hang around all evening asking questions, especially when riders
have to cycle 120 kilometers the next morning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  