-- 
U.K. Crop Losses Narrow as Rain Last Month Follows Driest Spring on Record

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-01T10:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/crop-losses-narrow-in-u-k-as-rainy-june-follows-driest-spring-on-record.html
The U.K., the European Union’s third-
biggest wheat producer, will lose fewer crops than previously
expected this year as rain followed the driest spring on record.  About 14 percent of the U.K. crop may be lost, compared
with an estimate of 50 percent before last month’s rainfall,
said Jenny Bashford, a water policy adviser for the National
Farmers Union. About 63 millimeters (2.5 inches) of rain fell in
the past five weeks, twice as much as between March 1 and May
27, the Home-Grown Cereals Authority said yesterday.  “We’ve had more rain in a month than we did in the whole
five months before that,” said Robert Law, a farmer from
Hertfordshire, England, who tends 2,000 hectares (5,400 acres)
of wheat, barley and rapeseed. “The rain has averted a
disaster.”  Grain prices tumbled yesterday after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said farmers planted more crops than analysts were
expecting and the International Grains Council raised its
estimate for the global corn and wheat harvests. Lower food
costs may slow the acceleration in consumer prices that has
spurred more than two-dozen countries to raise  interest rates 
this year, potentially slowing growth.  Wheat traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, a global
benchmark, fell by the most allowed by the bourse yesterday,
declining 8.9 percent to $6.1425 a bushel, the lowest in 11
months. Corn tumbled 4.6 percent and retreated another 5.1
percent to $5.89 a bushel by 11:24 a.m. in London.  Damage Done  “The rain won’t repair the damage that’s been done but it
will stop it from getting any worse,” Bashford said. Wheat,
barley and corn were hit hardest by dry weather because they
don’t have irrigation, she said.  Drought was declared last month in the grain-growing
East Anglia region, which accounts for 53 percent of the U.K.’s
sugar-beet output, 17 percent of wheat and 13 percent of barley.
The counties of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire and parts of
Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire, all in central or eastern
 England , are in a drought, according to the Environment Agency.  The recent rainfall hasn’t helped boost groundwater
supplies which are short “because the soil is very dry,” the
agency said in a report today. Water levels aren’t expected to
rise in the summer months, according to the report.  Wheat crop estimates for the U.K., France,  Denmark , Hungary
and  Poland  were lowered yesterday by the London-based grains
council, citing the dry weather.  U.K. Estimates  The U.K.’s total grains production for 2011-12 will be 19.8
million tons, down 8.3 percent from the previous estimate, and
slipping behind  Spain ’s total production for the first time
since at least 2008, according to the report.  The U.K.’s wheat crop estimate was lowered to 14 million
tons from 15.5 million tons,  France ’s was reduced to 34 million
from 35 million while  Germany ’s was unchanged at 23 million
tons.  Corn plants that didn’t grow as tall as normal in the dry
weather in the U.K. benefited from the rain in June, Bashford
said. Fatter kernels on plants in areas where ample rain has
fallen probably produced higher-quality corn, she said.  “It’s more about the quality of what is being produced
than the quantity,” she said.  Winter wheat and barley yields in the U.K. will likely be
“trimmed back” and his spring crops including barley seeded in
March and April were the most damaged from dry weather,
Hertfordshire grower Law said. Even some plants seeded earlier
probably won’t do well, he said.  ‘Not a Good Crop’  “Some crops have responded to the rain but for some I’m
afraid the damage was done,” Law said. “Spring barley was too
thin and too far gone to recover. Winter barley looks about
average, and winter wheat is going to be well down on average.
It’s not a good crop out there.”  Temperatures in the U.K. cooled in the past month,
lengthening the period when the grain is formed, resulting in
larger kernels and higher quality crops, the HGCA said. Less
sunshine was available, a detriment to growing crops, and some
areas in eastern, southwest and central England are still
deficient in soil moisture, according to the report.  “A return to drier weather could have further impacts,”
the HGCA said. “There is still considerable uncertainty about
yield prospects for 2011 with results likely to be highly
variable depending on soil type, local rainfall and crop
management.”  Dry weather that’s expected in July will add to water-
supply concerns and some restrictions may be put in place, the
U.K. Environment Agency said in a report today.  “We may see drought conditions spreading into central
England and further east,” the agency said. “Additional formal
restrictions on farmers who irrigate may be necessary toward the
end of July and customers may face restrictions by late
summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  