-- 
Oil Falls on Signs Fuel Demand Will Ebb as U.S., China Manufacturing Slow

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-07-01T19:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/crude-oil-falls-first-time-in-four-days-on-slowing-growth-in-china-u-s-.html
Oil dropped for the first time in
four days as signs of slowing manufacturing growth in  China  and
 Europe  increased speculation fuel demand may falter.  Futures declined 0.5 percent, trimming the biggest weekly
gain in almost three months, after China’s Purchasing Managers’
Index fell to the lowest level since February 2009 and a gauge
in the 17-nation euro area slipped to an 18-month low. Oil pared
a 2.1 percent intraday loss after U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly increased and equities rallied.  “The Chinese number is economically bearish and that would
explain some of the selloff today, given that prices had been
rising,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin,  Texas . China is the world’s fastest-growing
energy consumer.  Crude for August delivery fell 48 cents to settle at $94.94
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices gained 4.2
percent this week, the most since the period ended April 8. They
have risen 30 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for August settlement slid 71 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $111.77 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium over New
York futures narrowed by 23 cents to $16.83. The spread reached
a record $22.29 a barrel on June 15.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 50.9 in June
from 52 in May, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in a statement today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 economists was 51.5. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Chinese Manufacturing  China’s report “affirms their tightening of monetary
policy is taking effect and impacting oil demand,” said Serene Lim, a commodity strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “China is where the growth is and
having this kind of manufacturing activity data slowing down
might be affecting the markets.”  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 52 from 54.6 in
May, London-based Markit Economics said today. The euro-area
recovery is cooling as European leaders struggle to contain the
Greek debt crisis.  New York futures recouped part of their drop as the
 Institute for Supply Management  reported its U.S. manufacturing
index rose for the first time in four months, a sign industry is
rebounding after shortages of parts and components from  Japan 
slowed production.  U.S. Manufacturing  “The U.S. report is good for oil because it allays some of
the concerns about the second-half economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There is still bearish news out
there, but this is a bright spot on the positive side.”  The U.S. manufacturing index reached 55.3 in June from 53.5
in May, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM. It was
forecast to drop to 52, according to the median estimate of 77
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The U.S. and China are the world’s two largest oil-
consuming countries, and manufacturing numbers are used as
indicators for fuel demand growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  were poised to extend their biggest weekly gain since
July 2009. The  S&P 500  rose 1.3 percent to 1,337.31 and the Dow
average gained 153.60 points, or 1.2 percent to 12,567.94.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
decreased 0.7 percent to 663.94 in the biggest one-day drop
since June 23. Fourteen of the commodities dropped, nine
increased and one was unchanged from the previous day.  Reserve Sales  Futures also declined as OPEC boosted supplies and the U.S.
offered 30 million barrels of oil from strategic reserves under
an International Energy Agency plan to stabilize prices.  Oil futures will probably fall next week amid signals that
the economy is slowing as the government prepares to release the
first oil from strategic reserves into the market, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Fourteen of 36 analysts, or 39 percent, forecast oil will
drop through July 8. Eight respondents, or 22 percent, predicted
prices will increase and 14 estimated there will be little
change. Last week, 44 percent of those surveyed said futures
would drop.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 463,565
contracts as of 2:30 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 525,529
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.54 million contracts, the
highest level in two weeks.  Volume was light before the U.S. Independence Day holiday
on July 4, when U.S. financial markets will be closed. Today is
 Canada  Day, a national holiday and offices there are closed.  “I would assume that liquidity is very thin today because
of the holidays in the U.S. and Canada,” said Katherine Spector, commodities strategist with CIBC World Markets Corp. in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 