-- 
Crudites in Bordeaux Bring E. Coli Sleuths Closer to Diarrhea Bug Source

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-07-02T06:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/crudites-in-bordeaux-bring-e-coli-sleuths-closer-to-diarrhea-bug-source.html
Crudites eaten at a children’s center
in the French city of  Bordeaux  are helping doctors in their two-
month hunt for the source of the world’s deadliest E. coli
outbreak.  The bacterium that began sickening thousands of people in
 Germany  in early May is the same as one that gave more than a
dozen people bloody diarrhea and  kidney failure  in southern
 France  last month, a study released on June 30 found. After
tracing common food sources, epidemiologists found fenugreek
seeds from Egypt could be implicated in both outbreaks,
authorities said.  Scientists are checking bacterial specimens to confirm the
link and solve a mystery hanging over the outbreak, which caused
illness in 4,125 people and  killed 49  in 13 European countries.  “The one common source here that keeps coming up over and
over again is Egyptian seeds,” Michael Osterholm, director of
the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the
 University of Minnesota , said in an interview yesterday.
“Fenugreek is showing up clearly in the French outbreak and
showing up clearly in the German outbreak.”  The link to fenugreek, a clover-like plant used as both an
herb and a spice, was identified after disease investigators
found it was served at an event attended by patients in the
Bordeaux suburb of Begles.  Eleven of the French cases had attended an open day at a
children’s community center on June 8, according to a June 30
 report  in Eurosurveillance, a weekly online journal on
infectious diseases published by the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control in  Stockholm .  Sprout Garnish  A cold buffet was served consisting of crudites, or raw
vegetables, three dips, industrially produced gazpacho, a choice
of two cold soups, pasteurized fruit juices and individual
dishes composed of white grapes, tomatoes, sesame seeds, chives,
industrially produced soft cheese and fruit, the report said.  The soups were served with fenugreek sprouts, a small
amount of which were also placed on the crudite dishes. Mustard
and rocket sprouts, still growing on cotton wool, were used to
decorate the dishes, the authors said.  The sprouts had been grown from rocket, mustard and
fenugreek seeds planted at the center the previous week. The
seeds were bought from a branch of a national chain of gardening
retailers, having been supplied by a distributor in the U.K.,
the authors said.  Food Scraps  Leftover mustard and rocket seeds, gazpacho and tap water
samples from the  community center  have been sent for
microbiological analysis, as have samples of rocket, mustard,
fenugreek and other seeds from the French gardening retailer.
Preliminary results are being analyzed, the researchers said.  Microbiological testing won’t always find the pathogen,
especially if the contamination is sporadic and at low levels,
Osterholm at the University of Minnesota said.  “Absence of this in a product doesn’t mean anything about
what product’s involved,” he said. “Even if 1-to-2 percent of
the seeds are contaminated, it still means that potentially many
thousands, if not millions, of people have been exposed given
the wide distribution of those seeds and how much of this is
consumed.”  The U.K.  Food Standards Agency  is testing samples of three
varieties of seeds sold by  Thompson & Morgan (UK) Ltd. :
fenugreek, white mustard and rocket. The tests are part of a
probe into the French outbreak, the 156-year-old company, based
in Ipswich,  England , said in an e-mail June 30.  Withdrawn From Sale  Although there has been no established link, Thompson &
Morgan has temporarily withdrawn from sale five sprout-seed
varieties, including fenugreek, according to a  statement  on its
website. The company’s own supplier sourced the Egyptian seed,
and this sprouting seed was then exclusively supplied into the
French garden center market, according to the e-mail.  About 9,451 people were sickened and 12 killed in a series
of E. coli outbreaks in  Japan  between May and December 1996,
according to a 1999 study in the American Journal of
Epidemiology. The majority of those cases were acquired by
tainted radish sprouts in school lunches.  Radish seeds experimentally infected with the germ produced
contaminated sprouts, suggesting the original source may not be
the farm supplying the produce, researchers in  Tokyo  reported in
a 1998 study.  The European agencies advised consumers not to grow sprouts
for their own use or to eat sprouts or sprouted seeds unless
they have been thoroughly cooked. Seed imported from  Egypt  in
2009 appears to be implicated in the outbreak in France, while
the German outbreak has been associated with seed imported last
year, the ECDC said in a  June 29 statement .  Deadly Epidemic  Even if the link with Egyptian seeds is confirmed, it won’t
explain the most recent case in  Sweden , the ECDC said. So far,
no consumption of sprouts has been implicated in the case, which
is still being investigated, the agency said.  The current E. coli epidemic is more deadly than previous
outbreaks because the pathogen produces a poisonous byproduct
called Shiga toxin and has the ability to stack together and
stick to the gut, according to a study led by Helge Karch,
director of the Hygiene Institute at the University of Muenster,
last month. The unusual combination of traits makes it more
likely for infected people to develop a potentially fatal kidney
complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, they said.  The same type of E. coli, called O104, sickened a patient
in  South Korea  in 2004. Genetic studies of that bacterium showed
it’s unrelated to the pathogen in  Europe , scientists at the
National Institute of Health in Chungcheongbuk-do said in a
 letter  in the July edition of Emerging Infectious Diseases
journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  