-- 
Cypress to Double Team, Start Funds to Tap Brazil’s M&A Market

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-01T16:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/cypress-to-double-team-start-funds-to-tap-brazil-s-m-a-market.html
Cypress Associates do Brasil
Consultoria Empresarial Ltda , a Brazilian mergers and
acquisitions consulting firm, plans to double its team, open new
offices and start two funds by the end of the year.  The company plans to hire as many as 15 people and open
offices in  Rio de Janeiro  and in southern Brazil to tap the
consolidation process in the country’s economy. The funds will
invest in the technology and the infrastructure supply
industries. Cypress, which led  Bematech SA (BEMA3) ’s initial public
offering in 2007, did six deals this year, and has mandates for
30 others, said Luiz Felipe Alves, founder and partner.  “The Brazilian market is hot,” Alves said in a June 29
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo. “This
will be a record year in M&A for Cypress and we see demand for
money and investments from companies that want to ride the wave
of growing consumption in Brazil, especially the ones linked to
the emerging middle class.”  About $1.1 trillion in mergers and acquisitions were
disclosed worldwide in 2011 through June 29, 23 percent more
than in the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 16 percent of that amount comes from deals in
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China .  Private Equity   Cypress plans to broaden its businesses and start two
private-equity funds this year, said Alves. One of them, with
100 million reais ($64 million) in cash, will invest in software
developers and other companies. Another fund, which could have
as much as 200 million reais, will acquire shares in suppliers
for the infrastructure industry.  The company will act in private equity through a new
venture, Cypress Participacoes, whose control will be shared
with two others. One of them is Cultinvest Asset Management
Ltda, a Brazilian asset-management company founded by former
executives of major banks, including Walter Mendes. The other is
Bematech’s founder, Marcel Martins Malczewski.  “We’ll get the funding from institutional investors,
pension funds and rich families, through their ‘family
offices’,” Alves said.  Brazil had 489 mergers and acquisitions in 2010, worth
about $146.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This was the biggest amount and volume in the local market in at
least 12 years, fueled by Brazil’s 7.5 percent economic growth
last year, the strongest in more than two decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  