-- 
Czech Policy Makers See Inflation Anchored Amid Balanced Risks

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-07-01T07:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/czech-policy-makers-see-inflation-anchored-amid-balanced-risks.html
Most Czech policy makers consider
inflation expectations anchored near the central bank’s target
and risks to price growth relevant for monetary policy are
balanced, according to minutes from the June 23 board meeting.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka board voted 5-2 to
keep the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a half-point
below the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, last week.  Eva Zamrazilova  and Kamil Janacek voted for a quarter-point rise,
the minutes, posted on the bank’s website today, showed.  “The bank board agreed the Czech economy is currently
showing some recovery,” according to the minutes. “Opinions on
the degree of the recovery and its implications for inflation
outlook differed.”  The Czechs have kept the main rate steady since May 2010 as
central banks across  Europe  lifted borrowing costs to curb
inflation. Poland increased its benchmark rate for a third month
on June 8. Czech policy makers are weighing differing signals
from the economy as output growth and headline inflation
accelerated while state spending cuts continue to damp domestic
demand.  Some Czech board members said domestic demand remains weak
and economic growth driven by exports isn’t creating
inflationary risks as it leads to an appreciation of the koruna
and tames price pressures, the minutes showed.  Recovery  Some policy makers considered the current recovery to be
the start of stable economic growth, which may represent an
inflationary risk.  A planned increase in the value-added tax, which still
needs to be approved by parliament, may increase headline
inflation, the minutes showed.  “A majority of board members agreed that long-term
inflation expectations are stable and anchored near the
inflation target,” according to the minutes. “A change in the
VAT doesn’t represent a risk of a long-term increase in overall
inflation.”  Inflation accelerated to 2 percent in May, matching the
central bank’s target, from 1.6 percent the previous month,
driven mainly by higher food prices, the statistics office said
on June 9. Housing and energy costs, as well as more expensive
oil, also helped spur inflation above the central bank’s 1.7
percent forecast for May.  Gross domestic product grew 2.8 percent in the first
quarter on the year, compared with 2.7 percent in the final
three months of 2010, with exports and a revival in investments
contributing the most to the expansion. Household and government
consumption declined as the Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas
trims state spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  