-- 
Nadal Will Defend His Wimbledon Title Against World’s New No. 1 Djokovic

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-02T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/defending-champ-rafael-nadal-comes-back-to-beat-murray-will-face-djokovic.html
Rafael Nadal  defeated Britain’s  Andy Murray  yesterday to reach the final at Wimbledon and will defend
his championship against Novak Djokovic, who’s taking over the
top spot in men’s tennis from the Spaniard win or lose.  The 25-year-old Nadal won 5-7, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4. The six-time
French Open champion lost the No. 1 spot on the ATP World Tour
for the first time in more than a year when Djokovic defeated
France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the first semifinal held
yesterday.  Nadal hasn’t been beaten at Wimbledon since 2007, when he
was defeated by six-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland 
in the final. He won the title in 2008, and then missed the
following year’s tournament because of a knee injury. The loss
ends the 24-year-old Murray’s attempt to become the first
British man to win Wimbledon since  Fred Perry  in 1936.  “It’s a dream to be back in the final,” Nadal said in a
televised courtside interview after the match. “I’m happy for
everything. I played very well. To win against Andy, I have to
play at my best.”  Djokovic will move up one spot when the rankings are
published after Wimbledon. Nadal had reclaimed the No. 1 ranking
from Federer after winning last year’s French Open. The Serb has
beaten Nadal in the finals of  Indian Wells , Miami,  Madrid  and
 Rome  already this year.  Four Losses  “He’s tough, difficult to play,” Nadal said about
Djokovic. “He’s only lost one match this year, and I’ve lost
four matches against him this year.”  Murray took the first set by breaking Nadal, who hit a
backhand into the net on the second of three set points. The
Briton had six aces in the set to Nadal’s one.  Murray was up 30-0 in the fourth game of the second set,
only to have Nadal come back to hold serve to make it 2-2. The
Spaniard broke in the next game, and then again to go up 5-2. He
won the set with no unforced errors to Murray’s 12.  Nadal got 76 percent of his first serves in during the
third set, and won 88 percent of those points. Murray got just
48 percent of his first serves in.  Nadal broke Murray in the opening game of the fourth set.
At 2-1 down, Murray got two break points but couldn’t overcome
the Spaniard. Down 5-3, Murray saved a match point with an ace,
leaving Nadal to serve for the match.  Match Point  Nadal got three match points, and Murray came to the net to
get back one of them. Nadal took the next point with a forehand
winner for the championship berth.  “I’m disappointed,” Murray said in a news conference
after he was beaten by Nadal at the same stage for the second
year in a row. “The last couple years I’ve recovered relatively
quickly from losing because I’m just trying to get better. I
feel like I’m playing better tennis than I was last year at this
point. I don’t know. It’s difficult.”  Nadal is trying to match  Bjorn Borg ’s record of winning the
 French Open  and Wimbledon in the same year three times. Borg,
who watched from the royal box, did it in 1978, 1979 and 1980.  Nadal, also the reigning U.S. Open champion, started the
season with a shot at becoming the first man since  Rod Laver  in
1969 to hold all four Grand Slam titles at the same time.
Instead, he left the Australian Open in tears after rupturing a
thigh muscle in a quarterfinal loss to  Spain ’s  David Ferrer .  Murray has now lost 12 of the 16 times he’s played Nadal.
He was the first British man to reach three consecutive
semifinals at the All England Club.  Djokovic Wins  Djokovic beat Tsonga, the No. 12 seed from  France , 7-6 (7-
4), 6-2, 6-7 (9-11), 6-2 on Centre Court to reach his first
Wimbledon final. He’s only lost once this season, to Federer in
the semifinals of the French Open.  “This is one of the best feelings I’ve ever had on the
tennis court,” Djokovic said in a televised interview. He
kissed the grass on Centre Court after hugging Tsonga at the
net. “I’ve been dreaming of playing in the Wimbledon finals
since I started playing tennis, when I was four.”  Their 3-hour, 7-minute match produced almost twice as many
winners as errors and was marked by at least two points that
ended with both players sprawled on the grass after exchanging
groundstrokes and diving volleys. Tsonga saved two match points
in the third-set tiebreaker.  Djokovic started the season with his second championship at
the Australian Open, beating Murray in straight sets in the
final. He went on to win six more tournaments.  After the French Open, Djokovic pulled out of a grass-court
warmup event at Queen’s Club in  London  because of fatigue. Until
Paris, Djokovic had been on a 43-match win streak since
December, when he won the Davis Cup for  Serbia  at home in
Belgrade. That victory had boosted his confidence this season,
he’s frequently told reporters. He also changed his diet and
worked on his fitness.  Tsonga, 26, ended Federer’s attempt to win his record-tying
seventh title at the All England Club in the quarterfinals,
coming back from two sets down to advance to his first Wimbledon
semifinal. Tsonga, who lost to Djokovic in the final of the 2008
Australian Open, was seeking to become the first Frenchman since
Yvon Petra in 1946 to win Wimbledon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  