-- 
Delay Taking Social Security, Add Annuity to Survive Retirement, GAO Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-01T14:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/delay-social-security-add-annuity-to-outlive-savings-gao-says.html
Retirees may have to delay Social
Security benefits and buy an annuity to have enough money for
retirement, said a U.S. government  study .  “The risk that retirees will outlive their assets is a
growing challenge,” according to a study from the Government
Accountability Office released today. Increased life
expectancies and health-care costs coupled with declines in
financial markets and  home equity  over the last few years have
“intensified” workers’ concerns about how to manage their
savings in retirement, the report said.  Annuities are insurance contracts that can offer a steady
stream of income for life. High-income households generally
don’t need them, according to experts the GAO consulted. Middle-
income households, defined in the study as having a net worth of
about $350,000 including their homes, that don’t have
traditional pensions should consider using a portion of their
savings to purchase an inflation-adjusted annuity, the study
said. Lower-income families need to accumulate some cash savings
first.  The study recommended that retirees make withdrawals from
their investment portfolios at a rate of 3 percent to 6 percent
annually. Many also should wait to take Social Security until at
least the full  retirement age , or 66 for those born from 1943 to
1954.  Tremendous Benefits  The Social Security program lets recipients take reduced
payments as early as age 62. It provides full benefits at age 66
and increases payouts for those who wait up to age 70. Almost
three-quarters of individuals took payouts before age 65, the
GAO said. Monthly benefits received at age 70 are increased by
at least 32 percent compared with taking them at 66, according
to the study.  “The benefits are tremendous especially if you’re married
and the higher wage earner waits until 70,” said Christine Fahlund, senior financial planner at T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
The amount retirees receive each year almost doubles from age 62
to age 70 in terms of purchasing power, Fahlund said. As long as
retirees live to age 77, delaying payments until age 70 is
usually worth it, said Fahlund.  Social Security’s trustees said in May that it wouldn’t be
able to pay recipients in full beginning in 2036. The bipartisan
U.S. deficit commission has recommended increasing the
retirement age to cut costs.  Can’t Cover Expenses  The GAO study was requested by Senator  Herb Kohl , a
Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the Senate Special Committee
on Aging. The shift by employers from traditional pension plans,
which generally guarantee income for life, to 401(k) savings
accounts has put more responsibility on Americans for managing
their “hard-earned savings” during retirement, Kohl said.  Almost half of those near retirement are predicted to run
out of money and won’t be able to cover their basic expenses and
uninsured health-care costs, July 2010  data  from the Washington-
based Employee Benefit Research Institute show. A husband and
wife who are both 65 years old have about a 47 percent chance
that at least one of them will live until 90, the GAO report
said.  An immediate annuity can protect retirees from the risk of
outliving their savings, according to the study. For example, a
contract purchased for $95,500 by a 66-year-old couple in
 Florida  may provide $4,262 a year until the death of the
surviving spouse and include increases for inflation, the report
said. Six percent of workers with a 401(k)-type plan opted for
an annuity at retirement, said the study.  Resistance to Annuities  Americans have resisted buying annuities for reasons
including concern about fees and the desire for control of
assets, said David Laibson, an economics professor at  Harvard
University . Employers have held off on adding them to 401(k)
savings plans because they’re worried about litigation and lack
clarity on how to proceed, Laibson said.  “The problem right now is  interest rates  are so low you’re
not getting a great return for that chunk of cash you’re handing
the insurance company,” said Liz Weston, author of “ The 10
Commandents of Money .” That’s why retirees may want to purchase
a contract with some of their money now and buy another in the
future when rates may be higher, said Weston, who’s based in  Los
Angeles .  The Labor and Treasury departments are considering ways to
encourage lifetime-income options in 401(k)-type plans,
including showing the potential income streams from account
balances in participants’ statements.  “We anticipate issuing our first set of relevant guidance
or rules in this area later this year,” Assistant Secretary of
Labor Phyllis Borzi said in an e-mail.  State Street, BlackRock  Asset managers and insurers understand that annuitization
may need to be part of the retirement savings system as people
live longer and have fewer defined benefit pension plans, said
Harvard’s Laibson. “Everyone’s racing to be at the head of that
pack when the ice breaks,” he said.  State Street Global Advisors , a unit of  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
is planning to announce a 401(k) investment this fall that will
include a built-in annuity, said Kristi Mitchem, head of the
company’s global defined contribution business, which had $166
billion in plan assets at the end of last year.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, has a
target-date fund with a fixed deferred annuity from  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
for 401(k)s that’s available to employers, said  Brian Beades , a
spokesman for the firm. No companies had adopted it as of June
27, he said.  ‘Guinea Pig Employer’  “The thing that will be the icebreaker eventually is that
one of these providers is going to come up with a product that
finally gets traction,” Laibson said. “There’s huge resistance
to being the guinea pig employer that adopts it first.”  Individuals should consult with a fee-only planner before
committing to any retirement strategy, said Weston, the author.
That’s because many things can go wrong when spending down
savings, such as withdrawing funds too fast or tapping pots of
money in an incorrect order, she said.  “It’s really not a do-it-yourself project,” Weston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 