-- 
Diageo Said to Walk Away From Bid for Brazil Brewer Schincariol

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-07-01T17:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/diageo-said-to-walk-away-from-bid-for-brazil-brewer-schincariol.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Guinness
stout and the world’s largest liquor company, dropped plans to
bid for Primo Schincariol Industria de Cervejas & Refrigerantes
SA of  Brazil , two people familiar with the matter said.  London-based Diageo walked away amid disagreements among
the Brazilian brewer’s family shareholders, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks were
private. Brewers including  Heineken NV (HEIA)  have been considering
bidding for the Itu, Brazil-based company, which may be valued
at about $4 billion, one person said.  The sale process has slowed on concern that the buyers may
not succeed in gaining control because some of the company’s
family owners oppose a sale, the people said.  It’s unclear whether Schincariol will end up being sold,
the people said. A spokesman for the Brazilian brewer at FSB
Comunicacoes, a communications company, declined to comment.  Diageo’s decision not to pursue Schincariol means it will
need to find another way of expanding in Latin America beer. The
company is examining ways to “do something appropriate and
constructive in beer” in the region, Stuart Fletcher, outgoing
president of the international unit, said on June 2.  Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer by volume, was
said in May to be reviewing a possible bid for Schincariol,
which is Brazil’s second-largest brewer behind Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , which last month bid A$9.5 billion
($10.2 billion) for Australia’s Foster’s Group Ltd., may also be
interested.  SABMiller spokesman Nigel Fairbrass and Heineken spokesman
John Clarke both declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 