-- 
Euro Set for First Weekly Gain in a Month on Rate Bets, Greece Austerity

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-01T07:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/dollar-advances-on-outlook-for-u-s-economy-aussie-drops-on-china-data.html
The euro advanced versus the dollar
for a fifth day as traders increased bets the  European Central
Bank  will tighten monetary policy and Greece progressed in
staving off a default.  The euro headed for a weekly advance against 12 of its 16
major peers after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won
approval to implement an austerity plan needed to keep aid
flowing to his nation. The Dollar Index was was set for its
biggest weekly decline since January before a report forecast to
show U.S. manufacturing growth slowed in May. The New Zealand
dollar weakened on dimmer prospects for exports after a Chinese
manufacturing index fell.  “The short-term event risk has clearly decreased with
Greece having passed its laws and the European banks indicating
they are participating in private sector involvement,” said
 Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The euro-zone debt crisis has not
had such a significant impact on the euro this year as last year
because the ECB is conducting an interest rate policy that is
completely independent of what’s going on in Greece, Portugal,
Ireland, whatever.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.4521 as of 8:47 a.m. in
London, set for a 2.4 percent weekly advance, its biggest gain
since the five days ending Jan. 14. The European currency
climbed 0.4 percent to 117.25 yen. The dollar rose 0.1 percent
to 80.67 yen. New Zealand’s currency slid 0.3 percent to 82.67
U.S. cents.  Europe ’s central bank will add 73 basis points to its
benchmark interest rate in the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps showed. That compares with 16
basis points on June 22.  ‘Strong Vigilance’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated yesterday that
policy makers are in a state of “strong vigilance” against
inflation, highlighting chances of a rate increase at their
meeting on July 7. The central bank raised its key rate in April
for the first time in almost three years, lifting it by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent.  Papandreou won a vote to implement a 78 billion-euro ($113
billion) package of tax increases and asset sales, a condition
of receiving further aid. The premier is seeking an
“acceleration of the absorption” of planned aid funds in order
to help the Greek economy exit from recession, an e-mailed
statement of a letter he wrote yesterday to European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso  showed.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which InterContinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
trading partners, was little changed at 74.34, 1.8 percent lower
in the week.  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
fell to 52 last month, the lowest level since August 2009, from
53.5 in May, according to the median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion. Another report may show dimmer job prospects and
pricier goods weighed on consumer sentiment in June.  The so-called kiwi fell for the first time in four days
versus the dollar after data showed Chinese manufacturing
expanded in June by less than economists had estimated, sapping
demand for higher-yielding assets.  China Data  “The China numbers were a bit weaker than expected and
that fits with the trend we’ve seen in data out of  Asia 
recently,” said  Todd Elmer , head of Group of 10 currency
strategy for Asia ex- Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore.
“This worsening in the outlook is a pretty clear negative
signal for risky assets and risky currencies.”  The yen was headed for a weekly decline against 15 of its
16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg on prospects the  Bank
of Japan  will lag behind its counterparts in raising interest
rates as it struggles to lift the economy out of recession.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers fell to minus 9 in June from 6 in March, the BOJ
said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a reading of minus 7. A negative
number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  “The bias is for the yen to fall from the perspective of
monetary policy,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “Policy in Japan should be
accommodative.”  Ten-year Treasuries yielded 2.02 percentage points more
than similar-maturity Japanese debt yesterday, the most since
May 18. Once improvement in the  U.S. economy  becomes clear, U.S.
Treasury yields will rise, helping weaken the yen, Fukaya said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  