-- 
Domenici ‘Truth Squad’ Confronts Fellow Republicans on U.S. Debt Ceiling

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/domenici-s-truth-squad-challenges-fellow-republicans-on-debt-cap-debate.html
Former U.S. Senator Pete Domenici,
who helped forge four major federal budget agreements, has
formed a “truth squad” to caution fellow Republicans about the
hazards of breaching the U.S. debt ceiling.  Domenici, 79, is working with former federal budget
officials including Jay Powell, a Treasury undersecretary for
President  George H.W. Bush , to detail the negative economic and
social consequences if Congress fails to approve an increase in
the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit before an Aug. 2 deadline.  A report by the group, the Washington-based  Bipartisan
Policy Center , predicts that by mid-August the government
wouldn’t be able to meet 44 percent of its obligations, leading
to about 800,000 federal employee furloughs and spending cuts
equal to 10 percent of the gross domestic product. Such moves
could choke the economy, still struggling to recover from the
worst recession since the Great Depression, and shake the
confidence of U.S. creditors, the report’s authors said.  Domenici, of  New Mexico , said his mission is made more
urgent by signs that Republicans who discount the risks of not
lifting the debt cap may be winning the message war within the
party. These Republicans include Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of  Minnesota , who is running for president, and Senator  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania , who says the government can simply
prioritize its obligations to stave off a default.  ‘They’re Wrong’  “The debt’s coming due, and they say it isn’t coming
due,” Domenici said in a recent interview. “They’re wrong.”  He expressed frustration that his party may be willing to
let the debt limit be ruptured. “Who do we get?” he asked.
“Bring God down, Christ” to make the case against doing so?  Domenici, who during his six Senate terms set the record
for most years as Budget Committee chairman, and his group have
briefed at least 30 lawmakers and their staffs on the study.  He said Republicans, particularly in the U.S. House, “have
got to listen to another radio because it’s not the way they’re
telling them.”  On June 28, House Speaker  John Boehner  called the Treasury
Department’s Aug. 2 estimate for when the U.S. risks default
“artificial,” adopting the argument of Republicans such as
Toomey who say investors would have no reason to panic if
Congress deadlocks on the debt limit. The government will have
the tax revenue to meet its debt obligations, Toomey says, while
treating its other bills -- including employee salaries -- as a
secondary concern.  ‘Balanced’ Plan  Boehner and other Republican leaders have made reducing the
deficit a prerequisite to raising the debt limit. The talks have
bogged down over the Republican insistence that tax increases be
precluded from any such deal, while Democrats -- including
President  Barack Obama  -- say higher  tax revenue  must be part of
a “balanced” plan.  Domenici says his party needs to compromise and accept
ending some tax breaks. “If Republicans can’t put any revenue
on the table, even expenditures, that makes it very difficult to
get it done,” he said.  Conversely, he said, “if the Democrats cannot reform
health care, I don’t know how you can get a real budget fix
done.”  Domenici’s impact on the debate became evident this week.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  mentioned the report by his
former colleague yesterday in canceling the chamber’s week-long
recess for the July 4 holiday to address the debt-limit issue.  “Reading that was very, very frightening,” said Reid, a
Nevada Democrat. “This would create a worldwide depression.”  Obama cited Domenici’s view on the tax dispute at his June
29 White House news conference.  August Deficit  The report by Domenici’s group, issued June 28, says a
failure to increase the debt limit would leave the Treasury
Department unable to fund a $134 billion deficit for August. The
agency then would be forced to choose between cutting Social
Security and Medicare checks and shuttering the vast majority of
its agencies, including cutting off  food stamps , money for
veterans, and salaries.  Further, there likely wouldn’t be enough money to cover a
$23 billion payment to Social Security recipients due Aug. 3,
the report found.  The alarms sounded by Domenici were buttressed by a June 29
annual report card from the  International Monetary Fund  that
warned of a “severe shock” to the global economy if Congress
fails to act on the debt limit. Also,  Standard & Poor’s  would
downgrade  U.S. debt  to junk status in the event of a default,
 John Chambers , chairman of the company’s sovereign rating
committee, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  Meeting With Geithner  The report by Domenici’s group grew out of a meeting he and
Democrat  Alice Rivlin , a former White House budget director, had
with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  about two months ago on
the default issue.  Domenici joined the Bipartisan Policy Center as a senior
fellow after his final Senate term ended in January 2009. He did
not run for re-election in 2008, having decided the previous
year to retire from the Senate at the end of his term because of
a brain disorder,  frontotemporal lobar degeneration . The
condition hasn’t stopped him from drawing on his experience in
government fiscal issues to engage in the current battle.  During his 36-year Senate career, he was a central figure
in prolonged negotiations that produced budget accords in 1981,
1985, 1990 and 1997. The latter agreement, reached between
Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and a Republican-controlled
Congress, led to budget surpluses for a few years.  Reflecting on those past talks, Domenici said, “We didn’t
go in with the idea of fighting to the end, that this was a
major opportunity to put swords up and to have mayhem.”  The current standoff, he added, “is absolutely beyond my
comprehension.”  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Leslie Hoffecker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  