-- 
Heating Oil Declines on Manufacturing Slide in Europe, China

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-01T19:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/heating-oil-declines-on-manufacturing-slide-in-europe-china.html
Heating oil fell as a slowdown in
manufacturing in  Europe  and  China  threatened to reduce global
demand for diesel.  Futures slipped 0.7 percent as China’s factory index fell
to the lowest level since February 2009. German manufacturing
expanded at the weakest pace in 17 months, while  Italy , Ireland,
 Spain  and Greece contracted. In the U.K. and  India , output
growth also slowed.  “The manufacturing news coming out of Europe and China
isn’t good and heating oil is more vulnerable to news like
that,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options
Inc. in  New York .  Heating oil for August delivery dropped 2.18 cents to
settle at $2.9245 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Heating oil is traded as a substitute for diesel. Prices dipped
4 percent in June and 5.1 percent in the second quarter.  Futures followed crude prices lower on speculation that the
 International Energy Agency ’s decision on June 23 to release 60
million barrels of oil and products from strategic reserves will
further depress prices. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve is
releasing 30 million barrels of oil reserves.  The sale was “substantially oversubscribed,” with more
than 90 offers to purchase oil, the department said in an e-
mailed statement. The department expects to award contracts by
July 11.  “We’re expecting those 30 million barrels of oil to appear
in the market by the end of August and pressure supplies,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline Rebounds  Gasoline was lower most of the day before rebounding to
finish little changed on speculation that lower retail prices
over the U.S. July 4 holiday weekend won’t boost demand for the
motor fuel.  Demand at the pump slipped 1.8 percent from a year earlier
last week, according to MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report June
28. Prices also sank as Brent crude oil weakened after  Greece 
edged closer to avoiding a default, lessening concern that the
country’s debt crisis will spread across Europe.  “I expect gasoline demand to go down as prices are still
substantially higher than last year,” Lipow said.  Gasoline for August delivery rose 0.34 cent to settle at
$2.9726 a gallon on the exchange, after earlier touching
$2.9112. The front-month contract sank 3.8 percent last month
and 2.4 percent in the second quarter.  Regular gasoline at the pump rose 0.9 cent to $3.55 a
gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Lower fuel costs may not boost demand. Even as prices at
the pump are down 11 percent since reaching a 34-month high on
May 4, they’re 29 percent above a year earlier when the average
price was $2.754 a gallon, according to AAA data.  Demand Falls  Gasoline consumption, measured by deliveries to
wholesalers, fell last week to a three-week low of 9.26 million
barrels a day, according to a June 29 Energy Department
inventory report. On a four-week average, consumption was 0.3
percent below a year earlier.  “Even though gasoline prices have fallen, they’re still
well above last year and we still expect gasoline consumption to
be weak comparative to last year,” Tancred Lidderdale, a senior
economist for the Energy Department’s Energy Information
Administration, said in an interview yesterday.  The EIA estimates that demand for gasoline in 2011 will be
about 10,000 barrels a day less than the 9.03 million-barrel
daily average in 2010, Lidderdale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  