-- 
Lebanon Interior Minister Names Four UN Suspects Indicted in Hariri Murder

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-01T10:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/lebanon-interior-minister-names-four-un-suspects-indicted-in-hariri-murder.html
Lebanese Interior Minister Marwan Charbel said four suspects were named in an indictment filed by
a  United Nations  tribunal investigating the killing of former
premier  Rafiq Hariri .  Arrest warrants were issued for Lebanese citizens Mustafa
Badreddine, Salim Ayyash, Hassan Oneisseh and Assad Sabra,
Charbel said in a phone interview today. He didn’t provide
further information about the suspects. Lebanon’s LBC news
channel and other local media outlets had identified the four
men yesterday, when the indictment was delivered by court
officials to Lebanon’s attorney general. Its contents haven’t
been publicly disclosed.  Badreddine and Ayyash are both members of the Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah movement, one of the main backers of the government
formed last month by  Najib Mikati , according to LBC. Hezbollah
spokesman Ibrahim el-Moussawi wasn’t available for comment
today. The Shiite group’s Al Manar television channel said the
indictment proves that the investigation and tribunal are
politicized. The affiliation of the other two suspects was not
clear.  Hezbollah and its allies brought down the U.S.-backed
government of Rafiq’s son  Saad Hariri  in January by walking out
of the Cabinet in protest at government support for the UN
tribunal.  Hezbollah and its backer  Syria  deny any connection with
Hariri’s killing. The Shiite movement’s leader,  Hassan Nasrallah , last year threatened reprisals against anyone who
tried to arrest members of his group in connection with the
case. The  tribunal ’s investigators were attacked at a clinic in
a southern suburb of Beirut in October while collecting
information.  U.S. Marines  Badreddine is a Hezbollah military commander and brother-
in-law of Imad Mughniyeh, who was blamed for the 1983 attack on
the U.S. Marines barracks in Beirut, and who died in a car-bomb
in Syria in 2008, LBC said.  The UN tribunal, based in the Netherlands, said yesterday
that it won’t comment on the identity of anyone named in the
indictment, to help Lebanese authorities fulfil their obligation
to arrest the accused within a month.  Rafiq Hariri was killed along with 22 others by a roadside
bomb in  Beirut  in 2005. His death led to street protests by
millions of Lebanese that forced Syrian troops to quit the
country after almost three decades.  Hezbollah is backed by  Iran  as well as Syria, and
classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and  Israel . It won
popularity in Lebanon by helping to force Israel’s army to
withdraw from the country in 2000, ending an 18-year occupation,
and fighting the Jewish state again in a monthlong war in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  