-- 
Lecherous Official Makes Shakespeare’s ‘Measure’ Timely: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/lecherous-politician-makes-shakespeare-s-measure-timely-jeremy-gerard.html
Through a menacing darkness vivified
by sleek demons prowling in black, an overpopulated bed rises
from below stage in the silent prologue of Shakespeare’s
“Measure for Measure” in  Central Park .  The writhing bodies quickly fall away in this scene
suggestive of biblical licentiousness. Left is the lone figure
of Vincentio, duke of a Vienna that has gone all Sodom and
Gomorrah under his lax leadership. Convinced he can’t undo what
he has wrought, Vincentio temporarily turns his reign over to a
trusted deputy, Angelo.  To send an unmistakable message that fornication no longer
will be tolerated, Angelo sentences the young Claudio to death
for impregnating his fiancee. But Angelo, it turns out, has a
sordid past, not to mention a libido that erupts when the chaste
Isabella appears to plead her brother’s cause.  Angelo is so certain of his immunity that he even tells
Isabella no one will take her word against his: “My false
o’erweighs your truth.” Boy, does that sound familiar.  Of all Shakespeare’s problem plays, “Measure for Measure”
has a salacious salience that never seems to go out of style.  Unlike Daniel Sullivan’s Edwardian-era staging of “All’s
Well That Ends Well,” David Esbjornson’s production doesn’t
stray far from its Renaissance roots. Still, it isn’t averse to
lending a few macabre touches in the service of a tale that ends
with the happy comeuppance of a sanctimonious hypocrite.  Subtle Villain  Michael Hayden, a quietly versatile actor, underplays
Angelo with a welcome absence of mustache twirling.
Intellectually and spiritually, Isabella is equal to Angelo’s
challenge; they’ve been played on this stage by  Meryl Streep  and
Sam Waterston, among others. Hayden and his determined foil,
Danai Gurira’s Isabella, may not reach those stellar heights,
but they’re never less than compelling players in this well-told
moralistic tale.  There are also good performances from Lorenzo Pisoni, as
the Duke, Reg Rogers as Lucio and, especially, Carson Elrod, as
the smarmy tapster Pompey. Tonya Pinkins is the dourest Mistress
Overdone in memory. She’s no fun at all.  But I admired those slinky, sinister night creatures from
the bad Vienna. They reminded me of racy Pottersville in “It’s
a Wonderful Life.” I always thought Pottersville looked pretty
enticing.  “Measure for Measure” runs in repertory with “All’s Well
That Ends Well” through July 30 at the  Delacorte Theater  in
Central Park (enter at East 79th Street or West 81st Street).
Tickets are free. Information: +1-212-539-8650;
 http://www.publictheater.org  Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 