-- 
EDF Ordered to Improve Flooding, Earthquake Defenses at Reactor

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-01T13:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/edf-ordered-to-improve-flooding-earthquake-defenses-at-reactor.html
Electricite de  France  SA, the biggest
operator of nuclear reactors, was ordered to bolster defenses
against floods, earthquakes and fires as a condition for
extending the lifespan of a plant in the south of the country.  EDF must reinforce the earthquake buffers at the Tricastin
reactor as well as improve anti-flooding measures, according to
a report released yesterday by the national atomic watchdog.
Nobody from EDF could be reached for comment today.  The utility won permission in November to operate Unit 1 at
Tricastin for another decade, and is also seeking to extend the
lifespan of the Fessenheim reactor. The review was carried out
before the Fukushima meltdown in March. The regulator is now
carrying out new inspections at French reactors, fuel processing
and waste storage sites.  EDF was also told to improve safety at Tricastin’s spent-
fuel pool among a list of 32 measures ordered by the watchdog.
Tricastin was first commissioned in 1980 and Fessenheim in 1978.  The findings of the watchdog coincide with a parliamentary
report yesterday that called on France’s nuclear industry to
boost spending on safety as some plants may not meet
requirements for coping with earthquakes and flooding.  The report questioned whether the Tricastin and Gravelines
sites, operated by EDF and Areva SA, are strong enough to
withstand these types of natural disasters.  Areva’s Comurhex I installation at Tricastin and EDF’s
Gravelines plant may not have been built with a high enough
degree of safety in mind to deal with earthquakes, according to
the parliamentary report.  State-controlled EDF’s 58 nuclear reactors provide about
three-quarters of domestic power needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  