-- 
Lehman Says Creditors Back Amended Plan and Disclosure Statement

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-01T16:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/lehman-creditors-with-100-billion-claims-support-revised-liquidation-plan.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
creditors holding more than $100 billion in claims signed their
support for the company’s latest payout plan, which allots more
money to a group including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to
bondholders including Paulson & Co.  Thirty institutions and some affiliates -- including the
Goldman Sachs and Paulson groups that proposed rival plans to
pay Lehman’s debts -- put that support in writing, Lehman said
in a statement today. The Goldman Sachs group includes Silver
Point Capital LP and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The Paulson group includes
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers.  The compromise reached after contentious battles by Lehman
Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal and negotiators including
lawyer Lori Fife of Weil Gothal & Manges LLP, Lehman’s
bankruptcy law firm, ends the threat of “protracted
litigation” over the plan, Lehman said.  “It is extraordinary to have support from over $100
billion of claims held by people with such divergent views,”
said Fife in a telephone interview today. “There were intensive
negotiations.”  Lehman aims to confirm its plan by year end and start
distributing a “significant” amount of its $21 billion in
available cash shortly after, Fife said.  “It’s possible that we’ll start distributing by the end of
the year, but more likely in the first quarter,” she said. Some
disputed claims still need to be resolved, she said.  Illiquid Assets  Lehman’s bankruptcy may drag on a while, as executives try
to sell illiquid assets including $13.2 billion of real estate.
Property sales will run through 2014, after sales of $3 billion
through March, Lehman said in filings this week.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman
fought the Paulson group and the rival Goldman Sachs group of
derivatives creditors for months over control of its liquidation
plan. Lehman, which entered bankruptcy almost three years ago,
twice amended its proposals to pay claims in response to
creditor challenges. After the Paulson group successfully fought
for more money, the Goldman Sachs group revolted, publishing its
rival plan. The final proposal takes some money from bondholders
to give to derivatives creditors.  “Our goal from the outset has been a fair economic
compromise that expedites administration of these cases and
provides the best outcome for creditors,” Marsal said in a
statement. “This plan achieves that objective.”  Marsal aims to raise a total of $65 billion from the firm’s
assets, including the cash already in hand. He has previously
estimated final claims at about $322 billion.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with assets of $639
billion.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Scinta in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  