-- 
Ethiopian Lawmakers Will Vote on Proposed Budget Next Week

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-07-01T10:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/ethiopian-lawmakers-will-vote-on-proposed-budget-next-week.html
Ethiopian lawmakers will vote next
week on a proposed 39 percent increase in spending to fund
infrastructure programs and projects aimed at improving  food
security , a Finance Ministry official said.  Expenditure will rise to 117.8 billion Ethiopian birr ($6.9
billion) in the fiscal year to July 7, 2012, while revenue and
foreign grants are forecast to grow 40 percent to 100.6 billion
birr, Haji Ibsa Gendo, a spokesman for the ministry said in an
interview in  Addis Ababa , the capital, yesterday. External loans
will provide 6.6 billion birr and domestic borrowing 10.5
billion birr to fund a deficit that is less than 1.5 percent of
gross domestic product, Haji said.  Ethiopia is the world’s second-biggest recipient of foreign
aid, after  Afghanistan , according to  Organization for
Cooperation and Economic Development  rankings of developing
nations. The Horn of  Africa  country, which is also Africa’s
largest coffee producer, recorded an average economic growth
rate of 11 percent over the past seven years, according to
government data.  From the budget, about 16 billion birr will be spent on a
road-building program; 8.5 billion on education; 6.5 billion on
defense; 4.6 billion on irrigation; 4.4 billion on projects
related to food security; and 2.7 billion on health, Haji said.  Spending on an under-construction $4.7 billion, 5,250-
megawatt hydropower project isn’t included in the budget as it
will be financed by the public, not the government, Haji said.  “The Ethiopian population has agreed to build the Grand
Renaissance Dam,” he said. “All workers are giving one month
salary, traders are buying bonds, the diaspora is contributing
to the dam.”  The vote by lawmakers will take place on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 