-- 
European Stocks Have Biggest Weekly Surge in a Year on Greek Budget Cuts

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/european-stocks-have-biggest-weekly-surge-in-a-year-on-greek-budget-cuts.html
European stocks surged this past week
by the most in a year, led by a rally in banks and mining
companies after Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity
package, qualifying the country for further aid.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA led a rally in Greek lenders, as
three of the country’s banks surged 14 percent.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  jumped 17 percent after announcing plans to cut costs
by 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) by 2014. Vedanta Resources
Plc and Antofagasta Plc climbed with metal prices, surging more
than 11 percent. London Stock Exchange Group Plc jumped 9
percent after scrapping its bid for Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index jumped 4.1 percent to 274.92 in
the past week, snapping eight consecutive weeks of losses. The
gauge has still fallen 5.6 percent from this year’s high on Feb.
17 as U.S. economic data trailed forecasts and concern mounted
that Europe’s debt crisis would deepen.  “ Greece  was the big risk event for the week,” said Ioan Smith, a director at Knight Capital  Europe  Ltd. “Nothing has
fundamentally changed, but the implication is that the temporary
benefit of the austerity vote has bought time, comforted by the
assumption that a new bailout plan is in the works.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  this week won the
backing of his country’s parliament to implement the 78 billion-
euro ($113 billion) austerity package needed to qualify for
further financial assistance from the European Union.  Austrian Finance Ministry official Thomas Wieser said
Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros in new financing,
including a contribution from private investors, in a second
bailout aimed at stopping the country from defaulting. EU
finance chiefs will hold a conference call this weekend to free
up a 12 billion-euro payment overdue.  European Markets Rally  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets this week except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index increased 5.1 percent,  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 4.2
percent and  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  jumped 5.9 percent. Greece’s
ASE Index jumped 6.2 percent, the most since January.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest aluminum producer in America, will
unofficially kick off the second-quarter U.S. earnings season on
July 11. Profits at S&P 500 companies will gain 13 percent in
the second quarter and 19 percent in 2011 from the year-earlier
periods, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank stocks were the best performing industry in the Stoxx
600 this week, surging 7.6 percent, paced by Greece’s three
biggest lenders. Eurobank, Alpha Bank SA and National Bank of
Greece SA all surged 14 percent in  Athens .  Lloyds, Antofagasta  Lloyds led a rally in U.K. banks, surging 17 percent, its
biggest weekly advance since August 2009. Britain’s largest
mortgage lender said it will cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs as
the company withdraws from overseas units and increases its
focus on the U.K.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  jumped 10 percent after the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by market value said first-half profit before
taxes may post “double-digit” growth from a year earlier.  Antofagasta soared 12 percent as copper climbed this week
by the most since April. The copper producer’s Chief Executive
Officer Jean Paul Luksic said in an interview that the company
sees “huge demand” for metals as  China  and other emerging
markets develop.  Vedanta Resources gained 13 percent, Kazakhmys Plc advanced
11 percent and Xstrata Plc jumped 9.3 percent this week.  LSE Shares Surge  LSE jumped 9 percent after the London and Toronto exchanges
said they won’t proceed with their friendly C$3.29 billion ($3.4
billion) merger because they didn’t get the required two-thirds
of votes cast by proxy. UBS AG said the bourse may become a bid
target.  Charter International Plc soared 42 percent after
investment vehicle Melrose Plc said it made a preliminary
approach about a 1.3 billion-pound takeover offer.  Melrose, the U.K. investment firm run by a former team at
industrial company Wassall Plc, added 6.1 percent after Charter
rejected the proposal.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S surged 14 percent after EDF
Energies Nouvelles SA agreed to use its turbines for at least
half of its land-based wind farms in Europe.  BG Group Plc soared 12 percent after the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer doubled its estimate of reserves
and resources in the Santos Basin in  Brazil . Partner Galp
Energia SGPS SA rallied 9.7 percent in Lisbon.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc paced declining shares,
falling 12 percent after the company said full-year profit will
miss estimates because of slower-than-expected sales orders.
Chief Executive Officer Jim Marsh resigned.  TomTom NV plunged 25 percent after Europe’s largest maker
of portable navigation devices slashed its full-year profit and
sales forecasts as U.S. demand declined faster than it had
predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  