-- 
Europe Manufacturing Grows at Weakest Pace in Two Years

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-01T09:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/european-manufacturing-growth-weakened-for-third-month-in-june.html
European manufacturing expanded at
the weakest pace in almost two years in June, adding to signs
that the region’s economy is losing some momentum.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 52 from 54.6 in
May, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the lowest
in 18 months. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  The euro-area recovery is cooling as European leaders
struggle to contain the Greek debt crisis and the global economy
falters. In  China  and India, the world’s fastest-growing major
economies, manufacturing also weakened last month, data showed
today, and economists forecast a slowdown in U.S. output. Still,
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated
yesterday that the ECB is ready to raise borrowing costs further
when policy makers meet next week.  “Euro-zone economic activity has recently lost appreciable
momentum in the face of serious headwinds,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . This
“will not stop the ECB from enacting a second 25 basis-point
interest-rate hike from 1.25 percent” at the July 7 meeting.  The euro was off its highs against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.4526 at 11:15 a.m. in  Frankfurt , after
reaching $1.4552 earlier.  Adding to signs of a slowdown, European economic confidence
weakened in June and German investor sentiment fell to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years. German unemployment dropped less than
economists forecast in June.  Weakest Pace  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy which has driven the
euro region’s expansion, manufacturing grew at the weakest pace
in 17 months in June, Markit said. Output growth also slowed in
France, Italy, Austria and the Netherlands, while contracting in
Spain, Ireland and Greece.  “Over the past two months, output growth has weakened to
the greatest extent since late-2008,”  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit, said in a statement. “This reflects a
combination of lackluster domestic demand in many countries,
especially the austerity-hit periphery, as well as a near-
stagnation of export sales.”  Joe Kaeser , chief financial officer at  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s
largest engineering company, said on June 28 that the “tailwind
from the economic recovery is likely over.”  Trichet yesterday called for “strong vigilance” on price
pressures, a wording used in the past to signal an imminent rate
increase. The Frankfurt-based central bank last month increased
its inflation and growth forecasts for this year.  China, India  In China, the world’s second-largest economy, a
manufacturing index fell to the lowest since February 2009, the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. A
separate survey showed manufacturing output dropped for the
first time in a year,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said. India’s
manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in nine months after the
central bank raised  interest rates  by the most in a decade.  U.S. manufacturing growth probably weakened in June,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Tempe,
Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management will release its
manufacturing index later today.  In  Europe , leaders are still seeking ways to prevent the
Greek debt crisis from spreading. Euro-area finance ministers
meet on July 3 to outline a second bailout package for Greece
and to approve the next aid payment to the debt-strapped nation.
Banks lined up behind debt-rollover plans yesterday and Greek
lawmakers approved a budget-cutting package.  Austerity Measures  Yields on two-year notes plunged 3 percentage points since
mid-June as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  survived a no-
confidence vote, changed his finance minister and pushed 78
billion euros ($113 billion) in new austerity measures through
parliament, positioning Greece to receive more European Union
aid. The nation passed a “critical milestone” to avoid the
euro area’s first default, Papandreou said yesterday.  “The bad news is that so much needs to be done in
 Greece ,”  William White , an economist at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, told Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” on June 29. “The idea
that there would be a sudden default at this juncture, I find
this pretty hard to envisage frankly.”  A euro-area composite index of the services and
manufacturing industries probably decreased to 53.6 from 55.8 in
May, according to an initial estimate published on June 23. The
services indicator fell to 54.2 from 56. Final figures will be
released on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  