-- 
European Stocks Climb, Extending Biggest Weekly Surge in a Year

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-07-01T16:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/european-stock-futures-stage-advance-stoxx-600-may-extend-weekly-rally.html
European stocks advanced for a fifth
day, pushing the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to the biggest
weekly rally in a year, as U.S. manufacturing growth exceeded
economists’ forecasts.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S surged 7.1 percent after EDF
Energies Nouvelles SA agreed to use its turbines for at least
half of its land-based wind farms in Europe.  ProSiebenSat.1
Media AG (PSM)  gained 5.7 percent as the broadcaster said its second-
quarter results were probably better than predicted.  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-largest lender, surged 6.1 percent as a
measure of banks climbed the most since January.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 0.8 percent to 274.92 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The measure has soared 4.1 percent this
week, the most since July last year, as the Greek Parliament
supported Prime Minister George Papandreou’s 78-billion euro
($113 billion) austerity package in order to obtain further
European Union financial assistance.  “The U.S. manufacturing report has beaten the consensus,
giving a positive signal to the market on the health of the  U.S.
economy ,” said John Plassard, director at Geneva-based Louis
Capital Markets. “We may also have seen fund managers buying
back stock to cover short positions now some concerns have eased
over the Greek debt situation.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX and  France ’s CAC 40 rose 0.6
percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 0.7 percent.  VStoxx Slides  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure of the cost of insuring against
losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, fell 8.5 percent to the
lowest level in two months.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
unexpectedly rose to 55.3 in June from 53.5 the prior month, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists had projected
the U.S. manufacturing gauge would drop to 52, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros in new
financing, including a contribution from private investors, in a
second bailout aimed at preventing the country from a default,
according to an Austrian Finance Ministry official. EU finance
chiefs are holding a conference call tomorrow to free up a 12
billion-euro tranche from last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout.  Asian Economy  In  Japan , the quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers showed companies plan to increase hiring and
investment as demand rebounds this year from the March
earthquake. A Chinese manufacturing index fell to the lowest
level since February 2009, signaling that the world’s second-
biggest economy is cooling as export demand weakens and the
government reins in credit to control inflation.  “This morning’s Chinese PMI made investors think it wasn’t
all fun after two days of substantial gains,” said Morten Kongshaug, chief equity strategist at Danske Bank in Copenhagen.
“It’ll be three, four months before  Greece  could become an
issue again, so it’s all about getting into the market as money
is made. Worries about earnings and industrial output will make
the market stall soon.”  Vestas jumped 7.1 percent to 128 kroner after saying EDF
Energies Nouvelles, a French renewable energy developer, may buy
as much as 2,000 megawatts of turbines under an agreement that
covers deliveries from 2012 to 2014.  ProSiebenSat.1 climbed 5.7 percent to 20.66 euros, the
largest increase in six months. Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling said Germany’s biggest private broadcaster probably had
a “better” second quarter than previously predicted.  Banks Rally  Commerzbank rallied 6.1 percent to 3.15 euros for the
biggest gain in the DAX.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, climbed 3.7 percent to 50.81 pence
after UniCredit SpA upgraded the bank to “hold” from “sell”
and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research recommended that
investors buy the stock, saying the bank’s new targets help form
“earnings power.” That brought the stock’s weekly gain to more
than 17 percent.  Greek banks gained as three of the country’s biggest
lenders jumped more than 5 percent.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) 
soared 7.4 percent to 3.47 euros, Alpha Bank SA rose 5.2 percent
to 3.65 euros and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  climbed 5.5 percent
to 5.20 euros.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, increased 2.4 percent to
15.69 francs after saying it plans to appoint former Bundesbank
president  Axel Weber  as chairman. Italy’s Banca Popolare di
Milano Scrl rallied 7.9 percent to 1.76 euros for the biggest
increase in the Stoxx 600.  CGGVeritas declined 1.1 percent to 25.12 euros after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the seismic surveyor of
oilfields to “neutral” from “buy.”  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell 1.6 percent to 35.28 euros as
Germany’s largest steelmaker said it had stopped talks with Abu
Dhabi MAR about the U.A.E. company buying its shipbuilding
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  