-- 
Euro-Area Finance Chiefs to Hold Greece Call Tomorrow; No Sunday Meeting

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-01T15:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/euro-area-finance-chiefs-to-hold-conference-call-on-greece-on-aid-payout.html
Euro-area finance ministers will
decide on a 12 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) Greek aid payment
tomorrow after  Jean-Claude Juncker  moved up the talks and
cancelled a meeting planned for July 3.  The finance chiefs from the 17 nations using the euro will
hold a conference call at 6 p.m. Brussels time tomorrow on
releasing the payment, the fifth tranche from last year’s 110
billion-euro bailout for  Greece , the spokesman for Juncker, who
leads the so-called eurogroup, said today by telephone. A
statement by the ministers after the call is “highly
probable,” said the spokesman, Guy Schuller.  “There was no need to meet physically anymore because the
only remaining decision at this stage is on the disbursement of
the fifth tranche,” Schuller said. “Other issues, such as the
private-sector involvement, will be discussed on July 11,” when
the ministers hold their next regularly scheduled meeting.  “I’m certain we now have a sufficient consensus that we
can take a decision during the weekend on the fifth tranche of
the Greek loan package,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Helsinki. “We have now contained the
crisis to the three more vulnerable countries.”  While this weekend’s talks will focus on releasing the 12
billion-euro payment the finance chiefs also are working on a
second bailout for Greece after banks lined up behind debt-
rollover plans and Greek lawmakers approved more budget cuts.  The debt-strapped nation may receive as much as 85 billion
euros in new financing, including a contribution from private
investors, in the new rescue package, Thomas Wieser, head of the
Austrian Finance Ministry’s economic policy and financial
markets department, said at a briefing with Finance Minister
Maria Fekter in Vienna late yesterday.  The  International Monetary Fund  will put up 30 percent of
the new funds, with euro-area countries and private investors
contributing the remaining 70 percent, Wieser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  