-- 
EVN Power Output Increases as Water Levels at Hydrodams Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T05:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/evn-power-output-increases-as-water-levels-at-hydrodams-rise.html
Vietnam Electricity ’s output may have
risen more than 10 percent in the first half from a year earlier
because of higher water levels at hydropower dams, the state-
owned utility said.  Power production may have increased to 52.4 billion
kilowatt-hours, the utility known as EVN said in a document
distributed to the media at a briefing in Hanoi today. The
volume of water at EVN’s hydropower dams rose by about 12.9
billion cubic meters in the first half, exceeding an initial
forecast, the company said in the document, without elaborating.  The utility is trying to boost power generation to meet
rising demand as the economy accelerated, boosting energy use.
Electricity demand may rise 15 percent this year, Duong Quang
Thanh, EVN’s deputy chief executive officer, said in January.  EVN’s electricity output also rose because new generators
started operations as scheduled in the first half, the company
said, referring to the Nhon Trach 2, Son La, Uong Bi plants. EVN
may have generated 9.3 billion of kilowatt-hours in June, up 13
percent from a year earlier, according to the document.  The Hanoi-based utility said it expects power generation to
increase in the second half as water levels rise during the wet
season. Overall power output will also expand at least by about
2,000 megawatt-hours as new plants start operations in the
second half, EVN said.  Ensure Stable Supply  The government wants “to attract local and overseas
investors into the industry to help develop and ensure stable
electricity supply to the economy,” Hoang Quoc Vuong, a deputy
minister of trade and industry, said at the media briefing. Both
state-owned and private companies investing in the industry will
be treated “fairly,” he said, without elaborating.  The Ministry of Trade and Industry has told EVN, Vietnam
Oil & Gas Group and Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries
Group to boost operations at their thermal and coal-fired power
plants to ensure electricity supplies in the second half,
according to the document.  Vietnam’s second-quarter gross domestic product grew 5.67
percent from a year earlier, compared with 5.43 percent in the
first three months, data from the General Statistics Office in
Hanoi show.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 