-- 
Ex-Touradji Managers’ Bonus Claims Restored by Court

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-01T19:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/ex-touradji-managers-bonus-claims-restored-by-new-york-court.html
(Corrects reference to judge in second paragraph.)  A New York judge reinstated three
claims brought by former employees of Touradji Capital
Management LP against the commodity hedge-fund firm that were
dismissed by a lower court in 2009.  The trial court wrongly dismissed a claim accusing Touradji
of unjust enrichment from allegedly withholding 2005 bonuses to
the employees and reinvesting it without their permission, the
appeals court ruled yesterday, reversing Justice Richard B. Lowe
of state  Supreme Court .  Gentry Beach, a former portfolio manager for Touradji, sued
in December 2008, claiming the company failed to pay him bonuses
for three years. Former employee Robert Vollero joined the
complaint in January 2009, expanding damages over the claims to
more than $50 million. Lowe’s ruling is the latest in a volley
of pretrial decisions in the case.  “It’s a technical ruling that is of no consequence on the
case going forward,” Sean O’Brien, an attorney for Touradji
said today in a phone interview. “These are claims which we are
confident will ultimately be dismissed.  Lowe also reinstated a claim alleging violation of New York
labor laws ruling that the lower court erred in concluding the
former Touradji employees compensation wasn’t wages as defined
under state laws.  Beach and his colleague argued that their compensation
wasn’t completely discretionary and based on their own
productivity and not entirely based on Touradji’s financial
results, the judge said.  David Greenberger, an attorney for Vollero and Beach,
called the ruling “a positive development.”  Fund Managers  Beach and Vollero worked as fund managers for Touradji, a
firm founded by billionaire Paul Touradji in 2005.  The firm allegedly failed to compensate the men after
repeated demands. Touradji paid Vollero a portion of the money
owed to him but declined to compensate Beach and threatened to
ruin his career if he didn’t make a public apology for certain
investment decisions made by the firm, according to court
papers.  The firm continued to withhold Beach’s compensation even
after he made the apology. Beach resigned in September 2008,
following a verbal confrontation with Touradji. Vollero resigned
about three months later, according to papers filed in the case.  Touradji denied the allegations and in 2008 called Beach a
disgruntled employee and poor performer.  The case is Beach v. Touradji Capital Management,
603611/08, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, and
the appeal is in New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division,
 First Department  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London 
at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 