-- 
Fail-Safe Plan Could Stop U.S. Default Disaster: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/fail-safe-plan-could-stop-u-s-default-disaster-jonathan-alter.html
As President Barack Obama and
congressional Republicans trade shots on the budget, it’s
getting harder to see how they’ll pull back from the brink and
avoid a cataclysmic default.  With only a month to go before the Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the U.S. debt limit, this feels like a financial version
of the 1964 Cold War thriller “Fail-Safe” -- a helpless stumble
toward disaster.  At his news conference this week, the president argued
against an all-nighter negotiation by invoking his daughters’
doing their homework early. This brought back memories of
President Jimmy Carter, in a 1980 debate, saying that he
discussed nuclear war with his daughter, Amy, which didn’t go
over well at the time. Better for Obama to skip the daughters
and stick with the nukes.  As David Walker, the former comptroller general and a
leading voice for fiscal sanity, puts it: “When you’re playing
with a tactical nuclear weapon, you don’t want to take the
timing device down to the last seconds.”  Walker, who served under presidents of both parties, holds
no official position in the current talks, but he’s been playing
the role of go-between. In two months of low-key shuttle
diplomacy, he’s met privately with John Boehner, Harry Reid,
Mitch McConnell, Tim Geithner, Ben S. Bernanke, Eric Cantor,
Steny Hoyer, Gene Sperling, and the heads of all of the relevant
congressional committees.  Time Is Short  Details of these talks are skimpy, so I don’t know how the
parties are reacting to Walker’s ideas. But time is short, fresh
thinking scarce and the impasse seemingly unbridgeable:
Republicans say they can’t support a deal with tax increases,
and Democrats say they can’t support one without them. The
numbers seem much too big, and the policy choices much too
complicated, for a full solution by Aug. 2.  The Walker Compromise might just be the way out.  Like Tom Coburn, one of the Senate’s most conservative
members, Walker says there’s no way to save $4 trillion over 10
years (the number agreed on by both parties) without both
spending cuts and tax increases. But the latter, anathema to
Republicans, will have to be finessed to get to an agreement. So
Walker’s remedy for a debt-limit deal is three-fold.  Three-Part Plan  First, make several billion in immediate reductions to 2012
discretionary spending. These are essentially symbolic cuts that
would give the Republicans something for their base and help
convince markets that the president and Congress aren’t just
kicking the can down the road.  Second, cut $100 billion in the 2012-13 budget, which is
about what Vice President Joe Biden and Cantor agreed on before
Cantor walked out on negotiations, though Walker would have them
implemented more slowly so as not to harm the recovery. This
might include eliminating a few indefensible tax expenditures,
such as ethanol subsidies (already rejected by the Senate) and
the tax breaks for corporate jets that the president highlighted
in his news conference, but would mostly focus on spending cuts.  Finally -- and this is the key to the deal -- institute
budget controls with pay-as-you-go requirements, annual spending
caps and specific debt-to-GDP targets. If the targets aren’t hit
by late 2013 -- by which time Congress and the president would
have had a chance to overhaul the tax code and start reforming
Medicare and other entitlements -- buzzers would sound, lights
would flash and the deal would trigger automatic draconian
spending cuts and what Walker delicately calls “surcharges,”
which in plain English means higher taxes.  Safety Valve  Obama has already agreed to a 3:1 ratio of spending cuts to
tax increases, which sounds about right to Walker for the
triggers. But the numbers and ratios in this third element are
less significant than the principle, which is that what Walker
calls an “automatic default mechanism” is the way to go. Such a
contraption would give Washington a strong incentive to move
toward real tax and entitlement reform over the next two years.  Will Republicans bite on this? This week, no. “The biggest
sticking point right now is that Republicans don’t want revenue
on the table even as a default,” Walker told me. “My message to
the GOP is that this is not a tax increase, it’s a safety valve,
a ‘Fail-Safe.’” In the movie and earlier book of that name, the
automatic fail-safe mechanism for strategic bombers actually
made nuclear war more likely, not less, but no matter.  We need a default mechanism to prevent default. As the
players all know, this worked during the 1990s when the triggers
and caps that began under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act kicked
in. With a combination of spending cuts and tax increases,
Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton managed to turn
daunting deficits into surpluses by the end of the century.  Norquist Looms  Grover Norquist, the anti-tax crusader recently described
by Alan Simpson as “the most powerful man in America, including
the president,” has convinced the majority of House members to
sign his pledge to oppose all tax increases. He’ll fight even
these fail-safe triggers, just as he fought them under the first
President Bush. (When Stephen Colbert asked Norquist this week
whether he would support a tax increase if it would save
grandmothers from being bitten to death by angry fire ants, he
said: “I think we console ourselves with the fact that we have
pictures and memories.”)  Norquist’s favorite argument to fellow Republicans is that
the first President Bush lost his bid for re-election in 1992
because he abandoned his “read-my-lips-no-new-taxes” pledge. He
threatens that the same fate will befall Republicans who agree
to any tax increases now, even in the form of surcharges that
need not be triggered if politicians act responsibly.  Misreading the Mood  This is a misreading of history and of current politics.
Bush’s measly 37 percent of the vote in 1992 was the result of
factors far beyond taxes. (Ross Perot, who won an astonishing 19
percent of the vote as an independent, harped on deficits, not
the broken tax pledge.) And if today’s Republicans agree to a
historic deal that cuts $4 trillion from the budget, it’s hard
to imagine that many would be successfully challenged in
primaries by Tea Party activists, most of whom say they care
more about deficits than taxes anyway.  As the clock ticks down, some variation on the Walker
formula seems the best hope for averting another financial
fiasco. Obama and Boehner can do what the president (played by
Henry Fonda) couldn’t manage in the movie -- save the day with a
“Fail-Safe” device.  (Jonathan Alter, author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 