-- 
Facebook, Taylor Bean, BofA, HSBC, Ebix, Birmingham’s Yeung in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-01T10:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/fannie-mae-taylor-bean-bofa-hsbc-ebix-bj-s-in-court-news.html
Paul Ceglia , who claims half the
holdings of Facebook Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg , must
produce originals of the contract and e-mails that he says prove
his case, a judge ordered at the request of the company.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo,  New York ,
said yesterday that Ceglia must allow forensic testing of the
documents as well as his computer. The company said an
examination of Ceglia’s documents and computer is needed to
unmask a “fraud on the court.” Ceglia’s lawsuit was filed a
year ago yesterday.  Both sides agree that Ceglia, 37, hired Zuckerberg, then a
freshman at Harvard University, to work on Ceglia’s
StreetFax.com project in April 2003. Facebook says its name
wasn’t mentioned in the contract with Ceglia and that Zuckerberg
didn’t come up with the idea for the service until 2004.
Facebook claims the contract is a phony and says e-mails Ceglia
used as evidence of his claim are fabricated.  Facebook said it has the genuine e-mails between Zuckerberg
and Ceglia, which make no mention of Facebook and show Ceglia
making a series of excuses for not paying Zuckerberg money he
owed him.  A lawyer for Ceglia, Jeffrey Lake, said in yesterday’s
hearing there’s no way to tell if Zuckerberg deleted e-mails on
a Harvard University server.  Foschio yesterday directed Facebook to give Ceglia access
to 176 e-mails between Zuckerberg and Ceglia. The magistrate
judge denied Ceglia’s request for all of Zuckerberg’s documents
prior to July 2004.  In an amended complaint filed in April, Ceglia quoted from
e-mails he said he exchanged with Zuckerberg. He said the
messages support his claim that the two men formed a partnership
that gave Ceglia half ownership of Facebook when it was started
in 2004.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell, New York, according to Ceglia’s
lawyers. Ceglia claims he cut and pasted his e-mails with
Zuckerberg from a Web-based e-mail program into word-processing
documents that he saved on floppy discs.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Fannie Mae Silence on  Taylor Bean  Led to $3 Billion Fraud  The first sign of what would ultimately become a $3 billion
fraud surfaced Jan. 11, 2000, when Fannie Mae executive Samuel
Smith discovered Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. sold him
a loan owned by someone else, Bloomberg News’ Tom Schoenberg
reports.  Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored enterprise which
issues almost half of all mortgage-backed securities, determined
over the next two years that more than 200 loans acquired from
Taylor Bean were bogus, non-performing or lacked critical
components such as mortgage insurance.  That might have been the end of Taylor Bean and its
chairman and principal owner,  Lee Farkas . He was sentenced
yesterday in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, to 30 years
in prison for orchestrating what prosecutors call one of the
“largest bank fraud schemes in this country’s history.”  Instead, it was just the beginning.  Fannie Mae officials never reported the fraud to law
enforcement or anyone outside the company. Internal memos, court
papers, and public testimony show it sought only to rid itself
of liabilities and cut ties with a mortgage firm selling loans
“that had no value,” as Smith, the former vice president of
Fannie Mae’s single family operations, said in a 2008
deposition.  “If there had been a criminal referral, Farkas would have
gone to jail in 2002,” William Black, who served as deputy
director of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. during
the S&L crisis of the 1980s, said in an interview.  Seven more years passed before federal regulators shut down
Ocala, Florida-based Taylor Bean and prosecutors charged Farkas
with orchestrating the $3 billion scam. He had duped some of the
country’s largest financial institutions, sought federal bank
bailout funds and contributed to the failures of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup,
once among the nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Countrywide Must Face MBIA Fraud Claim, Appeals Court Rules  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and its Countrywide Financial Corp.
unit must face a fraud claim brought by bond insurer MBIA
Insurance Corp., an appeals court ruled.  The New York court yesterday upheld an April 2010 trial-
court denial of Countrywide’s motion to dismiss the claim
against it in the 2008 suit. MBIA alleges that Countrywide
fraudulently obtained insurance on billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities.  MBIA claims the lender falsely represented loan-to-value
ratios, debt-to-income ratios and borrowers’ FICO scores;
provided prospectuses that falsely represented loans were made
in compliance with Countrywide’s underwriting standards; and
offered false, misleading or inflated ratings for the loans,
according to the decision.  “Because MBIA alleges misrepresentations of present fact,
and not future intent, made with the intent to induce MBIA to
insure the securitizations, the fraud claim survives,”
Associate Justice Rosalyn H. Richter wrote.  MBIA contends that if it had known the representations were
false, it would never have guaranteed the notes and suffered
losses. As a result of defaults, MBIA alleges, it has been
forced to make billions of dollars in claims payments on the
insurance agreements, according to the decision.  The appeals court also upheld the dismissal of a negligent-
misrepresentation claim in the case. It dismissed entirely a
claim for breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing,
which the lower court narrowed.  “We continue to believe MBIA is a sophisticated counter-
party that cannot sustain a fraud claim, and we continue to have
the ability to raise that point with the court at the summary-
judgment phase,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, said in an e-mailed statement.  Norton added the bank is pleased the appeals court
confirmed the dismissal of the negligent-misrepresentation claim
and dismissed the good-faith and fair-dealing claim.  The appeal is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home
Loans Inc., New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division,
First Department (Manhattan). The lower-court case is MBIA
Insurance v. Countrywide, 602825/2008, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BofA Opposes Arizona AG Bid to Interview Former Workers  Bank of America Corp. opposes a request by the Arizona
attorney general’s office to interview former employees as part
of a state lawsuit against the bank over mortgage modifications.  The state is seeking court approval to conduct interviews
with non-management former employees without bank attorneys
present so it can “fully investigate” Bank of America’s
practices, according to court papers.  Bank of America argues such interviews are prohibited and
asked the court to prevent the attorney general from
“maneuvering around Arizona’s discovery and ethical rules,”
according to court papers filed June 27.  In its lawsuit, Arizona accuses Bank of America of
misleading homeowners who were seeking loan modifications,
saying the bank “repeatedly has deceived” borrowers about the
process, according to the complaint.  “It is crucial that the state be permitted to interview
former employees without the presence of defendants’ counsel so
that these witnesses can speak freely and without interference,
and the state can carry out its investigation and discover the
truth,” the office said in court papers.  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp., CV2010-
033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County.  UniCredit, HSBC Seek to Dismiss Madoff Investor Suit  UniCredit Bank Austria AG and other defendants asked a
judge to dismiss a lawsuit by foreign investors in funds that
put money with con man  Bernard Madoff , saying they were being
cast as “scapegoats for Madoff’s intentional criminal acts.”  The investors in January and February sued Herald, Primeo
and Thema funds, directors, service providers and parent
companies or affiliates, saying they neglected their duty and
ignored “red flags” signaling Madoff was running a Ponzi
scheme. Defendants include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Bank Medici AG founder Sonja
Kohn and Madoff family members.  Denying they had a duty to the investors, the plaintiffs
said they’d been “improperly” lumped together based on
“manufactured claims” that “have no place in this U.S.
court,” according to a U.S. District Court of New York filing
yesterday.  The suit is one of many that competes with 1,000 suits
filed by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm. Irving Picard in
December sued HSBC and a dozen funds including Primeo, Herald
and Thema for $9 billion, saying they ignored red flags and
should have known of the fraud. He is demanding $19 billion from
JPMorgan and as much as $59 billion from UniCredit, Kohn and
other parties.  HSBC units in Bermuda, Luxembourg and Dublin acted as
custodian for 12 funds including Pioneer Investment’s Primeo
Select, Bank Medici’s Herald (Lux) and Thema International, as
well as Herald USA, Alpha Prime, Lagoon Investment, Senator,
Kingate Global, Defender and Global Investments.  Primeo, based in the Cayman Islands, was tied to Bank
Medici and Kohn, according to Picard’s suit. Primeo took $145
million, mostly its principal, out of the Madoff firm in the six
years before the 2008 bankruptcy, which Picard is seeking to
recover, he said in the suit. Its profit was a scant $27,942,
according to Picard. The fund is being liquidated.  The trustee said total six-year withdrawals by funds he
named in the HSBC suit were $2 billion.  HSBC has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York
to dismiss Picard’s suit, saying it didn’t know of the fraud and
lost $1 billion of its own money investing in funds that in turn
put money with Madoff.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
North Carolina.  The case is In re Herald, 09-cv-00289, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ebix Inflated Earnings by Ignoring Bad Debt, Court Is Told  Ebix Inc. (EBIX) , a business software provider whose acquisitions
have made it one of the fastest growing small-cap companies,
inflated earnings by overstating accounts receivable, according
to an executive who sued Ebix after it bought his firm,
Bloomberg News’ Greg Farrell reports.  The size of the overstatement was approximately $200,000,
according to a complaint filed May 24 in federal court in
Columbus, Ohio. It allegedly occurred in the fourth quarter of
2009, representing almost 1.7 percent of Ebix’s net income of
$12.1 million for the period on revenue of $31.3 million.  Shares in Atlanta-based Ebix, which provides data
processing software to the insurance industry, climbed from $3
in January 2007 to $29 in March of this year. Among the 800
firms with market capitalization between $500 million and $2
billion, Ebix surpassed all but ten in terms of market-cap
growth over the past four years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  During that same period, short interest in the stock has
grown at the fourth fastest rate. After Ebix shares dropped 14
percent this year through June 15, the proportion of the
company’s stock sold short surged to a record 27 percent,
according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research firm.  “When a quarter or more of the shares have been sold
short, it’s certainly indicative that investors question the
legitimacy of the company’s reported results,” said Lynn
Turner, former chief accountant of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The allegations of billing irregularities come from Steven
Isaac, former chief executive officer of Peak Performance
Solutions, and two directors of the firm, Earl Gallegos and
Richard Freeman. The three men sold the company to Ebix in
September 2009 for $8 million. Peak produces risk management and
compliance software for the insurance industry.  Robin Raina, Ebix’s CEO, said the overstatement was only
$150,000, and that it was discovered by Ebix management early in
2010 and corrected immediately.  “That revenue is from the first quarter of 2010. In the
second quarter of 2010, we called it uncollectible,” Raina
said. “Their complaint, it’s completely wrong.”  He also said the sum involved was insignificant for a
company projected to generate more than $170 million in revenue
for 2011. Ebix, which had a market capitalization of $803
million as of June 29, reported full-year 2010 net income of $59
million on revenue of $132.2 million.  The case is Isaac v. Ebix Inc, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio (Columbus). The
ConfirmNet case is Irving v. Ebix, 10-00762, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of California (San Diego).  For more, click here.  Lehman Brokerage Seeks $346 Million From RBS Over Swap  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage asked a judge to
force  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to pay $346 million owed
to the defunct firm.  ABN Amro, now owned by Royal Bank, owes the money, plus
interest, to  Lehman Brothers Inc . for early termination of a
1998 swap agreement, the brokerage said in a filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Royal Bank refuses to pay, saying
it has a right to set off the funds against amounts owed to it
by the brokerage and its affiliates, brokerage trustee James
Giddens said in a June 29 filing.  “The trustee has a right to recover the withheld funds
based on simple and straightforward principles of contract
law,” he said.  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman in Connecticut for
Edinburgh-based Royal Bank, declined to comment.  The Lehman brokerage, like its bankrupt parent, is seeking
money from banks it did business with to pay customers.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  asked a judge in May to dismiss most of a $1.3
billion lawsuit brought by Giddens, saying he had no legal claim
on most of the money.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has said it will appeal a judge’s order that
it return $2 billion in margin assets to Giddens and pay about
$270 million in interest.  The Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage went into liquidation
four days later.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Birmingham’s Yeung Charged With Hong Kong Money Laundering  Carson Yeung, the former hairdresser who bought control of
English soccer club Birmingham City in 2009, was charged with
money laundering in a Hong Kong court.  The police brought five charges against Yeung, 51, for
dealing with property “known or believed to represent proceeds
of an indictable offense,” with a total value of HK$721.3
million ($93 million), according to documents read in court
yesterday. He was granted bail, with a hearing scheduled for
Aug. 11.  Shares in  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309) , the West
Midlands-based team’s parent company, were suspended from
trading in Hong Kong yesterday, according to a statement to the
city’s stock exchange. Peter Pannu, Birmingham’s acting
chairman, said in a statement yesterday that the investigations
didn’t have any connection with that company or any of its
subsidiaries.  “This does not appear to be a strong case whatsoever” as
prosecutors haven’t said what crime the money is supposed to
have come from, Daniel Marash, Yeung’s lawyer, said in court.  Yeung, who was detained yesterday, was released after
posting bail of HK$4 million in cash, and HK$3 million in cash
guarantees from two supporters. No plea was taken.  The charges against Yeung have the “hallmark of money
laundering” according to forensic experts, Hayson Tse, a lawyer
representing the prosecution, said in court yesterday. Each
charge is punishable by as long as 14 years in jail and a fine
of as much as HK$5 million.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, ESCC2717/2011 in the Hong Kong Eastern
Magistrates’ Court.  For more, click here.  BJ’s Wholesale Sued by Investor Over $2.8 Billion Takeover  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) , the third-largest U.S. warehouse-
club chain, was sued by an investor claiming its proposed $2.8
billion takeover price is “grossly inadequate”.  Leonard Green & Partners LP is acquiring the company at a
“substantial” discount to its true value and BJ’s directors
locked up the deal by agreeing to “impermissible” deal-
protection devices, lawyers for shareholder Maxine Phillips said
in the complaint filed June 29 in Delaware Chancery Court.
Phillips is seeking to represent all BJ’s shareholders in her
bid to bar the deal.  Directors “have effectively placed a cap on BJ’s corporate
value at a time when the company’s stock price was recovering
from the recent economic decline,” lawyers for Phillips said in
the complaint.  Under the agreement, Leonard Green and CVC Capital Partners
will pay BJ’s investors $51.25 in cash for each share they hold.
The takeover gives the firms BJ’s 190 wholesale clubs in 15 U.S.
states for a valuation of about 7.1 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Cathy Maloney, a spokeswoman for BJ’s, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Maxine Phillips v. BJ’s Wholesale Club, CA6623,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Taylor Bean Chairman Gets 30 Years for $3 Billion Fraud (1)  Lee Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 30 years in prison for leading
a $3 billion fraud involving fake mortgage assets.  Farkas was also ordered by U.S. District Judge Leonie
Brinkema in Alexandria, Virginia, to forfeit more than $38
million.  “I actually don’t believe you accept responsibility for
these criminal acts,” Brinkema said yesterday as she handed
down the sentence. “This was a very serious series of crimes.”  A federal jury convicted Farkas, 58, in April of 14 counts
of conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud after a two-
week trial. Prosecutors said Farkas orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S., which duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  “I believe that everyone at TBW and Colonial Bank were
acting together in good faith to help each other,” Farkas read
from a statement.  Prosecutors in a June 24 court filing asked U.S. District
Judge Leonie Brinkema to order Farkas to prison for 385 years or
no less than 50 years, “a period of years that would ensure
that Farkas will remain in prison for life.”  Bruce Rogow, a lawyer for Farkas, urged Brinkema to send
his client to prison no more than 15 years.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Ex-AMD Employee Mark Longoria Pleads Guilty in New York  Mark Anthony Longoria, a former employee of  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  charged in a U.S. probe of insider trading by hedge
fund managers and expert networking consultants, pleaded guilty
to a four-year fraud scheme.  Longoria, 45, of San Antonio, Texas, yesterday admitted to
four crimes: conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud,
securities fraud, wire fraud and making false statements to
prosecutors and FBI agents.  He faces as long as 50 years in prison, said U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan. Longoria is cooperating with
prosecutors, and Rakoff said he could face a lesser term because
of his assistance to the government.  Longoria admitted in court that he passed tips about AMD’s
gross margins and revenue to hedge fund managers, and he also
provided inside information about Western Digital Corp., a hard-
drive maker based in Irvine, California, when he worked for them
in 2006. He said he provided the information to fund manager
clients of  Primary Global Research LLC , an expert networking
firm in Mountain View, California, that provides experts to
investors.  Longoria said that while an employee at AMD, he also worked
as a consultant for Primary Global, where he was paid $300 per
telephone call to pass inside information about the chipmaker to
hedge fund clients of the expert networking firm. He told the
judge that he earned about $200,000 during a scheme which he
said operated from 2006 to 2010.  Primary Global “paid me for providing material, nonpublic
information, mostly by telephone, to its hedge fund clients,”
Longoria said in court. “I believed at the time that the hedge
funds would use the nonpublic information I gave them to make
trading decisions.”  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global, declined to
comment on Longoria’s statements about the firm. Steven
Shattuck, a spokesman for Western Digital, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  Michael Silverman, a spokesman for AMD, said that “AMD is
the victim of an insider trading scheme.” The company has
policies against insider trading and regarding outside work by
employees, he said in a statement. “It appears that Mr. Longoria
violated those policies,” Silverman said.  The case is U.S. vs. Shimoon, 10-mj-02823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Lawyer Cutillo Gets 2 1/2 Years in Insider Trading Case  Arthur Cutillo, a former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyer who
pleaded guilty in the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading case,
was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York imposed
the sentence yesterday and ordered Cutillo to forfeit $378,068
along with two other defendants. He must surrender to prison
authorities by Sept. 16, the judge ruled.  “You were one of the winners in life,” Sullivan said.
“At the time of the crime, you were a respected attorney. You
were earning more than $200,000. Yet it wasn’t enough.”  Cutillo pleaded in January to one count of conspiracy and
securities fraud. He admitted disclosing information on
transactions the firm was working on to another co-defendant,
Jason Goldfarb, in exchange for kickbacks.  “I just want to apologize to everybody I hurt,” Cutillo,
34, of Newark,  New Jersey , said yesterday in court. “I know
what I did was terribly wrong. Not only did I betray my law
firm, I betrayed everyone I believed in. I’m sorry.”  Prosecutors said information from Cutillo was passed on to
former Galleon trader Zvi Goffer, allowing Goffer and others to
earn more than $7 million.  Catherine L. Redlich, Cutillo’s lawyer, asked Sullivan to
impose no prison time, citing the welfare of her client’s four
young children.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-56, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Economist Stiglitz Seeks $1 Million From Former Divorce Lawyer  Economist Joseph E. Stiglitz is asking a federal jury in
 Washington  to award him more than $1 million in damages from his
former lawyer, who he says failed to file divorce papers in time
to prevent his second wife from claiming part of his $300,000
 Nobel Prize  money.  Jury selection began yesterday in the trial of Stiglitz’s
professional-negligence suit again Rita M. Bank of Ain & Bank in
Washington. The trial, scheduled to last six days, will include
testimony by Stiglitz and divorce lawyers from New York and
Washington, according to court papers.  Stiglitz, 68, who  shared the Nobel  in 2001, alleges he lost
more than $5 million because Bank kept him in the dark about her
loyalties, according to court papers. Jane Hannaway, Stiglitz’s
second wife, filed for divorce in 2002.  Bank, who has denied the allegations, declined to comment,
as did Stiglitz, who is scheduled to travel to Beijing this
weekend to be sworn in as president of the International
Economic Association.  Bank never told Stiglitz she had consulted with Hannaway
about a potential divorce before he hired her to represent him
in August 2000, according to a complaint filed in 2005 in
Washington.  Stiglitz said in court papers that he repeatedly asked Bank
to file divorce papers in Washington in 2000 and 2001 to limit
his financial exposure, though this was never done.  “Bank assured Stiglitz that he would be better off
continuing to negotiate rather than filing suit,” Stiglitz
alleges.  The case is Stiglitz v. Bank, 05-1826, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On The Docket  Rajaratnam’s Sentencing Rescheduled for Sept. 27, Judge Says  Raj Rajaratnam’s sentencing on insider-trading charges was
rescheduled to Sept. 27 from July by a federal judge in New
York.  Rajaratnam, 54, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, is at
the center of one of the largest illegal stock-tipping cases
ever brought by the U.S. He was found guilty May 11 by a jury on
five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of securities fraud.  When he was convicted, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
set sentencing for July 29. Yesterday’s order by Holwell
postponing the date included a letter from prosecutors saying
that they and Rajaratnam agreed to it.  The U.S. said Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year conspiracy
to trade on inside information from corporate executives,
bankers, consultants, traders and directors of public companies
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He gained $63.8 million as a
result of the scheme, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said on the day of the verdict that Rajaratnam
faces from 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in prison when he is
sentenced.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 