-- 
Forint Advances, Has Biggest Weekly Gain Since March, on Greece

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-01T15:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/forint-advances-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-march.html
The forint appreciated, extending its
biggest weekly advance since March, as a diminishing probability
of a Greek default lifted demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The Hungarian currency gained 0.6 percent to 264.41 per
euro as of 4:45 p.m. in Budapest. It has rallied 1.8 percent
this week, the most since the five days through March 25 and the
best performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  secured passage this
week of 78 billion euros ($113 billion) of additional budget
cuts and revenue measures as the government tries to meet
European Union aid requirements and avoid default. His success
may prevent the country’s financial crisis from spreading
eastward.  Hungary , rescued by an international financial bailout
in 2008, has public debt equivalent to 77 percent of its
economy, the highest among the European Union’s eastern members.  “Greek parliamentary support of austerity measures and the
improving investor sentiment had little impact on Hungarian
government bonds, but generated a big spike in the forint,”
Adam Keszeg and Wolfgang Ernst, analysts at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Budapest and Vienna, respectively, wrote in
a research report today.  The yield on the  government bonds  maturing in 2022 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.345 percent,
compared with 7.476 percent a week ago.  Greece ’s pledge of new budget cuts may not end the euro
region’s debt crisis, a risk that may force Hungarian policy
makers to raise  interest rates , central bank President Andras Simor told business leaders today in Budapest. A worsening debt
crisis may weaken the forint and fuel inflation, potentially
triggering a rate increase, he said.  The central bank kept the main interest rate at 6 percent
for a fifth month on June 20. The bank may need to maintain the
rate at that level for an “extended period” to slow inflation
to its 3 percent goal by the end of 2012, Simor said today.
Consumer prices rose 3.9 percent from a year earlier in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  