-- 
France Vote Outlaws ‘Fracking’ Shale for Natural Gas, Oil Extraction

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-01T10:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/france-vote-outlaws-fracking-shale-for-natural-gas-oil-extraction.html
French senators voted to outlaw
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, making  France  the first
country to pass a law banning the technique for extracting
 natural gas  and oil.  “We are at the end of a legislative marathon that stirred
emotion from lawmakers and the public,” French Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said late yesterday before
the vote. Hydraulic fracturing will be illegal and parliament
would have to vote for a new law to allow research using the
technique, she said.  Energy companies that plan to use fracking to produce oil
and gas in France will have their permits revoked and its use
could lead to fines and prison, according to the law passed by a
vote of 176 in favor, 151 against by the senators in Paris.  Lawmakers of the ruling UMP party voted in favor of the
bill while the opposition Socialists rejected the proposal for
not going far enough. Before the French vote, the ban had moved
between the upper and lower houses of parliament since March.  Fracking, widely used in  North America , uses a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals injected under high pressure to break
dense rock to release trapped oil and gas. Green groups and
politicians led protests across France, saying the method could
cause environmental damage. Government ministers and industry
representatives say it is the only method currently available to
extract hydrocarbons from the rock.  Ban ‘Deplored’  Oil companies  operating in France “deplore” the French
ban, according to the Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres, or UFIP, which represents  Total SA (FP)  and other
explorers and refiners. UFIP, it said in a statement,
“considers that the law will prevent an evaluation of shale
hydrocarbon resources and their impact on the French economy.”  The French energy ministry has already granted permits to
companies including Total,  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) ,  Toreador
Resources Corp. (TRGL)  and Schuepbach Energy LLC for shale oil and gas
exploration. Shares of Toreador, which has the most permits to
explore for shale oil around Paris, surged 10 percent in French
trading today to cut their drop to 76 percent since Jan. 1.  Losing Permits  Kosciusko-Morizet has raised the possibility of lawsuits by
oil companies facing the prospect of losing permits that have
already been granted by the French government.  “We could have a court case, yes, probably there will be
one,” she said on LCI television on June 22. During debate
yesterday in the Senate, she said “financial and legal risks
have been limited.”  Under the bill approved yesterday, companies with
exploration permits will have two months to declare whether they
intend to use hydraulic fracturing. If they do, their permits
will be revoked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  