-- 
FTC Begins Twitter Antitrust Inquiry

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-01T18:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/ftc-said-to-have-begun-antitrust-inquiry-into-twitter-s-developer-policies.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has
begun contacting software makers as part of a preliminary
inquiry into whether Twitter Inc.’s business practices harm
competition, two people familiar with the matter said.  The agency is responding to complaints that Twitter is
making it harder for some software developers to design
applications that run in concert with the company’s service,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter hasn’t been made public.  The agency has been taking a more active role in examining
the behavior of large Internet companies in recent months. Last
week,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest Internet-search provider,
said it had received a subpoena from the FTC regarding a broad
antitrust probe into its dominance.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment, as did
 Sean Garrett , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter.  Twitter, which allows people to communicate in 140-
character messages, has seen its usage surge since the company
was founded four years ago. The  website  is now used by 13
percent of U.S. adults online, up from 8 percent in November, as
more older Americans embrace the service, according to a report
last month by the Pew Research Center in  Washington .  Twitter, competing with social-networking service Facebook
Inc., is trying to improve its products and attract more users
and advertisers. Last year, the company added more features that
matched what independent Twitter developers were already doing,
such as applications for smartphones.  Nature of Accusations  Considering the nature of the accusations and the lack of
strong legal precedent, the FTC would be on the boundaries of
the law if the agency decided to bring a case against Twitter,
one person familiar with the matter said.  Still, the complaints “sound a lot like some of the
allegations that were leveled at Microsoft,” said Andrew Gavil,
a Howard University law professor in Washington.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
eventually signed a 10-year agreement allowing the government to
monitor its business.  One developer,  UberMedia , said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that “we have been contacted by the FTC and we intend
to fully comply with their request for information.”  The Pasadena, California-based company didn’t say that the
probe was targeting Twitter.  Independent Developer  On its website, UberMedia describes itself as the leading
independent developer of applications that help users find and
communicate with one another on Twitter.  In February, UberMedia Chief Executive Officer  Bill Gross 
said in a blog  posting  that Twitter had temporarily shut off the
access of several UberMedia applications to the Twitter service,
accusing the developer of violating a contract.  “It was enough of a shot across the bow, so it got the
attention of not only UberMedia but the entire developer
community,” said  Mark Evans , a Toronto-based social-media
 strategist  whose clients include independent Twitter software
developers.  Twitter has a legitimate goal of wanting to generate
revenue by expanding its product’s features, Evans said. The
trick will be that in doing so, it doesn’t “kill that developer
ecosystem” drawing users to Twitter, he said.  Business Insider reported on the FTC inquiry earlier
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  