-- 
Geithner’s Possible Departure Would Make Obama Rebuild Team

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-07-01T10:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/geithner-s-potential-departure-would-force-obama-to-rebuild-for-campaign.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s potential departure from the administration would
force President  Barack Obama  to assemble a new economic team as
he enters a re-election campaign that’s likely to be dominated
by voter concern over jobs.  Geithner has told Obama that he’s considering leaving the
administration after the president reaches an agreement with
Congress to raise the national debt limit, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The Treasury secretary said yesterday that speculation
about his departure was being driven by his decision to commute
to New York so his son can finish his final year of high school
there. He stated his intention to stay, without saying how long.  “I live for this work,” he said at the Clinton Global
Initiative in  Chicago . “It’s the only thing I’ve ever done. I
believe in it. We have a lot of challenges as a country. I’m
going to be doing it for the foreseeable future.”  Geithner, 49, won’t make a final decision on whether to
leave until the debt-ceiling issue has been resolved, according
to another person familiar with the matter. Both people spoke on
condition of anonymity to talk about private discussions.  An exit by Geithner would complete the turnover in Obama’s
original economic team, with Council of Economic Advisers
Chairman  Austan Goolsbee  scheduled to leave in early August to
return to the University of Chicago. It would leave Obama with
two key posts to fill as the recovery slows. The  unemployment
rate  rose to 9.1 percent in May, and the economy grew at a 1.9
percent pace in the first quarter, the government reported.  ‘New Blood’  Three other top economic advisers already have departed.
Goolsbee replaced  Christina Romer  at the CEA, and National
Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers and Office of
Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag  left the
administration last year.  “There is never a good time to leave, but there is also
value to bringing new blood into the policymaking process,”
said Stephen Myrow, a former Treasury official who’s now with
ACG Analytics Inc., a Washington investment research firm.  “If and when Secretary Geithner announces his departure,
it will be interesting to see whether the president emphasizes
with his replacement financial-sector credentials like he did by
choosing William Daley as his chief of staff, or if he focuses
primarily on Washington experience and regulatory acumen,” said
Myrow.  Needs a Break  Geithner has told associates he needs a break from
government service after dealing with the turmoil that followed
the collapse of Wall Street firms, including Bear Stearns Cos.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., first as president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and then as Treasury secretary.  Now he’s facing pressure over the debt limit. He has said
the U.S. risks defaulting on its obligations if Congress doesn’t
raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by Aug. 2. The
administration and Republicans in Congress are at an impasse in
negotiations over increasing the limit, which is tied to efforts
to cut the nation’s long-term deficit.  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 that it expects to
place the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a
possible downgrade if there’s no progress on the talks by mid-
July.  Fitch Ratings  said June 21 it would place the U.S. on a
negative rating watch if no action is taken by Aug. 2.  “Geithner leaving may raise the level of uncertainty for
the direction of economic policy, and that is never a positive
thing for the markets and the recovery,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.7 billion as chief investment officer
at the United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  No ‘Shock Value’  Still, he said, it wouldn’t have too much “shock value,”
especially if Geithner remains at Treasury until the debt
ceiling is settled, “which is the most pressing concern.”  Treasuries fell for a fourth day yesterday as stocks rose
and a measure of U.S. business activity improved. The yield on
the 10-year note rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.16 percent at 5:14 p.m. in New York.  Investors may be more interested in who would come after
Geithner.  “The question in cases like this is always who will be the
replacement,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of
bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “You
can’t judge if this is good or bad for the market until you see
who follows.”  Investors were “comfortable” with Geithner because he was
“a visible player in trying to blunt the crisis,” he said.  Need a CEO  Some Republicans are already urging Obama to select a
replacement from the business community.  “What would be smart is to bring a CEO on board,” Senator
Rob Portman of  Ohio  said on Bloomberg Television. “Somebody
who’s got business experience. Somebody who, again, understands
the important connection between policies and jobs and the
economy and the fiscal situation.”  If Geithner does leave, Obama would be losing a member of
his economic team who understands  Washington  institutions and
the New York banking world as well as the intricacies of the
Chinese economy. Geithner has pressed the Chinese to let their
currency appreciate faster to reduce the global imbalances that
both he and Obama have blamed for financial uncertainty.  After Obama’s victory in the 2008 election, Geithner had a
rocky start in Washington as he faced Senate scrutiny over his
failure to pay self-employment tax returns while he worked at
the  International Monetary Fund . He paid some of the taxes after
being audited by the  Internal Revenue Service  and didn’t pay the
rest until it was clear that he would be nominated for the
Treasury post, according to the Senate Finance Committee.  Growing Stature  His initial moves to return financial markets to health
were rebuffed by  Wall Street . On Feb. 10, 2009, when Geithner
unveiled a plan to bolster the banking system, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 stock index tumbled 4.9 percent. Before the 2010 mid-
term elections, then-House Minority Leader John Boehner called
on Obama to fire Geithner and other members of the economic
team.  As Obama’s presidency progressed, administration officials
began to view Geithner as more of a public asset.  “Tim was very influential from day one,” said Romer.
“His public persona has just caught up with what has always
been true inside the White House.”  Former President  Bill Clinton  said he didn’t know whether
business confidence might be hurt if Geithner leaves.  “What people want is predictability now,” Clinton said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in Chicago. “We’ve
absorbed a lot of change, we’ve absorbed a lot of trauma.”  Clinton said he hadn’t heard that the Treasury secretary
was considering leaving. Later, while interviewing Geithner,
Clinton said told him that staying at Treasury would “be good
for America.”  Geithner earned a bachelor’s degree from  Dartmouth College 
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , and a master’s degree from Johns
Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington. After graduate school, he worked for three years at
a global consulting firm founded by Henry A. Kissinger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  