-- 
Greek, Spanish Bonds Lead Peripheral Debt Rebound as Default Concern Ebbs

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-01T15:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/german-bonds-snap-four-day-decline-before-euro-region-manufacturing-report.html
Greek government notes led gains by
securities from the euro region’s most indebted countries as
speculation that the Mediterranean nation will default subsided,
boosting demand for riskier assets.  German government bonds declined for a fifth day. Spanish
bonds gained for a fourth day after  Greece ’s lawmakers approved
a budget-cutting package and banks lined up behind debt-rollover
plans. Ten-year German yields have jumped 20 basis points this
week, the biggest five-day increase in seven months.  “The main driver is the optimism about Greece,” said
 Glenn Marci , a strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “There’s
clearly a risk-on mentality. Bunds have served well as a safe
haven. We have seen some flows out of them this week.”  Two-year Greek note yields fell 50 basis points to 26.23
percent as of 4:25 p.m. in  London . The 4.6 percent security,
maturing in May 2013, gained 0.54, or 5.40 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,452) face amount, to 70.81, trading at 70 percent of face
value for the first time since June 13 based on closing prices.
Ten-year bond yields were little changed at 16.34 percent.  Notes from  Europe ’s most indebted nations have gained this
week as  Germany ’s biggest banks agreed on a proposal to replace
maturing Greek debt with new securities to help stave off the
currency bloc’s first sovereign default.  Almost two years into a sovereign-debt crisis, Europe is
still seeking to quarantine the turmoil that has forced Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek aid deals.  German Yields  Finance ministers from the 17 euro-area nations have
scheduled a conference call for tomorrow evening to discuss a
second Greek aid package that is dependent on private-sector
participation. The new financing may be as much as 85 billion
euros, including contributions from private investors, according
to an Austrian Finance Ministry official.  Ten-year German yields gained two basis points to 3.05
percent, the most since June 9. Two-year note yields rose five
basis points to 1.66 percent. They have climbed 31 basis points
this week.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 52 from 54.6 in
May, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the lowest
in 18 months. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Rate Outlook  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated yesterday that policy makers are in a state of
“strong vigilance” against inflation, indicating borrowing
costs may be lifted at their July 7 meeting. The European
Central Bank raised its key rate by a quarter point to 1.25
percent in April, the first increase in almost three years.  The ECB will add 76 basis points to its benchmark interest
rate in the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based
on swaps showed. That compares with 16 basis points predicted by
the index on June 22.  Spanish 10-year yields fell six basis points to 5.38
percent. Portuguese two-year notes rose for a fourth day,
pushing yields down 22 basis points to 12.97 percent.  The yield difference, or spread, between Spanish 10-year
securities and benchmark German bunds narrowed eight basis
points to 234 basis points.  The Italian-German spread was three basis points narrower
at 183 basis points. It has narrowed 31 basis points this week
as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s cabinet passed deficit-
cutting measures to try to balance the budget by 2014.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 0.2
percent so far this year, compared with a 2.4 percent gain for
U.S. Treasuries and a 1.8 percent advance for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 