-- 
Go Daddy Said Valued at $2.25 Billion in KKR, Silver Lake Buyout

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/go-daddy-gets-investment-from-kkr-silver-lake-tcv-for-undisclosed-terms.html
Go Daddy Group Inc., the website
registration and hosting company, announced a deal with KKR &
Co.,  Silver Lake  Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures, or
TCV, that values the company at $2.25 billion, said a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Bob Parsons, founder and chief executive officer, will keep
a minority stake in the company, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the financial terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed. Go Daddy, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, is teaming up
with the firms because of their “technology expertise,”
according to a  statement  yesterday on its website.  KKR, Silver Lake and TCV are aiming to benefit from growth
in the Internet, using Go Daddy’s predictable revenue stream to
expand and pay down debt taken on to finance the transactions.
Go Daddy registers domain names and hosts websites for as little
as $5 a month, and has more than 48 million domain names under
management.  “We’re just at the beginning of the Internet in terms of
all the additional services a registry can sell to companies,”
said Lou Kerner, managing director of the private-shares group
at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  New York , before the announcement.  Silver Lake, which has offices in New York and  Menlo Park ,
 California , focuses on technology investments, and led the 2009
buyout of Skype from  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  KKR, the New York-based firm run
by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , buys companies across
industries.  Provocative Ads  Go Daddy has sought to raise its profile in recent years by
running provocative ads during the  Super Bowl  featuring race-car
driver Danica Patrick. Capital from new owners might help it
reach a broader range of potential clients, including small and
medium-sized businesses that need help running sites, Melanie Posey, an analyst with IDC in New York, said June 24 when talks
between the company and the buyout firms were disclosed by a
person with knowledge of the discussions.  “The domain-name business is an onramp that gives us the
opportunity to cross-sell other products,” said Herald Chen, a
director at KKR who helped negotiate the deal. “Additional
services is an area of growth.”  Before founding Go Daddy, Parsons taught himself computer
programming and started Parsons Technology in 1984 while working
in his basement, according to his website. A decade later, he
sold Parsons to  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  for $64 million, the website says.  Go Daddy projects revenue will be about $1.1 billion this
year, compared with $139.8 million in 2005. When Go Daddy filed
for an initial public offering in 2006, it reported a net loss
every year from 2001 through 2005.  Parsons said in a conference call after the announcement
that Go Daddy is now generating a profit. He will become
executive chairman and Warren Adelman, currently the president,
will take over as CEO. The deal will be financed with 40 percent
debt, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net  