-- 
EU Set to Free Up Greek Rescue Funds as Talks Progress on New Aid Package

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/greece-to-receive-up-to-124-billion-in-new-aid.html
European finance chiefs may approve
their portion of a 12 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) aid payment
for  Greece  as they work to cobble together a second rescue for
the cash-strapped country.  Ministers from the 17 euro nations hold a conference call
at 6 p.m. Brussels time today to approve distributing the fifth
installment of last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout. The meeting
will last around an hour and a statement will likely be released
afterward. The ministers will also discuss progress in
convincing private banks to participate in a new aid package
that may include as much as 85 billion euros in new funds.  “The fifth tranche from EU countries will most likely go
through,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , head of interest-rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA. “They’ll need more time to
agree on a second bailout, but as long as they can agree on the
principles, that should hopefully be good enough.”  The yield on Greece’s two-year bond fell more than 150
basis points this week after Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
secured passage of a 78 billion-euro austerity package and
French and German banks showed willingness to take part in the
new bailout. Finance chiefs are trying to wrap up the new rescue
plan, which aims to shield Greece from financial markets for
three years and may be worth 85 billion euros, at a meeting on
July 11.  A year after the bailout that was supposed to stop the
spread of the debt crisis, Greece’s debt is set to top 150
percent of gross domestic product, the country is mired in
recession and needs more aid to avoid default.  New Package  Euro-area nations and private investors will contribute 70
percent of the new aid, with the  International Monetary Fund 
offering the rest, Thomas Wieser, an Austrian finance ministry
official said. The new package will put the total cost of
bailing out Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  at almost 360 billion
euros.  First the finance ministers and IMF must agree to pay out
the 12 billion-euro disbursement, which was delayed by
creditors’ demands that Greece show it could get its bailout
program back on track after missing its deficit target last
year. The euro region tranche is worth 8.5 billion euros.  Greece’s new austerity package aims to cut the country’s
budget gap to 7.5 percent of GDP this year from 10.5 percent in
2010.  The IMF had threatened to withhold its portion of the
payout until the EU came up with a plan to plug Greece’s funding
gap next year. Record bond yields prompted Greece to drop plans
under the bailout to return to bond markets next year, leaving
it short of 30 billion euros of funding.  Weekend Decision  “I’m certain we now have a sufficient consensus that we
can take a decision during the weekend on the fifth tranche of
the Greek loan package,” EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Helsinki
yesterday.  Greek two-year notes led gains by securities from the euro
region’s most-indebted countries as speculation about an
imminent Greek default eased. The yield on Greece’s two-year
debt fell 46 basis points to 26.8 percent. That yield topped 30
percent last month on default concerns. The yield on Greece’ 10-
year bond was little changed at 16.33 percent.  German and French banks, the biggest holders of Greek debt,
have stepped up talks in recent days on the rollover that
officials say should amount to as much as 30 billion euros.  Meltdown  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  on
June 29 predicted that financial companies would contribute to
help avert a “meltdown.”  “An agreement on the form of private-sector involvement
will probably be reached by the July 11 deadline,”  Ben May ,
European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in
a note to investors. “Nonetheless, with the level of Greek debt
set to remain astronomically high, this will not mark the end of
the Greek crisis.”  Under a French proposal, bondholders would agree to roll
over 70 percent of their debt maturing through mid-2014 into new
30-year Greek bonds with the principal on the new debt
guaranteed through Greece investing in zero-coupon bonds of
similar maturity. Under a second option, investors would roll
over 90 percent of their debt into new five-year bonds with no
guarantee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net . 