-- 
Iberdrola Won’t Increase ACS Voting Rights Pending Court Ruling on Rule

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-01T16:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/iberdrola-won-t-increase-acs-voting-rights-pending-court-ruling.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the biggest producer of
renewable energy, will continue blocking its largest shareholder
from exercising its full stake even after a  Spanish law  took
effect today that bars the anti-takeover defense.  The Spanish utility, which for years has capped the voting
rights of stockholder Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA
at 10 percent, will maintain that measure while  Spain ’s  Supreme
Court  considers Iberdrola’s request to suspend the new rule,
said an Iberdrola spokesman who declined to be identified.  The high court decided on June 29 to consider the Bilbao-
based utility’s request for an injunction against the law.
Several of Spain’s largest traded companies have used the 10
percent voting limit, including  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , the nation’s
biggest oil company, and were set to scrap the defense today.  Iberdrola, the producer of more than 25,400 gigawatt-hours
of renewable power worldwide in 2010, has been locked in a five-
year battle with ACS. The construction company,  Europe ’s
largest, also works in clean energy and engineering projects,
and Iberdrola has kept it out of the board on those grounds.  A Supreme Court spokeswoman, who declined to be identified,
said that under the June 29 ruling, companies and investors
affected were given 10 days to submit comments to judges who
will decide whether to block the new law, which is found in
Article 515 of a July 2, 2010, royal decree.  The decision to study a possible injunction doesn’t stop
the law from being effective today, the court spokeswoman said.  An ACS spokesman declined to comment.  Iberdrola rose 1.4 percent to close at 6.22 euros in
 Madrid , bringing its weekly gain to 5.6 percent, the most in six
months.  ACS advanced 1.5 percent, gaining 9.8 percent in the week,
its biggest weekly increase in 14 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  