-- 
Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Falls

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-01T14:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-falls.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped more than anticipated in June, adding to concern that
household spending may weaken.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell to 71.5 from 74.3 in May. The gauge was
projected to decline to 72, according to the median forecast of
57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The index for June
compares with a preliminary reading of 71.8.  Accelerating inflation, unemployment above 9 percent and
falling property values are contributing to pessimism among
consumers, overshadowing a decline in gasoline costs. The
report, together with the lack of sustained strength in the job
market, raises the risk restrained household demand will damp a
projected pickup in economic growth.  “This still-rocky environment is hurting  consumer
confidence ,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto. At the same time, “the economy is
not falling off a cliff.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 70.3 to
74.6, according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 89
in the five years leading up to the recession that began in
December 2007.  Stocks extended gains after a separate report today showed
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in June. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7 percent to 1,330.14 at
10:48 a.m. in  New York .  ISM Reading  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
55.3 last month from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said today. Economists estimated the index would drop to 52,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Today’s confidence report contrasts with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which climbed to minus 43.9 for the week
ended June 26, the highest level in 10 weeks, according to
figures reported yesterday.  Changes in gasoline prices and the Bloomberg comfort index
have shown an inverse correlation since 2004, according to
calculations by  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York.  The Conference Board’s monthly sentiment index, which more
closely follows the labor market, plunged in June to a seven-
month low, a report showed this week.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
rose to 82 from 81.9 the prior month.  Expectations Measure  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
fell to 64.8 from 69.5.  The average price of regular fuel fell to $3.54 on June 29,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization,
from $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.8 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 4.1 percent in the prior survey.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 3.0 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.9 percent the previous month.  Church & Dwight Co., the maker of household products
including Arm & Hammer baking soda, is among companies concerned
about the outlook for household demand.  Creeping Back Up  “I’m really worried about the back half of this year as
far as  consumer spending  power” goes, James Craigie, chairman
and chief executive officer of the Princeton, New Jersey-based
company, said on a conference call with investors on June 29.
“Unemployment is creeping back up,” and budget constraints on
state and local governments “means more job cuts.”  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, indicating little progress in
the job market, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. A
separate report earlier last month showed payrolls grew in May
by the least since September and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1
percent. The June employment data are due next week.  Federal Reserve officials have retained record monetary
stimulus to help the economy withstand what they consider a
“temporary” slowdown in growth.  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly” than policy makers expected, the
Fed said in a June 22 statement. That “reflects in part factors
that are likely to be temporary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  