-- 
Michigan Anti-Affirmative-Action Law Overturned by Federal Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-01T20:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/michigan-anti-affirmative-action-law-overturned-by-federal-appeals-court.html
A U.S. appeals court declared
unconstitutional an amendment to  Michigan ’s state constitution
that barred its public colleges including the University of
Michigan and  Michigan State University  from considering race,
gender or ethnicity in admissions.  The voter-initiated amendment, known as Proposal 2, took
effect in December 2006, according to the Cincinnati-based
appellate panel, in the wake of two 2003 U.S. Supreme Court
rulings that said while universities couldn’t establish racial
group quotas, they could consider race, ethnicity and other
factors.  “We find that Proposal 2 unconstitutionally alters
Michigan’s political structure by impermissibly burdening racial
minorities,” the appellate court majority said today.  The 2-1  ruling  reversed a lower court decision in favor of
the governing bodies for the state schools including  Wayne State
University  in  Detroit . The University of Michigan is in  Ann
Arbor . Michigan State is located in East Lansing.  Dissenting, U.S. Circuit Judge Julia Smith Gibbons said she
didn’t find that the amendment impermissibly altered the state’s
political process and affirmed its lawfulness under the U.S.
Constitution.  The Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, Integration and
Immigration Rights and Fight for Equality by Any Means
Necessary, a Detroit-based  civil rights organization , filed a
lawsuit challenging Proposal 2 in that city’s federal courthouse
in that in Nov. 2006.  ‘Great Victory’  “It’s a great victory for students and for the new civil
rights movement,” attorney and organization chairwoman Shanta
Driver said today in a press statement after the ruling was
released.  The decision, Driver said, means thousands of black, Latino
and Native American students “will now have the chance to
receive an education at the state’s best universities.”  Writing for the two-person majority, U.S. Circuit Judge R. Guy Cole said an equal protection violation was created when
Proposal 2’s proponents took away state schools authority to
institute “racially focused” policies and “lodged it in at
the most remote level of Michigan’s government, the state
constitution,” effectively putting the issue out of the
political reach of those who favored such policies.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, in a press
statement, said he will seek reversal of the appeals court
decision.  ‘Based Upon Merit’  “Entrance to our great universities must be based upon
merit and I will continue the fight for equality, fairness and
rule of law,” Schuette said in a press statement.  Jennifer Gratz, whose 1997 lawsuit over the  University of
Michigan ’s admissions policies led to one of the 2003 Supreme
Court rulings cited in today’s appellate ruling, called the two-
judge majority opinion “insanity,” and said she was confident
it would be overturned.  Gratz , 33, campaigned for adoption of Proposal 2 and now
works for the American Civil Rights Institute in  Sacramento ,
 California , which describes its  mission  as educating the public
on “the harms of racial and gender preferences.”  “The U.S. Supreme Court has already approved this process
and said the ultimate rule is with the voting public of each
state,” she said. “Judges don’t get to legislate from the
bench and overturn the will of the people.”  Amendment Upheld  U.S. District Judge David M. Lawson, in a March 2008
decision, upheld the amendment to the state’s constitution.  “Proposal 2 allows universities to use neutral criteria --
grades, test scores, schools of origin, community geographics,
economic factors, and a host of others -- in the admissions
process,” Lawson wrote.  “If these factors are not suitable proxies that generate
racially diverse student populations, the universities will be
all the poorer, but not because of conscious discrimination.”
He added.  The case is Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action,
Integration and Immigrant Rights v. Regents of the University of
Michigan, 08-1387, 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  