-- 
Microsoft, Google Sued by Louisiana Firm Over Computer-Mapping Technology

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-01T22:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/microsoft-google-sued-over-technology-providing-computer-maps.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  were
accused of violating a Louisiana company’s patent covering
mapping technology that helps computer users see locations in
three dimensions.  Officials of  Transcenic Inc.  contend in a lawsuit that
executives of Google, owner of the world’s biggest search
engine, and Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker,
misappropriated technology that helps capture 3-D images of map
locations.  The companies’ misuse of the mapping technology “has
injured Transcenic and Transcenic is entitled to recover damages
adequate to compensate for such infringement,” the closely held
Lake Charles, Louisiana-based company said today in a suit filed
in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Patents covering computer-mapping software have sparked
litigation against Google, Microsoft and other companies in
federal courts around the U.S. GeoTag Inc. has filed patent-
infringement suits against 300 entities, many of which use
mapping technology made by Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
or  Mountain View , California-based Google to show store
locations.  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a Google spokeswoman, and  Kevin Kutz , a Microsoft spokesman, both said they couldn’t comment on
the suit because they hadn’t yet received a copy of it.  Street View Targeted  Transcenic argues computer programs such as Google’s Street
View and Microsoft’s Streetside allow users to see 3-D images of
their destination rather than the traditional birds-eye view of
a map grid.  Google’s Street View system also has become a target for
lawsuits alleging the company is violating residents’ privacy
rights by collecting data from individual Wi-Fi networks. A
federal judge in  California  yesterday said a wiretapping suit
over the system could proceed.  Both Google and Microsoft have placed “infringing systems
into action or service” and obtain “beneficial use” of those
systems, lawyers for Transcenic said in the suit.  The patent-infringement suit also names  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and its
MapQwest unit as defendants. Sandy Drayton, an AOL spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return a phone call for comment on the suit.  The case is Transcenic Inc. v. Google Inc., 11-cv-582, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 