-- 
IEA Oil Release May Lift Tanker Demand, Top Ships CEO Says

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-07-01T16:23:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/iea-oil-release-may-lift-tanker-demand-top-ships-ceo-says.html
The cost of shipping refined oil
products in the  Mediterranean Sea  may rise as stock releases by
International Energy Agency members increases tanker demand, Top
Ships Inc. said.  Italy, France, Spain and  Turkey  will collectively release
about 9.1 million barrels of oil products over 30 days,
according to the IEA. That’s about 1.1 million metric tons, or
enough cargoes for 37 medium-range tankers.  “If the IEA releases an amount of oil products, the number
of cargoes will increase while the number of ships will remain
the same,” Evangelos Pistiolis, chief executive officer, of
Athens-based Top Ships, said by phone today. “Shipping rates
are very low because there are far more ships than cargoes. It
will help the market during the summer period in July.”  IEA members will release 60 million barrels of oil from
strategic reserves over 30 days beginning today, to make up for
a Libyan production shortfall due to unrest in the country and
to curb high prices, the agency said June 23. Half of the crude
will come from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The IEA
said it would make emergency stocks available in 12 member
countries.  Charter rates for medium-range tankers shipping cargoes
across the Mediterranean Sea, normally carrying 30,000 tons of
refined oil products, dropped 0.4 percent today to 137.22
Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London .  Daily rental income for medium-range tankers, which varies
with changes in fuel costs, slid 4.7 percent to $10,052. The
price, the lowest since June 17, is down 40 percent since the
end of March and down 8.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  