-- 
Minnesota Government Shuts Down

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-01T06:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/minnesota-government-shuts-down.html
Minnesota’s government shut down
for the first time since 2005, idling thousands of state 
workers, after Democratic Governor Mark Dayton and Republican
legislative leaders failed to resolve a budget stalemate at 
the start of the new fiscal year.  Dayton said Republicans refused to accept his proposal to
raise taxes to close a $5 billion deficit, and he wouldn’t
approve a budget balanced solely by cutting spending. The two
sides are $1.4 billion apart, he said.  Dozens of agencies, parks and government functions will be
shuttered today across the state that’s the home of  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. health insurer by revenue;  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, and Best Buy Co., the
world’s largest consumer electronics retailer. The breakdown
affects 23,000 of 36,000 workers, said Jennifer Munt, a
spokeswoman for the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees.  “The major difference remains the same,” Dayton said
during a press conference last night in his office at the state
Capitol in St. Paul. “It is the difference between my balanced
approach of significant spending cuts combined with tax
increases only on the very wealthiest Minnesotans versus the
Republicans’ all-cuts budget.”  Services that would be maintained include public safety;
care for prisoners and residents of nursing homes; the funding
of benefits and medical services; and the issuing of payments
such as debt service, according to a June 29  order  by Ramsey
County Chief Judge Kathleen Gearin in St. Paul.  ‘Promises to Kids’  “We are making promises to our kids and our grandkids on
spending that we are not going to be able to pay for,” Kurt Zellers, the Republican House speaker, said during a press
conference last night after the two sides met throughout the
day, as they had every day for the past week.  The Republican-led House of Representatives and Senate
passed 10 biennial budget bills totaling $34 billion in May, and
Dayton, a former U.S. senator, vetoed all except spending for
the Agriculture Department, said Katharine Tinucci, his
spokeswoman.  Republican legislative leaders held a press conference just
before the doors of the Capitol were closed to the public at 5
p.m. local time, saying the two sides were close. They called on
the governor to bring the Legislature back for a special session
to pass a bill to keep the government functioning until a deal
is completed.  ‘Please Don’t’  “Let’s keep the state of  Minnesota  open,” said Senator
Amy T. Koch, the majority leader. “Please don’t shut us down
for a tax increase.”  Democratic lawmakers who spoke to reporters later said a
“global agreement” was within reach, and that the governor
didn’t want a bill to keep the government open without that
broader agreement.  “Everyone is committed to making sure that we get a
compromise that works for most Minnesotans,” said
Representative Paul Thissen, the House minority leader.  Republican legislative leaders delivered a proposal to
Dayton’s office shortly after 9:30 p.m. local time calling for
keeping the government open for 10 days while negotiations
continued. Dayton called the offer a publicity stunt and said he
had made it clear he wanted a final deal before the budget
deadline.  “We made a lot of progress in the last couple of days
because there was a real deadline,” Dayton said.  New Jersey  Veto  Earlier in the day, New Jersey avoided a government
shutdown when Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who had
threatened to veto the entire $30.6 billion budget sent to him
by Democrats, instead pared almost $1 billion and kept the state
functioning.  Dayton, a first-term governor, proposed raising income
taxes for individuals with $150,000 in annual taxable income,
and couples earning $250,000, to generate $1.8 billion more for
services, according to a May 16 letter to lawmakers. The
proposal would raise taxes on 1.9 percent of Minnesotans, the
letter said.  Republicans oppose tax increases and said the budget could
be balanced with $3.6 billion in spending cuts, Jodi Boyne, a
spokeswoman for the House Republican Caucus, said in an
interview.  Demonstrators at Capitol  Demonstrators gathered on the Capitol steps to oppose
budget cuts and support Dayton’s tax proposal. They spilled
inside the building, where protesters outside the governor’s
office chanted, “They say cut back, we say fight back” and
“Banks got bailed out, we got sold out.”  Minnesota’s government shut for eight days in 2005. The
state won’t face pressure on its bond ratings from a shutdown,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 29 report.  Moody’s said Minnesota’s deficit represents about 15
percent of two-year revenue of about $34 billion. It rates the
state Aa1, its second-highest grade, with a stable outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  St. Paul , Minnesota at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  