-- 
Minnesota Poker Tables, Rest Stops Idled in Government Shutdown

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/minnesota-poker-tables-idled-in-shutdown.html
Just before midnight June 30, the
call went out in the card room at Running Aces Harness Park in
Columbus,  Minnesota : “Last deal of the night, so make it
count.”  It was the final hand for now at the 24-hour gambling spot
because state regulators are out of work thanks to a government
shutdown. Democratic Governor Mark Dayton and Republican
legislative leaders failed to resolve a budget dispute in the
Midwestern state of 5.3 million.  The end of one fiscal year and beginning of the next
brought governments across the nation near the brink. Iowa’s
Legislature approved its $5.9 billion budget hours before its
deadline yesterday.  New Jersey  avoided a government shutdown
when Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, threatened to veto
the $30.6 billion budget, instead cutting almost $1 billion and
kept the state functioning.  Minnesota ground to a halt.  The closing of its two horse tracks is one of dozens of
ways that residents and businesses are being affected by the
shutdown, which has closed parks, the Minnesota Zoo, highway
rest areas and halted construction projects. Dealer Mike Obermueller at Running Aces is joining about 23,000 furloughed
state workers.  “It seems like they don’t want a deal to happen, like
they’re positioning themselves somehow for further elections,”
Obermueller said in an interview.  At a Halt  The public will be angry at both sides, and the willingness
of officials to change entrenched positions will depend on the
degree of that reaction, said Kathryn Pearson, an assistant
professor of political science at the  University of Minnesota  in
 Minneapolis .  “I think the public pressure ultimately will be what’s
necessary to reach an agreement,” Pearson said in a telephone
interview.  Minnesota’s government also shut down in 2005 over a
similar dispute, although the impact was not as great because
only a few of the state’s 10 budget bills were not approved by
the deadline, Pearson said. This year, only one budget bill, for
the Agriculture Department, has been enacted.  No talks between the governor’s office and Republican
legislative leaders were scheduled, Jodi Boyne, a spokeswoman
for the House Republican Caucus, said in an e-mail yesterday.
Dayton was meeting with Democratic lawmakers and staff,
Katharine Tinucci, a spokeswoman, said in e-mail.  Stop That Bus  Dayton, a 64-year-old first-term governor and former U.S.
senator, said the sides are $1.4 billion apart, with Republicans
refusing to approve tax increases and him opposing a budget with
only spending cuts.  “Maybe they’re willing to throw the poor people of
Minnesota, the elderly people of Minnesota, people with
disabilities in Minnesota under the state bus,” Dayton said
during a news conference at the state Capitol before the
shutdown. “I’m not.”  Minutes later, Republican House Speaker Kurt Zellers
replied at a separate news conference: “This governor has
chosen maximum pain for political gain.”  The shutdown started before the budget expired.
Transportation Department employees began closing 84 highway
rest stops June 29 and finished June 30 because the employees
needed were being laid off, Kevin Gutknecht, a spokesman, said
in a telephone interview.  At  Afton State Park , with 1,700 acres overlooking the St.
Croix River, manager Gene Groebner and his staff cleared out
campers the afternoon of June 30, he said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Give Us a Budget’  Michael Lindholt, 39, a highway maintenance worker from  St.
Paul , said he was told to turn in his keys and equipment at the
end of the workday before the shutdown.  “We did our job, now you do yours,” Lindholt replied when
asked in a telephone interview what he would say to the governor
and lawmakers. “Give us a budget. We want to keep working.”  The shutdown will stop about 100 public highway, bridge and
building projects, Gutknecht said. As many as 10,000
construction workers could be idled because privately funded
projects also will be delayed with the furlough of inspectors,
said David C. Semerad, chief executive of the Associated General
Contractors of Minnesota.  Digging In  The shutdown is likely to drag on, said Jim Monroe,
executive director of the 13,000-member Minnesota Association of
Professional Employees.  “This is a question of the far right being locked in on
cutting services that truly impact people that need them,”
Monroe said in a telephone interview.  Vanni Hayden, 50, of Duluth, said she is worried that the
$81 a month she receives for housing assistance will stop, and
that she could be evicted.  “Where will I go?” Hayden asked in an interview on the
Capitol steps, where she had come to join a demonstration in
support of the governor’s proposed tax increase. “I’m afraid of
what’s going to happen.”  Minnesota already is a high-tax state, and can’t afford to
drive away jobs, said Tom Hesse, vice president of government
affairs for the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce.  “Our members not interested in balancing the budget with
tax increases,” Hesse said in a telephone interview.  ‘Pony Express’  Although the shutdown may not stop vehicle sales, it will
slow the processing of titles because the state’s computer
system won’t be available, said Scott Lambert, executive vice
president of the Minnesota Automobile Dealers Association.
Dealers will have to travel to one of the regional deputy
registrar offices that will remain open, he said.  “We’re going back to Pony Express days,” Lambert said in
a telephone interview.  Canterbury Park Holding Corp. (CPHC) , which owns Canterbury Park
Racetrack in Shakopee, a thoroughbred course, began dismissing
1,100 employees, the company said in a news release.  The shutdown has at least one upside: At Running Aces,
workers will fill in a poker pit where a featured, high-stakes
game had always been played, said Gregory Bartku, a shift
manager. By leveling the floor during the shutdown-induced
closing, he said, they can fit even more players into the room
-- when it reopens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in St. Paul at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  