-- 
Mirae Securities to Boost Brazil Workforce By 40%, ‘Open’ to Acquisitions

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-07-01T08:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/mirae-securities-to-boost-brazil-workforce-by-40-open-to-acquisitions.html
Mirae Asset Securities Co., the first
South Korean brokerage to expand into  Brazil , plans to increase
its workforce in the South American nation by 40 percent within
a year as it seeks to boost market share. Shares rose the most
in two weeks.  Mirae, the brokerage affiliate of  South Korea ’s biggest
mutual fund manager, is aiming to boost headcount at its Sao
Paulo-based unit to 70 from 50 currently, Ku Wonhwoi, the firm’s
head of strategy & planning, said by phone today from  Seoul . The
new hires may include traders and staff for wealth management,
he said. The company is “open” to acquiring a Brazilian
brokerage, Ku said, without being more specific.  “We just started there and we need to keep investing,
whether it be people or infrastructure, for at least two-to-
three years,” Ku, 43, said. “We’re betting on the country’s
strong growth potential, where the demographic structure looks
good and natural resources are rich.”  Mirae Asset, which established its Brazil unit in August,
joins  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
seeking to expand in the South American country, which has the
second-largest economy among developing nations after  China .  Brazil will enjoy a demographic “bonus” until 2025, with
more people entering the workforce than leaving it, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said on May 19.  Mirae’s planned investments may help it boost the market
share of broking services in Brazil to 3 percent in three years,
from about 0.4 percent currently, Ku said.  Daily Trading  Shares of Seoul-based Mirae Asset rose 1.9 percent to
45,700 won on the Korea Exchange today, the biggest gain since
June 17. The stock rose as much as 3 percent. The benchmark
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1.2 percent.  Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy compares with China’s $5
trillion. The value of stock traded daily on average in the
South American nation has increased to 6.47 billion reais ($4.1
billion) so far this year from 5.29 billion reais in 2009,
according to the exchange in  Sao Paulo .  Goldman Sachs said last week it’s increasing its Brazil
workforce by about 20 percent this year. Goldman’s Brazilian
unit, which raised headcount to about 300 from 200 last year,
plans to invest during 2011 in research, asset management,
private banking, sales, investment banking and trading.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, has 630 employees
in Brazil and plans to expand to more than 1,000 by late 2013,
Claudio Berquo, senior country officer for JPMorgan in Brazil,
said in April.  Mirae Asset, which has units in  Hong Kong ,  Vietnam , China,
U.K., U.S. and Brazil, aims to earn more than 30 percent of its
operating profit overseas by 2020, the company said in a
statement yesterday. The firm didn’t give comparative figures.
The South Korean brokerage is also preparing to set up a unit in
 Singapore , Ku said.  Mirae Asset had 2,102 employees in South Korea as of March,
according to a June 24 regulatory filing. It has at least 173
workers at overseas units currently, the company’s statement
yesterday said.  -- With assistance from Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo. Editor:
Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  