-- 
Irish Default Would Have to Focus on Sovereign, Economist Says

-- B y   C o r m a c   M u l l e n
-- 
2011-07-01T09:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/irish-default-would-have-to-focus-on-sovereign-economist-says.html
Investors holding 86 billion euros
($125 billion) of Irish government debt are most at risk should
the state default, according to Seamus Coffey, an economics
lecturer at  University College Cork .  By the end of the year, the state’s debt will rise to 108
percent of gross domestic product, Coffey said on his Web  site .
A 60 percent discount on the government’s bonds would generate
50 billion worth of savings, he said.  “If a default is going to be worthwhile, it would have to
reduce our debt-to-GDP ratio to something around 75 percent,”
Coffey said. “To make these 50 billion euros of savings it
seems the only realistic possibility is to enforce significant
haircuts on our  government bonds .”  Ireland sought a bailout last year, after the cost of
rescuing the nation’s banks became too big to handle alone.
Credit default swaps on Irish government debt imply a 47 percent
probability of default within five years.  “I am still of the view that a sovereign default can be
avoided but that does not mean that such a course of action
should be discounted,” Coffey said. “It is not inevitable but
that does not mean it should not be considered.”  By the end of 2011, Ireland’s 170 billion euros of
borrowings will include the 86 billion euros worth of bonds and
15 billion euros of retail debt, Coffey said. The debt will also
comprise 28 billion euros of promissory notes pledged to the
banks and 41 billion euros owed to the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  Retail debt, such as post office certificates and
solidarity bonds, probably wouldn’t be discounted, he said.
Promissory notes are also unlikely to be written off, as they
have been used by Irish banks as collateral for emergency
liquidity aid from central banks. The EU and IMF loans have
priority creditor status, Coffey said.  “That leaves our government bonds,” Coffey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cormac Mullen in Dublin at 
 cmullen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  