-- 
Italian Bank Outlook Darkens on ‘Stress,’ Lower Support From Government

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-07-01T12:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/italian-bank-outlook-darkens-on-stress-lower-state-support.html
The outlook for creditors of  Italy ’s
biggest banks is darkening as concern the sovereign may be
downgraded combines with expectations of lower state support and
a “stressed environment,” according to Moody’s Capital Markets
Research Group.  Credit grades implied by the cost of insuring the debt of
the lenders using credit-default swaps are six to eight levels
below their formal ratings, according to analysts Lisa Hintz and
Ervis Deda in  New York . The gap is similar to that of Irish and
Portuguese banks as investors sought to factor in the extent of
their problems, the analysts said.  “These negative gaps are certainly at outlier status,”
the analysts wrote in a report dated June 30. “Regardless of
whether a similar case exists here on a fundamental basis, the
market seems to be discounting, or hedging, tail risk in the
same way.”  Italy, whose $2.3 trillion of debt is the largest in
 Europe , has so far avoided being sucked into the financial
crises that have engulfed  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.
Lawmakers are seeking to balance the budget by 2014 and plan to
push deficit-cutting measures worth 47 billion euros ($68
billion) though Parliament later this year.  Moody’s Investors Service, the ratings firm linked to
Moody’s CMRG, said in May it may cut  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the biggest
lender, and downgraded  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second largest,
before putting the Italian sovereign under review for a
downgrade on June 17. The firm is re-assessing its bank ratings
to take account of the diminishing willingness and ability of
states to support banks that get into trouble.  The stock prices of Italy’s five biggest domestic banks
slid an average 27 percent this year and 48 percent from the
peaks in February, according to the analysts. Profitability is
also “under pressure,” and the environment is “not conducive
to a rapid improvement in profits,” Moody’s CMRG said.  That means Italian banks will find it harder to build
capital to meet the new requirements set by international
banking regulators, according to Moody’s CMRG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  