-- 
Italy Passes $68 Billion in Budget Cuts

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-07-01T07:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/italy-passes-68-billion-in-budget-cuts.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is
seeking to shield Italy from debt-crisis contagion with 47
billion euros ($68 billion) in deficit-cutting measures intended
to balance the budget by 2014.  The Cabinet passed the legislation yesterday, and the
government will seek to push it through parliament in a
confidence vote by the end of summer, Berlusconi told a press
conference in Rome. He called on the opposition to back the
measures, the bulk of which -- 40 billion euros -- will come in
2013 and 2014.  “Without a balanced budget, there can’t be development in
the future,” Berlusconi said. “We all agreed on this.”  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  has managed to keep the
 budget deficit  under control, shrinking the gap to 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product last year, less than the euro-area
average of 6 percent. With  Europe ’s second-biggest debt after
Greece, Tremonti’s fiscal discipline hasn’t been enough to
completely shield Italy’s financing costs from the fallout
caused by the region’s crisis.  Both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service 
have warned that they may downgrade Italy’s credit rating, 
citing growth challenges and saying the government may
miss its revenue and deficit targets. The Moody’s warnings
helped boost the risk premium investors demand to hold Italy’s
10-year debt over German bunds to a euro-era high of 223 basis
points on June 27. The gap narrowed 11 basis points to 185
yesterday.  Bonds Gain  Italian bonds gained for a third day today, with the yield
premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year debt over
similar maturity German bunds narrowing 2 basis points to 184,
the lowest in more than a week.  The Cabinet also approved measures to overhaul the tax
system “to overcome forms of evasion,” Tremonti said at the
 Rome  news conference yesterday. The legislation will cut income-
tax brackets to three from the five. Top earners will pay a
marginal rate of 40 percent, down from 43 percent, he said.  The budget plan may cut funding to regional governments,
extend through 2014 a wage freeze for civil servants, and push
up the  retirement age  for woman to 65 years by 2032, and force
Italians to contribute more to some health-care services,
newspapers including Corriere della Sera reported, citing a
draft.  Financial Tax  The final draft may have dropped a financial transaction
tax of 0.15 percent that the Italian stock exchange called
“profoundly worrisome,” and limited the planned increase in
tax on trading profit,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported today. A final
copy of the plan may be released later today.  “That’s positive news for the banks that would have had a
negative impact from the budget plan in the order of 3 to 4
percent of earnings per share, according to our estimate,”
analysts at Intermonte said in a note this morning.  The package is a “balanced budget plan” that mixes higher
revenue and spending cuts, Tremonti said. “We’ve done all we
needed to do to reach the deficit target for 2011, and with this
budget plan we are on course to reach the target for the next
years,” he said.  The measures may also include cuts in compensation and
benefits for  Italy ’s politicians. Tremonti said Italy would seek
to recalculate official salaries based on the average wages paid
in the six biggest euro nations. Access to state aircraft and
cars would also be limited, he said, adding that the measures
would take effect starting with the next legislature.  No Wage Cuts  “We’ve managed to avoid what other countries have done,”
Berlusconi said. “In some countries, they have cut state
employees and their salaries by 15 percent,” whereas “we
haven’t put our hands in the pockets of Italians.”  Berlusconi, who has a record-low approval rating with two
years left in his term, has come under increasing pressure from
allies to cut taxes and adopt other policies aimed at sparking
growth in the $2.3 trillion economy. Berlusconi’s ruling
coalition was defeated in local elections in May and a June
referendum overturned a series of policy initiatives.  Tremonti has repeatedly said the country can’t afford to
reduce taxes and that any change to the system must not affect
efforts to eliminate the deficit. Tensions over the deficit plan
prompted Tremonti on June 24 to deny press reports that he had
threatened to resign over demands by ministers to ease the
austerity measures.  Government at Risk  Umberto Bossi , leader of the Northern League party that is
key to Berlusconi’s parliamentary majority, said the government
will remain at risk until the budget plan is passed by the
legislature. The vote is likely before the August recess.  The European Commission forecasts Italy’s budget gap will
fall to 4 percent of GDP this year, less than half the Greek
shortfall and narrower than  France ’s 5.8 percent spending hole.
Italy’s debt is forecast to peak at 120 percent of GDP in 2011
compared with 158 percent for  Greece .  The goals for balancing the budget are to “progressively
have a primary surplus, cut the debt and cut debt-servicing
costs,” Tremonti said.  Tax Overhaul  Tremonti, who until now has kept economic policy focused on
containing the deficit, opened the door to tax changes earlier
this month, saying that easing levies on income was the best way
to fight evasion. He added that reducing Italy’s tax brackets
could be financed by eliminating deductions.  Italian economic growth averaged 0.6 percent in the past
decade, less than half the 1.4 percent rate for the euro area.
The economy grew just 0.l percent in the first quarter of this
year, a fraction of the region’s 0.8 percent expansion.  Berlusconi’s popularity fell to a record low in June and
his coalition would lose if elections were held today, an  IPR
marketing poll showed  on June 15. Confidence in the billionaire
premier dropped to 29 percent from 31 percent in April, the
lowest since he took office in 2008, Rome-based IPR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  