-- 
Romney Leads Republican Rivals in Fundraising

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/mitt-romney-raises-up-to-20-million.html
Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who polls show is the leading contender for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination, enjoys a substantial
fundraising advantage over his rivals.  Romney’s campaign said yesterday that he raised $15 million
to $20 million through June 30. Even on the low end, that amount
is three times as much as other Republican candidates said
they have collected.  An average of opinion polls by the  Real Clear Politics 
website gave Romney 24 percent, almost double the figure for
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who was in second place.
Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, hasn’t
said whether she will run in 2012.  “Obviously, Romney has leveraged his standing in the polls
to raise early money in the race,” said Tobe Berkovitz, a
professor at Boston University’s College of Communication. “The
downside is it is a long way to January 2012, and holding a lead
is even more difficult than securing it.”  The Iowa caucuses, the opening contest in the nomination
process, are scheduled for Feb. 6.  Three of the other Republican White House contenders each
reported raising more than $4 million for their campaigns.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  reported on his
 website  that he had taken in more than $4.5 million; Tim Pawlenty’s spokesman, Alex Conant, said the former Minnesota
governor raised around $4.2 million; and the campaign of former
Utah Governor Jon Huntsman said it collected $4.1 million.  Self-Funding  Huntsman’s campaign said its figure included money from the
candidate. The campaign declined to disclose the amount, while
saying it was less than half of the total. Huntsman served as
U.S. ambassador to  China  under President Barack Obama until he
quit that post earlier this year.  Other candidates didn’t provide donation totals after the
second-quarter fundraising period ended June 30, including
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  Bachmann, who officially announced her candidacy on June
27, had $2.9 million in her congressional campaign account as of
March 31, all of which could be used for a presidential run.  Gingrich lost his two top fundraising aides on June 21 amid
reports that the campaign was in debt. More a dozen campaign
staff members resigned earlier last month.  Detailed disclosures are due to the  Federal Election
Commission  by July 15.  ‘Default Candidate’  “With such a weak set of candidates, Romney has become the
default candidate for Republicans,” said  David Primo , a
political science professor at the University of Rochester in
 New York . “This explains his lead in the polls and in
fundraising.”  Romney raised $60 million in an unsuccessful bid for the
2008 nomination, and lent his campaign $45 million more. He lost
the Republican race to Senator John McCain of  Arizona , who had
failed in a bid for the nomination in 2000.  “Especially on the Republican side, experience matters --
as does the tradition of the Republicans frequently nominating”
previous runners-up, Berkovitz said.  Obama’s campaign declined to release fundraising figures
for his re-election bid. His campaign announced through Twitter
that it had received money from almost 500,000 donors through
June 30. The campaign reported 258,000 donors at this time four
years ago, when then-Senator  Hillary Clinton  of New York was
viewed as the front-runner in the Democratic presidential race.
Clinton now serves as Obama’s secretary of state.  Around 3 million donors contributed to Obama’s 2008
presidential run, according to his campaign.  Wall Street Support  The president has been actively raising money since
declaring his intention to seek a second term in early April. He
has reached out to Wall Street, which he criticized earlier in
his term as he successfully pushed for legislation enacted last
year regulating the financial industry. The measure, known as
Dodd-Frank, is named for its chief sponsors, then-Senator Chris Dodd of  Connecticut  and Representative Barney Frank of
 Massachusetts , both Democrats.  At Federal Hall in New York City last September, Obama
declared, “We will not go back to the days of reckless behavior
and unchecked excess that was at the heart of this crisis, where
too many were motivated only by the appetite for quick kills and
bloated bonuses.”  Obama held a $35,800-per-ticket fundraiser with Wall Street
bankers earlier this month at  Daniel , a restaurant on
Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Obama’s campaign manager, former
White House aide Jim Messina, has been reaching out to financial
service industry executives.  ‘Troubled Relationship’  Messina’s efforts are “a reflection of the troubled
relationship that Wall Street has had with the White House, but
I think the White House has made significant steps to address
that,” said former Democratic National Committee finance
director Jay Dunn.  Republicans see an opening to woo  Wall Street  donors, said
party fundraiser Frank Donatelli, a former adviser to President
Ronald Reagan. “There are a lot of financial services people
who feel they’re being scapegoated for everything that’s wrong
with the economy,” he said.  Romney held a New York fundraiser last month targeted at
the financial industry.  “There is broad recognition on Wall Street that Dodd-
Frank, in many respects, overreached after the financial crisis,
and the administration clearly aided and abetted such massive
regulatory expansion,” said one of the fundraiser’s hosts,
former Assistant Treasury Secretary Emil Henry Jr.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 