-- 
TiVo Takeover Totaling $2.4 Billion Seen After Battle With Dish: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-07-01T20:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/tivo-2-4b-takeover-seen-after-fight-with-dish.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the unprofitable pioneer
of digital-video recorders, is ripe for a takeover that may hand
shareholders a 94 percent return after settling a seven-year
patent battle with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   The $500 million settlement with Dish in May is enabling
TiVo to profit from “time warp” technology that simultaneously
records and plays back television shows. Even after losing money
in 10 of the past 11 years and trading more expensively relative
to revenue than 99 percent of consumer companies in the Russell
2000 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, a sale of
TiVo may fetch about $20 a share, or $2.41 billion, almost
double its market value yesterday, Maxim Group LLC said.  While bearish bets against the stock climbed last month to
the highest since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC says Alviso,
California-based TiVo may be a takeover target for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  With the Dish lawsuit resolved,
TiVo is more likely to boost sales with intellectual property
fees from TV distributors AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications
Inc. and with expansion of its set-top boxes internationally,
said  Tony Wible , an analyst at Janney in Philadelphia.  TiVo “would be attractive to any company trying to become
a more important part of the new video ecosystem,” said  Chris Marangi , a portfolio manager at Rye, New York-based Gamco
Investors Inc. “The Dish settlement validated their
intellectual property. Any potential buyer of TiVo prior to the
Dish settlement would have been rolling the dice.”  Gamco oversees $35 billion and about 790,000 TiVo shares.  Recording TV  Michael Boccio, a spokesman for TiVo, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation in the market.  The shares rose 54 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $10.83 today,
the highest since April 20.  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for Google,
declined to comment. Microsoft’s Mark Murray said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Linda Quach, a
spokeswoman for Rovi, said the company doesn’t comment on
acquisition rumors.  TiVo, whose name has become the default verb to describe
the act of digitally recording TV, was  founded  in 1997. Chief
Executive Officer Tom Rogers is trying to remodel TiVo as a
partner to cable and satellite-TV operators for hardware and
software, instead of just selling set-top boxes to consumers for
about  $100 , plus $20 a month for service.  The company’s customers, both direct and through TV
distributors, dwindled to 1.96 million in April from  4.4 million 
in 2007, according to regulatory  filings , as generic DVRs became
widely available. TiVo subscribers can record, pause and replay
shows in progress and access movies, shows and videos through
services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Google’s YouTube.  Patent Lawsuit  TiVo first filed a patent-infringement lawsuit in 2004
against Dish and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , both based in Englewood,
 Colorado , when they were a single satellite-TV and equipment
company called EchoStar Communications Inc. The business split
in 2008.  After seven years of legal disputes and appeals, the
companies settled all patent litigation on May 2, awarding TiVo
$500 million, including an initial payment of $300 million with
the rest to be paid through 2017.  TiVo has also filed lawsuits claiming AT&T’s U-Verse and
Verizon’s FiOS television and Web services infringe the patent
on technology that allows viewers to record and play back video
at the same time and two others for DVR technology. Microsoft,
which supplies some functions to U-Verse, and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., which makes set-top boxes for Verizon, have filed
their own challenges to the TiVo patents. Separately, Microsoft
filed a patent complaint with the  U.S. International Trade
Commission  in Washington, seeking to prevent TiVo from importing
its set-top boxes into the U.S.  ‘Opened the Door’  TiVo may now garner at least $300 million in combined
payments from AT&T and Verizon based on the Dish settlement,
said Mark Harding, an analyst at Maxim Group in  New York .  “Now that the settlement is over and the probability of a
settlement with AT&T and Verizon has increased, it’s even more
of an attractive takeover candidate,” Harding said. “It has
opened the door for a deal.”  TiVo reported its only annual profit -- $104 million -- in
the year ended January 2009, the result of damages paid earlier
by Dish and EchoStar.  The company may return to profitability and earn $20.9
million in net income this year, buoyed by the Dish settlement,
according to the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Room to Rise  TiVo traded at 5.8 times sales as of yesterday, the second-
most expensive consumer company in the  Russell 2000 . The average
price-to-sales ratio is 1.1 times, Bloomberg data show.  Still, that ratio has room to rise in a takeover. If TiVo
is able to sell itself for $20 a share, as Maxim’s Harding
estimates, that would represent a 94 percent premium to
yesterday’s $10.29 closing stock price and about 12 times sales
in the last 12 months.  “The current price doesn’t fairly account for the revenue
streams as well as the settlement and potential future licensing
agreements,” Harding said. “There’s an attractive enough list
of potential acquirers that increases the probability of TiVo
eventually being acquired.”  Wible pegged a potential acquisition of TiVo at closer to
$17 a share, or $2.05 billion, given the pending lawsuits with
AT&T and Verizon. The company’s market value as of yesterday was
$1.24 billion. TiVo had almost $180 million more in cash than
debt as of April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Microsoft and Google  The most likely buyers include Microsoft and Google, said
Janney’s Wible and Maxim’s Harding. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft has wanted to offer a set-top box and have a presence
in television systems through cable operators, Wible said. Given
its involvement in a lawsuit with TiVo, it may prefer to buy the
company than to risk losing and paying a fee, he added.  TiVo’s television search capability would appeal to Google,
the world’s biggest Internet search engine, as it tries to gain
a foothold in living rooms with Google TV, according to Wible.
It would also complement the  Mountain View , California-based
company’s  acquisition  last month of SageTV, a DVR software maker
to be integrated with Google TV, Harding said. Google TV lets
users search online video and other content on their TV screens.  Rovi, the provider of on-screen guides for TV program
listings and audience measurement services for advertisers,
would also make sense as a buyer, according to Wible. TiVo
measures DVR viewing habits with second-by-second data.  Living Room Media  “If you were to combine the two, you’d have a very
powerful set of patents and technology -- all around living room
digital media,” Wible said.  TiVo shares climbed 39 percent in the past year through
yesterday, compared with a 36 percent gain for the Russell 2000
Index.  One drawback is that the company’s patents are aging and
will eventually expire, said Kevin Landis, chief investment
officer of FirstHand Funds in  San Jose ,  California .  “If they were going to be a takeover candidate, why didn’t
they get taken over before?” said Landis, who oversees $260
million including TiVo shares. “It’s easy to be a bear on TiVo
because they’re not making any money and their cash cow is
getting older and slowly dying.”  Short interest in the stock reached almost 13.7 million
shares last month, the highest since September 2008, according
to London-based research firm  Data Explorers . Short selling is
the practice of selling borrowed stock on the bet the price will
decline.  ‘Attractive Takeover Candidate’  TiVo has been striking more deals to supply set-top boxes
or license its technology to cable and satellite-TV operators as
it tries to tap into more of the 114.7 million U.S. TV
households that Nielsen Co.  estimates  for next season. TiVo
partnerships include Charter Communications Inc. and  DirecTV (DTV)  in
the U.S. and Virgin Media Inc. in the U.K.  “Between its patents, cable deals, technology and cash,
TiVo should be considered an attractive takeover candidate,”
Janney’s Wible said. “They’ve just beaten one of the savviest
litigants in the world and so they’ve proven their ability to
monetize this patent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 