-- 
J&J-Bayer’s Xarelto Wins U.S. Approval for Hip Surgery Use

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-01T20:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/janssen-says-fda-approves-xarelto.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
Xarelto pill won U.S. approval for orthopedic-surgery patients
today, expanding the blood thinner’s presence in a market to
block clots expected to reach as much as $15 billion annually.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Xarelto as an
alternative for preventing blood clots in patients after hip or
knee surgery, the companies said today in a statement.  The decision is the first of a pair of rulings expected
this year on Xarelto, also known as rivaroxaban, as Bayer and
J&J vie for the larger market in patients with an irregular
heartbeat that can lead to stroke. The FDA will probably decide
on the medicine’s use for the bigger patient group by the end of
2011, Martin Fitchet, head of J&J’s cardiovascular research,
said at a May 26 conference with analysts.  “Shorter hospital stays following hip and knee replacement
have made prevention of venous blood clots” a concern for
patients, said Paul Chang, a vice-president for J&J’s Janssen
Pharmaceuticals unit, in the statement. “Xarelto provides a
safe and effective oral treatment option.”  The drug will help protect the more than 800,000 U.S.
patients who undergo hip and knee surgeries annually and run the
risk of developing potentially fatal clots, the companies said.  Sharing Rights  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , has U.S. rights to
the medicine. Bayer, with headquarters in Leverkusen, Germany,
sells the drug in  Europe , where the treatment won approval in
2008 for use by hip- and knee-surgery patients.  Johnson & Johnson rose 78 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $67.30
at 4:15 p.m. in composite New York Stock Exchange trading, its
best performance in a month. Bayer climbed 23 cents to 55.67
euros at the close of Frankfurt trading earlier today.  Bayer has forecast Xarelto will generate more than 2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) in annual sales once its wider use
is approved in patients with an irregular heartbeat known as
atrial fibrillation. The pill may compete with medicines made by
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  in the markets for preventing clots in patients who have
joint replacement surgery, irregular heartbeat or are critically
ill and bed-ridden.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products, has been “waiting for a blockbuster” in the
cardiovascular-drug market and Xarelto “is widely viewed as
that product,” Matthew Dodds, a Citigroup analyst who covers
the company, wrote in a May 27 note to clients.  Sales Forecasts  In the U.S., Xarelto may generate as much as $1.6 billion
in annual sales, Dodds said. That includes $100 million for the
use approved today, treating the 1.2 million Americans who have
hip and knee surgery annually, he said. By comparison, Xarelto
may generate $1.2 billion from treating the 2.5 million
Americans with atrial fibrillation, Dodds wrote.  Boehringer, the world’s biggest family owned drugmaker
based in Ingelheim,  Germany , beat J&J and Bayer to the U.S. and
European markets for irregular heartbeat patients last year with
Pradaxa, the first pill to replace the half-century-old blood
thinner warfarin. In Europe, Pradaxa won the backing of
regulators for that group of patients in April.  By May, Pradaxa accounted for 5 percent of U.S. blood-
thinner prescriptions, according to Dodds. Xarelto is taken once
a day, compared with twice a day for Pradaxa, a convenience that
may make it more attractive, he said.  ‘Significant Need’  Pradaxa’s success is “a confirmation that there is
significant unmet medical need, and a willingness of clinicians
to try to get to a better standard of care,” said Joaquin Duato, J&J’s worldwide co-chairman for pharmaceuticals, at the
May 26 conference. “So I think it bodes very well for
rivaroxaban.”  Apixaban from Bristol-Myers and Pfizer, the top seller of
health-care products, may be better than Xarelto at stroke
prevention, based on a summary of trial data released last
month,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in  New York ,
said in a June 22 note to clients.  Apixaban was more effective and caused less major bleeding
than warfarin, the New York-based companies said in a statement
that day. Full details of their trial won’t be released until
the European Society of Cardiology’s meeting in August, they
said.  In a comparable trial, Xarelto didn’t show it was superior
to warfarin, Biegelsen said.  A third application, to market Xarelto to prevent blood
clots in immobilized patients in the hospital, may be delayed
past 2011 because of study data that suggested the medicine may
raise the risk of bleeding, according to Fitchet.  Xarelto is the 19th novel medicine approved by the FDA so
far this year. The agency may match the 2004 record of 36 new
drug approvals, the most since at least 2001, according to FDA
 records . Twenty-one drugs were cleared last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  