-- 
Nikkei 225 Advances to Two-Month High as Greece Clears Bailout Hurdles

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-01T07:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/japan-stocks-advance-for-a-fourth-day-on-greece-vote-u-s-manufacturing.html
The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose to
its highest level in two months amid optimism Greece will avoid
default and after U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a
faster pace in June, easing concern that two of Japan’s largest
export markets will slow.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co., a maker of glass used in cars and
touch panels that counts  Europe  as its largest market, advanced
1.6 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker,
rose 1.1 percent.  Fanuc Corp. (6954)  jumped 5.5 percent after a report
showed orders for the company’s factory robots and tools rose to
a record and a  Bank of Japan  survey showed Japan’s manufacturers
plan to raise  capital spending  this year.  The Nikkei 225 added 0.5 percent to 9,868.07 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo , its highest close since May 2. For the week, the
gauge increased 2 percent. The broader Topix index gained 0.6
percent to 853.86 today after Greece moved closer to qualifying
for bailout money and economic reports in the U.S. boosted
confidence in the durability of the country’s recovery.  “Investors are feeling more optimistic after  Greece  passed
its austerity package,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $84 billion. “There’s also
less concern that the  U.S. economy  is in trouble. Manufacturing
should stop falling as supply chains in Japan are recovering
quickly.”  Greek Bailout  Markets across  Asia  rose this week, with the benchmark MSCI
Asia Pacific Index headed for a 2.6 percent gain, as Greece’s
parliament passed budget cuts and tax increases that Europe
demanded in exchange for delivering more rescue loans. Japan’s
Topix has gained four days running, its longest winning streak
since the nine days ended Feb 17.  Nippon Sheet Glass advanced 1.6 percent to 253 yen.  Elpida
Memory Inc. (6665) , a maker of computer-memory chips that gets about a
quarter of its sales in Europe, climbed 1.7 percent to 956 yen.
 Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. (4902) , a maker of copiers and printers
that counts the region as its largest market, gained 0.6 percent
to 673 yen.  Exporters to Europe also got a boost after the yen
depreciated to 117.21 versus the euro today, from 116.61 at the
close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday. Against the dollar,
Japan’s currency weakened to 80.89 from 80.41. Exporters benefit
from a weaker currency because it increases the value of
overseas sales.  BOJ Tankan  Japanese shares gained after the Bank of Japan’s quarterly
Tankan survey showed the country’s largest companies plan to
raise capital spending this fiscal year at almost twice the pace
forecast by economists. The survey,  Japan ’s most closely watched
sentiment survey, also showed confidence among the biggest
makers of cars and electronics deteriorated last quarter the
most since 2009.  The survey was the first to fully reflect the impact of the
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 that devastated
the country’s northeast coast, triggering the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years, damaging factories, and leaving more than
23,000 people dead or missing.  The Topix has fallen 8.3 percent
since the disaster.  “The Tankan results, as a whole, confirm that the economy
is turning around and will remain on the recovery track for
now,”  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Tokyo, wrote in a report today.  Robot Orders  Fanuc jumped 5.5 percent to 14,110 yen today, the biggest
gain on the Nikkei. Orders at the maker of factory automation
tools rose to a record in the three months ended March 31,
increasing 14 percent from the previous quarter, according to a
report by Nomura Holdings Inc. Demand for industrial robots in
the U.S. and Europe drove the growth, the report said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index advanced 1 percent yesterday after
Greece’s parliament passed a bill authorizing more austerity.
U.S. Stocks also gained after the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s gauge of manufacturing unexpectedly
improved and  consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in 10
weeks.  Toyota, which gets 28 percent of its sales in  North America ,
rose 1.1 percent to 3,335 yen. Dainippon Screen Manufacturing
Co., a manufacturer of chipmaking equipment that counts North
America as its largest market, advanced 3.8 percent to 708 yen.  Hoya Corp. (7741) , a maker of lenses and medical products, leapt 4
percent to 1,845 yen. The company said it would sell its Pentax
camera business to Ricoh Co. Reuters reported the deal before
the company’s announcement today.  Among stocks that fell, clothiers  Point Inc. (2685)  and Shimamura
Co. slid after reporting declining profit. Point plunged 4.7
percent after net income fell 42 percent in the quarter ended
May 31 because of higher personnel and advertising costs and
charges for losses on impaired asset losses. Shimamura, which
booked a 21 percent drop in first-quarter profit, retreated 1.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 