-- 
Julia Roberts Teaches Tom Hanks How to Talk; Teen Outcast: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/julia-roberts-teaches-tom-hanks-how-to-talk-teenage-outcasts-rick-warner.html
A part-time actress and an unproven
director have teamed up to make “ Larry Crowne ,” a sparkless
romantic comedy about a fired blue-collar worker who falls for
his community-college speech teacher.  What makes it notable is that the actress is  Julia Roberts 
and her director/co-star is  Tom Hanks .  It’s only the fourth major screen role for Roberts in the
past seven years and just the second feature directed by Hanks,
who also co-wrote the script with Nia Vardalos of “My Big Fat
Greek Wedding.”  Roberts’s rust and Hanks’s inexperience behind the camera
are evident in “Larry Crowne.” The comatose film is as boring
as Roberts’s onscreen husband (Bryan Cranston), a deadbeat
writer who spends most of his time surfing porn on the Internet.  Mercedes Tainot (Roberts) is a burnout who tries to get her
classes canceled for lack of attendance. Hanks’s title character
worked at a Wal-Mart clone before getting sacked for not having
a college degree, which supposedly limited his chances to climb
the corporate ladder.  Divorced and saddled with an underwater mortgage, Larry
takes the advice of his neighbors (Cedric the Entertainer and
Taraji P. Henson) and enrolls in the local college, where he
joins an eccentric scooter-riding posse led by a cute student
(Gugu Mbatha-Raw) who nicknames him Lance Corona.  Larry, who’s shy and awkward when he starts school, evolves
into a polished speaker under Tainot’s tutelage. (He also takes
an economics course taught by Dr. Matsutani, played by Star
Trekker George Takei with a mad cackle.) Tainot likewise makes a
stark transition, from cynical professor to enthusiastic mentor.  I guess we’re supposed to be inspired by their ability to
change and grow. Maybe I would have been if someone had bothered
to create real characters, instead of social symbols.  “Larry Crowne,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Terri’  Terri is an obese teenager who lives with his senile uncle,
wears pajamas to school and sets mouse traps in the woods. He
befriends two classmates, a scrawny loner named Chad and
Heather, a pretty girl ostracized for an act of exhibitionism.  That odd trio and their nerdy vice principal (John C. Reilly) are the unlikely heroes of “ Terri ,” an unsparing,
strangely charming story about dealing with rejection and
ridicule.  The film captures the loneliness of being an outsider in an
adolescent world that prizes conformity. The characters may seem
like weirdos, but director Azazel Jacobs and screenwriter
Patrick de Witt show us the humanity underneath their strange
veneers.  Jacob Wysocki, Bridger Zadina and Olivia Crocicchia are
affecting as the teenagers, while Reilly revels in his role as a
kind-hearted school administrator who knows what it’s like to be
an outcast.  “Terri,” from ATO Pictures, is playing in  New York  and
 Los Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 