-- 
Karoon Brazil IPO on Hold as Company Seeks Finds to Boost Value of Assets

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-01T00:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/karoon-gas-ipo-on-hold-as-company-seeks-to-boost-brazilian-asset-values.html
Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. (KAR) , the energy
company that scrapped the initial public offering of its South
American unit in November, will hold off selling shares for at
least another year as it seeks new finds to boost its value.  Karoon will spend $150 million drilling three wells in the
shallow waters of  Brazil ’s Santos Basin near recent discoveries
by state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to help boost the
potential value of its assets, Tim Hosking, Karoon’s executive
director for  South America , said in an interview. The company
will wait until it completes drilling in about the middle of
next year before deciding to proceed with a share sale, he said.  Karoon, which is also  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ partner in a venture
off northwest  Australia , cancelled the share offer last year
after failing to get its target price, Hosking said. The company
had sought to raise as much as $773 million and planned to use
the proceeds to fund exploration in Brazil and Peru.  “We would wait for a discovery before an IPO,” Hosking
said in the interview in Rio de Janeiro. “We have many
potential prospects.”  Karoon’s Brazil licenses are 25 kilometers from Petrobras’s
Tiro field and 5 kilometers from the Piracuca discovery, while
the company also has a 20 percent stake in Petrobras’s Maruja
discovery in the area. Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras’s
discoveries in the so-called pre-salt area off the coast of
Brazil are the largest in the Western Hemisphere in more than
three decades.  Seismic research commissioned by the Mt. Martha, Victoria-
based company shows five areas of the  Santos basin  that may
contain oil and natural gas, he said.  “Equity Swap”  Karoon is seeking a “major”  oil company  to take as much
as a 30 percent stake in its Brazil blocks and also handle
operations once it completes exploration drilling, Hosking said.
The company, which owns 100 percent of the five blocks where it
is seeking a partner, is also open to an “equity swap” to
expand its exploration areas in Brazil, he said.  “It would preferably be a company with experience here in
Brazil, a Petrobras or a Statoil,” said Hosking. “Or a company
such as Conoco that has development experience all over the
world.”  Karoon will open a so-called data room to market the
exploration areas in September, and expects 20 “mid- to major-
sized” companies will review the information, he said. Karoon
may sell up to a 25 percent stake of its offshore assets in  Peru 
after it completes exploration drilling there that will start in
late 2012, he said.  “We have seven to eight prospects greater than 100 million
barrels” in Peru, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  