-- 
Naira Heads for Strongest Week Since 2005 as Inflow Curb Lifted

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-01T12:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/naira-heads-for-strongest-week-since-2005-as-inflow-curb-lifted.html
Nigeria ’s naira jumped to a more than
six-month high and headed for the biggest weekly gain since 2005
against the dollar after the central bank said it would today
lift a curb on foreign investors’ debt holdings.  The naira surged as much as 1.4 percent to 150.125 per
dollar, the strongest level since Dec. 8, and was up 0.6 percent
at 151.35 by 1:13 p.m. in interbank trading in Lagos, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency of  Africa ’s biggest
oil producer has added 3.1 percent this week, the largest
advance since the five days through Aug. 26, 2005. It’s the
second-best performer worldwide against the dollar this week
after  Hungary ’s forint.  The naira may strengthen to 145 per dollar by the end of
the year after policy makers decided to remove a  requirement  for
foreign investors to hold local-currency investments in
 government securities  for at least a year starting today,
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said June 23.
“Positive  interest rates ” will aid the gain, he said.  “The central bank realized that it would be difficult for
them to keep a relatively flat exchange rate at 150” against
the dollar “unless you had any substantial capital inflows,”
 Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s Countdown today.  The central bank has managed the naira, keeping it within 3
percent above or below the 150 per dollar marginal rate at its
twice-weekly foreign-exchange auctions in a bid to curb
inflation.  Nigeria’s economy needs stability of its currency in order
to keep prices under control, central bank Deputy Governor
Kingsley Moghalu said.  Naira Stability  “If we lose stability of the  exchange rate , then we’ve
lost everything,” Moghalu said in a speech in  South Africa ’s
capital, Pretoria, today.  The Abuja-based central bank raised its key rate by half a
percentage point to 8 percent in May to help curb inflation,
which accelerated to 12.4 percent in the same month. The bank
targets an inflation rate of 10 percent. Lenders’ demand for
dollars at the central bank’s auction on June 29 was the lowest
in five months. The bank sold $183 million, having offered
lenders $200 million.  The naira’s appreciation this week has been “quite
impressive, but potentially not sustainable,” Akinbamidele Akintola, a Lagos-based analyst at  Renaissance Capital , wrote in
an e-mailed note yesterday. “The fiscal side is too loose and
we still don’t have a clear view on the contribution of high
crude prices to the foreign reserves.”  There may still be a risk to the foreign-exchange outlook
should reserves not increase to $40 billion or $45 billion, he
wrote.  Nigeria’s foreign reserves fell 15 percent to $31.8 billion
by June 29 compared with a year earlier, according to data from
the central bank. Bonny Light oil has surged 46 percent over the
same period. The West African country relies on crude exports
for about 95 percent of its foreign-currency earnings, according
to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  