-- 
Seal Kill in Namibia Set at 86,000 This Year For Pelts, to Protect Fishing

-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 
2011-07-01T14:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/namibia-to-cull-more-than-90-000-seals-this-year-fisheries-minister-says.html
Namibia  plans to kill 86,000 seals
this year, the second-biggest cull of its kind, for their fur
pelts and to protect the southern African nation’s fishing
industry, according to Bernand Esau, the  minister of fisheries
and marine resources .  The government will allow 80,000 pups and 6,000 bulls to be
culled between July and November, about the same number as last
year, he said in a telephone interview today. The exercise,
which is condemned by animal rights groups, is necessary for the
survival of Namibia’s fishing industry, the government has said.  Namibia, together with Canada and Greenland, supplies most
of the world’s seal-fur harvest, an industry it defends as
necessary to preserve fisheries, one of its main exports. Canada
is the site of the biggest seal cull.  The Namibian government has said seals consume about
700,000 metric tons of fish a year, more than the total annual
allowable catch for its entire fishing industry. The nation is
the biggest supplier of hake to the European Union, which has
banned the seal trade because it says the clubbing and skinning
of seals causes unnecessary suffering to the animals.  The Namibian hunt isn’t adequately monitored and seals are
treated in a less humane fashion than in some other culls,
animal rights groups, including the  International Fund for
Animal Welfare , have said.  In Namibia, the pups are clubbed to death while adults are
shot, the Johannesburg-based Sunday Independent reported in
2006. The genitalia of adult bulls are exported to east  Asia 
where they are sold as an aphrodisiac while the rest of the
seals are used to make fur coats, gloves, handbags, seal oil and
carcass meal, the newspaper said.  At  Cape Cross , Namibia’s biggest seal colony, a shop sells
seal products ranging from seal-skin boots to hats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek at 
 ckaira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  