-- 
Nestle Said to Hold Takeover Talks With Chinese Candy Maker

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-07-02T02:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nestle-is-said-to-hold-takeover-talks-with-chinese-candy-maker-hsu-fu-chi.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, has been holding talks to buy  Hsu Fu Chi International
Ltd. (HFCI) , a Chinese snack and candy maker with a market value of
about $2.6 billion, said people familiar with the matter.  The discussions have been on and off for about two years,
according to three people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. It isn’t clear whether Nestle will reach
a deal, and other suitors have also been examining the
Singapore-listed company, these people said.  Nestle aims to catch up with rivals such as Unilever that
get a larger proportion of sales from faster-growing emerging
markets. Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  plans to get 45
percent of revenue from  developing countries  by 2020, compared
with about a third now.  “Hsu Fu Chi has long been doing business in  China  and its
brand and products are well known among people of all ages,”
Wang Bing, a Shanghai-based analyst with Phillip Securities Pte,
said by phone today. “The deal makes sense for Nestle because
it may expand its food and snack portfolio in the fastest-
growing consumer market and beef up its distribution.”  Hsu Fu Chi, which sells candies, cakes and sachima pastries,
reported 2010 profit rose 31 percent to 602.2 million Chinese
yuan ($93 million) as sales increased 14 percent to 4.31 billion
yuan, according to Bloomberg data. The shares have risen 72
percent in the past year, giving the company a market
capitalization of S$3.18 billion ($2.6 billion).  Hsu Brothers  The Dongguan, Guangdong-based company, established in 1992
by four brothers from  Taiwan , has 45 large-scale production
plants and can make more than 700 different types of
confectionery products. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Hsu Chen, the second oldest of the brothers, is the 25th richest man
in Taiwan, according to Forbes.  Nina Caren Backes, a spokeswoman for Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle, said the company doesn’t comment on market
speculation. Officials at Hsu Fu Chi’s offices in Dongguan,
China couldn’t be reached for comment after normal business
hours.  Nestle got about a 10th of its 93 billion Swiss francs
($110 billion) of revenue last year from its chocolate and
confectionery unit. The company’s recent purchases in emerging
markets include  Russia ’s Ruzskaya Confectionery Factory in 2007
and a 51 percent stake in Turkish chocolate and biscuits maker
Dogan & Balaban Gida in December.  Making Acquisitions  The maker of Crunch bars had more than 16 billion francs of
cash at the end of last year after it sold a majority stake in
Alcon Inc., a maker of contact-lens solutions, to Novartis AG.
Bulcke said June 8 the company’s first priority with the money
is investing in existing businesses, though it’s also
considering “bolt-on” acquisitions.  Nestle’s sales in emerging markets need to increase at
least 8 percent to 10 percent a year for the company to reach
its goal of getting 45 percent of revenue from that area by 2020,
Frits van Dijk, head of the company’s business in  Asia , Africa,
Oceania and the  Middle East , said last month at an investor
conference. That’s an “absolute possibility,” he said.  The pace of acquisitions has been faster in developed
markets because some companies are easy to integrate and have
the right “chemistry,” the executive said at the time. The
company’s 2002 proposed purchase of Chocolates Garoto SA was
blocked by  Brazil ’s antitrust regulator.  In China, Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the KFC fast-food
chain, offered in May to buy  Little Sheep Group Ltd. (968)  in a deal
that valued the operator of hot pot restaurants at HK$6.7
billion ($861 million).  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller, said June 27 it
received regulatory approval to take a majority stake in Sichuan
Chengdu Quanxing Group Co., the parent of liquor maker Sichuan
Swellfun Co., as it seeks to sell more spirits in emerging
markets to counter sluggish European and U.S. growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  