-- 
NHL’s Flyers Sign Jaromir Jagr After Penguins Withdraw $2 Million Offer

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-01T20:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nhl-s-flyers-sign-jaromir-jagr-after-penguins-withdraw-2-million-offer.html
The  Philadelphia Flyers  signed free-
agent Jaromir Jagr after the  Pittsburgh Penguins  withdrew a one-
year, $2 million contract offer for the 39-year-old right wing.  The Flyers announced the signing on their  website .
Financial terms weren’t disclosed. TSN network of Canada
reported on its  website  that Jagr agreed to a one-year, $3.3
million pact.  Jagr, who played in  Russia ’s  Kontinental Hockey League  for
the past three seasons, spent the first 11 seasons of his
National Hockey League career with the Penguins. He last played
in the NHL in 2007-08 with the  New York Rangers .  The Penguins withdrew their offer after Jagr held
discussions with other teams in an attempt to get more money,
Penguins General Manager Ray Shero said.  “We made what we thought was a very fair contract offer to
Jaromir, based on his stated interest of returning to the
Penguins,” Shero said in a statement. “But now, after several
days, with an extended time frame for making a decision, and
additional teams getting involved, we have decided to move in a
different direction. It was never our intention to get involved
in a free-agent bidding war. We wish him the best.”  Jagr won both of his Stanley Cup titles with the Penguins,
in 1991 and 1992. Pittsburgh took him with the No. 5 pick in the
1990 draft.  Also today, the Flyers signed center Max Talbot to a
multiyear contract. Financial terms weren’t disclosed by the
team.  TSN reported  it to be worth $9 million over five years.  Jagr, who had 15 consecutive seasons with 30 or more goals,
is ninth on the NHL’s scoring list with 1,599 points. He trails
former  Colorado Avalanche  center Joe Sakic by 42 points for
eighth. Mario Lemieux, Pittsburgh’s owner and a former teammate
of Jagr, is seventh.  In other transactions announced on the NHL’s  website , the
 Montreal  Canadiens added center Erik Cole from Carolina. Cole’s
contract is for four years and $18 million, according to TSN.
The Columbus Blue Jackets signed defenseman James Wisniewski to
a multiyear contract, the team said. TSN reported it to be worth
$33 million over six years. The New York Rangers signed center
Mike Rupp from Pittsburgh. Rupp’s contract is worth $4.5 million
over three years, he said in a televised interview on NHL
Network.  The Phoenix Coyotes added forward Raffi Torres from the
 Vancouver Canucks  and goalie Mike Smith. Smith spent last season
with the Tampa Lightning, who recently re-signed goalie Dwayne Roloson. The Lightning then added goalie Mathieu Garon from
Columbus.  The Colorado Avalanche acquired goalie Semyon Varlamov from
the  Washington Capitals  for two draft picks, including a first-
rounder in 2012. Former Avalanche goalie Petr Budaj then signed
with Montreal. Former Canadiens goalie Jose Theodore, who spent
last season in  Minnesota , was sign by the Florida Panthers.  The Winnipeg Jets, who relocated from Atlanta earlier this
month, made their first free agent signing by adding defenseman
Derek Beech from the  Detroit Red Wings . Beech agreed to a one-
year, $700,000 contract, TSN reported.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Buteau in Atlanta
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  