-- 
Nissan’s Leaf Takes Early Lead on GM’s Volt

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-07-01T19:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nissan-s-leaf-pulls-ahead-of-gm-s-volt-in-rechargeable-car-sales.html
Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf, the first
mass-produced electric car sold in the U.S., took an early lead
in the budding market for rechargeable autos by pulling ahead of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in Volt in 2011’s first half.  Sales of lithium-ion powered  Leafs  totaled 3,875 this year
through June, buoyed by a record 1,708 units delivered last
month,  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S. sales,
said in an interview today. Deliveries of the plug-in  Chevrolet
Volt , which led Leaf through May, were 561 in June and total
2,745 in the first half, GM said.  “We’ve been telling you we’d grow every month, and now
you’re seeing more normalized production flow,” Castignetti
said. “We’re starting to catch up with the reservations.”  Nissan aims to be the world’s largest seller of electric
autos and is ramping up Leaf output after a slow start last year
and early snags with U.S. deliveries. Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  has said the company and partner Renault SA, which
he also leads, invested $6 billion for battery vehicles and
predicts such cars may account for 10 percent of  global
industry sales by 2020.  Nissan said it expects to sell as many as 12,000 Leafs in
the U.S. this year. The Yokohama-based company,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, has said it may sell 200,000 Leafs annually
in the U.S., while not disclosing a timetable.  The car’s base price is about $33,000, before a $7,500
federal tax credit. The plug-in Volt starts at about $41,000,
prior to the government incentive.  Chevy Volt  “From a sales standpoint, Nissan and  Chevrolet  have been
very cautious, wanting to make sure these vehicles are as
bulletproof as possible, taking time to thoroughly inspect and
check everything,” said George Peterson, president of industry
consultant firm AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,  California .  “We’re not going to see hundreds of thousands of these on
the road soon,” Peterson said. Rechargeable vehicles may rise
to about 3 percent of U.S. sales within a “few years,” based
on AutoPacific’s consumer surveys, Peterson said.  GM plans to make 16,000 Volts this year,  Rob Peterson , a
spokesman, said in May. The largest U.S. automaker’s Detroit-
Hamtramck plant that makes the car closed for four weeks
starting in June for upgrades to boost production to 60,000
units in 2012.  Nissan is building a battery factory next to its Smyrna,
 Tennessee , auto-assembly plant, where it aims to make lithium-
ion packs for Leafs that are to built in the current Smyrna
factory.  Combined sales of Leaf, rated by the U.S.  Environmental
Protection Agency  as traveling at least 60 miles per charge, and
Volt, which goes about 40 miles on lithium-ion battery power
before a gasoline engine propels it, totaled 6,620 through June.  California Requirements  By comparison, GM, Nissan,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Toyota Motor
Corp., Honda Motor Co. and other carmakers sold or leased 4,400
highway-legal battery-electric vehicles combined from 1996 to
2003 in California during its  zero-emission vehicle  program,
said Krista Eley, an air-pollution specialist with the state’s
Air Resources Board.  California, which requires major automakers to offer
rechargeable autos, expects about 60,000 electric cars, plug-in
hybrids and fuel-cell vehicles to be sold there over a three-
year period that begins with 2012 models.  Nissan and GM face new competition next year from Toyota,
which will sell a plug-in Prius and electric versions of its
RAV4 sport-utility vehicle and Scion iQ minicar.  Honda is to sell a battery-only Fit small car and midsize
plug-in vehicle it hasn’t identified in 2012,  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. (7211)  will offer electric i minicars, and Ford,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
other carmakers are also readying new rechargeable models.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  has delivered more than 1,650 all-
electric Roadster sports cars worldwide since production of the
$109,000 model began in 2008, said Khobi Brooklyn, a company
spokeswoman. That’s about the same volume of Leafs sold in the
U.S. in June.  Nissan’s North American unit is based in Franklin,
Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  