-- 
Apple Joins Microsoft, RIM in $4.5 Billion Buy of Nortel Patents

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-01T16:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nortel-sells-patent-portfolio-for-4-5-billion-to-group.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  joined with rivals
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to outbid  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  for a patent portfolio from Nortel Networks Corp. and gain
rights to technologies for mobile phones and tablet computers.  The group, which also includes  Sony Corp. (6758) , Ericsson AB and
EMC Corp., agreed to pay $4.5 billion in cash for the assets,
Ontario-based Nortel said in a statement. The companies aim to
complete the sale this quarter pending approval from U.S. and
Canadian courts, it said.  The purchase will give Apple, RIM and their bidding
partners control over more than 6,000 patents and applications
that cover wireless and Internet technologies. The winning offer
came after several rounds of bidding and was five times the $900
million Google had offered before the auction for Nortel’s
remaining intellectual property.  “This is by far the biggest patent auction in history,
both in terms of number of patents sold and in terms of the
price tag,” said Alex Poltorak, chairman and chief executive
officer of Suffern, New York-based General Patent Corp. “Nobody
expected the price to get this high.”  The deal brings together Apple, RIM and Microsoft, which
compete against each other in mobile computing, and leaves out
Google, which makes the Android software for handset makers such
as Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. The Android
alliance has become the leading platform for smartphones.  “Everybody is vying for market dominance,” said Poltorak.
“My speculation is that everybody else pretty much got together
bidding against Google and Intel.”  Higher-Than-Expected Bid  The bidding process had multiple rounds with about 150
people in the auction room, according to David Descoteaux,
managing director of Lazard Ltd., Nortel’s investment banker.  “It was around-the-clock negotiations,” Descoteaux said in
an interview. “We went well into the night.”  The price and the bidding show that companies considered
the patents vital to their strategic goals, including the need
to defend themselves from patent lawsuits and to roll out future
products, Descoteaux said.  “This has woken up the world to what IP means and how
companies think about ways of monetizing intellectual
property,” he said.  Nortel, which filed for bankruptcy in 2009, fetched more
for the patents than the $3 billion it had previously raised by
selling almost all its businesses. RIM, maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, will pay about $770 million for its share of the
patents, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company said in a
statement. Ericsson will pay $340 million, the Stockholm-based
networking-equipment maker said. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Apple, declined to comment beyond the Nortel statement.  ‘Disappointing’ for Google  Google, which also runs the world’s largest search engine,
had said it was bidding on the Nortel patents as way to protect
itself and partners against lawsuits.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB, and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
also make Android devices. After the auction outcome, Google
said it could lead to more patent litigation.  “This outcome is disappointing for anyone who believes
that open innovation benefits users and promotes creativity and
competition,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said in an
e-mail. “We will keep working to reduce the current flood of
patent litigation that hurts both innovators and consumers.”  Android share of the global smartphone market is estimated
to be 38.9, compared with 18.2 percent for Apple and 14.2
percent for RIM,  according a report  from research firm IDC.  Chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC)  last month received U.S. antitrust
approval to bid for the patents.  Protective Move?  Many of the bidders have enough cash to drive up the price
of the patents. Apple held $29.3 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of March, while Microsoft had $50.1
billion and Google $36.7 billion.  Patent disputes over smartphone technology are becoming
more common. Apple and Samsung are in a patent dispute across
several countries, including the U.S. and  South Korea . Apple has
alleged that Samsung’s smartphones using Google’s operating
system are knock-offs of the iPhone. Samsung responded with its
own patent infringement lawsuits against Apple.  “With all of the litigation that’s going on, this auction
may be a pure protective move on the part of many of these
companies’ platforms,” said Henry Dewing, an analyst at
Forrester Research Inc. “It’s an unbelievable patent
portfolio.”  Court approvals of the sale will be sought at a joint
hearing expected to be held July 11, Nortel said.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 