-- 
Northumbrian Water Gets Offer From Li Ka-Shing’s Cheung Kong

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-01T16:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/northumbrian-water-gets-offer-from-li-ka-shing-s-cheung-kong-1-.html
Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG) ,
supplier to about 4.4 million customers in the U.K., received an
indicative proposal for a cash offer from Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung
Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)   “There can be no certainty an offer will be made,” the
Durham-based Northumbrian said today in a statement. The company
shares have jumped more than 10 percent since the Hong Kong-
based company indicated its interest in the U.K. utility on June
27, taking the value of the company to around 2.2 billion pounds
($3.5 billion).  Northumbrian rose 1.5 percent to 422 pence in  London .  “Today’s announcement is a natural progression of the bid
process, which we believe is still at an early stage,” Angelos Anastasiou, an analyst at Investec Securities, said in an e-
mail. “We see an about 80 percent probability to a bid
occurring, with a realistic bid price range being 450 pence to
500 pence.”  Controlled by Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, Cheung Kong
Infrastructure has invested in electricity, gas, water and road
assets in  New Zealand , Australia, China, the U.K. and Canada and
has been looking for further acquisitions. Last year, it bought
a 50 percent stake in Seabank Power Ltd. from BG Group Plc, the
U.K. third-largest natural gas producer.  Northumbrian shares have been supported since the end of
January by speculation that the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,
which owns a 27 percent stake in the water utility, may increase
its holding, industry analysts have said.  The U.K. company plans to spend about 250 million pounds
annually over the next five years in projects such as increasing
the capacity of the Abberton reservoir in Essex and construction
of a second anaerobic digestion plant at Howdon in northeast
 England , Chief Executive Officer Heidi Mottram said June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  