-- 
Nothing Works in June as Stocks, Dollar, Commodities Drop on Slowdown Sign

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-01T13:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nothing-works-in-june-as-greece-sends-stocks-bonds-dollar-oil-to-losses.html
Stocks, bonds and commodities posted
monthly declines for the first time since the end of the
financial crisis in February 2009, dragged down by concern
 Greece  will default and signs economies are slowing.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 countries
dropped 1.5 percent in June, including dividends, spurring the
first quarterly loss in a year. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index slumped 0.65 percent, while
the firm’s benchmark gauge of U.S. Treasuries fell 0.31 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities
declined 5.3 percent, also prompting the first three-month slump
since the period ended June 30, 2010.  While Greece’s approval of budget cuts and tax increases
this week required to win bailout funds drove the biggest four-
day rally in the MSCI index since December, it failed to erase
June’s equity losses. Riskier assets fell last month as U.S.
economic reports missed projections by the most since January
2009, according to data compiled by New York-based Citigroup
Inc. using Bloomberg surveys.  “Investors were on the edge,” said  David Goerz , the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer at Highmark Capital
Management Inc., which oversees $17.2 billion. “The No. 1 thing
that the market focused on was the slowdown in economic
activity. The sovereign debt crisis also got people worried.
We’re probably not at the end of it yet, but we got some
temporary solution to the Greek crisis.”  Quarter, Year  Commodities led declines today after China’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index, a gauge of the nation’s manufacturing, dropped
to the lowest level since February 2009. The MSCI All-Country
World Index and Treasuries were little changed.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against currencies from six major U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 74.404 in June. The U.S.
currency slumped in the final four days, erasing a monthly gain
as the euro rallied against most major currencies. The Dollar
Index rose 0.25 percent at 8:57 a.m. in New York today.  Equities and raw materials slid in June after rallying
since the first quarter of 2009. The S&P commodity index climbed
as much as 85 percent from Feb. 18, 2009, peaking on April 8. It
retreated 1.4 percent today.  The MSCI gauge gained 119 percent between March 9, 2009,
and May 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The global
economy may grow 4.3 percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2012,
the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said June 17.  Austerity Plan  Bonds did best during the second quarter, with Treasuries
returning 2.4 percent and the Bank of America corporate-debt
measure rising 1.9 percent. The MSCI equity index gained 0.4
percent, and the S&P commodities gauge sank 7.9 percent. Stocks
won in the first half, advancing 5 percent as commodities rose
2.7 percent and both bond measures returned 2.5 percent.  Financial markets were whipsawed in June as Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  fought a legislative battle for the
austerity plan and withstood a confidence vote, staving off
default. He won parliamentary approval to implement a 85
billion-euro ($124 billion) package that was a condition of
receiving further EU aid.  As much as $4.1 trillion was erased from global equities
since May 1, when values reached an almost three-year high of
$56.1 trillion. Equities fell as data showed confidence among
U.S. consumers diminished,  China  reported a smaller-than-
estimated  trade surplus  and U.K. manufacturing growth declined
more than economists forecast.  Paring Declines  The U.S. benchmark measure retreated 1.7 percent in June
when dividends are included. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 2.9
percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1 percent.  Stocks pared declines in the final days of the month. The
4.2 percent gain since June 24 in the MSCI All-Country World
Index was led by groups most tied to economic growth, with
energy, raw-material, financial and industrial companies posting
advances of 4.3 percent or more. The index rose 0.1 percent
today.  During the past four days, Treasury 10-year notes slid in
the longest losing streak since February as the  Federal Reserve 
ended its $600 billion purchase program known as quantitative
easing. They also slumped as S&P said it would cut the U.S.
credit rating to the lowest level if the government fails to
increase the debt limit.  Swiss Franc   Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth and
employment this year and next, projecting the economy will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts
ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. U.S. central
bankers said inflation, excluding food and energy, will be
higher than previously forecast. They said the pace of recovery
is likely to “pick up over coming quarters.”  The Swiss franc had the biggest gain among major currencies
in June, strengthening 1.6 percent versus the dollar and 0.9
percent against the euro. The yen appreciated 1.2 percent versus
the greenback, while the euro increased 0.7 percent. In the
quarter, the franc gained 9.4 percent, the euro rose 2.4 percent
and the yen increased 3.2 percent versus the dollar.  “We have clearly taken out the Greek risk as far as it
impacted Treasuries,” said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“From this day forward, we will have to deal with the Treasury
supply on our own. We are adjusting to the new world.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes dropped to 2.84
percent on June 27, the lowest since December, before ending the
month at 3.16 percent. The yield fell 2 basis point today.  Greek Yields  Greek two-year note yields fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 27.30 percent yesterday. They climbed to a
record 30.32 percent on June 16 as Papandreou struggled to win
support for budget cuts and S&P cut the nation’s debt ranking to
CCC, the world’s lowest sovereign rating. The yield dropped a
further 63 basis points today.  The worst may not be over for Greece, even after the
nation’s parliament passed the first part of an austerity plan,
said  Andrew Balls , Pacific Investment Management Co.’s head of
European  fund management .  “The challenges on the fiscal side look very large
indeed,” Balls said June 29 in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “My concern is
we’ll be back here in a few weeks, or a couple of months, when
we have another real stressful period again because the program
will be going off track.”  U.S. Unemployment  U.S. unemployment reached 9.1 percent in May and the
Conference Board’s consumer sentiment index dropped to 58.5 from
61.7, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed June 28. Home values in 20 cities declined 4 percent in
the 12 months through April, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index.  “The data were definitely on the weak side through the
month,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director in  Chicago  at
Neuberger Berman LLC, which oversees about $85 billion in fixed-
income assets. “A self-sustaining economy is all about jobs.”  Wheat futures traded in Kansas and Chicago led the
decliners among commodities in June, dropping 18 percent and 17
percent respectively, followed by silver and natural gas. Sugar
soared 26 percent, paring the year-to-date loss to 9.2 percent.  Concerns about the pace of U.S. recovery and China’s rising
interest rates discouraged investors from buying commodities,
curbing gains from the rally that started in July 2010, said
 Tobias Merath , the Zurich-based head of commodities research at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Raw materials  were advancing “too
quickly” during the first four months of this year, the analyst
said.  Crude Declines  Oil slid for a second month after the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  announced on June 23 the release of
60 million barrels of oil over 30 days from member nations’
emergency stockpiles as fighting in  Libya  pares global supplies.
Oil futures fell 4.6 percent on the day the announcement was
made and finished the month down 7.1 percent. The quarterly
decline of 11 percent was the worst performance since 2008.  Crude for August delivery closed at $95.42 yesterday on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , 1 cent above the settlement price
on June 22, the day before the IEA announcement. Prices have
risen 4.4 percent this year and 26 percent in the past year.
August crude slid 0.8 percent to $94.68 a barrel today.  “It’s more like an economic soft patch and doesn’t look
like we are moving into a double-dip recession,” Merath said.
“The weakness is coming to an end or has already ended, and at
the current value it’s good to add to positions. If you are an
investor, it’s good time to buy. If you are a consumer, it’s a
good time to hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  