-- 
Nykredit Realkredit Downgraded by Moody’s on Profitability

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 
2011-07-01T07:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/nykredit-realkredit-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-profitability-1-.html
Nykredit Realkredit A/S was
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service on concern that
Denmark’s biggest issuer of covered bonds will struggle to
maintain profitability.  Nykredit Realkredit’s issuer rating was downgraded to A2
from A1 and the Tier 1 hybrid rating to Baa2 from Baa1, the bond
rating company said in a statement from  London . Today’s
announcement doesn’t “address the possible implications” for
the lender’s mortgage and covered bond ratings, Moody’s said.  “Today’s rating actions primarily reflect Moody’s concerns
over Nykredit Realkredit’s longer-term ability to maintain solid
profitability levels,” Moody’s said. “As a mortgage-credit
institution, its core profitability is moderate and
intrinsically vulnerable to negative, unpredictable movements in
its mark-to-market bond operations.”  The downgrade follows a June 10 warning from Moody’s that
adjustable-rate mortgages represented a higher refinancing risk
than traditional mortgage securities. Danske Bank A/S’s mortgage
unit, Realkredit Danmark, said last week it dropped Moody’s from
rating its debt, arguing the company didn’t understand the
Danish covered-bond market.  ‘Regrettable’  Moody’s said on June 10 it cut the timely payment indicator
on some Danish mortgage bonds, including those sold by
Realkredit Danmark and Nykredit, because a rise in adjustable-
rate loans was infusing the market with risk. Nykredit responded
on June 21 by separating financing for the bonds from the rest
of its business. While the move may result in a lower rating for
bonds backed by adjustable-rate loans, it should protect the
credit grade on the lender’s fixed-rate products, Nykredit said.  “The rating downgrade is regrettable but expected given
the general downward pressure there has been on financial
institutions in general, especially in  Denmark , as well as the
limitations there have been on Nykredit to increase prices,”
Nykredit Chief Executive Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said in a
statement.  Fjordbank Mors A/S on June 24 became the second regional
lender in Denmark to fail this year, triggering so-called bail-
in rules that impose losses on senior creditors. Moody’s in May
downgraded six lenders, including the country’s largest, Danske
Bank, citing an absence of state support.  Moody’s also downgraded Danish mortgage lenders DLR Kredit
and BRF Kredit today.  “BRFkredit is surprised and unable to understand Moody’s
rating action,” the bank said in a statement. “BRFkredit will
use the coming days to indentify the impact of Moody’s rating
action and the measures to be taken.”  Market Changes  Denmark’s mortgage bond market has undergone a number of
changes in the past 15 years, moving away from its traditional
fixed-rate, callable securities. Adjustable-rate mortgages were
introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which the central bank
has criticized for exacerbating volatility in the  property
market , were sold from 2003. So-called capped floaters, which
offer a floating interesting rate with a cap on how high borrow
costs can rise, were introduced in 2004.  Moody’s also reduced the long-term ratings of Nykredit
Realkredit’s subsidiary, Nykredit Bank, to A2 from A1, it said.
Nykredit Bank’s junior subordinated program rating was cut to
(P)Baa1 from (P)A3, and the Tier 1 Hybrid rating was downgraded
to (P)Baa2 from (P)Baa1. Nykredit Bank’s standalone credit
strength was lowered to Baa2 from Baa1, which is mapped from its
C- bank financial strength rating, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  