-- 
Obama Tells Donors He’s Felt ‘Frustrated’ by Lack of Progress

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-07-01T00:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/obama-tells-donors-he-s-felt-frustrated-by-lack-of-progress.html
President  Barack Obama  told
 Democratic Party  donors today that he has felt “frustrated” by
the lack of progress on some of the nation’s problems, as he
asked for their support to finish the job he started.  “There’s times when I feel, you know, frustrated,” Obama
said at the first of two fundraisers in Philadelphia. “But we
knew this wasn’t going to be easy.”  He criticized the Republicans seeking their party’s
presidential nomination for the 2012 election for already being
more interested in political attacks than solving the nation’s
problems.  “They won’t have a plan, they’ll attack,” Obama said.
“The American people are a lot less interested in us attacking
each other. They’re more interested in us attacking the
country’s problems.”  During the second fundraiser at the home of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
executive  David Cohen , Obama said there are still things he
needs to accomplish in areas such as education, immigration
policy and economic growth.  In current negotiations over the  budget deficit , Obama said
Republicans are advocating policies that would turn back the
progress made during his administration.  “This is not just a numbers debate, this is a values
debate,” he said. “We can make changes that are balanced.”  The question now, he said, is “one of political will.”  “I hope you understand that the stakes are enormously
high,” he told donors.  $1.2 Million Today  Obama will raise at least $1.2 million for the Democratic
Party and his re-election campaign at the two fundraisers.
Tickets for the first, in a hotel ballroom downtown, started at
$100. Tickets for the dinner at Cohen’s home started at $10,000.  Obama began raising money for the 2012 elections in March
and has already collected millions of dollars for Democratic
candidates and party organizations across the country and in
Puerto Rico.  He recently traveled to  New York City  for three fundraisers
and raised at least $3 million at a pair of events in  Washington ,
D.C., on June 20.  Candidates, political parties and outside groups could
spend as much as $3 billion during the 2012 presidential
election, an increase from the more than $2 billion the  Federal
Election Commission  said was spent during the 2008 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Philadelphia at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  