-- 
Mobile-Phone Use May Have No Impact on Cancer Risk, Review Finds

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-07-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/mobile-phone-use-may-not-raise-cancer-risk.html
Using mobile phones may not increase
the risk of  brain cancer , according to a new analysis of
scientific evidence published a month after a World Health
Organization agency said the technology may cause tumors.  Studies from several countries have failed to show an
increase in brain tumors as many as 20 years after mobile phones
were introduced and 10 years after the technology became
widespread, the International Commission on Non-Ionizing
Radiation Protection’s committee on epidemiology wrote in
 Environmental Health Perspectives , a monthly journal of the U.S.
National Institute of Environmental Sciences.  The findings undermine those of an International Agency for
Research on Cancer review. Concerns that the technology might be
harmful to the health of the 4.6  billion people who use cell
phones aren’t likely to be put to rest soon, because data is
limited and researchers can’t prove the complete absence of an
impact, the panel said.  “This is a really difficult issue to research,” David
Spiegelhalter, the University of Cambridge’s Winton professor of
the public understanding of risk, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Even given the limitations of the evidence, this report is
clear that any risk appears to be so small that it is very hard
to detect, even in the masses of people now using mobile
phones.”  The committee included scientists from the U.K.,  Sweden ,
 Australia  and the U.S. The International Commission on Non-
Ionizing Radiation Protection sets guidelines for exposure
limits to radiation including radio-frequency fields emitted by
mobile phones.  Interphone Study  The panel reviewed all published studies that have examined
the potential link between mobile-phone use and brain tumors,
including the largest epidemiological study to date, known as
 Interphone . Anthony Swerdlow, a professor of epidemiology at the
 Institute of Cancer Research  in  London  who led the review, also
oversaw one of the U.K. teams involved in the Interphone study,
which was published last year and failed to find a definite link
between mobile-phone use and certain types of brain tumors.  Other studies in people and animals, along with trends in
the incidence of brain tumors, suggest no increase in the risk,
although the possibility can’t be ruled out, Swerdlow said in a
statement.  ‘Possibly’ Carcinogenic  Exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields from
handsets is greater than that from phone towers and base
stations, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, part
of the Geneva-based WHO, said in June. The fields are
“possibly” carcinogenic, the same category as  diesel fuel ,
chloroform and working as a firefighter, according to the IARC,
based in Lyon,  France , which classifies cancer risks.  The IARC didn’t issue guidelines for cell-phone use and
said more study is needed, after finding some evidence for an
increased risk of glioma, or brain cancer.  “If there are no apparent effects on trends in the next
few years, after almost universal exposure to mobile phones in
Western countries, it will become increasingly implausible that
there is a material causal effect,” Swerdlow said. “If there
are unexplained rising trends, there will be a case to answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  