-- 
OMK Seeks U.S. Steel Mills to Expand Beyond Russia’s Nord Stream Gas Pipes

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-07-01T08:05:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/omk-seeks-u-s-steel-mills-to-expand-beyond-russia-s-nord-stream-gas-pipes.html
United Metallurgical Co. , the Russian
supplier of pipes for OAO Gazprom’s Nord Stream pipeline, is
studying acquisitions in the U.S. even as competitors scale back
North American operations.  “We are interested in the U.S. tubular market, the world’s
second-largest after  China ,” said Anatoly Sedykh, billionaire
chairman of the company known as OMK. “We won’t perform
billion-dollar acquisitions. We’d rather buy some small
production assets and develop them.”  Russian metals companies have cut back in  North America 
after demand and prices plunged following the financial crisis.
OAO Severstal, Russia’s largest steelmaker, sold three of its
five U.S. mills in March, while OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel divested
its U.S. Stillwater Mining unit last year. OAO TMK, a pipemaker,
bought IPSCO Tubular Inc.’s U.S. units for $1.75 billion in 2008
and now has $3.8 billion of net debt, almost four times its 2010
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  By looking at smaller acquisitions, OMK says it may succeed
where others have struggled. OMK is the most profitable Russian
pipe producer, reporting a 31 percent Ebitda margin last year,
according to its annual report. It posted net income of 26.2
billion rubles ($936 million) and sales of 118 billion rubles.  Markets abroad may account for as much as 40 percent of
OMK’s pipe sales in the “near future,” Sedykh said in a June
27 interview in Vyksa, central  Russia . That compares with 11
percent export sales last year, or about 30 percent including
the Nord Stream contract, according to the company.  Pipeline Projects  OMK plans to increase shipments to Total SA in West Africa
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc in Oman, and may seek to supply pipes
to the Nabucco pipeline project and to Gazprom’s rival South
Stream venture, both of which would carry natural gas to  Europe .
Gazprom’s Nord Stream pipe will take Russian gas via the  Baltic
Sea  to  Germany .  Sedykh said he sees “no contradiction” in potentially
supplying all the pipeline ventures, adding that Nabucco would
be built “whether we supply pipes or not.”  OMK is investing as much as $4 billion by 2015 on projects,
including plans to increase self-sufficiency in raw materials as
the cost of coal and  iron ore  climbs. The company is considering
building a new mill to produce semi-finished steel and “direct-
reduced” iron, a refined form of iron ore that can be used to
produce steel without adding coking coal, Sedykh said, adding
that a final decision on the project hasn’t been made.  Cost Savings  The semi-finished steel could help feed a new $1.6 billion
steel-plate mill at OMK’s main site in Vyksa, which will start
in August or September, he said. The plant will help OMK cut
output costs by as much as 15 percent, he said. OMK spends more
than $1 billion a year buying steel plate, a raw material for
pipe production, from suppliers such as Dillinger Huette and
Nippon Steel Corp.  OMK joins international competitors including  India ’s
Welspun Corp. and  Brazil ’s Confab Industrial SA in setting up
plate production to curb costs. Prices for steel plate rose 18
percent in 2010 and have climbed almost 30 percent this year
following gains in the price of coal and iron ore, according to
OMK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  