-- 
London Luxury-Home Prices Rise to  a Record on Appeal as Wealth Haven

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-07-01T11:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/london-luxury-home-prices-rise-to-record-as-weak-pound-boosts-haven-appeal.html
Luxury- home prices  in central London
climbed to a record in June, exceeding the peak reached 27
months earlier as overseas buyers took advantage of a weak pound
and sought a haven for their wealth, said  Knight Frank LLP .  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($5.9 million) increased 0.9 percent from May,
according to an index compiled by the  London-based property
broker  and released today. The annual gain was 8.1 percent and
the index of values exceeded the previous record reached in
March 2008 by 2 percent.  The cost of a home in neighborhoods such as Belgravia and
Holland Park increased by 34 percent since March 2009,
recovering from a 12-month slump triggered by the credit crisis.
Foreign buyers are turning to  London  real estate to protect
their assets from political and economic instability in their
home countries, driving up prices for prime homes.  “We are seeing the very wealthy from the world’s trouble
spots coming to the U.K. -- they think it’s a no-brainer,” said
 Charles McDowell , who this year advised three buyers of homes
costing at least 20 million pounds in Chelsea, Mayfair and
Kensington.  Two of McDowell’s clients are Greeks seeking to preserve
wealth as their government struggles to slash its  budget
deficit , he said. This has also increased interest in London
homes from euro-region buyers, McDowell said.  The pound’s 16 percent slide against a basket of currency’s
since the market’s previous peak in March 2008 has also made an
apartment or house in an affluent London neighborhood more
affordable for overseas buyers.  Middle East  Turmoil  The political turmoil in the Middle East that led to the
overthrow of rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  earlier this year has
increased the number of house-hunters from the region, agents
said.  “A lot of Middle East buyers already own property in
London, but we are seeing them upgrading to a larger property to
give them the possibility of a more permanent residence,” said
Mark Pollack, co-founder of  Ashton Chase , a broker specialized
in the Hampstead and St. John’s Wood neighborhoods.  The unexpected strength of demand led Knight Frank today to
increase its prediction for price growth for prime homes in
central London to 9 percent from an earlier estimate of 3
percent. Last week, Savills Plc predicted values would gain by 8
percent this year, having previously estimated a 1 percent drop.  ‘Strong Conditions’  “Activity measures are pointing to continued strong
conditions in the central London market over the next few
months,” said  Liam Bailey ,  Knight Frank ’s head of residential
research.  Price growth may slow in the second half as the record
values persuade more owners to sell, he said.  Last month, Knight Frank had a 12 percent increase in the
number of properties on its books for sale compared with the end
of 2010 and sales instructions rose 55 percent from June 2010.  The number of agreed property sales rose 52 percent in June
from a year earlier, Bailey said, while the number of
prospective buyers -- which still exceeds properties for sale --
was little changed.  With mortgage finance hard to obtain and personal finances
squeezed by accelerating inflation and tax increases, prices in
Britain’s mainstream housing market are falling. Values in
 England  and  Wales  declined 2.2 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to  Land Registry figures  based on actual
transactions.  London was the only region where average home prices
advanced, gaining 2.9 percent from a year earlier in May. In the
region surrounding Newcastle in northeast England, meanwhile,
values fell an annual 6.9 percent, the worst-performing area in
England, according to the  Land Registry .  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from estimated
values of properties in the Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s
Park, Kensington,  Notting Hill , Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia and South Bank neighborhoods of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 