-- 
London Olympic Stadium Company Suspends Official Over Dual West Ham Role

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-01T17:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/london-olympic-stadium-company-suspends-official-over-dual-west-ham-role.html
The organization that selected West
Ham over rival soccer team Tottenham to take over  London ’s
Olympic stadium after the 2012 Games today suspended an employee
for undertaking paid consulting work for the Hammers.  The Olympic Park Legacy Company, or OPLC, suspended the
unidentified female employee today after being contacted by a
Sunday newspaper inquiring about her work for West Ham.  The fight for the right for control over the east London
stadium has been a bitter one. Tottenham and lower league team
Leyton Orient failed last week in a legal challenge to overturn
the decision. West Ham, which was relegated to the Championship
at the end of last season, is working with the London Borough of
Newham on the project.  “The company had no knowledge of this work and no
permission was given to undertake it,” the OPLC said in a
 statement . “This individual had no involvement whatsoever in
our stadium process.”  The employee had already declared a personal relationship
with a member of staff at West Ham and “robust measures in
place to ensure our stadium process was not compromised,” the
OPLC added. The team that worked on the stadium selection
process was based in a separate office at the headquarters of
law firm Eversheds LLP.  Tottenham and Leyton Orient have five days to decide
whether to appeal against a judge’s decision to reject their
attempts to block West Ham’s move.  When London won the bid to hold the Olympics in 2005,
organizers promised to retain an athletics track inside the
stadium. Tottenham and its partner, U.S. entertainment group
AEG, planned to remove the track to move soccer fans closer to
the field. In exchange, they would have renovated Crystal Palace
stadium in south London for track-and-field competitions. West
Ham has promised to keep the track at the 2012 stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net  