-- 
Hong Kong’s Annual Anti-Government Rally Over Home Prices Draws Thousands

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-07-01T13:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/hong-kong-s-annual-anti-government-rally-over-home-prices-draws-thousands.html
Hong Kong  demonstrators took to the
streets in the thousands today to protest soaring home prices
and a widening wealth gap as the city celebrated the 14th
anniversary of return to Chinese rule.  The demonstrators chanted slogans and carried banners
calling for Chief Executive Donald Tsang to step down as they
made their way through a police cordon along a route to the
government’s headquarters in Central business district from
Victoria Park. More than 100,000 people took part in the
protest,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported, citing Lee Cheuk- yan, spokesman of protest organizer Civil Human Rights Front.
Three calls to the Hong Kong Police Force public relations
office went unanswered.  The annual rally, in its ninth consecutive year, coincides
with a decline in support for Tsang to the lowest level since he
took office in 2005. Home prices have surged 70 percent since
the start of 2009, while the economy has rebounded from
recession in the third quarter of that year to post a higher-
than-estimated 7.2 percent growth in the first three months of
2011.  “People feel they have not been able to benefit from this
economic growth,” said  Joseph Cheng , a political-science
professor at the  City University of Hong Kong . “They aren’t
happy with the fact that they do not see an improvement in
 living standards , despite the good economic statistics.”  The city’s inflation rate accelerated to a 34-month high in
May. Rising values of residential properties prompted the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority on June 10 to increase the size of down
payments on mortgages and tighten restrictions for overseas
investors. That was the city’s fourth attempt since October 2009
to curb prices that have climbed on record low interest rates
and an influx of buyers from other parts of  China .  Home Prices  Protesters demanded Tsang, who will finish his second term
as the city’s head on June 30, 2012, resume construction of
government-subsidized housing. Hong Kong is the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home because of a shortage of
properties on the market, Savills Plc said in a report earlier
this year.  “The price tag of residential home is ridiculously high
now. I won’t be able to buy it no matter how hard I work,” said
Raymond Song, a 29-year-old truck driver who took the street
today. “The government should build more affordable flats for
the citizens.”  In a response to the protest, posted to its website today,
the Hong Kong government’s Information Services Department said
Tsang will respond to the home affordability issue in this
year’s policy address.  Financial Secretary John Tsang said on June 19 the current
 property market  is “abnormal” and the government may take more
measures to cool surging prices.  Donald Tsang’s decline in popularity mirrors that of his
predecessor, Tung Chee-hwa, who fell victim to people’s
dissatisfaction after an outbreak of SARS shook confidence in
the city’s economy in 2003. He resigned after hundreds of
thousands took to the streets calling for his ouster.  The government will tackle accelerating inflation and high
property prices “prudently,” Donald Tsang  said  today at a
celebration of the city’s return to Chinese rule in July 1997.  “My team and I will continue to work with full dedication
for the betterment of Hong Kong until the last minute of
office,” Tsang said.  Tsang’s popularity has declined to 46.5 in a scale of 100
in a survey of 1,000 residents taken during the week to June 8,
the University of Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Programme shows.
That compares with its peak of 72.3 in 2005.  A further dip in Tsang’s backing could signal a
“governance crisis,” poll director Robert Chung said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  