-- 
Longer-Maturity TIPS Most Attractive, BlackRock’s Hegarty Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-07-01T17:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/longer-maturity-tips-most-attractive-blackrock-s-hegarty-says.html
Longer-maturity Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities are more attractive than regular U.S.
government securities because any drop in inflation will prove
temporary,  according to BlackRock Inc.’s Martin Hegarty.  There’s been a “substantial shift in the inflation
dynamics” since the beginning of the  Federal Reserve ’s program
of U.S. Treasury purchases, Hegarty, co-head of global
inflation-linked portfolios at BlackRock in  New York , said
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop”
with Betty Liu.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in May,
compared with the 0.1 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed on June 15. The core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent.  BlackRock anticipates that so-called headline inflation
will trend lower over the next few month as the effect of higher
gasoline prices and higher production costs related to  Japan ’s
record earthquake in March will abate, he said. That will
provide consumers with more cash to spend while the economy
recovers in the second half and raise the risk of inflation,
Hegarty said.  “In a long-term average scenario, 30-year inflation
expectations average between 2 1/2 and 3 percent, Hegarty said.
“Obviously around 2008 we had some drastic moves, so now at
2.60, I think real rates at 1.75 are relatively fair.”  Thirty-year TIPS yield 1.78 percent. The difference between
that and yields on nominal Treasuries, known as the break-even
rate, increased one basis point to 2.62 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo at   jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  