-- 
Osborne Told Darling to ‘Be Careful’ Not to Commit Over EU Aid

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-01T15:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/osborne-told-darling-to-be-careful-not-to-commit-over-eu-aid.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  urged his predecessor,  Alistair Darling , to “be
careful” not to enter into long-term commitments to bail out
troubled European nations, a transcript of a telephone call
between the two men shows.  The conversation took place at 3:55 p.m. on May 9 last
year, according to the transcript released by the Treasury under
freedom-of-information rules. That was three days after the
general election that left neither Darling’s  Labour Party  nor
Osborne’s Conservatives with a big enough majority to form a
government. As the incumbent chancellor, Darling was negotiating
with his European Union counterparts on financial support for
the euro area while keeping Osborne informed.  Osborne asked Darling “to be careful not to commit the
U.K. to proposals that have a lasting effect on U.K. public
finances,” the transcript of the conversation shows.  The conversation shows Osborne’s unwillingness to back the
European Financial Stabilization Mechanism, the EU’s
contribution to a 750 billion-euro ($1.1 billion) package to
help the euro area.  While Osborne expressed reservations, there was little
Darling could do to prevent the EU from using the 60 billion-
euro fund to assist  Greece . The decision to allow the fund to be
used for financial assistance was taken by a qualified-majority
vote, and Osborne asked whether Britain could at least abstain
because of the electoral impasse, the text shows.  Darling replied that he had been advised by Britain’s top
civil servant that “the government remained in place until such
a time as it did not,” suggesting that the electoral
uncertainty was no reason to abstain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  