-- 
Hot Weather Will Grip U.S. East, West in Holiday Weekend, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-01T18:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/hot-weather-will-grip-u-s-east-west-on-holiday-weekend-forecasters-say.html
The holiday weekend will bring “the
hottest weather of the summer so far” to  California  and the
U.S. West, while the East Coast will have the highest
temperatures of the next two weeks, said  Matt Rogers , president
of  Commodity Weather Group LLC .  Once the Fourth of July holiday passes, heat will blanket
the interior sections of the country, with the Rocky Mountains
region and Texas and Oklahoma recording the highest
temperatures, Rogers, based in Bethesda, Maryland, said in a
note to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand. A Bloomberg
News survey of 18 analysts predicts futures will climb next week
as hotter-than-normal weather spurs need for the power-plant
fuel.  New York City  may reach 91 degrees Fahrenheit (33 Celsius)
this weekend, or 6.5 degrees above normal, according to  MDA
EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Boston temperatures
will be below-normal for the first part of the weekend and then
rise to 88 on July 3, EarthSat predicted.  Chicago’s high may hit 97 degrees today before the
temperature falls into the 80s through July 10, according to
EarthSat. Philadelphia and  Washington  will have their highest
readings over the weekend and then stay close to 90 for the
remainder of the week.  Fewer Extremes  “Compared to the near-term, there should be less in the
way of extremes, with most of the anomalies in the ‘above’ range
versus ‘much above,’” EarthSat said. “In mid-July, however,
even these ‘aboves’ generate plenty of cooling demand, which may
be enhanced by a more humid setup along the East Coast at
times.”  While the East moderates, heat will continue to build July
11 to July 15 with pockets of much-above-normal temperatures
over  Idaho  and Montana and across northern Texas and Oklahoma,
Rogers said.  Tulsa, Oklahoma, tied a record, first set 100 years ago,
yesterday when it posted 29 days this month with temperatures at
90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) or more, according to the
National Weather Service. The only day that didn’t reach 90 was
June 16 when the high was 87.  Rogers said weather in the tropics, also an area closely
watched by traders, shouldn’t be a threat to U.S. gas and oil
interests through next week. Tropical Storm Arlene, which went
ashore in  Mexico  yesterday, has dissipated, according to the
U.S.  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  Arlene’s remnants have a 10 percent chance of re-forming
into a storm in the eastern Pacific in the next two days and a
near-zero chance of developing in the Atlantic, according to a
center advisory shortly before 2 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 