-- 
House Democrats Urge OCC to Seek More Comment on Preemption Rule

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-01T15:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/house-democrats-urge-occ-to-seek-more-comment-on-preemption-rule.html
U.S. House Democrats are asking the
regulator overseeing national banks to seek additional comment
on rules governing when state consumer-protection laws can be
trumped by federal powers amid criticism of an initial proposal.  Five members of the House Financial Services Committee, led
by Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , made the
request in a letter to Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  after the U.S. Treasury Department said the OCC’s plan
ignored the will of Congress expressed in the Dodd-Frank Act.  “The original comment period, which closed on June 27, was
for only 30 days, which we strongly believe was insufficient to
foster a meaningful and balanced exchange of views between the
OCC and other interested parties,” the lawmakers wrote, urging
Walsh to extend the comment period by at least 60 days. The OCC
had no immediate comment on the letter.  Congress directed the OCC to propose new rules after state
officials said federal regulators used preemption to let banks
escape tougher oversight before the 2008 credit crisis. In a
June 28 comment letter, Treasury General Counsel George Madison
faulted the OCC’s new interpretation of its role, calling it
“inconsistent” and contrary to the intent of Dodd-Frank.  “The OCC’s proposed rule is not centered on the key
language of Dodd-Frank’s preemption standard and seeks to
broaden the standard,” Madison wrote to the OCC, an independent
agency within the Treasury Department.  The Conference of State Bank Supervisors, which sought a
60-day extension of the comment period in a letter this week,
has said that Dodd-Frank granted them new power over national
banks for  consumer protection laws .  The OCC said in its proposal that preemption remains
largely intact, and that the agency would make decisions in
consultation with the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  In addition to Frank, the Democrats’ letter was signed by
Representatives Carolyn Maloney of  New York , Luis Gutierrez of
 Illinois , and Mel Watt and Brad Miller of  North Carolina .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  