-- 
Panda Bear, Ai Weiwei, ABT’s Swan Lake, Fireworks: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/panda-bear-ai-weiwei-abt-s-swan-lake-fireworks-n-y-weekend.html
Baltimore foursome Lower Dens play
the South Street Seaport on Friday as part of the River to River
Festival.  Drone-y melodic washes of sound swirl and crash, held
together by propulsive percussion and lead singer Jana Hunter’s
dusky vocals.  Their  debut album , “Twin-Hand Movement,” is an
atmospheric ascent into a slow-growing thunderstorm of overlaid
guitar riffs and longing.  Pier 17 at 7 p.m., Fulton St. and the  East River .
Information:  http://www.rivertorivernyc.com/events/lower -
densdirty-beaches.  Saturday  When international art star and activist Ai Weiwei arrived
in New York, he was a lanky, baby-faced 24-year-old. Living in a
tiny place on East 3rd Street, he quickly became part of both
the avant-garde art scene and the Chinese cultural community.  The Asia Society exhibition “Ai Weiwei: New York
Photographs 1983-1993” documents that period with 227 black-
and-white images: poetry readings, Tompkins Square Park riots,
visits with Allen Ginsberg and a campaigning  Bill Clinton .  His crumpled bed and crumbling bathroom appear frequently
along with the drag queens, the homeless and, oddly, the dress
rehearsal of the  Metropolitan Opera ’s “Turandot” production.  Through Aug. 14 at 725 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-288-
6400;  http://asiasociety.org .  Saturday Matinee  The American Ballet Theater is winding up its run of the
quintessentially romantic “ Swan Lake ,” so grab this chance to
see the whole thing, and not just the excerpts in films like
“ Black Swan ” and “Billy Elliot.”  Lissome Julie Kent is Odette/Odile to Marcelo Gomes’s
handsome Prince Siegfried.  With a glorious score by Tchaikovsky, transcendent love
that defeats a wicked sorcerer and 32 showy fouette turns from
the anti-heroine, “Swan Lake” makes for a poignant and
inspiring dance experience.  Metropolitan Opera House,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-
212-362-6000;  http://www.abt.org .  Saturday Night  Baba Brinkman boogies and raps his way through an
explanation of Darwin’s theory of evolution, while thumping
creationists and proponents of intelligent design.  He also considers sex, race and hip-hop, among other
things, and hands out advice: “Don’t sleep with mean people.”  DJ Jamie Simmonds mixes the music and projection designer
Wendall Harrington provides a clever video wall.  “The Rap Guide to Evolution” is at the SoHo Playhouse, 15
Vandam St. Information: +1-212-352-3101;
 http://www.sohoplayhouse.com .  Sunday  As a teenager, Lyonel Feininger moved to Berlin from his
native  New York  and played a big role in the German
Expressionist movement, as well as the Bauhaus.  When the Nazis consigned his crisply colorful work to the
“degenerative art” dustbin, he moved back to the U.S.  The Whitney Museum of American Art has put together a
retrospective of his paintings, photographs, wooden carvings and
Chicago Tribune cartoon strips.  “Lyonel Feininger: At the Edge of the World” runs through
Oct. 16. 945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;
 http://whitney.org .  Grab lunch in the museum at Danny Meyer’s restaurant
“Untitled,” where chef Chris Bradley cooks up tasty seasonal
comfort food.  Sunday Night  Noah Lennox, aka Panda Bear of Animal Collective, plays the
 Music Hall  of Williamsburg.  A shaman of sound, he creates highly textured, reverb-
drenched electronic arrangements using loops, synthesizers, drum
machines and guitar.  As the self-harmony of his lovely tenor chants over the
melodic mass, you will find yourself completely transfixed.  Opening is Ducktails, the lo-fi psychedelic act from the
guitarist in Real Estate. Expect a certain amount of
consciousness-expanding clouds.  At 66 N. 6th St.,  Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-486-5400;
 http://www.musichallofwilliamsburg.com .  Monday Matinee  Get your patriotic dose of John Philip Sousa in style, as
the New York Philharmonic teams up with the United States Marine
Drum and Bugle Corps for a “Star Spangled Celebration.”  Also on the program is a salute to Broadway, and Gershwin’s
Suite from “Porgy and Bess.” Ah, summertime, and the livin’ is
easy!  Concert begins at 3 p.m.,  Avery Fisher Hall , Lincoln
Center. Information: +1-212-875-5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Monday Night  Be dazzled as six barges on the  Hudson River  send up 40,000
shells during this year’s July 4th fireworks display. The theme
is American Harmony, and the fun starts at 9:20 p.m.  For a great view of the pyrotechnics, try the 16th floor
rooftop Press Lounge in the Ink48 Hotel.  At 653 11th Ave. at 47th St. Information: +1-212-757-0088.  (With assistance from Katya Kazakina and Jacob Henkoff.
Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 