-- 
Pandit’s Payouts Climb Toward $200 Million as Top Bailout Recipient Slips

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-01T15:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/pandit-to-get-80-million-drop-in-the-bucket-old-lane-cash.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit, who took a $1 salary after his bank
received the most taxpayer assistance of any U.S. lender, is
poised to collect $80 million from other payments and awards
that may eventually total more than $200 million.  Pandit, 54, will get the $80 million from Citigroup’s
purchase of his Old Lane Partners LP hedge fund tomorrow,
according to regulatory filings. The deal brought him to the
lender in July 2007.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which remained
profitable through the financial crisis, has disclosed about $90
million in awards for CEO Jamie Dimon since 2007.  “Pandit, his $1 pay notwithstanding, cannot be considered
modestly paid,” said  Graef Crystal , a compensation expert and
Bloomberg News consultant based in  Las Vegas . “Taxpayers saved
this bank, and he’s getting a bundle while shareholders are
getting shortchanged on the stock price.”  Pandit’s $80 million is the last of the $165 million New
York-based Citigroup agreed to pay for his share of Old Lane
four years ago. The bank has since awarded him compensation,
including stock and options, worth about $63 million when he
received them. This includes a $1.75 million salary he got in
January, replacing the $1 he told Congress he would take in
February 2009 until the bank turned a profit. In May, he entered
into a company profit-sharing plan which will give him an
additional $25 million if the company meets analysts’ estimates.  Citigroup Shares Fall  The Old Lane payment also caps the end of six months in
which Citigroup shares have fallen 12 percent amid investor
concern that bank earnings will decline, placing the lender 13th
on the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The shares have fallen about
92 percent since the Old Lane deal closed and 87 percent since
Dec. 11, 2007, the day Pandit was appointed CEO.  “It is apples to oranges to compare proceeds from the sale
of a business to compensation,”  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for
Citigroup, said in an e-mailed statement.  His own stake has suffered on his watch. Pandit’s shares
and options are currently worth about $26 million, most of which
is linked to awards the bank gave him in May of this year,
according to an analysis by Crystal. Share awards from 2008 have
lost most of their value, Crystal said.  One period of Pandit’s tenure that Crystal studied was this
year through May 17, when Citigroup’s compensation committee --
chaired by former Alcoa Inc. CEO Alain Belda -- awarded Pandit
$10 million in deferred stock, entry to a company profit-sharing
plan and  stock options  that Crystal valued at more than $10
million. Citigroup shares fell 12 percent during the period. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which tracks the performance of 500
U.S. stocks, gained 5.7 percent.  JPMorgan’s Performance  “This raises the interesting question as to why the comp
committee decided the war was over and it was time to stage a
victory celebration,” Crystal said.  JPMorgan has awarded Dimon, 55, about $90 million since
2007 including stock and options, according to filings, which
don’t outline amounts for future awards. New York-based
JPMorgan’s shares have declined 17 percent since the day Pandit
sold Old Lane to Citigroup, making the firm the fifth-best
performer on the KBW Bank Index during the period. Citigroup was
the worst-performing.  The  U.S. Treasury  Department provided a $25 billion bailout
to JPMorgan in 2008. The bank, the second-largest in the U.S.,
repaid the funds in 2009 with a $1.75 billion profit for
taxpayers. The lender’s profit for 2011 may be $20.8 billion,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  Five Profitable Quarters  Pandit replaced CEO Charles “Chuck” Prince, 61, who
resigned as the bank faced billions of dollars in losses linked
to subprime mortgages and related securities. Under Pandit, the
bank posted $29.3 billion in losses in 2008 and 2009. The U.S.
Treasury bailed out the company with a $45 billion cash
injection and a guarantee of more than $300 billion of its
riskiest assets.  Some analysts credit Pandit with steering the third-largest
 U.S. bank  toward five straight profitable quarters since then as
he boosted lending in emerging markets in  Asia  and  Latin America 
and shrank the amount of toxic assets the company was carrying
on its balance sheet.  The strategy enabled Pandit to pay back the Treasury’s
bailout funds and deliver a profit to taxpayers of about $12
billion. The firm may post a $3.1 billion profit for the second
quarter and is on course to make a $12.6 billion profit for the
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  Dick Fuld  Shareholders may benefit. Pandit, who reinstated a 1-cent
dividend in May, could introduce an 80-cent payout in 2012,
about $2 billion in total, and buy back up to $4 billion of
stock, according to London-based Richard Staite, an analyst with
Atlantic Equities LLC, who rates the shares “overweight.”  “If Dick Fuld had been able to pull it off, how much would
they have wanted to reward him?” said David Knutson, a Legal &
General Investment Management credit analyst, referring to the
former CEO of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which collapsed in
2008. Pandit “has brought the bank back from the brink.”  Pandit, who’s from Nagpur,  India , has almost doubled the
firm’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, to
13.26 percent at the end of the first quarter from 7.12 percent
in December 2007. Customer deposits have grown to $865.8
billion, or 49 percent of total liabilities, from $738.5
billion, or 39 percent, in March 2007, according to Bloomberg
data.  Selling Troubled Assets  Citigroup has sold about $300 billion of troubled assets in
Citi Holdings, the unit Pandit formed to house and offload the
bank’s most distressed businesses and investments. The division
still had $337 billion in assets at the end of March, much of it
tied to U.S. mortgages, store-branded credit cards and
securities.  If Pandit can wind down and sell the rest, regulators may
consider the lender less risky than JPMorgan and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , according to Charles Peabody, an analyst with New York-
based Portales Partners LLC.  “$80 million is a drop in the bucket relative to what
he’ll get going forward if he turns this thing around,” Peabody
said in a phone interview.  Citi Holdings is still a concern for investors as they try
to determine the assets’ values during a period of global
uncertainty, according to Peabody, who changed his rating on
Citigroup shares to “hold” from “buy” in January.  Asset Prices  “If asset prices are deteriorating, then it gets tougher
to sell those asset prices at par,” said Peabody. “If they
can’t unload these assets and they have to raise more common
equity at dilutive prices, or if they have to take hits on these
assets, then book value would go down in absolute dollar
terms.”  This has dragged down Citigroup’s share price more than the
7.5 percent decline registered by the KBW Bank Index this year,
Peabody said. Citigroup is among Wall Street lenders that have
had their profit estimates chopped by analysts wary of declining
revenue and costs tied to the Dodd-Frank regulatory act and
capital rules proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . This could pare Citigroup’s gains from emerging
markets, according to  David Trone , a JMP Securities analyst.  “While we concede the international side of the story is
attractive, in our view, near-term risks associated with
legal/regulatory issues (Basel III, mortgage woes and Dodd-
Frank) outweigh any potential upside,” Trone wrote about
Citigroup in a note to investors last week.  ‘Bad Move’  Pandit introduced a reverse stock split in May, converting
every 10 common shares into one new share to attract more
institutional investors. Shares are down 7.9 percent since then
and the tactic was a failure, according to  Richard Bove , an
analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida .  “It has been my thought from the start that no institution
would buy this stock due to the split but retail investors would
dump it due to the split,” said Bove, who has a “buy” rating
on Citigroup shares. “It was a bad move. Managements should
play less stock market and more company operations.”  Investors have also pulled back this year from emerging
markets, where Pandit says the company now earns more than half
its profit. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which tracks the
shares of 824 companies in countries such as Brazil, Russia and
India, has failed to gain this year after more than doubling
during 2009 and 2010.  Global Banks  Citigroup hasn’t fared as well as some global banks. HSBC
Holdings Plc has declined 5 percent so far this year, while
shares in  Standard Chartered  Plc have fallen 5.1 percent. Both
London-based banks rely on Asia for more than half their profit.  Standard Chartered’s price-to-book ratio, a measure of
investors’ expectations, is 1.6, more than double Citigroup’s.
The firm has awarded CEO Peter Alexander Sands compensation of
$27.7 million since 2007, according to company filings. Standard
Chartered may have a $4.77 billion profit this year, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts, which would be its eighth
successive record annual profit.  Pandit isn’t the only Citigroup executive who has been
waiting four years for the last round of Old Lane payouts. Chief
Operating Officer  John Havens  will also get $80 million, while
Chief Risk Officer Brian Leach will get $8.6 million, filings
show.  The three left Morgan Stanley in 2005 after a dispute with
then-CEO Philip Purcell. They started Old Lane in 2006 with $3.7
billion in assets, the second-largest start by a hedge fund that
year. Guru Ramakrishnan, another ex-Morgan Stanley executive,
was among the Old Lane founders.  Old Lane Purchase  Citigroup bought the fund in 2007 for $800 million and
incorporated it into Citi Alternative Investments, the bank’s
private-equity, real estate and hedge-fund investment division.
Pandit was placed in charge of the unit, which had lacked a
full-time CEO for about a year, while Havens, Leach and
Ramakrishnan received senior positions within the firm.  Pandit received $165 million from the deal on a “pretax
basis” and reinvested $100.3 million into the hedge fund, where
it was supposed to remain for four years, according to filings.
The bank then shut the fund shortly into Pandit’s reign as CEO,
amid a spate of hedge fund failures, purchasing its assets and
allowing investors to take their money out.  The bank said that $80 million of Pandit’s cash would
remain locked up until July 2011 in an account at Citi Private
Bank, the unit that says it caters to one-third of the world’s
billionaires.  Citigroup Vice Chairman Lewis Kaden said in an October 2007
interview that the deal was really a way to recruit Pandit and
his Old Lane colleagues.  “You start to see the quality of the team,” Kaden said.
“If it succeeds, it was a bargain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 