-- 
Pittsburgh Penguins Withdraw One-Year, $2 Million Offer to Jaromir Jagr

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-01T16:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/pittsburgh-penguins-withdraw-one-year-2-million-offer-to-jaromir-jagr.html
The  Pittsburgh Penguins  withdrew a
one-year, $2 million contract offer to Jaromir Jagr, declining
to get into what they called a “free-agent bidding war” for
the 39-year-old right wing.  Jagr, who played in  Russia ’s  Kontinental Hockey League  for
the past three seasons, spent the first 11 seasons of his
National Hockey League career with the Penguins.  The Penguins withdrew their offer after Jagr held
discussions with other teams in an attempt to get more money,
Penguins General Manager Ray Shero said.  “We made what we thought was a very fair contract offer to
Jaromir, based on his stated interest of returning to the
Penguins,” Shero said in a statement. “But now, after several
days, with an extended time frame for making a decision, and
additional teams getting involved, we have decided to move in a
different direction. It was never our intention to get involved
in a free-agent bidding war. We wish him the best.”  Jagr won both of his Stanley Cup titles with the Penguins,
in 1991 and 1992. Pittsburgh took him with the No. 5 pick in the
1990 draft.  In his 11 season with the team, the forward led the league
in points five times, including four consecutive seasons from
1997 through 2001. The league Most Valuable Player in 1999, Jagr
finished his NHL career with the  New York Rangers , before
leaving the league in 2008. He was an All-Star pick nine times.  In 1998, Jagr led the  Czech Republic  to the gold medal at
the Winter Olympics in Nagano,  Japan . He had one goal and four
assists in the tournament, tied for the team lead in points.
Eight years later he helped the Czechs to a bronze medal in
Turin,  Italy .  Jagr, who had 15 consecutive seasons with 30 or more goals,
is ninth on the NHL’s scoring list with 1,599 points. He trails
former Colorado Avalanche center Joe Sakic by 42 points for
eighth. Mario Lemieux, Pittsburgh’s owner and a former teammate
of Jagr, is seventh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  