-- 
Posadas Bond Yields Jump to Four-Month High on Debt Concern: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-07-01T21:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/posadas-bond-yields-jump-to-four-month-high-on-debt-concern-mexico-credit.html
Grupo Posadas SAB’s borrowing costs
are rising to a four-month high after the Mexican hotel
operator’s decision to hire an advisor to evaluate financing
options deepened speculation the company is struggling to reduce
debt.  The yield on Posadas’s dollar bonds due in 2015 jumped 54
basis points, or 0.54 percentage point, last month to 10.10
percent, the highest since Feb. 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The average yield on debt sold by Mexican
companies climbed 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point,
since the end of May, to 6.40 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Brazilian corporate yields rose 7 basis points in
the past month.  Posadas’s obligations rose to 9.5 billion pesos ($818.5
million) at the end of March from a year earlier amid mounting
evidence the expansion in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
is slowing. The economy expanded in April at the slowest pace
since December 2009 as U.S. demand for the nation’s exports
weakened. Posadas’s total debt relative to earnings rose to 7.3
times in the 12 months ended in March from 6.1 times a year
earlier, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “Posadas is a highly leveraged company,” Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at Scotia Capital in Mexico City, said
in a telephone interview. “They are not generating enough cash
to pay back their debts and that’s why they’re raising
capital.”  Posadas’ bonds yield 808 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican government dollar bonds, up from 736 a month
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rating Outlook  The company,  Mexico ’s largest hotel operator, has 4.63
billion pesos of bonds due in 2013 and 2015 and 676 million
pesos in cash and short-term investments at the end of the first
quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  Posadas said on June 27 it reached an agreement with
shareholders to raise $50 million in the third quarter.  The equity financing isn’t enough to reduce the company’s
debt and won’t lead to an increase in its credit rating, said
Monica Ponce, a credit analyst at S&P in Mexico City. S&P rates
Posadas B-, six levels below investment grade. The outlook is
negative.  “Even if they were going to use the capital to pay back
debt, the levels of leverage will still be high,” Ponce said in
a telephone interview. “Even though we think it’s a positive
sign, it won’t be enough to take any action on the  credit
rating .”  ‘Perfectly Well’  NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd., a London-based investment bank,
is advising the company on plans to sell shares or seek a new
institutional investor and improve liquidity, Chief Financial
Officer Ruben Camiro said in an interview on June 27. Camiro
declined to say how much Posadas is seeking to invest in new
projects with the money the company could raise through the
options it is exploring with Rothschild’s help.  “The debt situation is such that we can handle it
perfectly well,” Camiro said. “You are always working and
thinking on how to manage liabilities and what you do with it.”  A new investor could acquire a controlling stake in Posadas
as part of the actions taken to raise funds, Camiro said.  “Institutional investors might come in different
flavors,” Camiro said. “What we are looking for is to grow, so
those are the types of things one has to consider. I cannot rule
it out, but I would say that would not necessarily be
preferred.”  The Azcarraga Andrade family, headed by Posadas Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Gaston Azcarraga Andrade, controls
Posadas.  ‘Take Risks’  The U.S. economic recovery will pick up speed in the second
half of the year, helping fuel tourism, said Camiro in an
interview yesterday. Reducing debt will allow the company to
better expand and take advantage of the recovery, he said.  “Of course we want to deleverage,” Camiro said yesterday.
“Obviously this is one of our major goals, to be more
comfortable and remove this threat.”  Concern Posada’s ownership may change is also prompting
investors to shun the company’s bonds,  Scotia Capital ’s Espinosa
said.  “Investors don’t want to take risks,” Espinosa said. “If
there’s a change in ownership, they’re thinking, What’s going to
happen with the bonds? Am I going to get paid in full?”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 1 point to 122
basis points at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JP Morgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 107, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bargain  The peso rose 0.9 percent to 11.6071 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February fell 2 basis points to 5.01 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month.  The slump in Posadas’s bonds is making the securities a
bargain as the new equity financing will help the company cut
debt, said Alvaro Gonzalez, an emerging-market credit analyst at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities Llc in New York.  “The infusion of capital is going to help reduce their
short-term debt,” Gonzalez, who has a buy rating on Posadas’s
debt, said in a telephone interview. “They are attractive and
their liquidity is going to improve with this injection of
cash.”  Posadas’s bonds rallied earlier this year as quickening
growth boosted hotel occupancy, fueling a 10 percent jump in
revenue to 1.7 billion pesos in the first three months of the
year.  Slowing Growth  Mexico’s economy grew 2.4 percent in April, the national
statistics agency said on its website on June 28. Federal
Reserve officials last week cut their 2011 and 2012 growth
forecasts for the  U.S. economy , the destination for about 80
percent of Mexico’s exports. The world’s biggest economy will
expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from
April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based on the
median range of projections.  The slump in Posadas’s bonds is also part of a sell-off in
Mexican corporate debt fueled by slowing U.S. growth and the
European debt crisis, said Geof Marshall, a Toronto-based  fund
manager  at CI Investments Inc., who oversees about C$5 billion
in high-yield bonds.  Traders are “marking them lower with the rest of the
market,” Marshall said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  