-- 
Pound Declines to  15-Month Low Against Euro as U.K. Manufacturing Slows

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-01T15:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/pound-near-15-month-low-against-the-euro-before-u-k-manufacturing-report.html
The pound headed for its biggest
weekly decline in a month against the euro as signs that the
U.K. economic recovery is faltering reduced the scope for
interest-rate increases from the  Bank of England .  Sterling declined versus 12 of its 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg this week, losing most against the Swedish
krona and reaching a 15-month low versus the euro. Reports this
week showed U.K. confidence fell and manufacturing growth
unexpectedly slowed in June while a Credit Conditions Survey by
the central bank predicted mortgage demand to drop in the third
quarter. Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said on June 27
that a call by the  Bank for International Settlements  for higher
rates worldwide to curb inflation was “nonsense.”  “Sterling is being completely marginalized by the
worsening economic growth outlook in the U.K.,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange analyst at Swissquote Bank
SA in Geneva. “If we continue to see an erosion in growth
prospects then the possibility of rate hikes is virtually out of
the question.”  The pound slid 1.5 percent this past week to 90.26 pence
per euro as of 4:23 p.m. in  London , from 88.90 pence on June 24.
It reached 90.84 earlier today, the weakest intraday level since
March 2010. Sterling gained 0.8 percent against the dollar to
trade at $1.6081, from $1.5959 at the end of last week. Against
 Japan ’s currency, the pound added 1.3 percent to 129.96 yen.  Interest-Rate Bets  Worsening economic growth has prompted traders to reduce
bets on higher rates, with the implied yield on short-sterling
futures expiring in March falling one basis point to 1.04
percent, down from a nine-month high of 2.08 percent in
February. Investors are betting the central bank will raise
borrowing costs next May, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, data from Tullett Prebon
Plc show. As recently as February, traders were betting on a
rate increase in May of this year, the data showed.  Deutsche Bank AG pushed back its forecast for the Bank of
England to increase its key interest rate and now sees the
benchmark on hold until February. The bank, which previously
forecast a rate increase in November, said U.K. economic growth
will be slower this year than previously thought, London-based
economist  George Buckley  said in an e-mailed note today.  Barclays Capital  said yesterday that the U.K. central bank
will now probably keep its main rate unchanged until May 2012,
after earlier forecasting a rate increase in November.  The pound has fallen 8.9 percent in the past 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The U.K. currency may decline further next week should the
Bank of England keep its key interest rate at a record-low 0.5
percent on June 7 as predicted by all 51 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.K. government bonds fell every day this week as efforts
by  Greece  to avoid a default curbed demand for the safest
assets. The decline pushed up yields on 10-year gilts by 26
basis points to 3.39 percent, while two-year note yields climbed
13 basis points to 0.83 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  