-- 
Verbund Is in Talks With Potential Buyers for 46% Stake in Poweo

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-01T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/poweo-says-holder-verbund-has-made-strategic-contacts-1-.html
Verbund AG (VER) , Austria’s biggest
utility, said it is in talks with potential buyers of its 46
percent stake in French company Poweo SA.  Verbund, based in Vienna, in its first-quarter report
reclassified its Poweo shares as a non-current asset held for
sale. “The sale is to be effected if possible, until the end of
2011,” Ines Schurin, a spokeswoman for Verbund, said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  “Accordingly Verbund is reviewing various options in order
to attain its objective and has initiated talks with different
potential buyers none of which is at a stage where the
characteristics of a transaction could be disclosed,” Schurin
said. Taking yesterday’s closing share price, the stake is worth
about 45 million euros ($65 million), according to Bloomberg
calculations.  The statement came after media reports said earlier this
week that Verbund was in talks to sell its  Poweo (ALPWO)  stake. Poweo on
June 27 rose 75 percent, the most since it started trading in
2004, after Le Journal du Dimanche said Verbund is talking with
Italian companies  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  on a sale of its stake.
The talks are at a preliminary stage and a decision may be made
in several months, the Paris-based weekly newspaper said,
without saying where it got the information. Direct Energie is
still in talks with Verbund for a tie-up with Poweo, the
newspaper also said.  No Mandatory Offer  As Poweo is listed on Alternext, a “sale of a stake lower
than 50 percent does not trigger a mandatory offer,” according
to a statement from the Paris-based company, which referred to
the sales talks as “preliminary strategic contacts,” without
elaborating on their nature.  “Enel is eyeing thermal power generation assets but no
decision has been taken on this file,” an Enel spokeswoman said
in an e-mailed statement. An Eni press officer said the company
does not comment on press speculation.  Verbund’s at-equity portfolio is expected to see “major
changes” with  Austria ’s largest utility in “divestment mode,”
according to Raiffeisen Centrobank AG. Verbund has sold a 26
percent stake in its Bavarian hydro power plants, has “moved
its stake in Poweo holding to the AFS portfolio -- a very strong
indication for a potential sale -- and might sell another stake
in an Austrian utility, most likely Steweag-Steg GmbH,” Teresa Schinwald, an analyst at Raiffeisen in Vienna, wrote in a note
to investors dated June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  