-- 
Strauss-Kahn May Still Be Tried on Sexual Assault Charges

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l ,   A n n   W o o l n e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/prosecutors-may-still-try-strauss-kahn-for-slew-of-sex-crimes-lawyers-say.html
Revelations that the accuser of
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  is a liar and a tax cheat don’t mean the
former International Monetary Fund chief can’t be tried on
sexual assault charges, lawyers said.  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance revealed yesterday
that the hotel maid who accused the French economist and
politician of forcing her to perform oral sex had been
untruthful with prosecutors about the circumstances of her
emigration to the U.S., her tax status and about her actions
immediately after the alleged assault on May 14.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was released from house arrest yesterday,
a sign that prosecutors are less concerned about him fleeing
than they were when he was pulled from an Air France flight in
May and arrested. A hearing has been scheduled for July 18.
Prosecutors will keep his travel documents.  Strauss-Kahn is charged with two criminal sexual acts, one
count of attempted rape, unlawful imprisonment, two counts of
sexual abuse and one count of forcible touching. He has pleaded
not guilty to the charges.  The alleged victim’s false statements to prosecutors, by
themselves, don’t preclude the case going forward, said John Moscow, a former prosecutor in the office of Vance’s
predecessor, Robert Morgenthau.  “The decision to proceed depends on whether the case is
triable,” he said. “Can you get her to tell the truth and
admit that she lied?”  Episodes of Dishonesty  John Clune, who represented the Colorado woman who accused
Los Angeles Lakers basketball star  Kobe Bryant  of rape in 2003
and then requested that the case be withdrawn, said it isn’t
uncommon for victims to have had episodes of dishonesty in their
past.  “The question is whether those things are going to
prohibit the DA from going forward,” he said. “This is
something that prosecutors deal with on a daily basis. In
regards to being dishonest about why she came to this country,
it would be a shame if the prosecutor felt she was a victim of
rape but didn’t go forward because of that.”  In a letter to Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers, prosecutors said the
32-year-old victim had changed her story about what she did in
the Sofitel hotel, where she worked, in the immediate aftermath
of the reported attack.  She told prosecutors and a grand jury that after Strauss-
Kahn assaulted her, she fled his room on the 28th floor and hid
in the hallway. Once she saw Strauss-Kahn enter the elevator and
leave, she reported the incident to her supervisor, she said
initially.  Returned to Suite  “The complainant has since admitted that this account was
false and that after the incident in Suite 2806, she proceeded
to clean a nearby room and then returned to Suite 2806 and began
to clean that suite before she reported the incident to her
supervisor,” prosecutors wrote.  False statements about the events immediately before or
after a sexual assault are common, said Sheri Vanino, a trauma
psychologist in Denver who often testifies as an expert witness
in rape cases.  “That to me sounds similar to what a lot of victims do,”
Vanino said of the change in the account by Strauss-Kahn’s
accuser. “In an effort to be believed, they present the
aftermath of what happened the way everyone would expect.”  Other rape-trauma experts agreed.  “It becomes very hard when someone may not be an angel,”
said Sharmili Majmudar, executive director of Rape Victim
Advocacy in  Chicago . “Every single thing about them becomes a
reason not to believe her. Whether or not she is an upstanding
person doesn’t actually mean that he did or didn’t assault her.
We tend to conflate the two.”  Credibility Issues  Billy Martin, a lawyer who has represented defendants
including basketball players Jayson Williams and Allen Iverson,
and pro football’s  Michael Vick , praised Vance for disclosing
information undermining the victim’s credibility. The case
against Strauss-Kahn will now be difficult to make, he said.  “Once the prosecutors determine that they don’t believe
the accuser, or that accuser has lied to them on critical
matters, the case begins to unravel,” Martin said. “They have
to go before a jury and say, ‘We’re bringing to you a witness
who’s credible.’ If they no longer believe that witness, that’s
next to impossible.”  The Strauss-Kahn case is critically dependent on the
testimony of the victim, said Mark Zauderer, a former federal
prosecutor.  ‘Deep Trouble’  “This case is in deep trouble,” Zauderer said.  “Although the DA is proceeding cautiously, at the end of
the day, this case cannot go anywhere,” he said. “There is too
much direct evidence of the witness’s fabrications to permit a
responsible DA to present her accusatory testimony. All of the
so-called corroborative evidence appears to be equally
consistent with a consensual encounter as an assault.”  Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer representing the housekeeper,
told reporters outside court yesterday that medical and forensic
evidence supports the woman’s account.  Susan Xenarios, director of the St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Crime
Victims Treatment Center, said the  district attorney  should
continue to prosecute the case.  “We’re forgetting about what happened at the Sofitel,”
Xenarios said. “I’m really worried. I really hope the DA’s
office does not cave in. I would hope that politics and the
reputation of the office doesn’t get in the way and they look at
this as a no-win for them.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of  New York , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awooolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  