-- 
Providence to Buy Blackboard for $1.64 Billion, Gain Education Software

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-01T20:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/providence-equity-to-buy-blackboard-for-1-64-billion-in-education-deal.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc.
agreed to buy  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB) , an education-software maker, for
$1.64 billion to expand in university course materials.  Providence will pay $45 a share in cash, a 21 percent
premium over Blackboard’s closing price on April 18, the last
day of trading before the software maker said it would consider
strategic alternatives, the companies said in a statement today.  With the deal, Providence adds to a for-profit education
portfolio that includes college operator Education Management
Corp. and English language specialist Study Group Pty Ltd.
Blackboard’s software for online course materials and class
discussions will help Providence profit from a surge in Web-
based education, said Sterling Auty, an analyst with JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York .  “It’s the portfolio of technologies that Blackboard has
built and acquired that makes them so attractive across online
learning, mobile access to learning resources, distance
learning, as well as tools to help schools communicate to their
students,” Auty said in a telephone interview today.  By 2015 about 3.5 million students will take at least 80
percent of their courses online in the U.S, according to
 Eduventures Inc. , a Boston-based higher education research firm.
That compares with 2 million students in 2009.  Washington-based Blackboard has expanded offerings to
include online and mobile learning platform Blackboard
Collaborate and Blackboard Transact, a payment product that
allows college students to use their identification cards for
purchases on and off campus.  ‘Future Growth’  “Providence is getting a good asset at a time when the
market wasn’t giving Blackboard a lot of credit for its ability
to grow in the future,” said Brandon Dobell, an analyst at
William Blair & Co. in  Chicago .  Since April, when Blackboard said it was working with
 Barclays Capital  to review unsolicited buyout offers, the
company considered bids from Providence and Hellman & Friedman
LLC, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  The deal is “the result of a comprehensive evaluation of
our strategic alternatives,” said Michael Chasen, Blackboard’s
president and chief executive officer, in the statement.  Blackboard rose 78 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $44.17 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
climbed 6.9 percent this year.  Providence Acquisitions  Providence, founded in 1989, manages $23 billion and
focuses on media, communications, information and education
investments, according to its  website . The private equity firm
acquired educational services provider Study Group last year. It
joined with Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Leeds Equity
Partners to purchase Education Management in 2006.  Blackboard is a smart strategic fit for Providence because
its education tools are “essentially required” for
universities, said Scott Berg, an analyst with Feltl & Co. in
 Minneapolis . Elluminate Inc. and Wimba Inc., virtual classroom
companies  bought  by Blackboard last year, will be strong revenue
generators for Providence as online education becomes more
commonplace, Berg said.  The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
the companies said. Blackboard agreed to a breakup fee of $49.1
million if it doesn’t complete the sale, while Providence would
pay a termination fee of $106.4 million, according to a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 