-- 
Rand Heads for Biggest Weekly Rise in Four on Greece Optimism

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-01T13:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/rand-declines-paring-weekly-gain-versus-dollar-on-china-growth-concerns.html
The rand headed for its biggest
weekly advance in four against the dollar, boosted by investor
demand for higher-yielding assets on optimism  Europe  may have
averted a Greek debt default.  The South African currency added as much as 0.2 percent to
6.7476 per dollar, and traded at 6.7715 as of 3:09 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its increase this week to 1.9 percent,
the biggest since the week ending June 3. It appreciated 0.1
percent to 9.8055 per euro.  The euro was poised for its first weekly gain in a month
versus the dollar and emerging-market stocks rose for a fifth
day as the U.S. currency lost its allure as a safe-haven
currency after officials agreed on 85 billion euros ($123
billion) of new aid to Greece.  “The rand has strengthened markedly this week, buoyed by
optimism over the temporary resolution of the crisis in  Greece 
and consequent rise in risk-on sentiment,” Nomvuyo Guma, an
analyst at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s
biggest rand trader, said in a research note.  Euro-area nations and private investors will contribute 70
percent of new aid to Greece, with the  International Monetary
Fund  offering the rest, Thomas Wieser, head of the ministry’s
economic policy and financial markets department, said at a
briefing late yesterday in Vienna. European Union finance chiefs
also hold a conference call tomorrow to free up a 12 billion-
euro payment overdue from the original rescue.  Markets ‘Settled’  “Heading into the weekend, the fact that the Greek risk
event is behind us will leave the markets far more settled than
they have been recently,” Tradition Analytics researchers led
by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research
note. “For the time being the bias remains generally supportive
of emerging markets and the rand.”  The rand earlier declined on speculation demand for  South
Africa ’s metal exports will fall as  China ’s economy slows.
Commodity prices retreated for a second day and metals including
platinum and for copper tumbled after China’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index slipped to the lowest level since February 2009,
signaling that the world’s second-biggest economy is cooling as
export demand weakens and the government reins in credit to
control inflation.  Bonds fell after the central bank said South Africa’s
economic recovery remains slow and fragile and higher domestic
spending isn’t pushing up prices.  “I don’t think we will see demand-side pressures coming
into the economy any time soon,”  Monde Mnyande , the chief
economist of the  Reserve Bank , said in an interview in  Pretoria ,
the capital, after the release of the bank’s annual economic
report.  A slow recovery may reduce pressure on the central bank to
raise its benchmark interest rate from a 30-year low of 5.5
percent. The bank, which cut rates three times in 2010 to
support growth, has left borrowing costs unchanged this year.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 slid 7 cents to 121.13
rand, driving the yield up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.52 percent. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021
retreated 8 cents to 88.94 rand, lifting the yield one basis
point to 8.44 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  