-- 
Republican Priebus Winning Back Big-Dollar Donors to Erase Party’s Debt

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/republican-priebus-winning-back-big-dollar-donors-to-erase-party-s-debt.html
Big donors have re-opened their
checkbooks for the  Republican National Committee , a sign that
under new leadership the group is digging out of financial
troubles.  The RNC collected $2.5 million in checks of $20,000 or more
during this year’s first three months, according to the  Federal
Election Commission . That’s more than half of the $4.4 million
the party raised in large amounts during 2009 and 2010 combined.  The surge in such donations comes as RNC Chairman Reince Priebus’s campaign has sought to woo back major contributors who
abandoned the national committee when it was led by  Michael Steele , the former Maryland lieutenant governor whose free-
spending habits and penchant for making unpredictable comments
on television irked party insiders.  “You’ve got an active fundraising group back who has
confidence in the  Republican National Committee ,” said former
finance co-chairman Mel Sembler, a shopping-center developer in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Many of our major donors seemed to
have lost confidence in what was happening at the national
party. Fundraising just didn’t happen. It is happening now.”  Priebus, who defeated Steele in the chairmanship race in
January, said he spends about five hours a day on the telephone
urging big donors to return to the fold. Earlier this month,
about 50 major Republican donors gathered at a  Washington  hotel
to hear about the party’s 2012 campaign strategy and how their
contributions would be put to work.  Like a Candidate  Al Hoffman Jr., a real estate developer based in  North Palm
Beach , Florida, and a former RNC finance chairman, likened
Priebus’s efforts to a candidate seeking donations.  “Donors want to feel like their opinions matter and they
have the opportunity to express their opinions,” Hoffman said.
“That’s why candidates have to call these donors. They’ve got
to talk to them.”  The next measure of Priebus’s progress comes July 20, when
the RNC and the other party committees submit monthly financial
disclosure reports to the FEC. Priebus, who inherited a debt of
more than $24 million, pared it down to $18.5 million as of May
31. Debts to vendors dropped to $3.4 million from $9.2 million.  Priebus also has worked to cut expenses. The RNC reported
spending $25.1 million in the first five months of 2011, down
from $30.5 million during the same period two years earlier.  Five-Month Figures  Between Jan. 1 and May 31, the RNC raised $30.5 million and
had $6.1 million in the bank, behind the  Democratic National
Committee ’s $45.5 million in receipts and $16.5 million cash on
hand, FEC reports show.  Priebus, the former chairman of the Wisconsin Republican
Party, assumed his new post after the DNC and the Democratic
Senate and House campaign committees outraised their Republican
counterparts in the 2010 election cycle for the first time since
the FEC began tracking party money in the late 1970s.  Improvements in the RNC’s finances would aid the Republican
nominee in the 2012 contest against President  Barack Obama .
While Republican-leaning groups such as American Crossroads,
which former President George W. Bush political adviser  Karl Rove  helped establish, plan on spending millions to promote the
party, only the RNC “can legally coordinate our efforts with a
presidential campaign,” Priebus said.  A revived RNC also would play a lead role in next year’s
congressional elections, given that the group traditionally has
financed the Republican get-out-the-vote programs. Such efforts
by the committee were reduced in the 2010 vote.  Helping Priebus focus on fundraising are RNC Finance
Director Angela Meyers, who served in the same post at the
 Republican Governors Association , and Ron Weiser, the
committee’s national finance chairman and former head of the
Michigan Republican Party.  In addition, former RNC Chairman and White House aide  Ed Gillespie , who helped form the independent Crossroads groups
that raised $71 million to help elect Republicans in 2010,
agreed to lead Priebus’s transition.  “It was a clear signal that the RNC was back,” Priebus
said. “What we were asking for is for people to invest in this
team and know there is a plan to succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 