-- 
Rising Turkey Is No Neo-Ottoman Threat to West: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-07-01T09:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/rising-turkey-is-no-neo-ottoman-threat-to-west-pankaj-mishra.html
Like many of  Asia ’s antique cities,
Istanbul is a palimpsest, continuously inscribed by new
movements of people and ideas, even as older writings on its
parchment remain faintly visible.  Few Istanbul neighborhoods manifest a multilayered identity
as much as  Kuzguncuk , which lies on the Asian shore of the
Bosporus. Legend has it that Jews expelled from  Spain  in the
late 15th century first settled here. Their neighbors were
Greeks, Armenians and other Christians, part of the Ottoman
Empire’s extraordinarily cosmopolitan mix of merchant and
trading communities.  The local population is almost entirely Muslim now.
Strolling through the neighborhood’s dappled streets one
afternoon last week, I came across a synagogue and an Armenian
Orthodox church. Both seemed permanently shut. The man who
opened the door to the Greek Orthodox church only to wave us
away had the sullenness of a minority under perpetual siege.  My companion remarked that the few remaining Greeks in
Istanbul have little reason to be bon vivants. She is right. It
has been nearly half a century since Istanbul lost the last of
its non-Muslim minorities, driven out by a vengeful (and
secular) Turkish nationalism. Rural migrants from the  Black Sea
region  moved into the houses vacated by the Jews, Greeks and
Armenians.  A Trendy Enclave  Ethnically cleansed Istanbul is now one of the port cities
-- Shanghai and Kochi,  India  are among the others -- to be self-
consciously, and profitably, recovering their multicultural
past. Kuzguncuk, too, is being gentrified, helped by Istanbul’s
creative class of architects, artists, journalists and
designers, as well as visitors like myself, looking for a
glimpse of old Istanbul in the neighborhood’s renovated Ottoman
houses with overhanging wooden balconies.  Even as it frantically re-establishes its links with “old”
 Europe , Istanbul demonstrates how a city’s exotic past can be
enlisted into a high-end consumption of culture -- without any
sustained national reckoning with a painful history of pogroms
and expulsions. Kuzguncuk itself reveals how Turkish identity
today is being revised through careful negotiations and
compromises with the past and present.  For all its gentrification by latte-sipping liberals, this
old working-class neighborhood is still dominated by socially
conservative middle-class Muslims, constituting a solid vote
bank for the  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, which just
won a third consecutive national election by a landslide.  Rivaling the Founder  It would have seemed inconceivable to Turkey’s hard-line
secular elites just two decades back that a devout Muslim like
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who comes from a hardscrabble background
in Istanbul, would one day be Turkey’s most powerful leader
since the nation’s founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the
spokesman for the country’s long-ignored and now upwardly mobile
Muslims in the great Anatolian hinterland.  Erdogan has of course been helped by an economy that is
growing at a pace rivaling those of India and China, enabling
Istanbul to reinvent itself. And he has nimbly modified his
economic policies since his early political days, when he was
mentored by the former Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, a
critic of global capitalism.  Still, as a comprehensive  report  in Bloomberg Businessweek
pointed out, Erdogan has “managed the delicate political trick”
of pleasing  Turkey ’s business elites “while still looking like a
populist.” This is a rare feat, and perhaps the only other
Muslim leader to have pulled it off was  Malaysia ’s authoritarian
former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.  A Muslim Model  Erdogan’s success has fueled much talk of Turkey providing
an attractive model of political Islam, particularly to Arab
countries stumbling out of harsh secular dictatorships. Indeed,
Turkey’s influence in the Muslim world has not been greater
since the early 20th century, when Muslims from India to Java
looked up to the Ottoman sultan as caliph, hoping he would save
them from European imperialists. Later, secularist post-colonial
leaders such as  Egypt ’s Gamel Abdel Nasser, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi of  Iran  and  Pakistan ’s Muhammad Ali Jinnah would try to
build their nation-states on Ataturk’s model.  Today, Erdogan seems even more popular internationally than
the sultan or Ataturk -- and not just in the Arab street where
he has become a folk hero for his loud criticism of  Israel ’s
treatment of Palestinians. Last year, Anwar Ibrahim, a former
deputy prime minister of Malaysia, told me that he had
admiringly followed Erdogan’s political trajectory since his
election as mayor of Istanbul in 1994. The leader of a Muslim
youth organization in a prosperous little Javanese town said
that modernizing Muslims like himself had observed the fortunes
of the AKP very closely.  Friendly-Neighbor Policy  Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkey’s intellectually ambitious foreign
minister, seems intent on vindicating the new Asian regard for
his country. He has downgraded Turkey’s cold war alliance with
the  United States  and devised a new foreign policy that aims at,
in his phrase, “zero problems” with such previously hostile
neighbors as  Syria , Iran, Iraq and Armenia.  These apparently major changes in Turkey’s internal and
external politics have set off alarms in some corners of the
West. Is Turkey moving away from decades of state-imposed
secularism and geopolitical passivity? Is it likely to go the
way of Iran? Will it incite and support other Islamic movements
in the regions such as the Muslim Brotherhood?  Harvard historian  Niall Ferguson , for instance, is
convinced that the West ought to be deeply worried as Turkey
creates “a new Muslim empire in the  Middle East .” After the
AKP’s victory last month, Ferguson  warned  of Erdogan’s
authoritarianism, denunciations of Israel and “adroit maneuvers”
to exploit the Arab Spring to his advantage. “His ambition,”
Ferguson wrote, “is to return to the pre-Ataturk era, when
Turkey was not only militantly Muslim but also a regional
superpower.”  Decline and Fall  Ferguson can be excitable on the subject of Muslims -- he
once  wrote  that upon seeing the model for a proposed minaret at
Oxford, “the phrase that sprang to mind was indeed  ‘decline and
fall. ‘" But his view that Erdogan is planning to restore his
country to its pre-Ataturk “vigor” is hardly unique.  It is also hardly sensible. Far from being “militantly
Muslim,” the  Ottoman Empire  had a centuries-long history of
tolerance toward minorities and drew on the diversity of its
subjects. It was only in its final decades, eroded from within
by nationalist minorities and battered without by European
powers, that the empire adopted pan-Islamism as a last-ditch
defense. Not surprisingly, Ataturk abolished the caliphate as
soon as he came to power.  Flow of Refugees  In addition Erdogan is not more -- and is arguably much
less -- authoritarian than his predecessors from the military,
who in the 1980s were the first to re-introduce Islam into
public life in order to combat left-wing radicalism. On Israel,
Erdogan is only amplifying longstanding popular disapproval. And
far from being adroit, Erdogan, like most leaders, has struggled
to respond coherently to the Arab Spring and now faces a
potentially destabilizing situation in the flow of refugees to
Turkey from Syria’s chaos.  Syria’s likely collapse into sectarian war may increase
tensions between Turkey’s own Alawites and Sunnis, not to
mention further complicate Ankara’s long and bloody conflict
with Kurdish separatists.  There are many other problems lurking. The glamour of
Istanbul can deceive, for much of Anatolia remains stuck in
another century. Rapid economic growth, heavily dependent on
short-term capital inflows, is not assured. Notwithstanding all
its talk of “turning east,” Turkey has arrived very late in the
markets of India,  China  and  Indonesia .  Ideology and Pragmatism  Having appeased business elites, Erdogan may find himself
vulnerable if economic distress provokes populist anger among
his other constituency, the aspirational middle class in
Anatolia. Will he then try to reverse his journey from ideology
to pragmatism? Or draw on the emotive force of Turkish
nationalism, still more potent than Islam or so-called neo-
Ottomanism in Turkey?  Much remains to be negotiated about Turkey’s identity. And
there is much still to be inscribed on the palimpsest of
Istanbul, whether or not Erdogan’s ambitious new plan to build
two satellite cities outside the metropolis comes to fruition.  Turkey is no longer an insular country, and its fate will
help determine many other national trajectories in a freshly
globalized world. Once again, nearly a century after the Ottoman
Empire gave way to Ataturk’s secular republicanism, Turkey’s
political and economic reinvention engages millions of Muslims
around the world. And there can be no narrower perspective on it
than paranoia about Muslims and a long-defunct Ottoman Empire.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West: How
to be Modern in India, Pakistan,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist based in Mashobra, India. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns.   To contact the writer of this column:
Pankaj Mishra in Mashobra, India, at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 