-- 
Roberts Supreme Court’s Partisan Split Shows New Justices Are Predictable

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/roberts-supreme-court-s-partisan-split-shows-new-justices-are-predictable.html
Republican-appointed justices split
with their Democratic colleagues in a dozen cases, including the
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  class-action fight, as an unprecedented
dynamic shaped the U.S. Supreme Court term that ended this week.  The newest justices fueled the trend, rewarding the men who
appointed them with consistent and predictable votes. President
 Barack Obama ’s two choices,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan ,
voted in virtual lockstep and usually alongside fellow
Democratic appointees  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Stephen Breyer .
Former President  George W. Bush ’s two selections, Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justice  Samuel Alito , voted together more than
any other duo.  “We’re in a different era,” said A.E. Dick Howard, a
constitutional law professor at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville. “This is the way the Roberts court is going to
be, especially now that we’ve seen enough of Sotomayor and Kagan
to see that they agree with each other and the two of them in
turn agree with Breyer and Ginsburg.”  The high court closed its term this week with rulings
striking down a California ban on the sale of violent video
games to minors and part of  Arizona ’s public-financing system
for candidates seeking state office. The court will reconvene in
October for a term that could include clashes over Obama’s
health-care law and same-sex marriage.  The court has long had its ideological divisions, sometimes
so  intense  that feuding justices barely spoke to each other.
Until now, those splits have always crossed party lines. The two
most recently retired justices, Republican-appointed  John Paul Stevens  and David Souter, regularly voted with the court’s
liberal wing on social issues including the death penalty and
abortion.  Partisan Split  With Kagan and Sotomayor now occupying those two seats, the
split can be a party-based one as well. The court’s five
Republican-appointed justices disagreed with their Democratic-
nominated colleagues in 10 cases this term, according to
statistics compiled by Scotusblog, a website that tracks the
court.  That figure doesn’t include the Wal-Mart gender-bias case.
The justices were unanimous on one aspect of the case, agreeing
that a lower court improperly certified a class action on behalf
of more than a million female workers. The justices split 5-4 on
whether to give the workers another chance to argue for class-
action status, using a more stringent legal test.  In the cases that “most of us care about,” the politics
of the nine justices now align with those of the presidents who
appointed them, says Barbara Perry, a presidential and Supreme
Court scholar at the  University of Virginia ’s Miller Center of
Public Affairs. She called the phenomenon “unprecedented.”  Business Divide  Business cases proved especially divisive. The justices
split 5-4 in letting companies force their customers and
employees to take disputes to arbitration without the option of
class actions. The court also voted 5-4 to shield generic-drug
makers from patient suits and to limit the ability of
shareholders in mutual fund companies to press securities fraud
suits.  The vote was 5-3 to uphold an Arizona law that threatens
companies with the revocation of their corporate charters if
they hire illegal immigrants. Kagan didn’t take part because she
played a role in the litigation as Obama’s solicitor general.  In each case, the five Republican appointees -- Roberts,
Alito and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Clarence Thomas  -- formed the majority. All told, Roberts and Alito voted
together in 96 percent of cases in which both took part,
according to Scotusblog. Kagan and Sotomayor were the second-
most cohesive pair, with 94 percent agreement.  Unanimous Cases  The court was unanimous in almost half its cases, showing
that ideology doesn’t always, or even usually, dictate the
outcome. The court was of one mind in backing shareholders in
two other securities fraud cases, in ruling that automakers
could be sued for not moving more quickly to equip back seats
with shoulder straps, and in saying companies can’t challenge
the release of government documents on corporate privacy
grounds.  “There’s no doubt that politics and ideology matter, that
justices are behaving in some of the landmark cases as one would
expect them to, but one should not overlook the other cases
where there’s unanimity or near-unanimity,” Howard said.  Even so, the court’s consensus at times masked underlying
divisions, as when the justices voted 8-0 to reject a bid by six
states to force utilities to cut their greenhouse-gas emissions.
In the same case, the court divided 4-4 on perhaps a more
fundamental question, centering on the power of federal courts
to consider suits over  climate change .  Ashcroft Case  Similarly, the justices divided in their reasoning even as
they ruled unanimously that former Attorney General John Ashcroft can’t be sued by a man detained without charge for 16
days. The five Republican appointees went further and said the
man’s constitutional rights weren’t violated, at least by
Ashcroft.  The divide is the product of the political battles over the
 Supreme Court , dating back to President  Ronald Reagan ’s efforts
to mold the court and his failed 1987 nomination of  Robert Bork 
to it, Howard says. Greater scrutiny of prospective nominees has
reduced the chances that a justice will defy a president’s
expectations.  “I don’t think we’re going to get surprises anymore,”
Howard said. “I don’t think we’ll see Souters and Blackmuns and
Stevenses on the court,” he said, referring to the late Justice
Harry Blackmun, the Richard Nixon appointee who wrote the
landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade abortion rights decision.  While politics on the Supreme Court may bear little
resemblance to the world of campaign fundraising and negative
advertisements, the justices run the risk of being perceived as
an extension of the elected branches of the government, Perry
said.  “That’s what I worry about,” she said. “That the court
would be sullied by the partisan splits in our electoral
politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 