-- 
Rubber Drops as Weaker China Manufacturing Stirs Demand Concern

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-07-01T08:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/rubber-drops-as-weaker-china-manufacturing-stirs-demand-concern.html
Rubber decreased for the first time
in four days after a Chinese manufacturing index dropped to the
lowest level since February 2009, stoking concern that demand
from the world’s largest consumer may weaken.  The December-delivery contract lost as much as 0.9 percent
to 361.6 yen a kilogram ($4,479 a metric ton) before settling at
364.2 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange. The most-active
contract lost 6.6 percent in June and tumbled 15.6 percent in
the April-June quarter after reaching an all-time high of 535.7
yen on Feb. 18.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9 in June compared
with 52 in May, the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said today. It was below the median forecast of 51.5 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists, signaling that Premier
 Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to tame inflation may damp growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  “The weak number from China raised concern that the
nation’s raw-material demand may be weakening,”  Kazuhiko Saito ,
an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about half of  China’s
economy , is moderating as government policies curb demand for
housing and cars, power shortages crimp output and monetary
tightening limits company funding.  “Economic expansion is losing some steam after a period of
aggressive tightening,” said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based
economist at  Barclays Capital . “Slower growth is not bad as it
can help contain inflation.”  The People’s Bank of China has paused for 12 weeks in
raising benchmark rates, the longest gap since increases began
in October. Morgan Stanley estimates that consumer prices rose
6.2 percent in June, the most since July 2008.  Japanese Pessimism  Rubber was also sold as a report showed today that  Japan ’s
largest manufacturers were more pessimistic about their
prospects than economists had forecast, an indication the March
11 earthquake and tsunami may have a more severe impact on
business plans than initially thought.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers fell to minus 9 in June from 6 in March, the  Bank
of Japan  said in Tokyo. The median estimate of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a reading of minus 7. A
negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  “The global economy is starting to slow,” said  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo. “The downside
risks to China and other emerging economies seem to be on the
rise.”  The physical price of Thai rubber was unchanged at 142.15
baht ($4.63) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand .  Output Increases  Global natural-rubber production will increase faster than
demand this year and in 2012 after farmers boosted output
following a jump in prices, according to forecasts from the
International Rubber Study Group.  Global supply will climb 5.6 percent this year and 8.2
percent in 2012, the group said in a statement today. Natural-
rubber demand may gain 3.8 percent this year and 5.4 percent in
2012, it said, without giving figures for underlying amounts.  The forecast expansion in global production is “partly due
to the impact of higher prices, and assuming normal growing
conditions,” the Singapore-based group said.  In  Shanghai , September-delivery rubber gained 0.2 percent
to close at 31,935 yuan ($4,939) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  