-- 
Russia Pre-Election Spending Risk Is Central Bank Headache

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-07-01T14:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/russia-pre-election-spending-risk-is-central-bank-headache.html
Russia ’s central bank is concerned
 government spending  will increase in the run-up to parliamentary
and presidential elections, according to Deputy Chairman Sergey Shvetsov.  The risk of higher spending spurring inflation in the
second half of the year has been “one factor” in monetary
policy decisions, Shvetsov said in an interview in Moscow today.
“We can’t do anything about pre-election spending increases,
it’s a real headache for us,” he said.  Russia is holding parliamentary elections in December and a
presidential vote early next year.  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged yesterday as
Europe’s debt crisis and signs of a slowdown in the U.S.
threaten the global recovery. Before yesterday’s announcement,
Bank Russia has raised either interest rates or lenders’ reserve
requirements or both every month since December to soak up
excess cash and combat the fastest price growth among the
largest emerging markets, the so-called BRIC countries of
 Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China .  Falling prices on Belarusian goods are helping to hold back
Russian inflation, Shvetsov said, as a 36 percent devaluation of
their currency increases their need to export goods. Russian
inflation remained at 9.6 percent for a second month in May,
matching the fastest pace this year.  “For us, Belarus means reducing our own inflation, because
their agricultural sector today is more focused on export of
production to the Russian Federation,” he said. “Their goods
are reducing our prices -- it’s a comfortable situation.”  Bailout Lesson  Bank Rossii is pushing for regulatory changes from Russia’s
government to control and develop the market as Moscow seeks to
become an international financial center. The $14 billion
bailout package for Bank of Moscow is a “good lesson” on the
need to extend the central bank’s powers to supervise lenders,
Shvetsov said.  The ruble’s trading hours on the Micex exchange will
probably be widened by the end of the year, he said. The central
bank expects legislation to be enacted to allow investors buy
and sell government and corporate bonds on Euroclear Bank SA’s
trading system by the start of next year, Shvetsov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  