-- 
Sabre Seeks Dismissal of US Airways’ Antitrust Complaint Over Fare Data

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-01T18:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/sabre-seeks-dismissal-of-us-airways-antitrust-complaint-over-fare-data.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., embroiled in a
dispute with airlines over fare and flight data distributed to
travel agents, asked a U.S. judge to dismiss an antitrust
lawsuit brought by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   The suit, filed in April in federal court in New York,
doesn’t allege any anticompetitive conduct and fails to define a
plausible market, lawyers for Southlake, Texas-based Sabre said
in court papers filed yesterday.  US Airways  is using the suit to
renegotiate a three-year contract signed in March, Sabre said.  “The antitrust laws are not a vehicle for large
corporations to renegotiate the terms of their commercial
agreements,” Sabre lawyers wrote. “The new agreement contains
nearly identical provisions to the contract US Airways signed in
2006 and operated under for five years without complaint.”  US Airways followed  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  in suing
Sabre, the largest U.S.-based so-called global distribution
system, as the carriers seek more control over dissemination and
sale of their products. More than 35 percent of US Airways’
annual revenue is booked through Sabre or Sabre-affiliated
travel agents, the airline said in April. Sabre collects and
shares flight data, and owns travel website  Travelocity.com .  “We are still in the process of reviewing Sabre’s recent
filing, but would note that Sabre’s anti-competitive and anti-
consumer practices are still being investigated  by the
 Department of Justice  and are also the subject of other
litigation,” Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-
based US Airways, said today in an e-mail.  Fares Pulled  In its April lawsuit, US Airways said Sabre “engaged in a
pattern of exclusionary conduct to shut out competition, protect
its monopoly pricing power and maintain its technologically
obsolete business model.”  In December,  Fort Worth , Texas-based American pulled fares
from travel agent Orbitz.com as the carrier pushed to use a
proprietary computer system to share data, bypassing
distributors.  In May, Sabre and Atlanta-based Travelport Inc. said they
were cooperating with an investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department into possible antitrust violations. American, US
Airways and Delta Air Lines Inc. also received Justice
Department inquiries.  Requiring airlines to provide information on all publically
available fares promotes “comparison shopping and price
competition among airlines,” Sabre said in its filing
yesterday. US Airways, while it likes revenue from the
distribution system, “no longer likes the transparency and
price competition,” lawyers for Sabre said.  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-
cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas
at   maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 