-- 
SEC Exemptions, Bank Rules, ASR Property Fund, ASIC Governance: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-01T12:03:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/sec-exemptions-asr-property-fund-asic-governance-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission needs to improve oversight of firms exempt from
certain regulations, the agency’s watchdog said, citing
“numerous” cases in which companies violated conditions of the
waivers.  SEC staff have “no formalized process” to track whether
firms are complying with the conditions of their exemptions,
Inspector General H. David Kotz said in a  report  posted
yesterday on the SEC’s website. That may pose “substantial”
risks “because exemptive orders and no-action letters allow
industry participants to conduct activities that, without the
relief, could violate the securities laws and regulations,”
Kotz said.  The SEC can issue exemptive orders and so-called no-action
letters to allow transactions that may not have been
contemplated when the securities laws were written. Those
transactions may otherwise violate rules, so the exemptions are
often conditional on the firm’s compliance with certain
standards, Kotz said. A no-action letter states that the staff
will not pursue an enforcement action in response to the
proposed activity.  The SEC divisions that grant exemptions and set conditions
do not coordinate adequately with examiners that monitor the
firms, Kotz said. He recommended that the agency establish
processes and databases to increase coordination to better
ensure compliance with conditions. In a June 29 letter to
division managers, Kotz asked for a corrective action plan
within the next 45 days.  Compliance Policy  Basel Seeks to Curb Banks’ Risk From Rogue Traders, Fraud  Banks should bolster their defenses against losses caused
by rogue traders, client fraud and other so-called operational
risks, global regulators said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision endorsed updated
principles on how banks should protect themselves from risks not
directly linked to lending or market movements, the group  said 
yesterday on its website.  The measures add to beefed up capital and liquidity rules
to toughen regulation of banks following the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. Rogue traders can also wreak
havoc on individual institutions, said Nicolas Veron, a senior
fellow at economics research group Bruegel. While such
operational risk generally does not cause systemic crisis, it
can have a “major impact on individual institutions when things
go wrong,” Vernon said.  Current changes build on rules from 2004 that require
lenders to hold reserves against risks including natural
disasters, computer hacking, systems failures, theft, fraud and
unauthorized trading.  “Supervisors expect banks to continuously improve their
approaches to operational risk management,” the Basel group
said in a statement. The committee “desires to promote and
enhance the effectiveness of operational risk management
throughout the banking system,” it said.  New Law Gives U.K. Power to Root Out Bribery Anywhere  Bloomberg’s Olivia Sterns reports from  London  on new anti-
bribery legislation which gives the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office
the power to prosecute companies that have any business
connection with the U.K., regardless of where they’re
incorporated.  The Bribery Act takes effect today.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Action  OCC Orders Banks to Review Compliance With Foreclosure Accord  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ordered U.S.
national banks to review their foreclosure practices to ensure
they are following rules set out in an April settlement with the
largest mortgage servicers.  Banks engaged in loan servicing must check whether they are
complying with foreclosure laws, conducting home seizures in a
safe and sound manner and promoting appropriate treatment of
borrowers, the OCC said yesterday in a statement on its
 directive .  The OCC,  Office of Thrift Supervision ,  Federal Reserve  and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. reached an accord with the 14
largest banks in April, requiring them to improve foreclosure,
loan-modification and refinancing procedures.  The April sanctions were the first to arise from state and
federal probes of servicer lapses in handling foreclosures
stemming from the 2008 financial crisis. State attorneys general
and the U.S. Justice Department are negotiating with banks to
reach a global settlement that will include fines.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Ally Financial Inc., Aurora Bank FSB,
EverBank Financial Corp.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , OneWest,  MetLife
Inc. (MET) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign Bank,
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  US Bancorp (USB)  were part of the April
settlement.  The settlement, which covered almost 70 percent of all
mortgages, didn’t affect smaller lenders or non-bank servicers.  ASR Sets Up $1.6 Billion Property Fund to Sell Dutch Assets  ASR Nederland NV, the insurer acquired in 2008 by the Dutch
state to help bail out Fortis Bank NV, plans to sell most of its
1.1 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of stores and shopping centers
by setting up a fund.  The Utrecht-based insurer, the third-largest in the
Netherlands, transferred 210 properties to its new ASR Dutch
Prime Retail Fund and hired  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  to find
investors in the fund, according to a statement yesterday. ASR
plans to keep 20 percent of the fund.  ASR has owned real estate assets directly for more than 100
years and the sales mark the start of a plan to invest outside
the Netherlands and to place its money in property indirectly.  ASR plans to follow with more specialist funds to reduce
other Dutch real estate holdings, Dick Gort, chief executive
officer of ASR REIM, the company’s property asset-management
unit, said in a telephone interview.  The company shift in strategy coincides with changes in
capital requirements for European insurers as the Dutch
government prepares ASR for sale. The Solvency II proposals
require insurers to set aside more money in case of a collapse
in the value of properties they own directly. This makes
investing in funds, publicly traded real estate companies and
real estate loans more attractive.  OFI Asset Management Broke Fund-Management Rules, Agency Says  OFI Asset Management , a Paris-based fund management
company, was accused by France’s financial regulator of
violating market rules by using one of its funds to prop up
another.  OFI should be fined 600,000 euros ($871,000), a
representative of the Autorite des Marches Financiers said at an
enforcement hearing yesterday in Paris.  OFI sent an alert to clients in one of its short-term
investment funds in May 2008 saying the fund’s investments were
doing badly. Less than 10 days later, the firm invested assets
from another longer-term fund in the underperforming one, the
AMF said. That sacrificed investors in the second fund to save
the others, and meant clients weren’t equally informed,
according to the regulator.  OFI managing director Gerard Bourret said “the only
alternative” was to close the fund. The company, which later
liquidated the short-term fund, believed when investing the one
fund in the other that the financial crisis was ending and the
failing fund would rebound, he said.  Shanghai Vehicle Violated China Loan Rules, 21st Says  A Shanghai municipal government financing vehicle violated
borrowing rules by using working capital loans for the
construction of long-term projects, 21st Century Business Herald
 reported  yesterday.  Shanghai Rainbow Investment Corp. , which built the city’s
Hongqiao transport hub, had borrowed more than 10 billion yuan
($1.5 billion) from banks, the Guangzhou-based newspaper said,
citing an unidentified banker. China bars companies from using
debt intended to fund day-to-day operations to finance projects
and equity investments under rules issued in 2010.  China’s first audit of local government debt, ordered by
Premier Wen Jiabao, found liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at
the end of last year with 79 percent being bank loans, the
National Audit Office  said  this week. As much as 30 percent of
the financing vehicles’ loans may sour and become the biggest
contributor to lenders’ bad debts, Standard & Poor’s has said.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission ’s local branch is
arranging two syndicated loans from banks to replace the
Shanghai vehicle’s debt, the newspaper said.  Chen Qiwei , a spokesman for the Shanghai government,  said 
June 29 the municipality’s financing vehicles are operating
normally and their status is “very healthy.” The local branch
of the banking regulator yesterday reiterated Chen’s statement.  Shanghai Rainbow Chairman Lin Guixiang wasn’t immediately
available to comment yesterday.  For more, click here.  Insider Trading Crackdown Vowed by Australian Market Regulator  The new head of Australia’s financial markets watchdog
intends to “crack down” on unfair disclosures that cause
sudden changes in stock prices, and require company directors,
auditors and bankers to ensure fair and open markets.  Greg Medcraft, 52, who became chairman of the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission in May, said the agency
has told investment bankers and stockbrokers they need to
strengthen their codes of conduct on sharing confidential
information.  Fund managers say that the nation’s financial regulators
haven’t stopped practices that give some investors an advantage
over others with market moving information. ASIC says it
identified 200 cases of unusual share-price moves in the 10
months to May 31, 42 of which were referred for further
investigation; of those, 24 involved possible insider trading.  More than 48,000 trades have triggered the regulator’s
surveillance filters since Aug. 1, 2010, ASIC said. New
investigative powers -- including phone tapping -- mean ASIC is
better equipped to uncover insider trading, Medcraft said in an
interview in Sydney.  Medcraft is also demanding that stockbrokers, bankers and
financial advisors improve self-regulation. The government has
credited the regulator, which imposed a short-selling ban as
markets tumbled after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008, with helping to stabilize Australia’s
financial system.  For more, click here.  AIG Oversight Extended Five Years After Spitzer Accord  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer seeking an
exit from U.S. ownership, was told by regulators to extend the
period of oversight imposed as part of a $1.64 billion fraud
settlement in 2006.  Therese Pritchard’s term as independent consultant
overseeing AIG has been extended through the end of the year,
she said in an interview late in the day on June 29. Her duties
were set to expire yesterday, according to the insurer’s
regulatory filings.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is working to
distance AIG from legal disputes under previous leaders and
restore confidence in the company as he seeks private capital to
replace government bailout funds. The New York-based insurer
disclosed a weakness in accounting for credit-default swaps in
2008 and said in February that a shortfall in reserves led to a
charge of about $4 billion.  Pritchard’s term was extended to document how AIG
implements so-called best-practice recommendations, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, declined to comment. Joseph Norton, a
spokesman for AIG, didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment.  AIG agreed to hire the consultant, acceptable to the SEC,
for a three-year term as part of a 2006 fraud  settlement  with
regulators.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Taylor Bean Chairman Gets 30 Years for $3 Billion Fraud  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 30 years in prison for leading
a $3 billion fraud involving fake mortgage assets.  Farkas was also ordered by U.S. District Judge Leonie
Brinkema in Alexandria, Virginia, to forfeit more than $38
million.  A federal jury convicted Farkas, 58, in April of 14 counts
of conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud after a two-
week trial. Prosecutors said Farkas orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S., which duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Six conspirators to the fraud scheme who pleaded guilty
have been sentenced by Brinkema to prison terms ranging from
three months to eight years.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Ex-PM Manager’s Insider-Trading Sentence Cut to 18 Months  A former PM Group Plc manager convicted of trading on
inside information and laundering the profits had his sentence
cut by an appeals court to 18 months.  Neil Rollins’s sentence was reduced by nine months after a
hearing June 29 at the U.K. Court of Appeal, the  Financial
Services Authority , which prosecuted the case, said in  a
statement  on its website yesterday. Rollins was convicted in
November of five counts of insider trading and four counts of
money laundering and ordered to pay 197,000 pounds ($315,000).  At the time of Rollins’s conviction, it was the longest
insider-trading sentence from a case brought by the U.K. finance
regulator. Prosecutors alleged Rollins sold shares of PM Group,
a U.K. maker of scales used in waste management, where he was a
senior executive, before the company announced that orders had
fallen.  Rollins denied wrongdoing and testified that he wasn’t
influenced by the confidential data in deciding to sell shares.
His lawyer, Rob Rode, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Ex-AMD Employee Pleads Guilty to Insider-Trading Scheme  Mark Anthony Longoria, a former employee of  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  charged in a U.S. probe of insider trading by fund
managers and expert networking consultants, pleaded guilty to a
four-year fraud scheme.  Longoria, 45, of San Antonio, yesterday admitted that while
also working as a paid consultant to  Primary Global Research
LLC , an expert networking firm, he committed four crimes: two
counts of conspiracy, a count of securities fraud and making
false statements to prosecutors and FBI agents.  He faces as long as 50 years in prison, said U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan. Longoria is cooperating with
prosecutors, Rakoff said, and he could face a lesser term if he
provides “substantial assistance” to the government.  Longoria admitted in court that he passed tips about AMD’s
gross margins and revenue to hedge fund managers in 2009. He
also said that he provided inside information about  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC) , a hard-drive maker based in Irvine, California.  Yesterday in court, Longoria identified people and hedge
funds which he said were recipients of his tips.  Michael Silverman, a spokesman for AMD, said in a statement
that the company was a victim of the insider trading scheme.  Longoria was one of four people arrested in December in a
federal probe of insider trading of hedge funds that was
conducted by prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan and the FBI’s  New York  Office.  The case is U.S. vs. Shimoon, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  ASIC Says Company Directors Must Know Basic Accounting  Australian Securities & Investment Commission  Chairman Greg
Medcraft spoke about Australian corporate governance and
accounting standards.  The ASIC won a case this week in which a judge found  Centro
Properties Group (CNP)  directors were liable for failing to disclose
all of the company’s debt in its 2007 annual report. Medcraft
spoke with Bloomberg’s Shani Raja in Sydney June 29.  Quelch Says U.S. Needs ‘More Robust’ Listing Standards  John Quelch, dean of the  China Europe International
Business School , talked about auditing standards and listing
requirements in the U.S.  Quelch also discussed allegations made by short-seller
Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC about accounting irregularities
at Sino-Forest Corp. and  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  He spoke
in Hong Kong with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Up.”  For the video, click here.  Geithner Says He Will Keep Job for ‘Foreseeable Future’  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  talked with former
President Bill Clinton about a Bloomberg News report that he has
signaled that he’s considering leaving the administration after
President Barack Obama reaches an agreement with Congress to
raise the federal debt limit.  Geithner said that he will keep his job “for the
foreseeable future.” Geithner also discussed negotiations
between lawmakers to raise the debt ceiling, bank regulation and
the U.S. housing market. They spoke at the Clinton Global
Initiative America conference in Chicago.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 