-- 
Senate Democrats Have Math Problem on Tax Hike

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-07-01T16:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/senate-democrats-face-a-math-issue-in-gathering-60-votes-for-tax-increases.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada will have trouble lining up votes among his fellow
Democrats for tax increases as he pressures Republicans to
accept a debt-ceiling boost.  Senate Democrats facing re-election battles next year in
Republican-leaning states, including  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska , are
torn over whether to support a debt limit bill that includes
revenue increases. Others, like Mary Landrieu of  Louisiana , have
concerns about tax proposals that would affect home-state
industries. She said yesterday that she will have problems if
tax breaks for oil and gas companies are curtailed.  Republicans are opposed to raising revenue as part of
legislation that would also cut spending and increase the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling. The competing interests among Democrats
will make it that much tougher for Reid to round up 60 votes
that likely will be needed to advance a deficit reduction
package in the Senate.  “The math is very tough,” said  Brian Gardner , senior vice
president of Washington research for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc. “Any moderate Democrat who is up in 2012, especially in a
red-leaning state, it’s a tough political vote for them.”  The Obama administration is calling on Congress to cap
deductions that can be claimed by high-income taxpayers,
eliminate tax benefits for the oil and gas sector and for
corporate jets, and repeal the method that businesses use to
account for their inventories.  Debt Ceiling Legislation  Republicans are pressing for no tax increases and sharp
spending cuts in legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling.
It must be passed before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department
projects that the U.S. will no longer be able to meet its debt
obligations.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said yesterday that legislation increasing the
debt limit could win support in the House and the Senate if it
included revenue. He said the package wouldn’t be of a
sufficient size if tax increases were not included.  “If revenues are not in, it will necessarily be a much
smaller package,” he said yesterday. “Is that adequate to win
support in both chambers, No. 1? And No. 2, is it adequate to
allay the fears of many people observing our economy that we are
not seriously tackling the deficit?”  Nelson said he is worried about the emphasis some of his
fellow Democrats are placing on tax increases.  ‘All the Cutting’  “My concerns are that we need to do all the cutting we can
do,” he said. “If we don’t do all the cutting before there’s
talk about raising taxes, the cutting stops and we have to do a
monumental amount of cutting and we don’t need distractions.”  Nelson said he wouldn’t rule out supporting a debt limit
measure that includes revenue increases and said he would be
most comfortable with provisions focused on specific industries.  Other Senate Democrats facing competitive re-election
prospects in 2012 are Jon Tester of Montana,  Debbie Stabenow  of
 Michigan  and  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri.  Landrieu said Obama focused too much on the oil and gas
industry’s tax benefits during his June 29 news conference. She
was one of only three Democrats to oppose a measure in May that
would have repealed $21 billion in tax breaks for five U.S.
multinational oil companies.  Targeting Industries  “For the president to say we’re going to raise revenues to
retire the debt but the only industry we’re going to look to is
oil and gas, I think that’s wrong,” she said.  Landrieu said revenue increases “almost certainly” should
be part of a deficit reduction agreement and indicated a desire
for a more comprehensive approach to determining which tax
benefits should stay or go.  “It’s not just revenues from one industry, or two
industries,” she said. “It’s revenues generated by reforming
the  tax code , removing loopholes that shouldn’t be in the tax
code for a broad range of industries.”  Senator Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat, said his support
for the revenue components that top Democrats have been
discussing would hinge on details of the  deficit-reduction 
proposal that haven’t been hammered out.  “Trying to sort out what all that means and where we end
up on specifics is hard to know because all that hasn’t been
negotiated yet,” he said.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, has said the chamber could pass a deficit
reduction package through a procedure known as budget
reconciliation. That would require passage by a simple majority,
or 51 votes, instead of 60. It also would require a legislative
vehicle and the cooperation of House Republican leaders, which
is unlikely.  Looking to Republicans  Durbin expressed confidence yesterday that at least a few
Senate Republicans would support a debt-limit increase measure
that includes fresh revenue. Republicans  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma,
 Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia and  Mike Crapo  of Idaho have said
that they would consider revenue increases as part of deficit
reduction.  Democrats control 53 seats in the Senate. They would need
seven Republican votes to overcome a filibuster if every member
of the Democratic caucus supported the legislation.  Other Senate Republicans who often side with Democrats,
including  Olympia Snowe  of Maine and  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts , might not be willing to do so this time, KBW’s
Gardner said. Both Snowe and Brown are up for re-election next
year and could have primary challenges from candidates backed by
the Tea Party.  “When Democrats look to peel off a couple of Republicans,
the Republicans who are the usual suspects are not in a position
to vote for a tax increase right now,” Gardner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  