-- 
Sony, Astellas, Intel, Apple, Wal-Mart, Warner: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-01T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/sony-astellas-intel-apple-wal-mart-intellectual-property.html
Sony Corp. (SNE) , Samsung Techwin Co. and
Robert Bosch GmbH were named in a U.S. trade complaint filed by
closely held ObjectVideo Inc., alleging infringement of patents
for video analytics software.  ObjectVideo claims the companies violate its  intellectual
property  rights and seeks to block imports of their video
products, according to a  notice  posted on the U.S. International
Trade Commission’s website. A copy of the complaint wasn’t
immediately available. The Washington-based agency can block
imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  ObjectVideo, a Reston, Virginia-based company that makes
software used in security, business intelligence and public
safety, sued the companies in a Richmond, Virginia, federal
court in April. The lawsuit claims infringement of patents
related to virtual tripwires, which can trigger notifications to
the user of the software.  Samsung Techwin, based in Changwon,  South Korea , is that
country’s biggest digital-camera maker. Stuttgart, Germany-based
Robert Bosch is the world’s largest maker of auto parts. Tokyo-
based Sony’s businesses include video-game systems,
communication devices and information technology.  The ITC case is Certain Video Analytics Software,
Components Thereof and Products Containing the Same, Complaint
No. 2826, U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  The case in federal court is ObjectVideo Inc. v. Robert
Bosch GmbH, 11cv217, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia (Richmond).  Astellas to Get $609 Million in Drug-Rights Sale to Royalty  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ,  Japan ’s second-largest drugmaker,
will sell rights to experimental diabetes medicines for $609
million to  Royalty Pharma .  The sale relates to patents and royalties on drugs in a
class of treatments known as DPP-4 inhibitors that spur the body
to produce more insulin and less glucose, or blood sugar. The
transaction, expected to be completed next month, will free up
capital for reinvestment in strategic initiatives, Tokyo-based
Astellas said in a statement yesterday.  The diabetes assets being sold to New York-based Royalty
Pharma were part of the Prosidion portfolio that Astellas
acquired in its $3.54 billion takeover of OSI Pharmaceuticals
Inc. last year. Astellas is reviewing options for other
Prosidion assets, it said.  “The range of alternatives that will be assessed could
include minority investment or strategic alliance, a merger or
sale of some or all of these assets,” Astellas said.  The Japanese drugmaker expects the transaction to have
“minimal impact” on its financial forecasts for the year
ending March 31.  Astellas was advised by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Allen & Overy
LLP. Royalty Pharma’s corporate advisers were Lazard Freres &
Co. and Greenhill & Co., and it received legal advice from
Goodwin Procter LLP, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP and
Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper & Scinto, according to the statement.  Intel Patent-Infringement Claim Brought by X2Y to Get ITC Review  A U.S. trade agency agreed to investigate claims that  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, is infringing a
 Pennsylvania  company’s patents on ways to improve how power is
delivered to an electronic circuit.  X2Y Attenuators LLC  filed the complaint with the U.S.
International Trade Commission on May 31, and the Washington-
based agency said yesterday it would review the claims. Closely
held X2Y is seeking to block imports of Intel chips including
the high-end desktop Core i7 chip, as well as Apple Inc. and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers that run on the processor.  The inventions covered by the five patents are designed to
overcome electromagnetic interference, which can damage
electronics, according to the ITC complaint. Erie, Pennsylvania-
based X2Y said it has licensed its inventions for inclusion in
satellite radios, military aircraft and noise-canceling
headphones and filed the complaints after Santa Clara,
California-based Intel declined to pay royalties.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Microprocessors,
Components Thereof and Products Containing Same, 337-781, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The civil case is
X2Y Attenuators LLC v. Intel Corp., 11cv117, U.S. District Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania (Erie).  Apple Victory Over Elan Will Stand, U.S. Trade Agency Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s victory over patent-infringement claims
brought by  Elan Microelectronics Corp. (2458)  for touch-controlled
screens will stand, a U.S. trade agency said.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington
upheld a judge’s findings that Apple wasn’t infringing Elan’s
patent 5,825,352, according to a notice posted on the agency’s
website. The six-member commission has the power to block
imports of products found to violate U.S. patent rights.  Elan, a Hsinchu, Taiwan-based designer of integrated
circuits, claimed Apple’s iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, Mac
computers and Magic Mouse wireless mouse violate its patent The
invention involves the use of two fingers to perform operations
on a computer screen, to replace the traditional computer mouse
or trackball.  Touch-sensitive devices can analyze the placement or
movement of a finger to determine what action should be taken.
Using the thumb and forefinger together to zoom in or out on a
phone screen is a hallmark of the iPhone.  The iPhone generated $25 billion in sales last year for
Cupertino, California-based Apple, while the iPod brought in
$8.3 billion and the iPad and related services generated $5
billion.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Multi-Touch Enabled Touchpads and Touchscreens, 337-714,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Wal-Mart, Smiley Co. Settle Dispute Over Smiling-Face Trademarks  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, has
settled a trademark dispute with a Belgian company over the use
of the smiling-face mark.  The Smiley Co. of Brussels sued Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart in federal court in  Chicago  May 20, asking that
findings from a trademark appeal board of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office be set aside.  According to court papers, the smiley face was created by
Franklin Loufrani of  France  in the 1970s and the mark is
registered in more than 80 countries worldwide. Loufrani’s
rights to the mark are assigned to Smiley Co.  Wal-Mart opposed Loufrani’s attempts to register the mark
in the U.S., saying it was confusingly similar to its “Happy
Face Design.”  In a March 2009 order, the appeal board agreed.  In its court papers, Smiley Co. argued that its mark was
“readily distinguishable” from the Happy Face design, and that
its mark is distinctive, rather than descriptive.  The case was dismissed June 21, according to the court
docket. No terms of the settlement were disclosed in court
filings other than that the parties agreed to dismiss the case,
with each side paying its costs and attorney fees. Both parties
agree not to appeal.  The case is Loufrani v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 1:09-cv-
03062, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  Aussie Vets Object to Warner Music’s Bid to Register ‘Diggers’  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ’s attempt to register “The
Diggers” together with the image of a soldier saluting as an
Australian trademark is meeting opposition from veterans groups
and the government itself, the Sydney Morning Herald  reported .  The term is used in Australian military history to describe
those who served in World War I, according to the newspaper.  Although  Australia  has more than 60 trademark registrations
for the term, these relate to earthmoving, horticultural or
other non-military uses, the newspaper reported.  Warren Snowdon, Australia’s minister of veterans’ affairs,
told the Morning Herald that Warner Music’s application “is
clearly military related” and should not be registered.  Kells Won’t Oppose College’s ‘Book of Kells’ Applications  The Irish town of  Kells  won’t challenge  Trinity College ’s
application to register “Book of Kells” and a logo taken from
the book as trademarks for use on Textiles, the Meath Chronicle
 reported .  Members of the Kells Town Council and the college will
enter into an agreement to tell the story of the town in its
exhibits on the  Book of Kells , according to the newspaper.  The college already has some trademark registrations for
the term, with registration extending to all the countries in
the European Union, the Chronicle reported.  Legal advice given the town council indicated it has no
sustainable grounds to object to the college’s trademark
registrations, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Photographer, Artist Settle Dispute Over ‘Dance Steps’ Photo  A Seattle-based photographer who was sued for copyright
infringement by an artist from the same city has settled the
dispute.  Michael J. Hipple  said in  a June 29 blog posting  that while
he believed he had good defenses he had come to understand that
the artist “has good claims.”  Jack Mackie sued Hipple for copyright infringement in
federal court in  Seattle  in February, 2009, after he learned
that Hipple had photographed a woman dancing over one of his
“ Dance Steps”  pieces.  These artworks are metal shoeprints in the form of dance
steps embedded in the sidewalk along a street in Seattle’s
Capitol Hill neighborhood.  Initially Mackie sent Hipple a cease-and-desist letter and
demanded that the photographer’s stock agency remove the image,
which it did, according to Hipple’s January 2010 blog  posting .  Hipple said he thought this would be the end of the suit,
and was surprised when he was sued for copyright infringement.
In initially, Hipple said he thought his photo fell into
copyright law’s “fair use” exception.  The case, which was set for trial in July, was settled for
undisclosed terms. Hipple said he did not intend to attack
Mackie, and he now understands why the artist “is so
protective.” He said when he took the photo, he didn’t realize
that selling photography that includes part of a copyrighted
public artwork can violate that copyright.  According to the court docket, the order dismissing the
case was filed June 21.  The case is Mackie V. Hipple, 2:09-cv-00164-RSL, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Barnes & Thornburg Adds IP, Entertainment Specialist Fohrman  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired Sidney Fohrman for its IP  and
entertainment practice, the Indianapolis-based firm said in a
 statement .  Fohrman  joins from Washington’s Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP. He has a transactional practice related to the music,
entertainment, media, live events, advertising, and technology
industries.  He has handled advertising, branding and sponsorship deals
for all types of entertainment companies; licensing and
copyright transactions for music publishers; production, labor,
trade and venue matters for live performance venues; and
corporate governance, contractual issues, and platform and
content and licensing deals for technology companies.  Fohrman has an undergraduate degree from the University of
 Arizona  and a law degree from Pepperdine University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 