-- 
Sony, Toyota Cut Electricity Usage as Mandatory Savings Start

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-07-01T02:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/sony-toyota-cut-electricity-usage-as-mandatory-savings-start.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and Toyota Motor Corp. are
among Japanese companies changing working hours and shifting
production to weekends to save energy as the country’s first
mandatory power-saving drive since the 1970s starts today.  Heavy users like Sony, Toyota, Panasonic Corp. and  Komatsu
Ltd. (6301)  are required to cut electricity consumption by 15 percent
to help avoid blackouts after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami knocked out power plants operated by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co. Temperatures rose this
week to 35.1 degrees Celsius (95 Fahrenheit), the highest this
year, increasing air conditioners use in homes and offices.  The utility known as Tepco, struggling to control the
world’s worst nuclear crisis in 25 years after the quake and
tsunami crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, said this week
power demand rose to the highest since the disaster. The company
is trying to restore regular supply in the world’s third-largest
economy by repairing damaged gas and oil-fired stations and
expanding hydropower generation.  “We may take emergency measures, including scheduled
blackouts, if demand is too high,” said Yoshinori Mori, a Tepco
spokesman.  Starting at 6 p.m.  Japan  time today, the company will issue
a daily power demand  forecast  for the next day, Mori said. If
the projected demand exceeds 97 percent of expected capacity,
the government will issue a warning of possible power shortages,
he said.  Tepco will update the forecast the next morning and if the
likely demand remains higher than 97 percent of capacity, the
government will issue a second warning that would require the
utilities to consider scheduling outages.  Sony Shifts  “The center of Tokyo will remain outside the area where
any scheduled blackouts will occur,” Mori said.  Companies in Tokyo and areas around the capital that use
more than 500 kilowatts of capacity, about the same as 150 homes
in  Tokyo , are required to save electricity. The restrictions
were last imposed in 1974 during the oil crisis, according to
statement posted on trade ministry’s website.  Sony’s Tokyo headquarters and other offices within Tepco’s
service area will run shifts from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., ending an
hour earlier than usual, according to company spokeswoman Yuko
Minami. Air-conditioners will be switched off at 6 p.m. to urge
employees leave, she said by telephone yesterday. The summer
shift will continue until Sept. 22, Minami said.  The maker of Bravia televisions will extend summer holidays
at most of its factories and offices in areas supplied by Tepco
and Tohoku Electric, she said. A factory making audio visual
products in Chiba near Tokyo and other plants and offices in the
area will be shut for a week in August, longer than the usual
two-day summer break, Minami said.  Working at Home  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s largest maker of home appliances,
is adding power generators at five factories and offices in
areas supplied by Tepco or Tohoku Electric, Machiko Miyai, a
director in charge of environmental affairs, told reporters in
Tokyo yesterday. Some of the company’s offices will start work
earlier than usual and some employees will work from home to
save power, she said.  Canon Inc. (7751)  also plans a summer shift from July 4 to Sept.
22 at all offices in Japan except at its marketing group,
according to Takafumi Hondo, a spokesman.  Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest construction
machinery maker, will close two floors of its 10-story
headquarters in Tokyo from July 4, giving employees and
temporary workers an extra paid day off every week, Chief
Executive Officer Kunio Noji said in an interview yesterday.  Komatsu, Nippon Steel  The company aims to cut electricity use by about 30 percent
from the peak volume consumed a year earlier, he said.  Komatsu is cutting usage by the same amount at five plants
supplied by Tepco by adding in-house generators, setting the
temperature on air conditioners higher and turning off lights.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, will
restart its 136-megawatt power plant in Kamaishi city in early
July to help ease power shortages in the region supplied by
Tohoku Electric, which closed two nuclear stations after the
quake. The steel company’s power plant also damaged.  The company will curb operations at the Kimitsu steelworks’
rolling mills this summer by extending planned halts of
production lines to July and August and shifting some operations
to off-peak hours at night.  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, will
move 100,000 metric tons of steel output to plants in western
Japan from near Tokyo in July and August., it said on its
website yesterday.  Dress Down  The company also urged employees to dress down during May
to October, extending the period from June to September.  JFE’s 390 megawatt-power station at it Chiba steel plant
will expand operations to 24 hours a day for seven days a week
between July 1 and Aug. 11, tripling power supply to Tepco, at
the request of the utility.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will shift its production to weekends
from next week, spokeswoman Shiori Hashimoto said yesterday. The
company uses its own generators to meet about 20 percent of its
energy needs, she said.  Nissan Motor Co. is moving production to weekends to cut
power use by 15 percent, spokesman Toshitake Inoshita said. The
company has installed meters to monitor power use at its
factories and offices, and will stop some operations when its
consumption target for the day is exceeded, he said.  Tepco’s Capacity  Tepco plans to increase its power generation capacity to
55,200 megawatts by the end of July from 50,100 megawatts on
June 30 by restarting thermal power plants and hydroelectric
plants, Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman at the utility, said.  “The balance of power supply and demand should be
manageable,” Iwamoto said. “We expect we will have enough
generating capacity by the end of July to meet demand.”  Power demand rose to 45,700 megawatts when temperatures
reached the highest since the disaster, equivalent to 93 percent
of Tepco’s’s supply, on June 29, the company said.  Last year, Tepco’s power demand peaked at 60,000 megawatts
on July 23, according to data compiled by the Federation of
Electric Power Companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  