-- 
Soskic Says Serbian Dinar Has ‘Quickly Got Back to Normal’

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-01T12:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/soskic-says-serbian-dinar-has-quickly-got-back-to-normal-1-.html
Serbia’s “dinarization strategy”
will help limit financial-market risks and avoid the
implementation of a tax on banks to finance funds in case of
instability, Governor Dejan Soskic said.  New rules doubling the downpayment needed for foreign
exchange-indexed loans and favoring dinar-denominated lending
for long-term financing of housing credits, took effect today to
decrease the possibility of turmoil in a county where more than
two-thirds of transactions are made in foreign currency, he told
reporters in Belgrade.  “The foreign-exchange link generates systemic risks and
this decision is part of so-called macro-prudential measures,”
Soskic said. “An alternative” to those measures would be to
establish special funds that would be used in case of financial
instability and would be financed from an “additional tax on
banks, which is a solution we don’t favor.”  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije wants to boost the
use of the dinar and make sure that people earning dinars don’t
borrow in other currencies. The dinar lost around 40 percent of
its value between late 2008 and 2010 as investors fled emerging
markets at the height of the global financial turmoil.  Dinar Moves  After months of strengthening against the euro since the
start of the year, the dinar wiped out most of its gains in the
second half of June following the government’s decision to no
longer index-link its future market borrowing to the European
currency. The dinar traded at 100.51 per euro at 2:12 p.m. in
Belgrade, up 0.3 percent on the session.  Even though the currency gained more than 2 percent in as
many days, the bank hasn’t needed act on the foreign-exchange
market and Soskic said that it wasn’t in the central bank’s
interest to have “continuous interventions.”  The dinar’s moves in recent days were because of maturing
government euro-indexed debt and the currency has “quickly got
back to normal,” Soskic said.  Rather than the relying on the dinar, exporters should get
access to cheaper bank loans, Soskic said.  Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said this week that
the government is trying to persuade commercial banks to
disburse the first tranche of a 250 million-euro ($362 million)
loan from the  European Investment Bank  to limit  interest rates 
paid by export-oriented companies to 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Dudikova at 
 adudikova@bloomberg.net  