-- 
Southwest, 19 Other Airlines Lose Bid to Lower Fees for Security Screening

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-01T19:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/southwest-19-other-airlines-lose-bid-to-lower-fees-for-security-screening.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  lost a court
challenge claiming that airlines are being overcharged by the
U.S.  Transportation Security Administration  for screening
passengers since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  The U.S. appeals court in  Washington  today ruled that the
fees, put in place after the attacks, were reasonable. The
airlines’ portion of the fees are capped at what they paid in
2000 for airport screening before that duty was taken over by
the U.S. government.  Southwest and 19 other airlines said the government’s
determination that $420 million was spent in 2000 to screen
passengers and property is too high. They argued their own study
concluded the amount was $305 million.  The appeals court, which had earlier sent the case back to
the lower court for additional investigation into the 2000
costs, said the “TSA adequately considered the submissions of
dueling experts” this time around.  “In reality, there was no authoritative source for the
number of airport screenings during the year 2000 -- no
government audit of all U.S. airports, no contemporaneous and
independently verified calculation,” the court said in the 2-1
decision. “Determining the figure in response to this court’s
remand thus involved a good deal of inquiry and ultimately
required a dash of art as well as science.”  Brandy King, a spokeswoman for Southwest, said her company
is reviewing the decision and considering its options.  The case is Southwest Airlines Co. v. Transportation
Security Administration, 10-1227,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 