-- 
South Korean Won Rises a Second Week as Inflation Data Spurs Bets on Gains

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-07-01T06:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/south-korean-won-heads-for-second-weekly-advance-as-inflation-accelerates.html
South Korea ’s won rose for a second
week and reached its highest level in almost three years after a
government report today showed inflation accelerated last month.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier, after
a 4.1 percent gain in May, exceeding the central bank’s 4
percent upper limit for a sixth straight month. Exports
increased 14.5 percent, resulting in a trade surplus of $3.3
billion, separate data showed. The won also strengthened as
Greece approved measures to receive further European Union aid.  “The rise in consumer prices is reinforcing  market
sentiment  that authorities may allow the won to appreciate, in
order to alleviate price pressures,” said Byeon Ji Young,
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Optimism that
 Greece  will avoid a default helped boost the currency this week,
even though there still is speculation the government may try to
cap a rapid won appreciation.”  The won rose 1.1 percent this week to 1,066.65 per dollar
as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency earlier touched 1,063.65, its strongest
level since Aug. 22, 2008. It gained 0.1 percent today.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s drive to stave off
the euro area’s first sovereign default stayed on track after
lawmakers backed a bill to authorize an austerity plan required
to keep rescue aid flowing.  The yield on South Korea’s 4 percent government bonds due
March 2016 climbed one basis point to 4.04 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The rate increased eight basis
points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  