-- 
South African Household Spending Is Driving Recovery in Economy, Bank Says

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-07-01T08:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/south-african-household-spending-is-driving-recovery-in-economy-bank-says.html
South African household and
government spending is driving the recovery in the economy,
while increased disposable income is enabling consumers to cut
back on debt, the central bank said today.  “The recovery in households’ expenditure was especially
strong in the area of durable goods such as motor vehicles,”
the Pretoria-based bank said in its annual economic report.
“While lower interest rates have given indebted consumers a
reprieve, rising disposable income has been driving the
expenditure, as opposed to a rapid increase in debt levels.”  While the increase in spending is likely to continue given
low interest rates, it isn’t translating into demand-side price
pressures,  Monde Mnyande , the bank’s chief economist and a
member of the rates-setting policy committee, said in an
interview after the release of the report.  The central bank has left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year after
cutting it three times in 2010 to support growth. The economy
expanded 4.8 percent in the first quarter, the most in a year,
according to statistics office.  Gross domestic spending climbed an annualized 8.3 percent
in the first quarter, led by a 9.5 percent jump in government
expenditure. Household spending rose 5.2 percent.  Credit Growth  While spending on durable goods such as cars and
televisions climbed 21.5 percent, credit demand is still
subdued. Growth in borrowing by households and businesses slowed
to 5.2 percent in May from 6.2 percent a month earlier, the
central bank said yesterday.  Higher international food and  oil prices  remain the biggest
risks to inflation in the “near future,” after wage increases
moderated from levels seen in 2008 and 2009, the central bank
said.  “Underlying demand pressures are likely to keep oil prices
at relatively elevated levels,” it forecast.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.6 percent in May, the
fastest pace in 12 months, compared with 4.2 percent a month
earlier, according to the statistics office. The Reserve Bank
has forecast inflation will breach the upper level of its 3
percent to 6 percent target range in the first quarter of next
year as global food and fuel costs rise. Policy makers are
watching for second-round inflation effects on domestic prices,
 Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said yesterday.  “I don’t think we will see demand-side pressures coming
into the economy any time soon,” Mnyande said.  Weak Exports  South African exports were lagging the recovery in other
emerging economies and were also weaker than the improvement in
trade in advanced markets, the bank said.  The slow pickup in shipments was due to a range of factors,
one of which is a stronger rand, it said. The currency’s gain
had also helped moderate inflation by reducing the impact of
higher oil prices, the central bank said.  The currency has strengthened 39 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rand weakened 0.1 percent to 6.7731 against the U.S.
currency as of 9:30 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 