-- 
South African PMI Declines to Lowest This Year, Manufacturing Survey Shows

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-01T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/south-africa-s-pmi-declines-to-lowest-this-year-survey-shows.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
index fell in June to its lowest level this year,  Kagiso
Securities Ltd.  said, indicating the recovery in manufacturing
is losing momentum.  The seasonally adjusted index slid to 53.9 from 55.1 in
May, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The June level is the lowest since December. The PMI has
been above 50, which indicates an expansion in factory
production, since November.  The central bank cut its benchmark rate three times last
year, pushing it to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent to help support
 consumer spending  and boost growth in Africa’s biggest economy.
Manufacturers are still holding back on investment as demand
remains subdued, undermining  job creation .  “Although the level of the index suggests that the
manufacturing sector is expanding, it also signals a moderation
in the sector’s growth momentum,” Abdul Davids, head of
research at Kagiso, said in the statement.  The index measuring new sales orders fell to 58 in June
from 61 in the previous month, while the business activity sub-
index slid 1.6 points to 55.2, Kagiso said. Managers were also
less optimistic about future business conditions, with the index
measuring the business outlook declining 2.4 points to 64.3.  Job Losses  Manufacturers probably shed jobs at a faster pace in June,
with the employment sub-index dropping to 47.7 from 48.7 in May,
the survey showed.  “Given that the recent loss of global momentum was driven
by the impact of the previous strong rise in commodity prices
such as oil and the Japanese disaster in March, this current
global slowdown will in all likelihood prove to be transitory,”
Davids said. “However, because of the lag between South  Africa 
and global trends, the domestic PMI could see another month or
two of declines before a re-acceleration takes hold.”  The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 