-- 
St. Joe, Chairman Bruce Berkowitz Are Subject of Formal Probe by U.S. SEC

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/st-joe-says-sec-is-investigating-financial-reports-and-chairman-berkowitz.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has started a formal investigation of  St. Joe  Co.,
Northern Florida’s largest landowner, and Chairman  Bruce Berkowitz , its biggest shareholder, the company said.  The probe “covers a variety of matters” including
securities-law anti-fraud provisions for corporate officers and
board members, internal controls and financial reports, the
Watersound, Florida-based company said in a filing with the SEC
made after the close of regular U.S. trading yesterday.  “The order designates officers of the SEC to take the
testimony of the company and third parties with respect to any
or all of these matters,” according to the filing. St. Joe said
it’s cooperating with the agency.  Berkowitz, whose Fairholme Capital Management LLC owns
about 29 percent of St. Joe’s shares, was named chairman in
March. Chief Executive Officer Britt Greene and three other
board members resigned Feb. 28 after Berkowitz criticized their
spending and corporate governance.  Berkowitz didn’t respond to an e-mail, telephone call to
Fairholme’s Miami office or request for comment left for an
outside spokesman yesterday.  In October,  David Einhorn , who runs hedge fund Greenlight
Capital Inc., accused St. Joe of failing to write down the value
of its developments after the Florida real estate crash. In
January, St. Joe said the SEC was conducting an informal
investigation of its real estate impairment practices. The
company received a “related order of private investigation” on
June 24, it said yesterday.  Documents and Testimony  A formal investigation, such as the one St. Joe disclosed
yesterday, enables the SEC to subpoena documents and testimony,
according to the agency’s  enforcement manual .  Einhorn, who had an undisclosed short position in St. Joe,
declined to comment yesterday. Short sellers sell borrowed stock
in the hope of buying the securities later at a lower price and
returning them to the lender.  St. Joe also announced yesterday that it ended a $125
million revolving credit facility with  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ’s BB&T Capital
Markets, effective yesterday, and will begin a stock repurchase
program. The company has $103.8 million available under the
program, it said.  St. Joe rose 14 cents to $20.87 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 4.5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  