-- 
Strauss-Kahn Prosecution, Investigation of Accuser to Continue, Vance Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-02T20:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/strauss-kahn-prosecutors-agree-to-release-on-own-recognizance-in-sex-case.html
The sexual-assault case against
former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn
will be pursued along with an investigation of false statements
by his accuser that have “raised concerns,”  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, accused of sexually assaulting and
attempting to rape a hotel maid in New York on May 14, was freed
from home confinement yesterday while awaiting trial after
prosecutors said the case was hurt by his accuser’s
“substantial credibility issues.” While prosecutors will keep
Strauss-Kahn’s travel documents, his bail was ordered returned
and he will be allowed to travel throughout the U.S.  According to a letter dated June 30 and filed in court
yesterday by prosecutors, the 32-year-old housekeeper from
Guinea lied to a grand jury about her actions right after the
alleged attack, as well as on her tax returns and in an
application for asylum.  Vance said his office’s investigation “raised concerns
about the complaining witness’s credibility” and that defense
lawyers were given “information that gave rise to those
concerns.  “Because our request for substantial bail was based in
part on our assessment of the strength of our case at the time
of the indictment, we disclosed this information to the court,”
he said.  Armed Guard  Strauss-Kahn had posted $1 million cash bail and a $5
million bond and, until yesterday, was subject to security
conditions that included electronic monitoring and around-the-
clock armed guard. After his release from jail on May 20, he was
allowed to leave home only for legal, medical and religious
purposes.  His next court hearing is scheduled for July 18. “The case
is not over,”  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus
told Strauss-Kahn.  The former IMF managing director, who has pleaded not
guilty, left the courthouse in downtown Manhattan after the
hearing, walking through a throng of cameras before getting into
a Lexus sport-utility vehicle.  Prosecutors have been conducting a comprehensive
investigation of all aspects of the case, Assistant District
Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon told the judge, including the
background of the housekeeper and reviews of additional
subpoenaed records.  ‘Credible’ Claim  At the time of the alleged attack, Illuzzi-Orbon said “we
were faced with a credible claim about a serious sexual assault
by a civilian witness who made prompt outcry to third parties
and had a solid work history with her employer. The fact of a
sexual encounter was and is corroborated by forensic evidence.
The very brief time period inside the hotel suite strongly
suggests something other than a consensual act.”  The investigation “caused us to reassess” the strength of
the case, which has been affected by “the substantial
credibility issues” of the woman, she said.  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said after the
hearing that he thought all of the charges will eventually be
dismissed.  “We believed from the beginning that this case was not
what it appeared to be,” he said.  Kenneth Thompson, lawyer for the alleged victim, told
reporters that medical and forensic evidence supports the
woman’s account of the assault. He said that evidence includes
hospital photos of a vaginal bruise that the woman suffered when
Strauss-Kahn grabbed her. The forensic evidence is consistent
with the woman’s account that she spit out semen as she fled the
room, Thompson said.  ‘Violently Attacked’  The housekeeper entered his room to clean it, and Strauss-
Kahn “violently attacked” her, Thompson said.  “The only defense that  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  has is that
this sexual encounter was consensual,” Thompson said. “That is
a lie.”  According to the June 30 letter, the woman told the grand
jury that after the assault in suite 2806 of the  Sofitel  in
Manhattan, she fled to an area of the main hallway of the
hotel’s 28th floor and waited until she saw Strauss-Kahn leave
the suite.  She said she then reported the incident to her supervisor,
who arrived a short time later, according to the letter, which
was sent by Vance’s office to defense attorneys.  False Account  “The complainant has since admitted that this account was
false and that after the incident in suite 2806 she proceeded to
clean a nearby room and then returned to suite 2806 and began to
clean that suite before she reported the incident to her
supervisor,” according to the letter.  The woman admitted to other lies, according to the letter.
She said that for the past two years, she declared a friend’s
child in addition to her own as a dependent on her tax returns
in order to increase her refund. She also said she
misrepresented her income in order to maintain her housing,
prosecutors said in the letter.  According to the letter, the woman admitted she lied in her
application for asylum when she stated that she and her husband
had been persecuted and harassed by the dictatorial regime then
in power in  Guinea . She said her house was burned and her
husband died while incarcerated.  She later said she fabricated the statement with the
assistance of a man who provided her with a cassette recording
of the facts contained in the statement that she eventually
submitted, prosecutors said in the letter.  Rape Claim  In interviews with prosecutors, the woman said she had been
gang raped in her native country. In subsequent interviews,
“she admitted that the gang rape had never occurred,”
according to the letter.  The letter didn’t detail everything questionable that
turned up in the investigation, said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because the probe is
ongoing. From $50,000 to $100,000 was deposited from at least
two states,  Arizona  and  Georgia , in a bank account in the
woman’s name, the person said.  The housekeeper claimed the deposits were the result of
someone else using her account without her permission, the
person said. That other person was a friend who is in jail in
Arizona for having possessed 100 pounds of marijuana, according
to the person familiar with the matter.  The woman talked to the friend in jail in Arizona by phone
within a day of the incident, said another person familiar with
the matter.  ‘Don’t Worry’  She told the friend, “Don’t worry. This guy has money. I
know what I’m doing,” according to the person, who didn’t want
to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Thompson, the woman’s lawyer, said Vance may be “too
afraid to try this case. We believe that he’s afraid he’s going
to lose this high-profile case.”  Strauss-Kahn has been staying in a rented townhouse in the
Tribeca section of Manhattan, only blocks from the courthouse.
He returned to the townhouse after yesterday’s hearing.  Sean Hershkowitz, 26, a deliveryman for Balloon Saloon in
Tribeca, delivered a group of balloons, including one of the
Statue of Liberty, to Strauss-Kahn’s townhouse. Hershkowitz said
he tried to deliver balloons -- including one in the shape of a
shark -- shortly after Strauss-Kahn began living there, but the
delivery was refused.  Hershkowitz said the balloons, which cost about $50, were
accompanied by a card that stated, “enjoy your freedom on
 Independence Day .” He said he didn’t know who sent the
balloons.  Georgetown Home  Strauss-Kahn and his wife,  Anne Sinclair , have lived in
 Washington  since November 2007, when he was named managing
director of the IMF, according to court filings. A copy of a
deed in Sinclair’s name to a home in the Georgetown area of
Washington that was bought in 2007 for $4 million was included
in court filings.  Polls had shown Strauss-Kahn as the potential candidate
with the best chance of beating French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in next May’s general election. Socialist Party hopefuls have
until July 13 to register for their primary, which is scheduled
for October.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  