-- 
Subprime Mortgages Lead Credit Rally as Greek Concern Ebbs

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-01T20:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/subprime-mortgages-lead-credit-rally-as-greek-concern-ebbs.html
Investor confidence in debt from
subprime mortgage securities to investment-grade bonds is
rebounding after tumbling last month on concern that a Greek
default would infect credit markets.  A Markit ABX index tied to subprime-mortgage bonds climbed
the most this week since September 2009. The cost to protect
corporate debt in the U.S. from default is poised for the
biggest drop since last July and relative yields on  junk bonds 
are on pace to fall by the most in more than a year.  A selloff in credit markets, fueled by  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis and concern that the economic recovery is slowing,
reversed as Greece moved closer to receiving as much as 85
billion euros ($124 billion) in new financing and U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in June. Demand for
riskier assets accelerated after the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New
York said yesterday it would halt the sales of assets acquired
in the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “It’s pretty phenomenal,” said Bonnie Baha, head of the
global developed credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los
Angeles , which has $12.5 billion in assets under management.
“The prospect of a European financial collapse has been pushed
off for a couple of months,” she said. “Those issues will come
back to haunt us, but in the meantime, the market had
anticipated such a dire case outcome we’re due for a little
pickup or bounce back in spreads.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.4 basis points to a mid-
price of 89.5 basis points as of 4 p.m. in  New York , according
to Markit Group Ltd.  Weekly Decline  The index, which falls as investor confidence improves,
dropped every day this week from 101 basis points on June 24, in
the biggest weekly decline since the period ended July 9, 2010.
The benchmark is at the lowest level since May 31.  Benchmarks tied to junk bonds, subprime mortgages and
commercial-property debt, which rise as investor confidence
improves, surged.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index added 0.8
percentage point to 102.5 percent of face value. It’s headed for
the biggest rally since the week ended July 23, according to
Markit.  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade
debt instead of U.S. Treasuries has dropped 38 basis points
since June 24 to 542 basis points, or 5.42 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s on
pace to be the largest decline since the 45 basis point decrease
in the week ended June 18, 2010.  Subprime Debt  The Markit ABX index tied to subprime-mortgage bonds added
3.9 percent this week, after dropping the same amount from April
1. The index reached 50.35 yesterday from 46.4 on June 24,
prices from London-based Markit show. A similar index tied to
junior AAA ranked commercial-mortgage bonds created in 2007,
known as the Markit CMBX, climbed to 69.3 yesterday from an
almost nine-month low of 63.7 on June 27.  The extra yield investors demand to own a top-ranked
commercial mortgage security commonly cited as a market
barometer narrowed 10 basis points to 200 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate this morning after the Fed announced it
was halting the sale of the Maiden Lane II portfolio, according
to Philadelphia-based investment and banking firm Boenning &
Scattergood.  “This past week we’ve seen two issues go away, so clearly
we’re in better shape,” Joshua Myers, a debt trader at Boenning
& Scattergood in New York said referring to  Greece  and the Fed
auctions. “Whether the rally can last and whether we can make
up all the ground we’ve lost is a big question mark.”  Maiden Lane  The New York Fed began unloading the Maiden Lane bonds
piecemeal after rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from  New York- 
based AIG for the entire pool in March. As traders blamed
declines in debt on the sales, the bank slowed their pace. Its
last auction ended June 9.  Investor sentiment has also been aided as U.S. economic
data improves from a weak patch, pulling stocks higher, said
 Martin Mitchell , head government bond trader at the Baltimore
unit of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm.  “If the Fed’s going to be off the table for a while, then
there’s a chance for some stabilization in the market and even
some improvement,” he said in a telephone interview. “All
these factors are helping to pull more credit-sensitive markets
higher.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
55.3 last month from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said today. Economists estimated the index would drop to 52,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Bounce Back  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The bounce back in credit markets this week can be
characterized as a “relief rally,” said Jon Duensing, the
Boulder, Colorado-based head of corporate credit at Smith
Breeden Associates, which oversees $6.5 billion.  “At this point, specifically in the  derivatives market ,
we’ve pretty much taken out the lion’s share of the sell-off
that we had through May and June,” Duensing said. “There’s
maybe a little bit more data that’s saying that the potential of
this domestic growth soft patch story could be viable. The
important thing over the next month going forward is really
going to be that we get the indicators that support that is the
case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  