-- 
Swiss Franc Drops as Haven Bets Unwind; Euro Gains for Week Versus Dollar

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-01T21:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/swiss-franc-drops-as-haven-bets-unwind-euro-gains-for-week-versus-dollar.html
The Swiss franc weakened against all
of its 16 most-traded peers as investors sought higher-yielding
currencies amid confidence policy makers and bankers have staved
off a Greek default.  The currency slid for a fifth day versus the euro as data
showed Swiss manufacturing growth slowed. The euro had its first
weekly gain in a month versus the dollar as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  won approval for an austerity plan needed to
keep aid flowing, while German banks agreed to roll over Greek
bondholdings maturing through 2014.  “The risk of a default has really fallen significantly and
Greece is moving in the right direction, so that’s why we’re
seeing traders reduce their safe-haven bets and buy euros and
other currencies,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research with online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  The franc tumbled 1.1 percent to 1.2316 versus the euro at
5 p.m. in New York. It depreciated 0.9 percent against the
dollar to 84.78 centimes.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.4526 and advanced 2.4
percent for the week. The European currency climbed 0.5 percent
to 117.42 yen. The dollar rose 0.3 percent to 80.831 yen.  The European currency fell as much as 0.5 percent versus
the greenback after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded
in June. The measure rose to 55.3 last month from 53.5 in May,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.  ‘Strong Number’  “This is a really strong number for the U.S.,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “You’re getting a little bit of selling
pressure on the euro just based on how strong the U.S. ISM
numbers were.”  The carry trade of selling dollars to buy the currencies of
 Norway ,  Australia ,  Canada  and  New Zealand  has more than tripled
this week as investor appetite for higher-yielding assets
increases. The trade returned just 21 percent during June.  In carry trades, investors buy higher-yielding assets with
amounts borrowed in nations with low interest rates. The  Federal
Reserve ’s benchmark interest rate of zero to 0.25 percent makes
the dollar popular for funding such transaction.  Canada’s dollar strengthened as much as 0.6 percent against
its U.S. counterpart to the highest level since May 11, 95.81
cents per greenback. The loonie, as the currency in nicknamed,
ended the day at 95.85 cents, up 0.5 percent.  ECB Rates Outlook  The Procure.ch Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 53.4 in
June from 59.2 in May when adjusted for seasonal swings. That’s
the lowest since September 2009, suggesting the Swiss economy
may struggle to maintain its expansion pace.  The euro was supported as traders increased bets the
 European Central Bank  will tighten monetary policy, pushing
euribor futures lower. The implied yield on the March 2012
contract rose four basis points to 2.01 percent.  “The Europeans are trying to avoid default, but are not
choosing devaluation; in the U.S., the Federal Reserve would
rather see the dollar weaken and help create jobs and is
assuming that won’t create too much inflation,” Kit Juckes,
head of currency strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , said
during a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  ‘Weaker Dollar’  “As long as that choice is there, unless there’s a
disaster in the global economy that makes everyone just run and
put their money under a mattress, then we will end up with a
weaker dollar,” Juckes said.  Investors expect the ECB to increase  interest rates  by 76
basis points during the next year, up from a forecast 16 on June
22, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet reiterated yesterday that
policy makers are in a state of “strong vigilance” against
inflation, highlighting chances of a rate increase at their
meeting on July 7. The central bank raised its key rate in April
for the first time in almost three years, lifting it by a
quarter percentage point to 1.25 percent.  “The Swissie was quite a good safe-haven currency,
especially if you wanted to flee the euro because of its short-
term risks,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “With the short-term
risks in the euro zone having abated, this shift should be
unwound. We’ll see a weaker Swissie as long as we have no more
event risk from the euro zone.”  The euro is the second-best-performing currency this year
against a basket of nine developed-market peers, appreciating 3
percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  posted the worst performance, dropping
6 percent, the indexes show.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 71.5, from 74.3 in May. The
gauge was projected to decline to 72, according to the median
forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The index
for June compares with a preliminary reading of 71.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  