-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb for Fourth Day as Credit Suisse, Swiss Re Lead Advance

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-07-01T15:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/swiss-stocks-climb-for-fourth-day-credit-suisse-swiss-re-lead-advance.html
Swiss stocks advanced for a fourth
day, led by financial companies, as the benchmark index headed
for its biggest weekly gain since March.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the nation’s second-biggest bank,
rose 2.5 percent for its biggest gain in nineteen weeks. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-largest reinsurer, increased
1.9 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies climbed 0.8 percent to 6,237.81 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The benchmark measure has gained 4 percent
this week, its biggest advance in three months. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also rose 0.8 percent to 5,731.47 today.  “In the short term, concerns related to sovereign-debt
problems in Greece and the rest of  Europe  have eased,” said
Manish Singh, who helps oversee $2 billion at Crossbridge
Capital in  London . “Today’s manufacturing report from the U.S.
is also helping to drive equity markets. Stocks may continue to
rally if earnings meet expectations later this month and next
week’s U.S. payrolls figure doesn’t disappoint.”  Swiss stocks gained as an Austrian Finance Ministry
official said that  Greece  may receive as much as 85 billion
euros ($123 billion) in new financing, including a contribution
from private investors, in a second bailout aimed at preventing
default.  The package will total 190 billion euros to 195 billion
euros, including the 110 billion euros from the original rescue
a year ago, Thomas Wieser, head of the ministry’s economic
policy and financial markets department, said at a briefing with
Finance Minister Maria Fekter in Vienna late yesterday.  U.S. Manufacturing Index  Shares extended their earlier advance after a report showed
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in
June, a sign that the industry is rebounding after shortages of
parts and components from  Japan  slowed production. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to 55.3 last month
from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Economists had predicted the index would drop to 52, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  Credit Suisse advanced 2.5 percent to 33.53 Swiss francs,
helping a gauge of banking shares to climb the most out of 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, added 2.4 percent to
15.69 francs. UBS plans to appoint Axel Weber as chairman. The
lender will nominate the former Bundesbank president to the
board of directors at the next shareholders meeting on May 3,
2012, UBS said in a statement today.  The appointment “has brought clarity to one of the main
long-term management issues” at UBS, Swiss National Bank
Chairman Philipp Hildebrand said. “This can also be assessed
very favorably with regard to the outlook for the bank,” he
said.  Swiss Re increased 1.9 percent to 48.10 francs for the
stock’s fifth straight gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  