-- 
Manufacturing Expansion Slowed More Than Forecast in June; Pound Declines

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-01T08:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-k-manufacturing-growth-unexpectedly-slows-as-slower-demand-cuts-exports.html
U.K. manufacturing growth
unexpectedly slowed in June as waning global demand reduced
orders, a survey showed.  A gauge based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply fell to 51.3 from a
revised 52 in May, according to an e-mailed report in  London 
today. That’s the lowest level since September 2009. The median
forecast 26 of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
reading of 52.3 in June.  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
report, which follows data earlier today showing manufacturing
also slowed in June in  China , India and the euro area. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said this month that risks to
Britain’s recovery justified policy makers’ decision to keep the
key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  “Manufacturers remain in cautious spirits as the global
slowdown has been constraining export growth,” said CIPS Chief
Executive Officer  David Noble . “Of most concern looking ahead
is how far problems such as domestic austerity measures, the
euro-zone debt crisis and monetary tightening in markets such as
China may start to soften growth even further.”  The pound dropped as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
after the report was published. It traded at $1.6024 as of 9:51
a.m. in London.  New orders at factories fell for a second month in June,
reflecting “subdued” domestic conditions and “slower growth”
in exports, Markit said. Companies “reported higher demand from
Asia, mainland  Europe  and the U.S., but noted that slower global
economic growth was constraining new export order inflows.”  King told lawmakers on June 28 that while inflation is
“clearly uncomfortably high,” the bank’s mandate allows it to
refrain from interest-rate increases when that may “lead to
undesirable volatility in output.”  Edinburgh-based  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF)  said June 27
second-quarter revenue will be “toward the lower end of
previous guidance” as customers delayed product introductions.
The company also cut its growth forecasts for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  