-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise for Sixth Day Led by Banks; RBS, Lloyds Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-01T16:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-k-stocks-rise-for-sixth-day-led-by-banks-rbs-lloyds-climb.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a sixth day,
sending the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  up by the most this week in
almost a year, as banks rallied on easing concern that  Greece 
will default on its debt.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rallied 3.7 percent as analysts
recommended the mortgage lender’s shares.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  rose 3.2 percent after the bank was said to have
agreed to sell a stake of property loans worth about 1.4 billion
($2.3 billion).  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  fell, paring
some of yesterday’s 11 percent rally.  The FTSE 100 rose 44.05, or 0.7 percent, to 5,989.76 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, extending the gauge’s advance this
week to 5.1 percent after Greece approved a package of austerity
measures, qualifying the country for more aid from the European
Union. The FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.8 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index jumped 1.4 percent.  “The banking sector has been the strong U.K. performer
today,” said Yusuf Heusen, a senior sales trader at IG Index in
 London . “Investors will be hoping that the reduced chance of a
Greek default and more positive economic data means a rosier
outlook for the banking community.”  Austrian Finance Ministry official Thomas Wieser said
Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($123 billion) in
new financing, including a contribution from private investors,
in a second bailout aimed at preventing a default. EU finance
chiefs will hold a conference call this weekend to free up a 12
billion-euro payment overdue.  U.K. stocks extended gains after a report showed that U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in June, a
sign the industry is rebounding in the world’s largest economy.  Lloyds, RBS Rally  Lloyds, Britain’s largest mortgage lender, climbed 3.7
percent to 50.8 pence after UniCredit SpA upgraded the bank to
“hold” from “sell” and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
recommended that investors buy the stock, saying the bank’s new
targets help form “earnings power.”  Lloyds jumped 9.7 percent yesterday after announcing job
cuts as part of plans to cut costs by 1.5 billion pounds by
2014.  RBS gained 3.2 percent to 39.7 pence after the bank agreed
to sell a stake in a group of U.K. commercial-property loans to
Blackstone Group LP according to two people briefed on the plan.  Blackstone plans to buy a 25 percent stake in the loans and
take over management of the assets to try to recover as much
value as possible, said one of the people with knowledge of the
agreement, who asked not to be named because the deal wasn’t
publicly announced.  Separately, UBS AG strategist Karen Olney today said in a
report to clients that the direct impact on banks from a Greek
default was “not that material.” The analyst cited Lloyds and
RBS in her list of top value picks in financials.  Northumbrian Water  Elsewhere,  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  climbed 1.5 percent
to 422 pence after the utility received a proposal for a cash
offer from Li Ka-Shing’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. The Hong Kong-based company first indicated its interest in
the utility serving the north east of  England  on June 27.  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  gained 1.9 percent to 610.5
pence and Severn Trent Plc jumped 1.5 percent to 1,494 pence.  Speedy Hire Plc advanced 3.3 percent to 31 pence after the
company signed a 220 million-pound asset-based revolving credit
agreement with six banks.  Flybe Group Plc increased 4.2 percent to 191.8 pence after
the regional British carrier agreed to buy Finnish Commuter
Airlines Oy in a joint venture with Finnair Oyj.  LSE Shares Drop  Among declining shares, LSE lost 2.6 percent to 1,033
pence, paring some of yesterday’s 11 percent increase after the
bourse scrapped its bid for TMX Group Inc. and UBS AG said the
company may become a bid target.  The  Daily Telegraph  reported Middle East investors who hold
more than 35 percent of LSE indicated that they aren’t selling,
citing people familiar with the investors.  Borse Dubai Ltd. and the Qatar Investment Authority both
want the LSE to remain independent and blocked the deal with
 Canada ’s TMX, the newspaper said, citing BofA Merrill Lynch
analysts.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  dropped 10 percent to 17.1 pence,
extending yesterday’s 22 percent selloff after the U.K.’s
biggest food manufacturer said it expects profit for ongoing
business in the first half to fall below last year’s figure.  Morgan Stanley downgraded the company to “equal weight”
from “overweight,” while Citigroup Inc. cut is price estimate
for the shares by 28 percent to 29 pence.  Randgold Resources Plc fell 1.5 percent to 5,175 pence.
Morgan Stanley initiated coverage of the gold producer with an
“underweight” recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  