-- 
U.K.’s Labour Holds Scottish Seat After Nationalist Challenge

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-01T00:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-k-s-labour-holds-scottish-seat-after-nationalist-challenge.html
The U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party 
held a parliamentary seat in western  Scotland , withstanding a
challenge from the pro-independence Scottish nationalists.  Labour’s Iain McKenzie garnered 15,118 votes in yesterday’s
special election in  Inverclyde , called after the death of the
sitting Labour lawmaker in May, compared with 9,280 votes for
Anne McLaughlin of the  Scottish National Party , according to a
statement from the local municipality.  Voting took place less than two months after the SNP
trounced Labour in Scottish parliamentary elections, winning the
first-ever majority in the Edinburgh legislature. SNP leader
Alex Salmond is now trying to wrest more power for his semi-
autonomous administration from the U.K. in areas such as taxes,
broadcasting and borrowing powers.  “This by-election is about who is best-placed to protect
households and deliver jobs to Inverclyde,” Salmond told the
 BBC  last month during the campaign.  Inverclyde, one of 59 Scottish seats in the Westminster
Parliament in  London , was held by Labour’s David Cairns in the
2010 U.K. election that saw his party ousted from power and
replaced by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition government. In Scotland, Labour  retained  all
41 of its seats, with the Liberal Democrats keeping their 11,
the SNP with six and the Conservatives with a single seat.  Labour had a  majority  in Inverclyde of 14,416 votes before
today, with the SNP placing second. The district is west of
Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city and a traditional Labour
stronghold, and suffers from high unemployment following the
decline of shipbuilding.  In the Scottish election on May 5, Labour held the seat of
Greenock and Inverclyde by a majority of only 511 after the SNP
increased its share of the vote by 13.6 percentage points,
mainly at the expense of the Liberal Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle on   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  