-- 
U.S. Stocks to Rally in ‘Snap-Back Market,’ Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-01T16:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-stocks-to-rally-in-snap-back-market-deutsche-bank-says.html
Stocks should rally during the second
half of the year in a “snap-back market” after the selloff in
May and June as corporate earnings grow and equities remain
cheap, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Equities are less expensive, earnings will expand faster
than the  U.S. economy  and there will be a pickup in growth for
domestic cyclical industries such as financials, industrials and
technology, according to Bankim “Binky” Chadha, Deutsche Bank
AG’s New York-based chief U.S. equity strategist.  “Our baseline is a snap-back market,” Chadha said in a
report today. “The recent decline in oil and commodity prices
will imply downgrades or disappointments to energy and materials
second-quarter earnings reports but other sectors will
benefit,” and “the market has traded in line with historical
fair-value multiples over the last few years except around
negative shocks.”  Chadha predicts the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will finish
2011 at 1,550, the highest of 13 estimates tracked by Bloomberg,
with $99 in earnings per share. That would be a gain of 17
percent from yesterday’s close. The gauge fell 3.2 percent from
its 2011 high on April 29 through yesterday. It rose 0.8 percent
to 1,331.65 at 11:49 a.m. in  New York .  Chadha said he expects little negative impact from the
 Federal Reserve ’s conclusion of its $600 billion debt buying
program known as quantitative easing, or QE2, which was
implemented to fuel economic growth. The volatility in  oil
prices  resulting from unrest in the  Middle East  and Northern
Africa is reversing, and Japanese supply disruptions are
settling, the report said.  Link to Company News: DBK GY <Equity> CN  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  