-- 
U.S., Vietnam to Hold Joint Naval Activities Starting July 15

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T08:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-vietnam-to-hold-joint-naval-activities-starting-july-15.html
The U.S. and  Vietnam  will hold joint
naval activities in the city of Danang beginning on July 15, the
U.S. consulate in Ho Chi Minh City said.  The planned events include a pier-side welcome ceremony for
the  USS Chung-Hoon  at Tien Sa Port in Danang, as well as
community relation projects, search and rescue, damage-control
and dive salvage training between the navies from the two
countries, the consulate said in a press release.  Military ties between the two countries have gradually
increased since the USS Vandegrift in 2003 became the first
American naval vessel to dock in the Southeast Asian nation
since the end of the  Vietnam War . Improved relations have drawn
more attention amid tensions between  China  and Vietnam over
disputed areas in the  South China Sea .  Vietnam has accused Chinese vessels of harassing Vietnam
Oil & Gas Group survey ships twice since May, while China
responded by saying one of its fishing boats was “chased” by
armed Vietnamese ships last month. The U.S. weighed in with a
statement last month that referred to “troubling incidents” in
the South China Sea.  Preparations for the week-long operations began about a
year ago, and there is no connection with recent events in the
South China Sea, said Lt. Cmdr. Mike Morley, a Singapore-based
public affairs officer for the U.S. Navy.  “It’s merely a coincidence of timing,” Morley said in a
telephone interview. “We did this last year and we’ll probably
do it again next year.”  The planned events are not described by the U.S. Navy as
exercises “so as not to confuse these exchange activities with
military exercises that we do with other navies in the region,”
he said.  “This is focused on relationship-building and non-
combatant activities,” Morley said. U.S.-Vietnamese ties are
“growing in terms of complexity and familiarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  