-- 
Debt-Ceiling Showdown Won’t Affect U.S. Homeland Security

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-01T14:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-homeland-security-isn-t-affected-by-debt-ceiling-showdown.html
U.S.  Homeland Security  workers
protecting borders and guarding against terrorists won’t be
affected by a possible federal government shutdown in the event
that Congress fails to raise the federal debt ceiling.  “We continue to operate regardless of any budget debt
ceiling,” Homeland Security Department Secretary Janet Napolitano told journalists today in Vienna. “We are exempted,
exceptional and necessary, so our operations continue.”  Failure to raise the debt ceiling would complicate the U.S.
government’s ability to finance its activities. Congressional
Democrats and Republicans are locked in a budget showdown over
government services, taxes and debt. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  said yesterday that Congress has “no option”
other than to approve an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling.  Napolitano commented after she met with military and
civilian security advisers at the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe . She traveled to the Austrian capital to
pursue greater international cooperation investigating and
prosecuting cybercrime.  “The protections of the legal systems, both domestic and
transnational, have not kept pace with the technology,”
Napolitano said. “We’ve had to scramble.”  The Homeland Security Department is investigating attacks
on government websites, she said, while declining to provide
details about the probe. Computer networks are also fueling
domestic terrorism risks, she said.  “I have seen an increase in the number of violent
extremists” inside the U.S., Napolitano said. “While the
Internet has a lot of good things, it is also an accelerant”
for extremists.  Local police are the first line of defense against so-
called homegrown terrorists, Napolitano said, adding that her
department is recruiting municipal officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  