-- 
U.S. Treasury Watchdog Reviewing Financial Research Office

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-01T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-treasury-watchdog-reviewing-financial-research-office.html
The Treasury Department’s inspector
general is looking into how the Office of Financial Research, a
data-collection division created to help regulators prevent a
financial crisis, is being set up.  The audit, which began in June, is being conducted as part
of the watchdog’s fiscal-year plan, Richard Delmar, counsel to
the inspector general, said in an e-mail today. The review is
aimed at determining “the effectiveness of Treasury’s process”
to establish the office, Delmar said.  The office, created by last year’s Dodd-Frank law
overhauling financial regulation, collects and analyzes data for
the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The council, led by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , must decide which
companies are systemically important and warrant supervision by
the  Federal Reserve .  Richard Berner , former chief U.S. economist for Morgan
Stanley, was hired by the Treasury in April as a counselor to
Geithner to help build up the office, known as OFR. A permanent
director hasn’t been named.  Treasury Deputy Secretary Neal Wolin said at a May 12
congressional hearing that he expects the OFR to have more than
60 full-time employees by the end of September.  Some lawmakers have expressed impatience with the Obama
administration for not having nominated a director. When asked
by Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, when a nominee will
be picked, Wolin said, “we certainly hope soon.”  “It’s been 11 months,” Warner said. “We need a
nominee.”  The inspector general’s office has met with Berner and
plans to speak with “each member of management responsible for
overseeing development of the key policies, processes and
infrastructure needed to achieve the office’s mission,” Delmar
said.  The inspector general’s office has not estimated a date for
when the review will be finished, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  