-- 
U.S. Afghan Pullback Lets Taliban Open New Bases, Pakistan Military Says

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-07-01T03:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-afghan-pullback-lets-taliban-open-new-bases-pakistan-says.html
A U.S. pullback of troops from
northeastern  Afghanistan  over 20 months has let Islamic
guerrillas establish bases in the area and carry out unusually
large attacks on Pakistan in recent weeks, the Pakistani
military said.  Several Pakistani Taliban groups moved fighters into
Nuristan and Kunar and used those Afghan provinces five times in
the past month to send forces numbering in the hundreds to
attack Pakistani border posts or police stations, said military
spokesman Major General Athar Abbas.  “In the past we never had this kind of experience, where
200 to 300 militants attacked us,” Abbas said yesterday in an
interview at Pakistan’s  army headquarters  in Rawalpindi. “It’s
a big body in this mountainous terrain” and shows that the
militants have established bases in northeastern Afghanistan
that can house, feed and transport such groups, he said.  Pakistan ’s complaint about the Taliban filling a power
vacuum in Afghanistan comes as President  Barack Obama  pledged
June 22 to withdraw 33,000 U.S. soldiers between this month and
the end of next year, replacing them with Afghan troops and
police the U.S. is helping to train. The U.S. government
contends that Pakistan has failed to eliminate similar safe
areas for the guerrillas in its border districts, especially
North Waziristan.  The complaints on both sides underscore the need and the
difficulty for Pakistan and Afghanistan to maintain control all
the way to the isolated, mountainous border between them, Abbas
said.  Escape Route  Pakistani officials say the U.S. pullback from northeastern
Afghanistan since late 2009 has given the Taliban an escape
route from the Pakistan army’s offensives to clear the militants
from two adjacent Pakistani districts, Bajaur and Mohmand.  “The best economy of effort is by conducting joint
operations” to trap the guerrillas between U.S. and Pakistani
forces, Abbas said.  “We know the border is very porous and the insurgents are
using the terrain to their advantage,” said U.S. Navy
Lieutenant Commander Kaye Sweetser, a spokeswoman for the U.S.-
led  International Security Assistance Force  in Afghanistan.
“We’re constantly trying to deal with that.”  While ISAF “is aware of media reports from Pakistan”
saying the Taliban have carried out attacks from Afghanistan,
Sweetser said she didn’t immediately have independent
information on the incidents.  Laying Blame  Afghanistan’s Defense Ministry spokesman, General Zaher
Azimi, denied that any Pakistani Taliban maintain bases anywhere
in Afghanistan. Pakistan is “trying to blame Afghanistan,”
Azimi said in a phone interview.  Hundreds of Taliban fighters crossed the border from Kunar
on mountain ridges as high as 3,700 meters (12,000 feet) to
attack police stations in Pakistan’s Dir Valley on April 22 and
on June 1, Abbas said. About 300 fighters crossed into
Pakistan’s Bajaur tribal district last month and seized two
border posts, killing 15 Pakistani security officers, he said.  As the Pakistani army has undertaken offensives since 2007
to re-capture districts taken over by the Taliban, the surviving
Taliban forces have moved to Kunar and Nuristan to regroup,
Abbas said. These include Taliban commanders Hakimullah Mehsud
from South Waziristan, Faqir Muhammad from Bajaur and Abdul Wali
from Mohmand, he said.  The U.S. military made its most prominent advance into
Nuristan after 2006, establishing several small outposts to
interdict guerrillas crossing into the province from Pakistan.
After repeated Taliban attacks on the camps left dozens of U.S.
soldiers dead, the U.S. commander in Afghanistan, General
Stanley McChrystal, ordered a shift of troops from rural
outposts to population centers, and the Nuristan bases were
abandoned in 2009.  “ISAF posts were vacated and that created a void,” Abbas
said. “Unless we resolve this, it will not allow the whole
effort of bringing stability in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  