-- 
U.S. Treasury Reiterates Borrowing Ability Will End Aug. 2

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-01T15:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-treasury-reiterates-borrowing-ability-will-end-on-aug-2.html
The Treasury Department confirmed
that U.S. authority to borrow under the $14.29 trillion debt
limit will expire Aug. 2.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “urges Congress to
avoid the catastrophic economic and market consequences of a
default crisis by raising the statutory debt limit in a timely
manner,”  Mary Miller , the department’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, said in a statement today.  Geithner has said failing to raise the debt limit would
force the U.S. to default on obligations and have severe
consequences for the economy. It would have “painful
implications for people in every walk of American life,” he
said in a letter to members of Congress this week.  “Treasury is now gaining clarity and confidence in its
estimates,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview today.
“They are now confident of their finances over the next few
weeks, and policy makers should plan on that date, which means
they should have a piece of legislation by the last week of
July.”  Negotiators will need to reach agreement on raising the
limit no later than July 22 so that legislation can get passed
in time to stave off a default, two Democratic officials
familiar with the talks said yesterday.  Senate Recess Canceled  The Senate this week canceled its July 4 recess to remain
in session next week during debt-limit talks after President
 Barack Obama  called on Congress to stop taking vacations while
the talks are unresolved.  Republican lawmakers including Senator  Pat Toomey  of
Pennsylvania and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota
have discounted the risk of a government default as they
encourage members of their party to withhold their votes for
increasing the debt ceiling unless spending-cut conditions are
met.  “We’re entering into a period where it is very unclear how
the negotiations are going to happen,” said John Irons,
research and policy director at the  Economic Policy Institute  in
Washington. “Everyone has retreated to their corner.”  The U.S. stayed under the debt limit in May by taking what
Geithner called “extraordinary measures,” including declaring
a “debt-issuance suspension period” under the statute
governing the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. That
allows the U.S. to redeem existing Treasury securities held by
that fund as investments.  ‘Forecasting Uncertainty’  “The market knows there is an element of forecasting
uncertainty in this exercise, and won’t be affected much by
minor differences in projections,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist for the Wrightson ICAP LLC unit of London-based ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest broker of trades between banks. Most
Wall Street forecasters “appear to think the Treasury will run
out of cash after the Treasury’s projected date but before the
middle of August.”  A change to the deadline “would have played right into the
hand of congressional Republicans who have argued there is more
flexibility with this date than Treasury is letting on,” said
Edward Mills, financial policy analyst at Arlington, Virginia-
based FBR Capital Markets Corp.  “The Aug. 2 deadline is beneficial to Treasury for
political and practical purposes” because Congress is scheduled
to recess in early August and the Treasury’s next big interest
payment is due Aug. 15, Mills said in an e-mail. “Keeping the
date at Aug. 2 forces Congress to deal with this before
recessing for the summer, but gives almost two weeks of wiggle
room before the next interest payment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  