-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Expands at Faster Pace as ISM Index Increases to 55.3

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-01T20:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-rose-in-june.html
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
accelerated in June, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast
that the economy will strengthen in the second half of 2011.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to
55.3, the first gain in four months, from 53.5 in May, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists projected a
decrease to 52, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Stocks climbed for a fifth day on signs manufacturing is
rebounding from higher commodities costs and shortages of parts
caused by the earthquake in Japan. As emerging markets power
sales at companies like  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , bigger job gains
may be needed to boost confidence among U.S. consumers, whose
spending accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “The Fed is counting on growth to reaccelerate in the
second half, and to that extent the manufacturing report is
encouraging,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF
Global Inc. in  New York . “To be more confident about the
economy in the second half, we need a renewed upward turn in the
labor market.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.4 percent to
1,339.67 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, extending a weekly
rally to 5.6 percent, the most since July 2009. Treasuries fell,
pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.19
percent from 3.16 percent late yesterday.  A measure of  consumer confidence  fell more than projected
in June, and construction spending in May dropped for a sixth
straight month as the housing market remained a hurdle for the
expansion, other reports today showed.  Inventories Grow  Estimates for the manufacturing index from 77 economists in
the Bloomberg survey ranged from 49 to 55. The supply managers’
report showed factory inventories grew in June at the fastest
pace since November. Measures of production, new orders and
employment rose at a slower pace.  “We’re not looking at robust recovery period here, but
through thick and thin it’s being sustained,” Bradley Holcomb,
chairman of the Institute for Supply Management’s factory survey
committee, said during a conference call with reporters.
“Everybody’s cautious.”  The data are at odds with other figures today that showed
manufacturing growth is slowing from  China  to  Europe . China’s
factory index fell in June to the weakest level since February
2009, while in the 17-nation euro area, a gauge slipped to an
18-month low. German manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace
in 17 months, while Italy, Ireland,  Spain  and  Greece  contracted.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan said today its final
index of sentiment fell to 71.5 from 74.3 in May.  Construction Spending  The Commerce Department reported that construction spending
in May dropped for a sixth straight month. The 0.6 percent
decrease matched the previous month’s decline, which was
initially reported as a gain.  Economic growth in the U.S. slowed to a 1.9 percent annual
pace in the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three
months. Employers added 54,000 workers to their payrolls in May,
the smallest number in eight months.  Fed policy makers attributed some of the slowdown in the
first half of the year to “factors that are likely to be
temporary.”  “The effects of the Japanese disaster on manufacturing
output are likely to dissipate in coming months,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters on June 22 after the Fed’s two-
day policy meeting.  Reports last month suggest supply problems may be starting
to ease. U.S. factory output climbed 0.4 percent in May on
rising demand for machinery and computers, Fed data showed June
15.  Japanese Production  In  Japan , industrial production increased in May by the
most since 1953, led by carmakers that restored operations,
government figures showed June 29.  Even with the earthquake, unrest in the  Middle East  and
higher commodity prices, manufacturing “has been the rock in
the system,” Thomas L. Williams, chief operating officer at
Parker Hannifin, said June 16 at a conference in  Chicago . “I
still feel that way. I’m not worried about a double-dip
recession as far as what I’m seeing.”  The Cleveland-based maker of components used in
construction equipment and aircraft is focusing on growth in
 Asia , where it is on track to triple sales to $3 billion,
Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  