-- 
Uganda Shilling Strengthens as Central Bank Sells Dollars Again

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-07-01T11:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/ugandan-shilling-gains-as-central-bank-sells-sizeable-amount-of-dollars.html
Uganda ’s shilling gained for a second
day as the central bank continued to sell dollars in the
domestic foreign-exchange market to curb volatility.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest coffee producer
climbed 1.5 percent to 2,552.50 per dollar by 2:15 p.m. in the
capital, Kampala, taking its increase since yesterday to 4.8
percent, the biggest two-day advance since February 2006. The
shilling is the second-best performer worldwide against the
dollar, after the Mozambican metical, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Uganda sold a “sizeable” amount of dollars
today, Stephen Kaboyo, director of financial markets at the
central bank, said in a phone interview. “We are in the market
basically still to deal with the speculative tendencies.”  The central bank has sold dollars in the domestic foreign-
exchange market at least four times since June 15 as the
currency weakened to its lowest level since June 1993. Inflation
in the East African country has accelerated to a 17-year high of
16 percent in May, before slowing to 15.8 percent last month.  Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile said last month the
central bank “shall not hesitate” to stem speculative trading in
the currency. The central bank’s foreign reserves currently
stand at 5.62 trillion shillings ($2.17 billion), according to
the bank’s website.  Today’s dollar sales by the bank helped the currency firm,
said Benon Okwenje, a trader at Stanbic Uganda Ltd.  “We have come down slightly,” he said. “The spreads are
still wide,” indicating continuing volatility, he said.  Uganda, East Africa’s third-biggest economy, is scheduled
to become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  is
expected to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert
Basin. The country has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil,
with about 1 billion barrels in proven reserves, according to
Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 