-- 
Hulu Bankers Said to Meet Suitors Google, Yahoo, Microsoft

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-01T22:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/hulu-said-to-meet-with-google-yahoo-microsoft-as-sale-process-begins.html
Bankers for Hulu LLC, the video-
streaming service, have met with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo Inc. and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as the company explores a sale, people familiar
with the process said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Guggenheim Partners have reached out to
10 to 12 potential bidders, including  AT&T Inc. (T) , said two people
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  A sale may bring more than $2 billion to Hulu’s owners,
which include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , News Corp. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC Universal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and SNL
Kagan. Hulu was approached by a potential suitor, starting the
process, people familiar with the matter said on June 21.  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Chris Gaither, a spokesman for
 Mountain View , California-based Google. Kim Rubey, with
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, Lisa Tryall, at Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft and Brad Burns, with Dallas-based
AT&T also declined to comment.  The Los Angeles Times reported the meetings earlier.  Hulu would be attractive to any large company seeking to
build an online content business, Clayton Moran, an analyst with
Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton, Florida, said last week.  Hulu reached tentative agreements to renew rights to
television shows from Disney, owner of the ABC broadcast
network, and Fox parent News Corp., people with knowledge of the
matter said last week.  Ownership Change  Comcast stepped back from a management role at Hulu as a
condition for regulators to allow its purchase of NBC Universal,
leaving decisions to Burbank, California-based Disney and Rupert Murdoch’s New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  Providence Equity Partners,
the Rhode Island private-equity company, is also a part-owner.  Under a new owner, Hulu may gain capital to acquire more
films and TV shows and challenge Netflix Inc., the dominant
subscription streaming service.  Hulu, which never went forward with a planned IPO that
envisioned a $2 billion value for the company, has said it will
exceed 1 million users for its $7.99-a-month service and have
$500 million in total sales this year.  SNL Kagan estimates Hulu will generate $45 million in
profit this year.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, has 23 million
customers and may generate six times as much in revenue. It is
valued at 53 times projected earnings, or more than $14 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  