-- 
UN Says African Central Bank Should Be Wary of Interest Rate Increases

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-01T06:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/un-says-african-central-bank-should-be-wary-of-interest-rate-increases.html
African central banks should be wary
of raising  interest rates  as increased food and oil prices
threaten to damp economic growth, the economics director of the
United Nations Economic Commission for  Africa , Emmanuel
Nnadozie, said.  Inflation stemming from a global jump in food and fuel
costs may curb consumption in Africa, where people spend a
larger percentage of their income on essential items, Nnadozie
said yesterday in an interview at the African Union summit in
Malabo, the capital of  Equatorial Guinea .  Central banks shouldn’t increase interest rates in cases
where economic growth is below the country’s potential, such as
Nigeria, Egypt, Libya and Tunisia, he said.  “There is a real threat that this could really hamper the
growth trends that you are seeing,” Nnadozie said. For some
countries “it would be premature for them to start thinking
about interest rate hikes.”  Central banks in countries such as  Nigeria , the continent’s
largest oil producer, and  Kenya , which has East Africa’s biggest
economy, have raised their key interest rate this year as they
battle inflation.  Kenya’s inflation rate rose to the highest in more than two
years in June, jumping to 14.5 percent from 13 percent, the
Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on June
29. The central bank’s monetary policy committee is due to meet
this month to decide on the benchmark interest rate, which it
has raised twice this year to bring it to 6.25 percent.  ‘Tricky’  Nigeria’s central bank last month raised its benchmark rate
for the third time this year, increasing it by half a percentage
point to 8 percent. The lender is struggling to bring inflation
into single digits from its April level of 11.3 percent.  “For Nigeria, the question is a little tricky,” Nnadozie
said. “They’re saying they’ll grow 6 or 7 percent, but I think
it has the capacity to grow even more so one has to be a little
bit careful.”  Egypt , Libya and Tunisia should maintain low interest rates
in order to spur economic growth, which has been weakened by the
political unrest in the North African nations, Nnadozie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Malabo at   fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 