-- 
Use Nokia Options as Shares May Gain, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-07-01T16:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/use-nokia-options-to-position-for-upside-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should trade  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
options because shares may gain in the fourth quarter as the
company plans to switch operating systems and a joint venture
it’s in may end, according to Morgan Stanley.  Praveen Singh, London-based equity derivatives strategist
at the bank, and analyst Patrick Standaert recommended buying
Nokia December 5-euro calls while selling September 5-euro calls
because the Espoo, Finland-based company’s shares may rise in
the fourth quarter as it shifts to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone 7 for its main high-end platform, and because of a
possible end to its 50-50 joint venture with Siemens AG, Nokia
Siemens Networks.  “Nokia is a company in transition facing major
headwinds,” Singh and Standaert wrote in a note today.
“Positive news flow on Windows Phone product development and
NSN exit could lead to upside in the stock.”  The Windows Phone 7 operating system will replace Nokia’s
own Symbian line, which is losing out to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android handsets. Nokia, the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by volume, is also looking at “multiple
options” for Nokia Siemens Networks, spokesman James Etheridge
said. NSN, the second-biggest maker of wireless communications
equipment by market share, had an operating loss of 686 million
euros ($975 million) on revenue of 12.7 billion euros in 2010.  2011 Decline  Nokia tumbled 43 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent decline for the Helsinki Stock Exchange General Index.
Morgan Stanley rates the company “underweight” and cut its
price estimate to 3.70 euros.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for
Nokia’s at-the-money options expiring in three months reached a
two-year high of 47.77 on June 28. Term structure, a gauge of
what different options maturities cost based on their implied
volatility, is inverted before the company releases earnings on
July 21, the note said.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell.  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  