-- 
Venezuelan Bonds Rally After Chavez Says He’s Fighting Cancer

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-01T20:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/venezuelan-dollar-bonds-rally-after-chavez-says-he-s-fighting-cancer.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied, pushing
yields on its benchmark bonds to a seven-month low, after
President  Hugo Chavez  said he is being treated for cancer in
Cuba.  The yield on Venezuela’s dollar bonds due in 2027 fell 31
basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, to 12.74 percent at 4:25
p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
price on the bonds rose 1.68 cents to 76.25 cents on the dollar.  Chavez’s announcement sparked speculation he may not seek
re-election, opening the door for a new government that may
reverse policies that made the country’s debt the riskiest in
emerging markets. Chavez, in a videotaped message read yesterday
from  Havana , said he was recovering favorably after doctors
removed a tumor in a second, previously undisclosed operation
since arriving in Cuba on June 8. The self-declared 21st century
socialist revolutionary gave no date for his return, saying only
that his treatment “can’t be rushed.”  “The news lessens the probability that Chavez can stay in
power for an indefinite period of time and increases the
probability that you get more of a market friendly government in
 Venezuela ,” said Bret Rosen, a Latin America debt strategist
with Standard Chartered Bank in New York. “That said, the
market may be underestimating what a potential transition could
look like.”  Chavez’s nationalizations and currency controls have made
Venezuela’s bonds the highest-yielding debt in JPMorgan’s
benchmark EMBI+ index. The extra yield investors demand to own
Venezuelan bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 37 basis
points today to 1,013, according to JPMorgan.  A Finance Ministry official declined to comment.  ‘Complementary Treatments’  Chavez, 56, said he remains in charge of his nation’s
affairs from Cuba and is in constant contact with his cabinet,
which immediately swore its allegiance to the convalescing
leader. Still, with nobody in the government matching Chavez’s
clout with the poor, his hold on power may be challenged by the
opposition if he doesn’t return home soon, said Luis Vicente
Leon, director of Caracas-based pollster Datanalisis.  Venezuelan  state television  aired a new video today dated
June 29 that showed Chavez discussing government policies with
his foreign minister, head of the army and older brother. In the
45-minute video, Chavez said he was focused on recovering from
the operations.  Chavez, who plans to seek re-election for a third term next
year, said in yesterday’s videotaped message that he continues
to receive “complementary treatments” to kill the cancerous
cells found by his doctors.  ‘Weakened’  The prospect of Chavez’s prolonged absence could further
embolden the opposition, which was strengthened after winning
the majority of votes in congressional elections last September.
Support for Chavez fell to near the lowest in eight years in
March as a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar and the fastest
inflation among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg erode the
purchasing power of his working-class base.  “Even if Chavez returns to Caracas to resume his
presidency, his candidacy has been weakened and with it the
likelihood that his economic policies will be sustained,” said
Jaime Valdivia, who helps manage $1.4 billion of emerging-market
assets at Bluecrest Capital Management in  New York . “The news
of Chavez’s health is a definite game-changer.”  Venezuela is facing at least 16 investment dispute cases
from nationalizations, including a pending decision with Exxon
Mobil Corp. that may cost the country as much as $3.7 billion,
according to Barclays Plc.  Debt Sales  Chavez, who imposed currency controls in 2003, has ramped
up bond sales by the government and state oil company Petroleos
de Venezuela to meet demand for U.S. currency. Venezuela, the
largest oil producer in  South America  and a founding member of
OPEC, depends on crude for 95 percent of export revenue.  PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, has issued $7.93
billion of debt this year after selling $4.6 billion of bonds in
2010. The government sold $3 billion of new securities last
year.  PDVSA said that it re-opened a  bond issue  due in 2013
yesterday for $1.78 billion in a private placement with the
central bank.  Bonds are rallying as the prospect for more
nationalizations is reduced as Chavez rules from abroad, said
Boris Segura, a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities
International Inc.  “This limbo is probably good for Venezuelan asset prices,
Segura said in an interview in Caracas. “There’s a policy
paralysis, which given the latest moves by the government,
should be welcome in the sense that you shouldn’t expect anymore
irrational policies to be enacted during this period.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at  dcancel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  