-- 
Vick Signs Endorsement Agreement With Nike Four Years After Being Dropped

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-07-01T17:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/vick-signs-endorsement-agreement-with-nike-four-years-after-being-dropped.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  said it re-signed Michael Vick, whom the world’s largest sporting-goods company dropped as
an endorser four years ago after the quarterback admitted to his
role in a dog-fighting ring.  Neither Nike nor Chicago-based attorney Andrew Stroth,
Vick’s marketing agent, would disclose financial terms of the
multiyear contract, which was reported earlier by CNBC.  “Michael has acknowledged his past mistakes,” Beaverton,
Oregon-based Nike said in a statement. “We do not condone those
actions, but we support the positive changes he has made to
better himself off the field.”  Nike will replace Reebok International Ltd. in April 2012
as the  National Football League ’s official apparel supplier.  Vick’s contract contains a commitment to work with camps
and youth programs, said Stroth, who also represents free-agent
quarterback Donovan McNabb and guard  Dwyane Wade  of basketball’s
Miami Heat in marketing deals.  “Long-term,  Michael Vick  wants to coach,” Stroth said in
a telephone interview. “Michael wants to utilize the platform
of playing in the NFL to impact our youth.”  Vick, 31, played the past two NFL seasons with the Eagles
after serving time in federal prison on the dog-fighting counts.
He spent 2001-06 with the  Atlanta Falcons .  Nike called the allegations against Vick “inhumane and
abhorrent” when it cut ties with him in 2007.  Joel Segal, Vick’s agent, said in a telephone interview
that his client was “ecstatic” about the new agreement.  Vick was the NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year in 2010.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  