-- 
Vietnam to Lower Taxes, Keep Economy Stable in Second Half

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T11:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/vietnam-to-lower-taxes-keep-economy-stable-in-second-half-1-.html
Vietnam  plans to cut taxes and allow
some late payments as the government takes steps to keep the
economy stable in the second half, including continued efforts
to tame inflation, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said.  The government will permit late payments of corporate
income taxes in 2011, estimated at about 13 trillion dong
($631.5 million), Dung said in a  statement  posted today on the
government’s website. It will also submit a proposal to the
National Assembly to lower and remove about 7 trillion dong in
corporate and individual income taxes.  In the last six months of the year, the country will still
face “many challenges” including high inflation and  interest
rates  and a large trade deficit, Dung said. The government will
“continue to implement a tight, cautious and efficient monetary
policy,” he said.  In February, Dung cut targets for credit growth and the
 budget deficit , as part of monetary and fiscal policy tightening
to revive investor confidence in the Southeast Asian economy.
The central bank raised interest rates every month this year
through May to tackle price increases.  Liquidity at banks has improved, Nguyen Xuan Phuc, chairman
of the government office, said at a regular briefing in Hanoi
today. Vietnam will cut interest rates in line with inflation,
Phuc said. “Credit will be controlled closely with loans
prioritized for production, agriculture and exports,” he said.  Vietnam’s foreign reserves rose by $3 billion in the first
half of the year, Phuc said. The country’s foreign exchange and
gold markets have been stable, he said.  Dung reiterated that the government is targeting year-end
inflation of 15 percent to 17 percent in today’s statement.
Consumer prices climbed 20.82 percent in June from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008.  --Diep Ngoc Pham and Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi. Editors: Ryan Woo.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net . 