-- 
VIX Falls Most in Three Months as Stocks Rally, Concern Over Greece Eases

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-01T20:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/vix-index-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-august-2007-falling-27-.html
The benchmark index for U.S. stock
options decreased the most in three months as stocks rallied
amid optimism  Greece  will contain its debt crisis and a rebound
in U.S. manufacturing.  Europe ’s VStoxx slumped.  The VIX, as the  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell 25 percent this week to 15.87 as of 4:15
p.m. in  New York . Earlier, it dropped to 15.12, the lowest
intraday level since May 2. The index measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, which climbed 1.4 percent today for its fifth
straight advance. August VIX futures fell 4 percent to 18.  “During the whole Greek crisis, everyone was looking for
protection and they really ran up the VIX,” said Rick Fier, a
trader at Conifer Securities LLC in New York. “Now you’re
seeing a complete unwind.”  The  S&P 500  rallied, extending the biggest weekly gain in a
year, after U.S. manufacturing growth unexpectedly rose in June.
The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index gained to
55.3, the group said today. Economists forecast a drop to 52,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “People are less afraid of a major decline in the market
and feel more confident that their investments are safe,” said
Brenna Hardman, a derivatives broker at MEB Options LLC in
Chicago. “A lot of the worry has been brushed off the table
with the Greece situation.”  Equities rebounded across Europe this week after Greece
approved a package of austerity measures, qualifying it for more
aid from the European Union.  Europe’s benchmark gauge of stock-market volatility posted
a 27 percent drop for the week, the most since November 2008.
The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting against
a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, decreased 27
percent to 19.73 in  Frankfurt . The Euro Stoxx 50 stock index
rose 5.9 percent after five straight gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 