-- 
Want a Repatriation Tax Holiday? Hire More U.S. Workers: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/want-a-repatriation-tax-holiday-hire-more-u-s-workers-view.html
U.S. multinational companies have
stockpiled enormous amounts of cash overseas in the hope that
they can avoid paying taxes on it. This isn’t illegal, nor is it
illogical, given that current law would  tax  those profits at
rates up to 35 percent when they’re brought back to the U.S.  But it certainly does no good for the U.S. economy, which
is badly in need of productive investment.  As Bloomberg News reported, Cisco Systems Inc. has $31.6
billion in overseas earnings on which it has paid no U.S. income
taxes. That’s almost 90 percent of Cisco’s total cash. All told,
companies say, $1 trillion in earnings sit offshore, awaiting
the blessing of a benevolent Congress to come home and start
creating jobs, jobs, jobs. These companies are lobbying the
government to offer a repatriation tax holiday, in which the tax
rate on foreign profits would fall to 5.25 percent, for one
year.  Evidence suggests this won’t do much for employment. A
 study  published by the National Bureau of Economic Research
found that the last time the U.S. tried such a program, in 2004,
it had little measurable effect on job creation. “Repatriations
did not lead to an increase in domestic investment, employment
or R&D -- even for the firms that lobbied for the tax holiday
stating these intentions,” the study said. Instead, roughly 92
cents of every repatriated dollar went to stock buybacks and
shareholder dividends.  Tax experts largely agree that this is terrible policy-
making. Coming so soon after the last tax holiday, another one
this year would encourage corporations to hoard yet more money
overseas in anticipation of still more breaks. It might distort
currency markets at the margins. It would surely encourage tax
gamesmanship, as lawyers would seek ways around whatever
conditions Congress might apply. It would also be an enormous
distraction from designing a permanent fix for the corporate tax
code.  There are other, better options for stimulus. Another
short-term tax cut for the middle class would probably be more
effective in creating jobs. But if Congress is intent on
granting another holiday, it should be reserved for companies
that will add full-time jobs -- to ensure that taxpayers get
something in return for the corporate-tax break.  Here’s one option: Companies could repatriate foreign
profits at, say, a 15 percent rate, less than the average
company pays and well below the top rate of 35 percent. To keep
that subsidy, they would have to show an increase in employee
headcount, averaged over the next three years. In the long run,
the bigger the increase in payroll, the bigger the tax break.  Some companies lobbying for a tax holiday -- technology
giants Cisco, Apple Inc. and Google Inc. come to mind --
probably wouldn’t benefit much by this plan, as they are
unlikely to hire in large numbers. So be it. They will have to
bring back their offshore earnings at the higher rate or invest
the money overseas.  Likewise, this is hardly a cure-all for 9 percent
unemployment. Some companies will figure out how to game the
system, and others will be rewarded for hiring workers they
intended to hire anyway. But it might nudge some cautious
manufacturers to take the hiring plunge instead of continuing to
wait for the jobless rate to decline and consumer spending to
rebound. Creating some new jobs is better than creating no new
jobs.  In the 112th Congress, that would count as progress.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 