-- 
Western Union Is Said to Be Nearing $1 Billion Purchase of Travelex Unit

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-01T20:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/western-union-is-said-to-be-nearing-1-billion-purchase-of-travelex-unit.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the world’s
largest money-transfer firm, is in talks to buy a division of
Apax Partners LLP’s Travelex foreign-exchange business for about
$1 billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Western Union, based in Englewood,  Colorado , may announce
an agreement to acquire Travelex’s global  business-payments unit 
as early as next week, said the people, who didn’t wish to be
named because the talks are private.  A deal would help Western Union Chief Executive Officer
Hikmet Ersek, 50, add revenue from corporate transactions
overseas. Consumer-to-consumer services provided 84 percent of
the firm’s $1.28 billion revenue in the first quarter, according
to the company’s financial report. Travelex describes its
business-payments unit as the world’s largest non-bank provider
of foreign exchange and risk solutions.  “This business does have good margin characteristics,”
said James Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
in New York who has a “positive” rating on Western Union
shares. “It certainly has the potential to be more lucrative
than the consumer. The fee per transaction is really huge.”  Susquehanna facilitates trading in Western Union shares,
which gained 21 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $20.24 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Ben Harding , a spokesman for London-based private-equity
firm Apax, and Tom Fitzgerald at Western Union declined to
comment. Dani Filer at Travelex didn’t immediately respond to a
message seeking comment.  European Acquisitions  Ersek, who played professional basketball in  Austria , is
expanding Western Union’s operations in  Europe . The company said
last month that it would buy the rest of Finint Srl, an Italian
money-transfer firm. This year, it also spent $136 million to
complete a takeover of Angelo Costa Srl, another Italian
company, according to a regulatory filing.  Founded in 1976, Travelex processes international payments
for more than 35,000 corporate clients and distribution
partners, according to a May  statement  on its website. It also
serves consumers through a network of more than 950 stores and
450 automated teller machines. It handles about 20 billion
pounds ($32 billion) of foreign-exchange transactions annually.  Apax, run by CEO Martin Halusa, 56, bought a controlling
stake in Travelex in 2005 for more than 1 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  