-- 
Why China’s Heading for a Hard Landing, Part 5: A. Gary Shilling

-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 
2011-07-01T00:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/why-china-s-heading-for-a-hard-landing-part-5-a-gary-shilling.html
The hard landing that I foresee for
China will probably prick the global commodity bubble, which is
already showing signs of topping out.  Agricultural product prices have jumped, the result of
robust demand, bad weather last year in Russia, recent floods in
Australia, and dry and hot La Nina conditions in Argentina.  Industrial metals such as copper were on a tear. So were
precious metals, such as silver.  But much of the leap in commodity prices was due to
investors and other speculators. Exchange-traded funds had
already tied up much of the physical supplies of gold and other
precious metals. Futures contracts held by speculators were up
12 percent in 2010 through October, with sharp increases in
bullish bets on crude oil, copper and silver. Volatility forced
futures exchanges to raise margin requirements on a number of
commodities.  The confidence that China would continue to buy huge
quantities of almost all commodities has been the bedrock belief
of speculators. For example, there were rumors that China was
again building its emergency petroleum reserve in the first half
of this year.  I’ve studied many bubbles over the years, and concentrated
on predicting their demises. Commodities show every sign of
being in one.  Rare-Earth Exports  China added to the commodity frenzy last year by slashing
exports of rare-earth metals used in high-tech batteries, TV
sets, mobile phones and defense products. China supplies 95
percent of these elements, and consumes 60 percent, exporting
the rest. Its exports of rare earths fell 9 percent in 2010, but
still exceeded the government’s quota by a third.  Chinese authorities cut the export quota for the first half
of this year by 35 percent from a year earlier. Japanese
manufacturers of high-tech gear are seeking alternative
supplies. Of course, China maintains that its ongoing trade and
political spats with Japan have nothing to do with the tighter
quotas. They were necessary, Chinese leaders say, to sustain
rare-earth development and deal with environmental damage caused
by mining.  Speculators are starting to take stock of the evidence of a
hard landing in China, and industrial commodity prices,
including copper, are swooning. As in the past, warnings about
shortages in key industrial inputs are magically being
contradicted as unaccounted-for stockpiles materialize.  Weather-Driven Supply  Agricultural producers are influenced by global demand and
by weather-driven supply. I’ll leave it to others to forecast
the weather. But note that ideal growing weather often follows
the kind of bad weather we’ve seen lately, and bumper crops and
surpluses often replace worrying shortages in a crop-year or
two.  Furthermore, China imports (and might have stockpiled)
soybeans and other agricultural products that would suffer from
a slowing economy. Weakness in industrial commodities can easily
spread to the agricultural area. Notice the close correlation
among all commodity groups in recent years. The huge quantities
of hot, highly leveraged money now sloshing around the world
tend to end up on the same side of the same trade at the same
time.  As speculators suffer setbacks in one area, they quickly
bail out of other, fundamentally unrelated areas to preserve
their capital.  Commodity Exporters  The bursting of the commodities bubble will be bad news for
developing-country producers such as Brazil, which has thus far
largely escaped recent global economic and financial woes but is
a major exporter of iron ore and other commodities to China.
Developed commodity exporters -- Canada, New Zealand and
Australia -- as well as their currencies, may also suffer.  I’ve long believed that a hard landing in China would be
preceded by a price collapse in copper and other industrial
commodities. Copper prices peaked in February, and  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) ’s agreement on April 25 to acquire copper producer Equinox
Minerals Ltd. to gain mineral resources outside its area of
specialization is a classic sign of a peak.  Another classic sign of a speculative price peak was the
sudden appearance of copper inventories where none were thought
to exist. As prices start to break, hoarded commodities suddenly
become available for sale by highly leveraged owners. Copper in
China was so abundant that bonded warehouses were full. In
January and February, extra copper was sold abroad as Chinese
exports were eight times the year-earlier total.  Falling Copper Prices  London Metal Exchange bonded warehouses saw copper
inventories leap 17 percent in the first quarter. Furthermore,
to circumvent tight bank lending in China, borrowers are relying
more on available letters of credit to finance copper arbitrage
trading and otherwise have the use of the borrowed money with
copper purchases as their collateral. If copper prices continue
to fall, those borrowers will have to sell their copper on the
market to prevent further losses, resulting in still-lower
prices.  Meanwhile, sugar topped out in February, and cotton in
March. I pointed this out in a speech to an investor conference
in April, and several people in the audience questioned my
facts. I compared those who hadn’t noticed this peak to Wile E.
Coyote of the “Road Runner” cartoons, who runs off the cliff and
finds himself suspended in air before dropping to the valley
floor.  Further confirmation came May 2, when silver prices, which
had skyrocketed earlier, started to collapse and virtually all
other commodities followed: crude oil, cotton, copper, grains
and even gold.  Moving in Lockstep  As I noted earlier, there is so much leverage money
floating around the world that regardless of how it’s managed --
by fundamental, momentum or technical strategies -- it tends to
end up on the same side of the same trades at the same time. So,
when one of these positions reverses, the effects spread rapidly
as speculators bail out of their positions to reduce risk and
preserve their capital. Keep in mind that the prices of the wide
variety of commodities continue to move in lockstep.  Many commodity bulls see this trend as a short-lived
midcourse price correction and have maintained their long
positions in copper, crude oil, corn and even silver. But
markets anticipate, and it now appears the declines in
commodities are foreshadowing a hard landing in China, with the
effects spreading globally.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the last of a five-part series.)  Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4 .  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 