-- 
Will Crisis-Ridden Europe Find Its Own Alexander Hamilton?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/will-crisis-ridden-europe-find-its-own-alexander-hamilton-view.html
What will it take to fix a European
Union troubled by heavy debts and internal friction? The story
of the U.S., which celebrates its 235th year of independence on
July 4, offers a parable that  Europe ’s leaders might find
instructive.  In the late 18th century, financial troubles threatened to
tear apart the newly formed union. In many ways, the crisis was
not unlike the one Europe is now trying to contain with a second
bailout of  Greece .  After the Revolutionary War, the huge debts of states such
as  Massachusetts  and  South Carolina  were strangling an already
depressed economy. A farmers’ rebellion against rising taxes
brought the young nation to the brink of its first civil war.
Faith in U.S. credit fell so low that veterans were selling
government IOUs for as little as 15 cents on the dollar.  Much like today’s Europe, the U.S. lacked a federal
executive branch with the power to manage the crisis. But its
first Treasury secretary,  Alexander Hamilton , had a proposal
that went far beyond what anyone in Europe is now considering.
His plan: Have Congress authorize the federal government to take
responsibility for some $25 million in states’ debts -- the
equivalent of about $2 trillion in today’s economy -- and to
raise the money to pay them.  The plan had some flaws, and Hamilton was fully aware of
them, according to biographer Ron Chernow. The government would
be rewarding speculators who had bought the debt at a discount,
and fiscally strong states would effectively be bailing out weak
ones.  Benefits Exceed Costs  But the proposal would also free the states’ economies to
grow and set an important precedent by establishing the good
credit of the fledgling union. The benefits that would accrue to
a nation whose bonds were viewed as good as gold, Hamilton
reasoned, would far outweigh the costs.  Governments “who observe their engagements, are respected
and trusted,” Hamilton wrote in his  Report on Public Credit  in
1789. “The reverse is the fate of those, who pursue an opposite
conduct.”  Hamilton’s plan encountered vehement opposition, just as
any similar suggestion would now in Europe. Like today’s
fiscally prudent  Germany , states that had paid off their war
debts saw no reason to bail out their neighbors. James Madison,
the House floor leader, railed against the idea of compelling
states, “after having done their duty, to contribute to those
states who have not equally done their duty.”  Most Angry Debate  The debate in Congress became so acrimonious that some
worried it would mean the end of the union. “This measure
produced the most bitter and angry contest ever known in
Congress, before or since the Union of the States,”  Thomas Jefferson  later  wrote .  But after losing a House vote in April 1790, Hamilton
persevered. His sense of urgency was so strong that he was
willing to make what, for him, was a politically perilous
sacrifice: Give up the claim of his home state,  New York , to
become the site of the nation’s capital.  According to Jefferson, that’s the bargain Hamilton and
Madison reached during a dinner meeting at Jefferson’s house.
The permanent capital would go to a site on the Potomac River,
and Hamilton would get the votes he needed to fix the financial
crisis.  The rest is history. The U.S. entered a period of
prosperity, and its faith and credit became the world’s gold
standard. Even in today’s financial crisis, investors have
rushed to the safe haven of U.S. Treasury bonds, and the dollar
remains the world’s premier reserve currency.  In 1946,  Winston Churchill  voiced the aspiration he and
other leaders shared for a Europe ravaged by war. “To re-create
the European family,” he  pledged , “and to provide it with a
structure under which it can dwell in peace, in safety and in
freedom. We must build a kind of United States of Europe.”  At this crucial juncture in its history, Europe may need
its own Hamilton to make that vision a reality.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials . 