-- 
Wimbledon Final Decided by Serves of Sharapova, Kvitova, Navratilova Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-01T23:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/wimbledon-final-decided-by-serves-of-sharapova-kvitova-navratilova-says.html
The serve will be key in today’s
women’s final at Wimbledon between 2004 champion  Maria Sharapova 
and  Petra Kvitova , nine-time winner  Martina Navratilova  said.  “It’s such a toss-up,” Navratilova said in a news
conference this week at the All England Club. “It basically
comes down to who serves better.”  Sharapova is playing in her first Wimbledon final since she
won the tournament at age 17 seven years ago. The Russian has
struggled with her serve at times since having shoulder surgery
in 2008, an injury that sidelined the former top-ranked player
for nine months.  Sharapova has hit 32 double faults, the most out of anyone
in the women’s draw, and 21 aces on her way to the final. She
produced 13 double faults in her semifinal against German wild-
card Sabine Lisicki. The left-handed Kvitova had 13 double
faults and 35 aces on the way to her first major championship
match.  “I think Petra will return better and it will be easier
for her to hold serve,” Navratilova said. “That lefty serve
will pay off a little bit more.”  Playing a left-handed player is always a challenge,
Sharapova said.  “The spin is coming from a different side,” she said in a
news conference yesterday. “On grass, with the way the spin
comes out, it’s a big advantage, coming from a lefty. It’s a
matter of seeing the ball a little bit faster and reacting.”  Sharapova Favorite  Sharapova, a three-time Grand Slam champion, is the 4-7
favorite to win the title at U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc.
That means a successful $7 bet would return $4 plus the original
wager. Kvitova, 21, is at 6-4 to become the first Czech woman to
triumph at the All England Club since Jana Novotna in 1998.  “The ladies final is win or bust for bookies William Hill
as a Sharapova victory will cost Hill a big six-figure sum,
while a Kvitova victory would be one of the best-ever tennis
results,” Rupert Adams of William Hill said in an e-mail. One
customer has put a 51,000 pound ($82,000) bet on Sharapova to
win, which would cost the bookmaker 114,750 pounds should she
succeed.  Sharapova, 24, became a global superstar after winning
Wimbledon at 17. With a game built on ground strokes and mental
toughness, she has become the world’s best-paid female athlete.  Earning Power  The Russian, who also won the 2006  U.S. Open , earns $24
million in prize money and from endorsing companies including
Tiffany & Co., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd. and
Groupe Danone SA’s Evian water, according to Forbes magazine.
Her $15 million in career prize money alone is one-third higher
than that of the combined winnings of three other Wimbledon
women semifinalists -- Kvitova,  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus and
Sabine Lisicki of  Germany .  Now ranked No. 6 on the WTA tour, Sharapova will climb to
No. 3 if she wins Wimbledon. She is seeded fifth.  Sharapova reached the semifinals at the  French Open  last
month, losing to eventual champion  Li Na , and has reached the
final in London without dropping a set. Kvitova, the No. 8 seed,
has dropped two sets in the tournament.  “It will totally be first strike on the ball,”
Navratilova said. “Maria probably has the best return in the
game. With the serves, Kvitova will get on top of the rally a
little bit earlier than Maria maybe.”  Kvitova said she can’t afford to start slowly against
Sharapova.  “I have to play my best, for sure,” she said in a news
conference. “Play for 100 percent and then I can win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  