-- 
Yemen Opposition to Debate Takeover From Saleh as Protests Flare

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-07-01T13:48:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/yemen-opposition-to-debate-takeover-from-saleh-as-protests-flare.html
Tens of thousands of Yemenis took to
the streets in protest against President Ali Abdullah Saleh, as
the main opposition alliance prepared to discuss setting up a
committee to run the country in his place.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, said today that it would discuss the creation of a
transitional council in a meeting scheduled for tomorrow.
Protesters in cities across  Yemen  continued their five-month
effort to topple Saleh in rallies after Friday prayers.  “The situation in Yemen cannot tolerate further delay,”
Hasan Zaid, a leading member of the Joint Meeting Parties, said
in a telephone interview today. “We can only claim the
revolution has won if those people involved in the abuses of the
human rights of the citizens are held accountable.”  Saleh is recuperating in  Saudi Arabia  after being injured
in a June 3 attack on his compound in the Yemeni capital,
Sana’a, leaving Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi in charge.
Pro-democracy protesters have been calling for Saleh to step
down since January, leading to deadly clashes between activists
and security forces, with hundreds killed.  “Free people of Yemen, you have achieved a lot in your
revolution,” said Mohammed al-Saqal, a cleric addressing
thousands gathered today in Sana’a. “We say to the tyrant:
No!”  In an  interview with CNN  yesterday, Hadi said that Saleh
suffered burns on his face, hands and chest, though he is
improving every day. He was unable to give a time table for the
president’s return to Yemen. Hadi said Saleh will only step down
when a new president has been elected.  “He is part of solving the problems in Yemen. He is part
of the political balance,” Hadi told  CNN . “He has been an
expert in dealing with all differences, and with all political
and tribal differences, and tribal approaches.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  