-- 
YPF Said to Market Global Bonds for First Time in 13 Years After Oil Find

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-07-01T20:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/ypf-said-to-start-marketing-first-global-bond-sale-in-13-years-after-find.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s largest company
by market value, will meet investors as early as next week about
plans to sell global bonds for the first time in 13 years, a
person with direct knowledge of the situation said.  The so-called road-show in the U.S. and  Europe  will gauge
interest for seven-year bonds, paying about 6.5 percent, the
person said, declining to be identified because the plans aren’t
public. Buenos Aires-based YPF, also Argentina’s largest oil
company, said in November that the global bond sale, its first
since 1998, would be for as much as $600 million.  YPF, buoyed by Argentina’s largest oil discovery in at
least two decades, is turning to debt markets even as local
companies haven’t sold bonds globally in nine weeks. Yields on
local corporate debt reached the highest in almost eight months
amid investor concern that President  Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner  will win a second four-year term in October elections.  Fernandez and YPF jointly announced on May 10 that the oil
producer had found the equivalent of about 150 million barrels
in shale oil in the remote southern region of Patagonia.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. assigned a ‘BB-’ rating on YPF’s
proposed global bond sale today, three levels below investment
grade. The rating covers a $300 million issuance that “could
potentially increase to $600 million,” Fitch said.  YPF’s American depositary receipts rose 30 cents, or 0.67
percent, to $45.35 at 4:07 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Repsol SA,  Spain ’s largest energy company, sold a 15.77
stake in Buenos Aires-based YPF between November and April
through private placements and share offerings. Argentina’s
billionaire Eskenazi family, who operate the company, own 25
percent after acquiring about 10 percent from Repsol in May.  The yield on Repsol’s 2017 euro-denominated rose 3 basis
points to 4.047 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  