-- 
Yuan Forwards Set for Weekly Gain as Currency Favored Over Rate

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-07-01T09:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/yuan-forwards-set-for-weekly-gain-as-currency-favored-over-rate.html
Yuan forwards rose this week on
speculation policy makers will tolerate currency appreciation to
arrest the fastest inflation since 2008 amid signs the economy
is slowing.  A manufacturing index fell to 50.9 in June, the lowest
level since February 2009, the  China  Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today. The central bank will be cautious about
reserve-requirement ratio increases to avoid a potential cash
crunch at lenders, the China Securities Journal said in a
commentary today.  “The yuan will continue to appreciate,” said Ho Woei
Chen, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“It will be a stronger inflation number in the second half,
which means the People’s Bank of China will still want to
tighten via exchange rates. In terms of  interest rates  and
 reserve requirements , the pace of tightening will slow.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards increased 0.26
percent this week to 6.3755 per dollar at 4:32 p.m. in  Hong
Kong , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts,
which rose 0.15 percent today, were at a 1.4 percent premium to
the spot rate in  Shanghai .  The yuan, which was little changed today, advanced 0.13
percent this week to 6.4649 per dollar in Shanghai, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan gained 0.17 percent this week to 6.4595.  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate stronger for a fourth day, fixing it at 6.4685. The yuan
isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5 percent on either side of
the central bank’s daily fixing.  The yuan’s trading band against the  U.S. dollar  may widen
to 1 percent from 0.5 percent “soon”, the  China Daily 
reported, citing a report by Bank of China Ltd. A wider trading
band would help form a more market-based  exchange rate , the
newspaper reported today, citing Bank of China Chief Economist
Cao Yuanzheng.  ‘Result of Tightening’  China has paused for 11 weeks in raising interest rates,
the longest gap since increases began in October. Consumer
prices climbed 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the most
since July 2008, the statistics bureau said on June 14.  Inflation is likely to average 5.3 percent this year,
topping the government’s 4 percent target, the Economic
Information Daily reported this week, citing Li Jianwei,
director of the macro economy research institute under the State
Council’s Development Research Center.  “In terms of growth, China still has decent numbers,”
UOB’s Ho said. The slowing economy is “a result of monetary
tightening and this is what they wanted -- the soft landing,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  