-- 
Zynga’s Reliance on Facebook for Sales Spooks Some Investors as IPO Nears

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-01/zynga-will-raise-1-billion-in-ipo-letting-investors-bet-on-virtual-goods.html
Zynga Inc. has become the most
valuable U.S. video-game company by relying on  Facebook  Inc. to
reach users. Now it has to convince investors that its
dependence on the social network won’t hinder growth.  Zynga, maker of social games such as “FarmVille” and
“CityVille,” said yesterday it will raise $1 billion in an
initial public offering, becoming the latest social-media
company to announce plans for an IPO.  Founded by  Mark Pincus  in 2007, San Francisco-based Zynga
is the biggest application developer on Facebook, with the four
most popular games and eight times the number of users as its
closest competitor. Facebook accounted for “substantially all”
of Zynga’s $235.4 million in first-quarter sales, which may
concern investors because so much of Zynga’s future is at the
mercy of decisions made by Facebook.  “It’s a double-edged sword,” said Scott Rostan, a  former
banker  and founder of  Training the Street Inc. , a New York-based
firm that provides educational services for the finance
industry. “You’re riding that wave of Facebook and its user
base, but the danger would be if Facebook says, ‘Why can’t we
capture more of that revenue ourselves?’”  Zynga  said in its IPO filing yesterday that revenue surged
almost fivefold in 2010 to $597.5 million, compared with 2009.
The company also turned profitable last year, recording net
income of $90.6 million, following a loss of $52.8 million.  Virtual Goods  Zynga games are free to play, with the company making money
from selling virtual items within apps, such as a townhouse in
“CityVille” or a shipyard in “Empires & Allies.” The
worldwide virtual-goods market will more than double to $20.3
billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year, according to
 ThinkEquity LLC , a San Francisco-based research firm.  While Zynga has developed games for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
iPad, Google Inc.’s Android phones and Yahoo! Inc.’s game site,
it has struggled to make money outside Facebook.  “Any deterioration in our relationship with Facebook would
harm our business,” as well as stockholders, Zynga said in the
risk factors section of its filing. Specific risks include:
Facebook limiting the access of game developers, modification of
terms of service, favorable treatment toward Zynga’s rivals and
the possibility of Facebook building its own games.  Still, Zynga is valued at $15.4 billion on secondary
exchange SharesPost Inc., topping  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and
 Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , which are worth $13.5 billion and $8
billion, respectively, on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Public market
investors may balk at that price, said Ken Smith, a  money
manager  at Munder Capital Management in Birmingham,  Michigan .  Many Questions  “Expectations will be high, but I think there will be a
lot of questions about the sustainability of the business
model,” said Smith, whose firm manages about $15 billion.
Dependence on Facebook “adds a large element of risk to the
business that, I think, will hold back the valuation investors
are willing to give it.”  Facebook currently gets 30 percent of all virtual-goods
purchases made within games, through a payment system called
Facebook Credits, which was rolled out across the social network
last year. Facebook and Zynga forged a five-year agreement to
use Credits exclusively in most games.  Zynga’s business model has yet to scare away some of the
biggest mutual fund companies. T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and
 Fidelity Investments  disclosed this year that they bought stakes
in the company. The firms invested at a valuation of close to
$10 billion, people familiar with the matter said in February.  ‘Big Ecosystem’  “Facebook is going to build a big ecosystem for a range of
applications and has proved there will be big, sustainable
businesses on the platform,” said Rick Heitzmann, a managing
director at FirstMark Capital LLC in  New York , who invests in
gaming startups. “I don’t think there will be a huge risk to
Zynga.”  Pincus, 45, is Zynga’s chief executive officer and the
biggest owner of stock, controlling 16 percent of Class B
shares, according to the filing.  Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers  owns 11 percent and is the largest outside shareholder,
followed by Institutional Venture Partners, Foundry Group and
Avalon Ventures, which each own 6.1 percent.  Should Zynga raise $1 billion, it would be the largest IPO
for a U.S. Internet company since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in 2004. The
offering follows the initial share sales of professional
networking site LinkedIn Corp. in May and Web-music service
Pandora Media Inc. in June. HomeAway Inc., the vacation-rental
website operator, went public this week, and online coupon site
Groupon Inc. filed for its IPO last month.  IPO ‘Hysteria’  Zynga’s IPO will be managed by Morgan Stanley,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Allen & Co., according to the filing. The
company didn’t say how many shares it would sell or at what
price.  Fifty-three Internet companies have filed for U.S. IPOs so
far this year, the most since 164 companies in the industry
announced plans for initial offerings in the U.S. during all of
2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Zynga is taking advantage of the hysteria right now
around social networking,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief
investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which manages $1.1
billion in Walnut Creek,  California . “The valuation of $15 to
$20 billion is extremely generous and they’re going to have to
execute spectacularly in order to justify that valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  