-- Abe Warns China on Island Spat as Japan Dispatches Jets
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-10-28T09:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/abe-warns-china-on-island-spat-as-japan-dispatches-fighter-jets.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
warned he wouldn’t permit  China  to use force to resolve
territorial spats, as the renewed presence of Chinese aircraft
near disputed islands led its neighbor to dispatch fighter jets.  Japan sent up  fighter jets  for a third day yesterday after
Chinese aircraft flew between its southern islands without
entering Japanese airspace, the Self-Defense Forces said on
their website. Abe said yesterday the country would not allow
any shift in the status quo regarding islands both governments
claim in the  East China Sea . Abe made similar comments in an
interview with the Wall Street Journal on Oct. 25.  “We will show the nation’s determination not to allow any
change in the current situation by force,” Abe told Japanese
troops in a speech at a military base on the outskirts of Tokyo,
saying Japan would cooperate with countries that share its
values of freedom, democracy and basic human rights. He has
previously used such phrases in reference to Japan’s territorial
dispute with China.  Since Japan’s September 2012 purchase of three islands also
claimed by China, patrol boats from the two countries have
tailed one another through the area and the row has damaged
trade and tourism ties, with no summit between the leaders of
 Asia ’s two largest economies for about 18 months. The tensions
reflect China’s broader assertiveness in Asia as it extends the
reach of its military, at a time Japan is also seeking a greater
role in the region.  Japanese ‘Provocations’  “The repeated remarks on China by Japanese leaders are
provocations,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told
journalists at a briefing today in Beijing. “This again shows
the pretentious Japanese politicians are deceiving themselves.”  Four Chinese coast guard vessels entered what Japan regards
as its territorial waters today near the disputed islands, known
as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, the Japan Coast
Guard said in an e-mail message, in the first incursion since
Oct. 1. The ships later left the Japanese-controlled area.  “If you look at the kind of remarks Abe has made regarding
China since he came to power, it’s become clear he wants to play
up the China threat rhetoric,” said Dong Wang, director of the
Center for Northeast Asian Strategic Studies at  Peking
University . He added that Abe seemed to be making the comments
to back his policy of reinterpreting Japan’s pacifist
constitution.  Drone Flights  Newspaper reports that Japan is considering asserting its
right to shoot down unmanned drones that come into its airspace
have added to the tensions. An unidentified drone was spotted
outside Japanese airspace close to the disputed islands on Sept.
9.  Chinese unmanned aircraft have not violated Japanese
airspace and the shooting down of a drone would prompt
retaliation, Defense Ministry Spokesman Geng Yansheng told
reporters in Beijing on Oct. 26, according to a statement on the
ministry’s website.  “China absolutely does not permit other countries’
aircraft to violate China’s airspace,” Geng said, according to
the statement. “If the Japanese side shoots down or takes other
coercive measures, to me that’s a serious provocation, it’s an
act of war, and we will take decisive measures to fight back.”  Stern Protest  Japan  would respond to any airspace incursion in accordance
with domestic and international law, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga told reporters today. Japan’s Foreign Ministry
 said last year  international law allowed the government to take
“necessary measures” to stop an airspace incursion.  “We are a country governed by law, so it is a matter of
course for us to adhere strictly to international law,” Suga
said. He added that Japan would sternly protest today’s
incursion by Chinese ships.  China’s state-owned newspapers the People’s Daily and the
PLA Daily carried front-page stories today lauding the country’s
nuclear submarine force. The fleet is China’s trump card and
terrifies its rivals, the People’s Daily said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  