-- Actelion’s Drug Approval Seen Enticing Buyers: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-28T16:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/actelion-s-drug-approval-seen-enticing-buyers-real-m-a.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  is once again shaping
up as a takeover candidate after the lung-disease drug on which
the company staked its future won regulatory approval.  The drugmaker, which has a market value of 8.3 billion
Swiss francs ($9.3 billion), was granted U.S. approval on Oct.
18 for Opsumit, a pill to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension
that may generate $1.1 billion in annual revenue by 2017,
according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. While
the company has gotten $3 billion more expensive in the last
year, the drug’s clearance increases Actelion’s chances of
receiving takeover interest, Bryan Garnier & Co. said.  Opsumit is the Allschwil, Switzerland-based company’s
answer for continued growth after its best-selling medicine
Tracleer loses patent protection in 2015. With the approval,
buyers from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  now may be more
comfortable gambling on an acquisition of Actelion, Jefferies
Group LLC said. Potential buyers also will probably be watching
for successful phase 3 data in mid-2014 for selexipag, another
drug in its pipeline, UBS AG said.  “The risk is out and it’s going to make it more attractive
and easier for the company to be valued,” said Philippe Comby,
New York-based co-manager of Hottinger Capital Corp.’s $453
million Swiss Helvetia  Fund (SWZ) , which owns Actelion shares. “It’s
probably an M&A candidate for sure now.”  European Approval  A European Union advisory panel recommended approving the
drug last week. The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
usually follows the panel’s recommendation. Next, the company
needs to figure out how to market the new pill and encourage
doctors to prescribe it.  “As a company, we must create value at all times,” Jean-Paul Clozel, Actelion’s co-founder and chief executive officer,
said in an Oct. 20 interview with Switzerland’s SonntagsZeitung
newspaper. “If we are successful, as is the case with Opsumit,
then Actelion continues to enjoy a bright future as a stand-alone company.”  Roland Haefeli, a spokesman for Actelion, declined to
comment on whether the company has been approached by potential
suitors or is considering a sale.  Tracleer Expiration  Opsumit and Tracleer -- as well as  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
Letairis and Bayer’s Adempas -- treat an incurable disease in
which the blood vessels in the longs become narrowed, making the
heart work harder and causing elevated blood pressure.  Tracleer already has been losing market share to Gilead’s
Letairis since the U.S. Food and Drug Administration allowed the
Foster City, California-based company to remove a reference to
the risk of liver damage from the label in 2011. When the FDA
 approved  Actelion’s Opsumit on Oct. 18, it said the new drug
also won’t have to carry that warning.  The U.S. patent for Tracleer, which accounted for 87
percent of Actelion’s $1.84 billion of revenue last year,
expires in November 2015, and in Europe it could face generic
competition less than two years later. The drug’s sales may
tumble 70 percent to $484 million in 2017, according to the
average of six analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Opsumit will be replacing much of the lost revenue. CEO
Clozel said earlier this year that its peak sales may surpass
Tracleer’s. Annual revenue from the drug may be as high as $2.2
billion by the time its patent expires in 2024, according to
UBS.  Actelion’s Pipeline  “For a company with so few products and with its main
product going off patent in the next three years, having this
new compound in the same category approved with a good label
makes it clear for any company interested in the field and
acquiring some growth,” said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at
Bryan Garnier in Paris. Opsumit is “more a question of
execution, but they have all they need to make it a success.”  The next product in Actelion’s pipeline is selexipag, which
is in the third and final stage of trials usually needed for
regulatory approval. Positive data from that study will increase
the likelihood of Actelion receiving takeover offers, said
Guillaume van Renterghem, a London-based analyst at UBS. Bayer
is the most likely suitor, he said.  Bayer, which has a market value of $104 billion, already
had $14.7 billion of  debt  and $3.2 billion of  cash  as of June
30. Oliver Renner, a spokesman for the Leverkusen, Germany-based
company, declined to comment on speculation regarding
acquisitions.  Respiratory Drug  Buying Actelion would enable Bayer to add the Swiss
company’s drugs for pulmonary arterial hypterension to Adempas,
its own treatment for the disease that was approved by the FDA
earlier this month. Glaxo, also named as a potential buyer,
already sells Gilead’s Letairis in Europe under a different
brand name.  Novartis, whose headquarters in  Basel , Switzerland is only
2 miles (3.2 kilometers) from Actelion’s, is building up a
business in respiratory diseases such as asthma and smoker’s
cough and also may be interested in acquiring its neighbor, said
Bryan Garnier’s Le Berrigaud.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, and Simon Steel, a
spokesman for Glaxo, declined to comment on whether the
companies are interested in acquiring Actelion.  Actelion hasn’t been a willing seller in the past. In
November 2010, Bloomberg News reported that Amgen Inc. was
considering a bid for Actelion, citing people with knowledge of
the matter. Clozel, Actelion’s CEO, wanted to keep the company
independent, and the talks never led to a deal.  Expensive Stock  The recent gain in Actelion’s share price may deter bids,
according to  Michael Leuchten , a London-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. The stock has  risen  62 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends, and is already more expensive
than most of its peers based on projected revenue for the next
several years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I’m not quite sure why people are jumping on the M&A
bandwagon now,” Leuchten said in a phone interview. “As a
disciplined acquirer, I’m not sure you can make this deal work
at this sort of level.”  Actelion climbed 0.4 percent to 69.40 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading. The stock is the  best performer  on the benchmark
 Swiss Market Index (SMI)  this year.  Actelion should wait to sell until next year when the
outlook for selexipag is clearer so that it can get the best
price for  shareholders , said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at
Sphera Funds Management. The Tel Aviv-based firm oversees about
$325 million and owns Actelion shares.  Acquisition Gamble  “If I were the company, I would definitely wait until
mid-2014” to sell, Hershkovitz said in a phone interview. If
they hit the mark with selexipag, “then all hell breaks loose.
It could be a huge company.”  Actelion may fetch about $13 billion in an acquisition if
selexipag fails, and as much as $20 billion if it’s successful,
he estimates. The company had an  enterprise value  of $8.7
billion last week.  Before Opsumit got FDA clearance, a suitor would have been
gambling on both Opsumit and selexipag without the guarantee of
being able to market either product, said Le Berrigaud of Bryan
Garnier.  “Now Opsumit is a given,” he said. “For any acquirer,
it’s good to have a given and a bet, rather than two bets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  