-- Madoff Ex-Employees’ Jury Told of ‘Smoke And Mirrors’
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-28T19:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/madoff-ex-employees-jury-told-of-smoke-and-mirrors-.html
Bernard Madoff ’s account statements
were full of discrepancies that could be found by comparing the
purported trades to published data, a forensic accountant told
jurors in the trial of five of the con man’s former employees.  The majority of securities trades on the customer
statements exceeded actual market volume for the indicated day
or had prices outside the reported range of highs and lows,
 Bruce Dubinsky , a government witness who analyzed the fraud in
2011, testified today in federal court in  Manhattan .  In other cases, trades would “magically” move from
original statements to other versions of the same document,
Dubinsky said. “Things would appear and disappear -- it was
smoke and mirrors with account statements.”  Dubinsky’s commissioned report on the fraud is being used
in civil lawsuits by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating the
defunct company to help repay victims. The report will help the
12-member jury understand exactly how Madoff’s company operated
the “world’s biggest Ponzi scheme,” Dubinsky said.  Dubinsky told jurors he often found the real trading prices
and volumes by searching newspapers in the  New York Public
Library  and other pre-digital sources. He also looked for
historical dividend payments and other data points from the real
world to see if they appeared on Madoff’s statements.  The five defendants, accused of creating millions of fake
documents to trick customers and regulators, are Annette Bongiorno, who worked for Madoff for 40 years; Daniel Bonventre,
who oversaw Madoff’s broker-dealer and proprietary trading
units; Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts, and computer
programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara.  Trading Data  Bongiorno and Crupi, who ran Madoff’s investment advisory
business at the center of the fraud, used a mix of trading data
to create fake statements that appeared real, while Perez and
O’Hara wrote computer code to help automate the process, the
U.S. alleges. All five former employees deny any wrongdoing and
say Madoff duped them for years.  Several examples of false documents were displayed on flat-screen monitors in the jury box today, including statements for
the accounting investment firm Avellino & Bienes, a so-called
feeder fund that directed clients’ money into Madoff’s
securities company starting decades ago.  One such statement showed Madoff bought 3,594 shares of
 Cooper Industries  for about $404,000 on May 19, 1980. Dubinsky
checked  New York  Stock Exchange data for that day and found “no
volume traded that day” for the company, he said.  ‘Many Examples’  “There are many, many, many examples of that,” Dubinsky
said.  Dubinsky, who said he examined millions of corporate
documents and deconstructed Madoff’s computer code to write his
report, said dividends that should have been paid to customers
didn’t show up on their account statements with Madoff in the
way they would have had the trading been real. In other cases,
convertible securities appeared to have been traded by Madoff
even after the companies had converted the securities into
stock, he said.  Dubinsky testified earlier that Madoff’s firm was insolvent
by December 2002. Dubinsky’s probe included searching thousands
of boxes in Madoff’s off-site warehouse, analyzing BlackBerry
and e-mail data and hiring two former computer programmers who
worked at International Business Machines Corp. decades ago to
help retrieve data from Madoff’s outdated storage devices and
computer equipment.  Sixth Witness  Dubinsky, a managing director at Duff & Phelps LLC, is the
sixth witness to testify in the first criminal trial stemming
from the  Ponzi scheme , which deprived investors of $17 billion
in principal and billions more in fake profit. U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain said the trial may last as long as five
months.  Defense lawyers argued during opening statements that
Madoff began training his employees when they were young and
inexperienced so they would help carry out his fraud without
knowledge and without training in the securities industry.  Witnesses during the first week of the trial included
forensic accountants with AlixPartners LLP who secured the
offices of Madoff’s firm after his arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, and
two clerical aides who worked closely with Bongiorno and Crupi.  Witnesses have testified that Bonventre wrote company
checks to himself as a “vendor” for tens of thousands of
dollars about once a year, and that Crupi used her corporate
 credit card  to pay for family trips to Walt Disney World.  Madoff, 75, pleaded guilty to 11 counts and was sentenced
to 150 years in prison. He claimed all along that he worked
alone and refused to implicate anyone else.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  