-- Vivendi Buys Out TV Division From Lagardere for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-29T08:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/lagardere-in-talks-with-vivendi-to-resolve-canal-france-dispute.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  agreed to buy out  Canal
Plus  France from  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  for 1.02 billion euros ($1.4
billion), putting an end to years of disagreement over the pay-TV unit’s ownership structure.  The cash transaction for the 20 percent holding in Canal
Plus France, mediated by a commercial court in Paris, will
terminate all disputes between the two companies, Vivendi and
Lagardere said yesterday. Lagardere and Canal Plus will continue
to pursue cooperation in program production and the publishing
and distribution of TV channels, they said.  By buying out France’s biggest pay-TV company, Vivendi
would resolve “a rather troublesome relationship” and boost
its earnings per share 5 percent, Liberum Capital analysts wrote
in a note. The agreement also removes an uncertainly as Vivendi
examines how its assets -- Canal Plus, record label  Universal
Music Group  and Brazilian Internet unit GVT -- could be
structured as the Paris-based company disposes of
telecommunications assets.  Lagardere walked away from negotiations with Vivendi in
2011, saying it may sell the stake through an initial public
offering instead after failing to agree on its valuation.  Vivendi rose 0.4 percent to 18.79 euros at 9:11 a.m. in
Paris, giving the company a market value of 25.2 billion euros.
Lagardere climbed 1 percent to 26.27 euros, giving it a market
value of 3.4 billion euros.  Activision Stake  In February, Lagardere sued Vivendi, demanding restitution
of 1.6 billion euros to Canal Plus France. Vivendi contested the
claim. In its suit, Lagardere, also based in Paris, said that a
cash-management accord between Canal Plus France and parent
Canal Plus Group isn’t valid because it wasn’t approved by the
supervisory board. Vivendi owns 100 percent of Canal Plus Group.  Vivendi, whose biggest shareholder is French billionaire
 Vincent Bollore , is overhauling its structure to boost its
market valuation. It sold a stake in video-game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  in an $8.2 billion deal this year and is looking
to divest its majority holding in Maroc Telecom SA. It’s also
evaluating a possible IPO for the SFR French mobile-phone
division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  