-- Magnit Shares Advance as Grocer Reports Record Profitability
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-28T15:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/magnit-shares-advance-as-grocer-reports-record-profitability-1-.html
OAO Magnit (MGNT) ,  Russia ’s largest
retailer, rose the most in three weeks in  London  trading as it
posted record quarterly profitability after negotiating better
terms with suppliers.  Magnit advanced as much as 2.7 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Oct. 8, and was up 1.8 percent at $63.35 per
global depositary receipt at 3:05 p.m. in London. The grocer’s
Russian shares gained 2.4 percent to 8,520 rubles at the close
of trading.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of sales rose to 11.6 percent
versus 10.9 percent a year earlier, the Krasnodar, Russia-based
store chain said in a  statement  today. Sales increased 29
percent in ruble terms to 144 billion rubles ($4.5 billion).  Magnit’s Ebitda margin reached “new all-time highs due to
the ongoing improvements in supplier terms and Magnit’s focus on
profitability over traffic in the third quarter,” said Mikhail Terentiev, an analyst at Otkritie Capital. The previous record
margin was 11.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The highest possible sales growth rate for the full year is
28 percent to 29 percent, Chief Executive Officer Sergey Galitskiy said in the statement. That’s below previous guidance
for 29 percent to 30 percent sales growth, due to lower food-price inflation, according to Otkritie Capital.  ‘Phenomenal’ Surge  Magnit started cutting prices in October to attract more
customers, Chief Financial Officer Khachatur Pombukhchan said
today on a conference call. Traffic fell 1.44 percent in the
third quarter as the company focused on profit margins. Magnit
is seeking to sustain an Ebitda margin of at least 11 percent
this quarter, Pombukhchan said.  “The surge in Magnit’s profitability is phenomenal given
the economic slowdown in Russia along with cost inflation and
increasing competition among retailers,” Natalia Kolupaeva, an
analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank, said by phone. “This reflects
great execution, while the company also uses temporary weakness
of its largest competitor,”  X5 Retail Group NV. (FIVE)   X5 changed its management team this year to fight declining
customer numbers. The Moscow-based grocer’s third-quarter sales
rose 6.6 percent, missing analyst estimates, while customer
traffic and same-store sales declined. X5 has a market value of
$4.4 billion versus Magnit’s $30 billion.  Magnit operated 6,783 convenience stores as of the end of
September, as well as 148 hypermarkets, 30 “Magnit Family”
outlets and 685 cosmetics stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  