-- Hair-of-Dog Policy Risks U.K. Housing Boom Repeat, Turner Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/hair-of-dog-policy-risks-u-k-housing-boom-repeat-turner-says.html
Britain risks repeating the debt-fueled binge that led to the credit crisis as the government
relies on a hair-of-the-dog remedy for the economy, said former
Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner .  “We had a fantastic party, we got a whacking great
hangover, and we’ve decided that the best cure is a really stiff
drink,” Turner said in an interview in  Singapore  on Oct. 25.
“Which is the same all over again -- get the housing market
going again.”  House prices  in England and  Wales  rose 3.1 percent from a
year earlier, the biggest gain since 2007, Hometrack Ltd. said
today. The report adds to evidence that Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s Help to Buy program is stoking the
 property market .  Turner added his voice to critics including the opposition
 Labour Party  and the  International Monetary Fund  who say the
initiative, which cuts deposit requirements for people wanting
to get onto the property ladder, could fuel another property
bubble. In  London , prices are soaring amid demand from cash-rich
international buyers.  “We now have an incredibly frothy central London and wider
London market and an increasingly buoyant across-the-economy
market,” he said. “It’s that increasingly buoyant across-the-economy market that we have to watch carefully and make sure
that we don’t allow it to go from reasonable buoyancy to
excess.”  Price Boom  Despite government pledges to rebalance the economy away
from  consumer spending  and the housing market, “we now seem
to be having a recovery which is heavily focused on that
favorite old British activity, which is another house price
boom,” he said. “That’s not a sustainable, balanced economy.”  Turner, who took over the chairmanship of the FSA a week
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008, said the housing market needs to be watched “very, very
carefully” as “the economy has got going again because we’ve
thrown at it a whole load of policy stimulus.”  Help to buy allows people to buy homes costing up to
600,000 pounds ($970,000) with a 5 percent deposit. The program
began in April with interest-free loans for buyers of newly
built properties and the second phase -- mortgage guarantees
covering all homes -- was brought forward to this month from
January.  “Do I worry that we are encouraging people to take out 95
percent mortgages? Yes I do,” Turner said. “There is a danger
that we encourage people to take out mortgages that look fine as
long as we have currently low  interest rates  but if interest
rates return to normal in 5 or 7 years’ time, to 5 or 7 percent
-- some people will find these difficult mortgages to service
and that’s problematic.”  Widening Gap  House prices  in England and Wales rose 0.5 percent this
month, the same pace as in September, Hometrack said. The gains
were the fastest since May 2007. Values in London jumped 0.8
percent.  The gap between supply and demand widened further in
October, Hometrack said. The number of new buyers registering
with real-estate agents rose 2 percent from a month earlier,
while the volume of property listings fell 1.6 percent. House
prices rose in all regions except the northeast, it said.  “Talk of a national bubble is overdone but could
start to impact on  market sentiment  and the willingness of
buyers to pay higher prices,” Hometrack said.  The  U.K. economy  grew 0.8 percent in the third quarter, its
fastest pace for more than three years, government data on Oct.
25 showed. Services companies from architects to engineers
accounted for three quarters of the increase, underlining the
effect the housing-market recovery is having on growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  