-- Allens, Vegetable Canning Company, Files For Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-10-28T18:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/allens-vegetable-canning-company-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Allens Inc., a maker of canned and
frozen vegetables in business since 1926, filed for bankruptcy,
seeking to sell some divisions or reorganize as a new company.  A Chapter 11 petition filed today in Fayetteville,
 Arkansas , listed more than $100 million in debt and assets. The
family-owned business began as Allen Canning Co. near Siloam
Springs, Arkansas. It survived the Great Depression, going on to
become a supplier of canned goods to troops in World War II and
an international supplier of North America grown vegetables,
according to its  website .  Allens said it intends to keep operating its core canned-vegetables business while reorganizing. It has a commitment from
lenders for a bankruptcy loan, it said in a statement. It will
explore selling all or part of its business and the possibility
of exiting bankruptcy as a standalone company.  “Allens has a long and proud history, and we intend to use
the reorganization process to become a stronger, more
competitive business,” Chief Executive Officer Josh Allen said
in the statement.  The company is seeking a buyer for its frozen-vegetables
business in Montezuma,  Georgia , which specializes in Southern-style and frozen breaded products, it said. Brands include
Popeye Spinach, Freshlike, Princella, Royal Prince and Sugary
Sam.  Alvarez & Marsal is Allens’s chief restructuring officer,
and Lazard Middle Market is its investment banker, according to
the company’s statement. Greenburg Traurig LLP and Mitchell,
Williams, Selig, Gates & Woodyard PLLC are its legal advisers.  The case is Allens, 13-bk-73597, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Western District of Arkansas (Fayetteville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 