-- Alrosa Share Offering Attracts Oppenheimer, Lazard Funds
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-28T17:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/alrosa-share-offering-attracts-oppenheimer-lazard-funds.html
(Corrects typographical error in headline.)  OAO Alrosa, Russia’s diamond
producer, raised about $1.3 billion in an oversubscribed share
sale from investors including Oppenheimer Funds Inc. and  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ) , First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said.  “The fact that the deal was oversubscribed and the quality
of investors is proof that the sale went successfully,”
Shuvalov said today in Moscow.  The Russian government and the republic of Yakutia, where
Alrosa is based, sold a combined 14 percent stake in the
offering, with the company selling 2 percent itself. The sale is
part of a state strategy to attract more international investors
to Russia and establish Moscow as a global financial center.  The stock sold at 35 rubles a share, the lowest end of the
price range. Sixty percent was allocated to U.S. investors and
14 percent to Russian buyers, Vedomosti reported, citing people
it didn’t identify. Lazard bought $300 million of the shares,
according to the newspaper.  Funds from Lazard and Oppenheimer took a “significant
volume” of the portion available to U.S. investors, said Sergei Arsenyev, managing director of  investment banking  at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Alrosa will trade the shares on the Moscow
exchange and has no plans to list them overseas, he said.  Oppenheimer and Lazard didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment outside normal business hours.  While the price range was set at 35 rubles to 38 rubles a
share, initial proposals came in at 32 rubles, Shuvalov said.
“We took the risk and insisted on 35 rubles,” he said.  Alrosa rose as much as 1 percent in Moscow trading, and was
up 0.3 percent at 35.042 rubles as of 12:55 p.m. local time.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund formed a group of
foreign institutional investors from  North America , the  Middle
East , western and northern Europe and  Southeast Asia  to invest
in the shares, the fund said today in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net  