-- ANZ Bank Profit Jumps to Record for Fifth Year as Loans Rise
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-10-29T01:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/anz-bank-profit-rises-to-record-for-5th-year-on-higher-lending.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the country’s third-largest lender by market value,
posted a 13 percent rise in second-half cash profit on higher
lending and lower costs, sending its shares to an all-time high.  Cash profit , which excludes one-time items, climbed to
A$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) in the six months ended Sept. 30
from A$2.9 billion a year earlier, the Melbourne-based lender
said in a statement today. That beat the A$3.2 billion median
 estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
rose 22 percent to A$3.3 billion from A$2.7 billion.  ANZ, which is the most Asian-focused among Australian
banks, has expanded its local market share in mortgages and
business lending. Chief Executive Officer Michael Smith sought
to boost lending by matching  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in
offering the lowest mortgage rate among the nation’s four
largest banks.  “The results ticked all the boxes with strong improvements
in cost-income ratios and return on equity,” David Ellis, a
Sydney-based analyst at Morningstar Inc. said by telephone.
“ANZ’s target to cut cost-to-income ratio further is
achievable.”  ANZ climbed as much as 2.5 percent to A$34.06 and traded at
A$33.87 as of 11:42 a.m. in Sydney, the highest since the stock
began trading. The shares have climbed 35 percent this year. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200  Index (AS51)  was 0.4 percent lower, trimming
gains for the year to 17 percent.  Higher Dividend  The bank boosted its final  dividend  to 91 Australian cents
a share from 79 cents a year earlier. The median estimate of 8
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a dividend of 86 cents.  ANZ’s cash profit rose to a record for a fifth year to
A$6.5 billion in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 from A$5.8 billion
a year earlier while net income in the year rose 11 percent to
A$6.3 billion from A$5.7 billion.  “We’ve got a lot more gas in the tank,” Smith said in a
video message to staff, according to a transcript. “We should
be able to take another 2 percent off the cost-to-income ratio
over the next two years, and indeed improve our return on equity
to get it above 16 percent.”  ANZ’s cost-to-income ratio dropped to 44.8 percent in the
year to Sept. 30 from 47.7 percent a year earlier while return
on equity was 15.3 percent, the lender said. The bank’s total
employees fell 2 percent to 47,512.  Australia ’s major banks have a cost-to-income ratio of 40
percent to 45 percent, which is at the low end of the range of
their global competitors, raising questions on how much more
room the banks have to improve it further without straining
risk-management controls, the Reserve Bank of Australia said in
its Financial Stability Review issued in September.  Australian Unit  ANZ Bank’s Australian unit saw an 11 percent increase in
cash profit in the 12 months from a year earlier, the bank said,
while earnings from the Asia-Pacific, Europe and America unit
rose 20 percent.  The value of ANZ’s Australian mortgages climbed 7 percent
in the year, the bank said in today’s statement. That beat total
Australian home lending growth of 4.7 percent in August from a
year earlier, up from a record low pace of 4.4 percent in March,
Reserve Bank of Australia data show.  Demand for mortgages is increasing after the central bank
dropped its benchmark interest rate by 225 basis points since
late 2011 to a record low of 2.5 percent and banks cut mortgage
rates to a four-year low.  Home Prices  Home prices surged to a record in September, led by gains
in Sydney and  Melbourne , an index released Oct. 1 by RP Data-Rismark showed. The gauge jumped 5.5 percent last month from a
year earlier across Australia’s major cities and was 0.7 percent
higher than the previous record in October 2010.  ANZ’s Australian corporate and commercial bank lending also
rose 7 percent in the 12 month period, according to the
statement. Deposits climbed 12 percent from a year earlier and
made up 62 percent of its total funding, it said.  Cash net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, dropped 9 basis points to 2.22 percent in the
year.  “When I look at the change in our net interest margin, 95
percent is the result of the actually underlying rate
structure,” Smith said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “So when rates start to turn again, you’d
expect to see an improvement.”  Margins dropped the most in its international and
institutional banking unit, which includes its Asian business,
falling 41 basis points, it said.  Asia  Smith said the bank wasn’t optimistic about further
acquisitions in Asia as price expectations for banks in the
region were too high.  “About 1.5 times price-to-book-value will be realistic,”
he said in the interview. “For us, that would be accretive and
that is important.”  ANZ wants to double non-Australia and New Zealand profits
to as much as 30 percent of its total by 2017. It is focused on
trade finance, foreign exchange and cash management deposits in
Asia.  Yue Xiu Group bid HK$11.6 billion ($1.5 billion) for 75
percent of Hong Kong’s  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  in a deal that
values the lender at about 2 times book value. ANZ Bank was
among five bidders for Chong Hing, Oriental Daily reported Sept.
16.  Asset Quality  ANZ Bank’s Tier 1  capital , a measure of its ability to
absorb future losses under the local regulator’s Basel III
guidelines, was 8.5 percent as of Sept. 30, compared with 7.97
percent as of June 30, it said.  Charges for bad debts in the year fell 5 percent to A$1.2
billion from A$1.3 billion a year ago and newly impaired assets
in the year dropped 22 percent, ANZ said.  “Asset quality is improving, which bodes well for future
earnings and is a massive vote of confidence for the  Australian
banking sector,” Ellis said.  ANZ is the first of the country’s so-called four pillar
banks, named after a law that prohibits merging with each other,
to announce earnings. NAB reports tomorrow, followed by  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  on Nov. 4.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s largest lender by market value, reports quarterly
profit on Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  