-- Apple Sales Set to Show Mobile Shift Lifting Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-10-28T14:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/apple-sales-set-to-show-mobile-shift-lifting-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  will
report quarterly earnings this week that underscore the
technology industry’s division into two camps: providers that
are adapting to shifting mobile and Web tastes, and those that
have lagged behind.  Apple later today is predicted to report a rise in iPhone
sales after last month’s release of new models, while Facebook
follows on Oct. 30 with some analysts projecting a bigger chunk
of its revenue to come from mobile advertising.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  --
companies that have helped pioneer mobile and Internet-based
services -- have released results that have surpassed estimates
in the past two weeks. By contrast, those struggling to adapt to
the changes have reported earnings that disappointed investors.
They include  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
and security-software company  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)   “Many of the old-guard companies are being displaced and
the companies that are at the advent of these forces are
becoming dominant,” said Van Baker, director of research at
Gartner Inc.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s  results  last week show that the divide
between haves and have-nots can exist within the same company.
The Redmond, Washington-based software maker made up for the
shortcomings in its consumer personal-computer business with
better-than-predicted numbers for corporate programs like
Internet telephone and messaging software, and by more than
doubling sales from business cloud services like online versions
of Office and the Azure service for hosting applications on the
Web.  Diverging Trends  Investors are rewarding the companies disrupting their
industries and leading the new trends. Google surpassed $1,000 a
share for the first time after reporting results, and Amazon
also jumped 9.4 percent a day after posting its earnings. The
stocks, up 44 percent and 45 percent respectively this year,
have outpaced the 23 percent gain in the  S&P 500 Index . IBM
declined 7.7 percent in the same period.  “The new tech companies like Google and Amazon did well,
while companies that rely on old tech, like IBM, didn’t,” said
Daniel Morgan, a  fund manager  at Synovus Trust Co. in Atlanta,
which owns Microsoft shares.  The popularity of smartphones, tablets and tools that let
people to work, shop or watch videos from anywhere with an
Internet connection has upended a technology industry that long
profited from a model of selling PCs and accompanying software.  Apple Leads  That divergence is reflected in technology-spending
forecasts. Market-research firm IDC predicts PC shipments will
fall almost 10 percent this year worldwide. By contrast, mobile-phone shipments are projected to increase by 7.3 percent in the
same period, fueled by demand for smartphones, with tablet unit
sales growing an estimated 59 percent, IDC said in August.  Much of the disruption has been led by Apple, whose co-founder  Steve Jobs  coined this the “post PC” era. Analysts
including Katy Huberty of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have predicted the
Cupertino, California-based company will today report better-than-anticipated fiscal fourth quarter results, especially after
the release of the iPhone 5s and 5c last month. Apple is
projected to have sold 33 million iPhones in the quarter,
compared with 26.9 million a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple’s profit for the quarter will be $7.21 billion, or
$7.92 a share, on sales of $36.8 billion, according to  analyst 
predictions compiled by Bloomberg. Absent new products for much
of the period, the company’s profit is expected to fall for a
third consecutive quarter.  Holiday Shopping  Investors will be looking for a glimpse of how Apple
expects to perform during the  holiday shopping season . Huberty
said iPhone sales could hit 55 million in the current quarter,
up from 47.8 million a year earlier.  Apple, down 1.2 percent this year before today, is trading
at 13 times its estimated earnings this year, compared with a 16
times average for peers, according to data compiled with
Bloomberg. The  shares  were little changed at $526.20 at 10:06
a.m. in New York.  Facebook, meanwhile, has shown an improved ability to make
money advertising to the hundreds of millions of users who
access the social network via smartphones and tablets,
ameliorating earlier fears that it couldn’t successfully
navigate the mobile shift. The progress was reflected in the
stock, which has soared 95 percent this year.  Facebook’s Profit  Third-quarter profit excluding some items will jump 47
percent to $455.8 million, according to  analyst projections 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales for the  Menlo Park , California-based company will rise 51 percent to a record $1.91 billion.
Facebook shares fell 2.1 percent to $50.85.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment, as did Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Facebook.  Apple and Facebook are reporting after record third-quarter
results from Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones. Google also posted better-than-anticipated third-quarter
results, benefiting from an increase in the volume of mobile
advertising. Amazon last week reported that quarterly revenue
grew 24 percent to $17.1 billion as the company invests in new
warehouses, speedier delivery, and a growing data-center
business that is used by other companies.  “We have the potential to really improve people’s
experience as they move more onto mobile and spend more time
there,” Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  said on a
call with Wall Street analysts on Oct. 17.  Intel’s Forecast  Other technology companies are still struggling, especially
given it’s unclear if they can tackle the shifts.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s results exemplify the benefits and perils of
the switch to mobile and Internet-based cloud services. Earlier
this month, the Santa Clara, California-based company reported
third-quarter revenue and profit that was little changed from a
year earlier and its fourth-quarter revenue forecast fell short
of some analysts’ predictions.  While Intel has less than 1 percent share in smartphone
processors, the company still benefits from their popularity
because it supplies the main component in nine out of every 10
of the server machines that supply them with data and services.  IBM, Symantec  IBM, the largest computer-services provider, said Oct. 16
that sales fell for the sixth straight quarter amid weak demand
for its servers and other  computer hardware . Companies are
turning to software and services delivered over the Internet
instead of buying from IBM.  Symantec, whose security software is used on many PCs,
dropped the most in four years last week after its forecast fell
short of analysts’ estimates. The company is struggling to adapt
its business model to a marketplace that’s shifting to mobile
and to specialized anti-hacking technologies for corporations,
said Daniel Ives, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co.  “We have a bit of a hole to dig out of here,” said
Symantec CEO Steve Bennett.  The shift to mobile devices from traditional desktop
computers also is disrupting Internet companies that rely on
promotions. The mobile-ad market is projected to expand 89
percent this year compared with 13 percent for the total market,
according to EMarketer Inc.  While Google and Facebook are benefiting from marketers
trying to reach people on their mobile phones, Yahoo hasn’t
fared as well. It forecast fourth-quarter revenue excluding
sales passed on to partners that may fall short of analysts’
expectations.  Online retailer  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  wasn’t immune either. The world’s
largest online marketplace reported sales and profit forecasts
that missed analysts estimates as online shopping on its site
slowed.  “These are forces that are fundamentally changing the
market,” said Baker of Gartner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  