-- ARA Asset, Straits Trading Form Property Investment Alliance
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-10-28T08:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ara-asset-straits-trading-form-property-investment-alliance.html
ARA Asset Management Ltd. (ARA) , a manager
of real estate trusts partly owned by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
and  Straits Trading Co. (STRTR) , a Singapore tin-smelting company,
agreed to jointly invest in property.  Straits Trading will acquire a 20.1 percent stake in ARA for
S$294.4 million ($238 million) from Li’s Cheung Kong Investment
Co. and ARA Chief Executive Officer John Lim in cash and shares,
the company said in a statement through the stock exchange.
Straits Trading will then form a new company with Lim that will
undertake property investments, excluding hospitality assets,
with capital commitment of as much as S$950 million, it said.  The alliance comes as ARA said in March that it plans to 
double assets under management over five years as its private 
funds buy more properties. Straits Trading’s property portfolio, 
which includes an  office tower  in the island-state’s central 
business district and some residential assets, was  valued  at 
S$819.4 million according to a report by Knight Frank Pte in 
February.  ARA will manage Straits Trading’s investment property
portfolio as a separate account, according to the statement. The
new joint company will have aggregate initial capital of S$200
million, it said. The deal is subject to regulatory approval, it
said.  ARA, which manages more than S$20 billion of assets through
real estate investment trusts and funds, plans to expand with
acquisitions and enhance existing properties, Lim said in an
interview in March. Its real estate funds, which make up less
than a third of assets managed by the Singapore-based company,
are expected to increase to half in five years, he said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  