-- Marchionne Speeds Up Jeep China Push as Fiat Falls Flat
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/marchionne-speeds-up-jeep-china-push-as-fiat-falls-flat.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  is turning to Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep brand
in a bid to rescue a stalled entry into China’s car market.  In its third attempt in 15 years to gain a foothold in the
country, Fiat is finalizing a deal with local partner  Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. (2238)  to make the Jeep Cherokee sport-utility
vehicle in China, three people familiar with the matter said.
The SUV could hit showrooms in 2015, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  The Italian carmaker is considering assembling the vehicle
at its sole factory in the country rather than a new facility,
another person said. Fiat is looking to fill unused capacity as
the Viaggio sedan -- the only car currently made at the plant --
is forecast to miss sales targets for this year and 2014 by more
than 60 percent, IHS Automotive estimates.  “Marchionne is far too late in  China  with a volume brand
like Fiat,” said Giuliano Noci, vice rector for China at Milan
Polytechnic. “Chinese customers are looking for aspirational
brands, which Jeep is but Fiat isn’t.”  Turning to Chrysler’s Jeep to fill the gap in China
underscores Fiat’s growing dependence on its American unit to
compete with larger manufacturers.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  sell about 15 cars in the world’s largest auto
market for every one Fiat delivers.  Representatives for Fiat and Chrysler declined to comment
on the automaker’s production planning for China.  Incomplete Combination  Marchionne, who runs both Fiat and Chrysler, is pushing to
acquire the remaining 41.5 percent of the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based manufacturer to complete a combination.  Chrysler’s importance for Fiat will be evident tomorrow
when the Turin-based company reports third-quarter earnings.
Excluding Chrysler, Fiat posted a loss of 482 million euros
($664 million) in the first half as it lost market share in
 Europe , where auto demand has slid to a two-decade low.  Sales in  Asia  accounted for 4.1 percent of the 3.34 million
vehicles Fiat and Chrysler delivered worldwide through
September. Volkswagen, which entered the Chinese market decades
ago, delivered 2.35 million cars there, helping the German
manufacturer sell more than 7 million autos worldwide for the
first time in the period. Both VW and GM aim to deliver more
than 3 million cars in China in 2013.  ‘Small Scale’  “The small scale of Fiat’s Asian business means that this
is lost in a group context,” said Kristina Church, an analyst
at Barclays in London. The Italian company’s “European losses
were almost three times the size of Asia-Pacific profits last
year.”  While VW and GM’s  Chevrolet  have become mainstays for mid-market Chinese buyers, the Fiat brand has struggled to get much
attention.  “I have no idea that Fiat produces cars in China, and I
haven’t heard of the Viaggio,” said Miranda Sun, a 30-year-old
Shanghai resident who works as a media officer for a business
school. She’s owned a Chevrolet Lova for five years and is
considering buying GM’s Buick GL8 minivan because it offers
space to ferry around her child and parents.  That lack of awareness is holding back Viaggio sales, which
started in September 2012, to about 40,000 vehicles this year
and 54,000 in 2014, according to IHS Automotive. Fiat targeted
production of 100,000 Viaggios this year and as much as 200,000
next year. The model was designed specifically for China and
took aim at the biggest segment in the market.  Crowded Segment  “The sedan segment is a really crowded one in China with
many established brands,” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst for IHS
automotive in London. “There is huge appetite for the Jeep
brand, which would also give the group much higher margins.”  The Viaggio sedan is built with the same basic
underpinnings originally developed for the Alfa Romeo Giulietta.
The new Jeep Cherokee uses the same underlying technology,
cutting costs.  The tie-up with Guangzhou Automobile, in turn, makes the
cars more competitive by avoiding a 25 percent duty on imports.
A Jeep rollout was already in the cards after a preliminary
agreement was reached in January between Chrysler and its
Chinese partner. No details were announced at the time.  The offroad brand is more recognizable than Fiat in China
because in the 1980s it was the first Western badge built in the
country. No Jeeps are currently made in China after production
shifted to Mercedes-Benz vehicles about 10 years ago by then
Jeep-owner DaimlerChrysler.  “Jeep may attract the emerging middle class,” said Neil King, an analyst at Euromonitor in  London . “The SUV market more
than doubled in the last three years and premium brands keep on
growing: There is space for Jeep too.”  For Chevy owner Sun, Jeep would more likely be on the
shopping list than the Italian brand.  “Between Fiat and Jeep, I definitely have a much stronger
impression of Jeep,” she said. “Jeep just has ‘tough’ image.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  