-- Argentina Urges Court to Keep Delay on Bond Ruling
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-28T16:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/argentina-urges-court-to-keep-delay-on-bond-ruling.html
Argentina  asked a federal appeals
court to keep in place a stay that delays enforcement of a
ruling against it in litigation over the country’s defaulted
bonds.  Argentina filed court papers Oct. 25 asking the U.S. Court
of Appeals in  New York  to reject a request by holders of
$1.5 billion of the defaulted bonds, led by Elliott Management
Corp.’s NML Capital and Aurelius Capital Management LP, to
enforce the ruling immediately. The appeals court previously
agreed to Argentina’s request for a stay while it seeks to
appeal the court’s decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Lifting the stay would threaten payments on the
restructured debt, the next of which are due Dec. 2. Argentina
claimed it may be forced to default on $24 billion in
restructured debt if the stay isn’t maintained.  Several groups holding the restructured bonds also urged
the court to keep the stay in place, in papers filed Oct. 25.  The owners of the defaulted bonds cited a plan disclosed in
August by Argentina’s president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,
to avoid the jurisdiction of U.S. courts by exchanging the
restructured bonds, governed by New York law, for debt payable
under Argentina law.  Argentina argued that Kirchner’s speech “expressed her
disagreement with the court’s decision, her hope for review by
the  Supreme Court  and her commitment to the holders of
restructured debt.” Argentina said it isn’t planning to evade
court orders.  Lower Court  In August, the appeals court upheld a lower-court
injunction that would bar Argentina from paying holders of the
restructured bonds if it fails to pay NML, Aurelius and the
other plaintiffs. A lawyer for Argentina told a three-judge
panel of the appeals court in February that the country “won’t
voluntarily comply” with a ruling forcing it to pay in full the
holders of defaulted bonds.  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of more than 90 percent of the bonds
agreed to take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep
discount.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  