-- Argentina’s Fernandez Loses Buenos Aires While Keeping Congress
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-28T03:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/argentina-s-fernandez-loses-buenos-aires-while-keeping-congress.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s ruling coalition lost  Buenos Aires 
province, the country’s largest, while keeping a majority in
both houses of Congress in midterm elections yesterday.  Sergio Massa, the former cabinet chief who now heads a
group of dissident Peronist Party members, took 44 percent of
the vote in Buenos Aires province, a 12 percentage point lead,
over ruling alliance candidate Martin Insaurralde, with 95
percent of the votes counted. Fernandez’s ruling alliance
received 32 percent of votes nationwide, according to the
preliminary results. The government increased its majority in
the lower house by five seats, Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina said.  The result ends any hope Fernandez may have harbored of
pushing through constitutional changes to seek a third term in
2015 after failing to obtain a two-thirds majority in Congress,
according to Mariel Fornoni, director of polling company M&F.
Fernandez has used her majority in Congress since winning re-election in 2011 with 54 percent of the votes to nationalize the
country’s largest energy company YPF SA last year and re-open an
offer to restructure bonds left over from the country’s $95
billion default in 2001.  “It’s an important difference in votes,” Daniel Scioli,
governor of  Buenos Aires province  who is an ally of Fernandez,
said. “We have to respect the will of the people.”  Fernandez, 60, was notably absent during the campaign as
she follows doctor orders to rest for a month after Oct. 8
surgery to drain blood near her brain. Her popularity recovered
to 44.4 percent in October from 34 percent the previous month,
according to the M&F poll.  Absent Fernandez  Argentines elected 127 lawmakers for the 257-seat lower
house and 24 for the 72-member Senate. Turnout was about 77
percent of 31 million registered voters, Interior Minister
Florencio Randazzo said.  Buenos Aires is  Argentina ’s most populous province,
accounting for 39 percent of the country’s population and 36
percent of its gross domestic product. The ruling coalition also
lost in the populous provinces of Cordoba, Mendoza and  Santa Fe .  The race for the 2015 presidential elections kicked off
after Buenos Aires Mayor  Mauricio Macri  announced his intention
to stand.  Massa and other opposition candidates have attacked
Fernandez’s record on inflation, which private economists
estimate at 25 percent, and failure to combat crime, which
figure as the biggest concerns for voters.  ‘Policy Reaction’  Argentine dollar-bonds have rallied 14 percent since Massa
won Aug. 11 primaries and the ruling alliance garnered about 30
percent of votes on expectations that Fernandez will be replaced
by a more market-friendly president when she ends her mandate in
2015.  With  foreign reserves  at a six-year low of $34 billion and
a widening gap between the official  exchange rate  and a black
market rate, the government will have to make important economic
decisions to ride out the last two years in office, according to
Jefferies Group LLC.  “The actual results are perhaps less important than the
subsequent policy reaction,”  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin
America strategy at Jefferies in  New York , wrote in an Oct. 25
note. “The more important question is whether surviving the
latest election cycle the administration will finally correct
macro imbalances or whether the status quo continues of just
muddling through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Buenos Aires at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  