-- Marsh & McLennan Rebounds to Level Before Spitzer’s Suit
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-10-28T20:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/marsh-mclennan-rebounds-to-level-before-spitzer-s-2004-lawsuit.html
Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) , the biggest
insurance broker by market value, has climbed to a 9-year high,
bouncing back from the plunge that followed then-New York
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer ’s lawsuit against the company.  The broker has rallied 34 percent this year, including a
2.3 percent gain last week to $46.56. That compares with $46.13
on Oct. 13, 2004, the day before Spitzer sued, accusing Marsh &
McLennan of rigging bids and taking kickbacks from insurers. The
stock slipped 23 cents to $46.33 at 4:02 p.m. in New York.  Chief Executive Officer Daniel Glaser is building on the
strategy of his predecessor, Brian Duperreault, who cut costs,
streamlined operations and expanded through regional and
international acquisitions. Glaser is Marsh & McLennan’s third
CEO since Jeffrey Greenberg resigned after Spitzer’s suit.  “It was a culture that was frankly not focused on
operating as efficiently as they could,” Fred Fialco, co-manager at investment firm Torray LLC, which manages about $600
million in assets, said in an interview last week. “When Brian
Duperreault came in, that was one of the areas he targeted
aggressively, as well as driving revenue growth in international
expansion and trying to acquire smaller, regional insurance
brokerage businesses.”  An improving economy, higher insurance pricing and investor
interest in health-care exchanges are fueling the insurance-brokerage industry,  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Keefe Bruyette
& Woods Inc., said in a phone interview.  Marsh & McLennan rival  Aon Plc (AON)  gained 2.9 percent in last
week’s trading after reporting that third-quarter profit
climbed. Both brokers invested this year in the exchanges, in
which they help clients’ employees buy coverage online.  Investor Excitement  “There is a lot of investor excitement regarding the
possibility of health-care exchanges driving incremental revenue
in the future,” Charles Sebaski, an analyst with Bank of
Montreal, said in an interview last week. “Aon, its largest and
only true competitor, was the first to build out a health-care
exchange and the stock has done very well.”  Shares of New York-based Marsh & McLennan had their biggest
drop in at least two decades on Oct. 14, 2004, the day of
Spitzer’s suit, plummeting as much as 26 percent. The stock
posted annual declines until 2010.  Marsh & McLennan agreed in 2005 to pay $850 million to
settle the case. It apologized, saying some employees had
“unlawfully deceived” customers, without admitting or denying
any claim in Spitzer’s suit. The broker won release from
lawsuit-related restrictions in 2010.  CEO Changes  Greenberg was replaced as CEO in 2004 by Michael Cherkasky,
a former prosecutor who cleaned up relations with regulators and
was then ousted in 2007 after he was unable to regain lost
clients and profit. The next CEO, Duperreault, joined the
company after a career at American International Group Inc. and
Ace Ltd. He retired last year.  Glaser, 53, took over the top job on Jan. 1 this year after
serving as chief operating officer and head of the flagship
insurance brokerage. His company is scheduled to post third-quarter results on Nov. 6.  Spitzer gained national prominence for bringing cases
against Wall Street firms, and was elected  New York  governor in
2006. He was driven from office in March 2008 after patronizing
prostitutes. Spitzer lost the Democratic primary race for New
York City comptroller this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  