-- Hartford Profit Jumps as McGee Shifts Focus
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-28T21:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/hartford-profit-jumps-to-293-million-after-mcgee-shifts-focus.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) ’s profit surged as the insurer focused on property-and-casualty coverage after divesting life and annuity units. The
company gained in extended trading.  Third-quarter  net income  advanced to $293 million, or 60
cents a share, from $13 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier, when
the sale of a life-insurance unit weighed on results, Hartford
said today in a statement. Profit excluding some investing
results was $1.03 a share, beating the 83-cent  average estimate 
of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee sold the life unit and a
broker-dealer and retreated from variable annuities amid
pressure from  investors  including  John Paulson  to narrow the
company’s focus. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, has rallied 51 percent this year, driven by  rising
interest rates  and higher stock prices.  “There is a lot of confidence now in Hartford executing
what they’ve set out to do,” Vincent DeAugustino, an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said by phone before results were
announced. “Within the foreseeable horizon, we can think about
Hartford as being a mostly pure-play P&C company.”  Hartford advanced 1 percent to $33.90 at the close in  New
York  and has beaten the 24 percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index this year. The stock added 41 cents to $34.31 at 4:57
p.m., after results were released.  Catastrophe Costs  Core earnings in the property-casualty unit were $263
million, a 4.4 percent decrease from a year earlier, as costs
tied to natural disasters rose. Hartford spent 96 cents on
claims and expenses for every premium dollar it collected, one
penny more than in the year-earlier period. Catastrophes cost
the firm $66 million, up from $10 million a year earlier.  In the commercial segment, policy sales rose 1 percent to
$1.57 billion. Sales advanced 2.9 percent to $988 million in the
consumer unit, Hartford said. Rates increased 8 percent on
standard commercial policies that were renewed, according to
today’s statement, the same pace as a year earlier.  Hartford said improved group long-term disability results
contributed to a 57 percent increase in core earnings at the
unit that provides workplace benefits, to $36 million.  Hartford spent $241 million to repurchase 7.5 million
common shares and about 500,000 warrants in the third quarter,
the company said. McGee increased the share-repurchase
authorization by $750 million in June to $1.25 billion. Book
value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to $38.87 a
share from $38.59 three months earlier.  Variable Annuities  The insurer initially reported a larger profit for last
year’s third quarter, before finding a material weakness in
internal controls over financial reporting and correcting the
results. The loss was tied to the sale of a life unit to
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   McGee also divested its retirement-plans business, broker-dealer, and individual annuity origination unit, the company
said in January.  Hartford still has liabilities tied to retirement products
sold before exiting the variable-annuity business in the U.S.
and  Japan . McGee, 59, used hedges against market fluctuations on
the products, which can guarantee minimum payouts regardless of
the performance of assets backing the policies. Liabilities
typically shrink as stock markets rise.  Net income at the Talcott Resolution business, which
includes results from the retirement products, was $7 million,
compared with a loss of $121 million a year earlier. Customers’
account values declined in the U.S. and Japan as more clients
gave up their variable annuities. Hartford said net realized
capital losses of $123 million were driven by hedges on its
international variable annuity block.  Client Surrenders  In Japan, variable annuity account values fell to $22.8
billion of Sept. 30 from $28.7 billion a year earlier, as more
clients turned in their contracts. Rising stock markets limit
the value of the guarantees that clients purchased from
Hartford.  Hartford reached a deal in June to sell its U.K. variable-annuity business to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  for $285 million as
Hartford sought to limit liabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  