-- Martha Stewart Appointment of Dienst as CEO Signals Cuts
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/martha-stewart-living-names-sims-metal-s-daniel-dienst-as-ceo.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) 
named former metals-industry executive Daniel Dienst to lead the
company, going outside the media business for a manager with
operational experience who can reshape the unprofitable company.  Dienst, the former chief executive officer of scrap-metal
recycler  Sims Metal Management Ltd. (SGM) , will take the same position
at Martha Stewart Living, the home-decor retailing and
publishing company said yesterday in a statement. Dienst, 48,
had been at Sims and its predecessor company Metal Management
Inc. from 2003 to June of this year. He joined the Martha
Stewart Living board in August.  The company has been trying to recast itself as a
merchandiser after years of losses as a media business. Bringing
in Dienst, who has little retail experience though plenty in
fixing up companies, means Martha Stewart Living will probably
be cutting more costs, said Mike Kupinski, an analyst with Noble
Financial Capital Markets.  “It was at first a little shocking, but then completely
made sense,” Kupinski said. “He’s a restructuring kind of guy.
He has a history of coming into companies, fixing them up and
selling them.”  The new CEO is arriving at a company at a crossroads. New
York-based Martha Stewart Living suffered a setback to its
merchandising strategy this month. The company scaled back an
agreement with J.C. Penney Co., amending it to run through 2017
instead of 2021, in response to a lawsuit from  Macy’s Inc. (M)   Macy’s Suit  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
filed suit in January 2012, saying it had the exclusive right to
sell Martha Stewart Living-branded goods in certain categories,
including bedding and cookware. Macy’s case for damages remains
before the court.  Sales in Martha Stewart Living’s publishing business,
meanwhile, have declined from a year earlier for seven straight
quarters on sluggish advertising sales.  Martha Stewart Living said last year that it would shut
down its Whole Living magazine and turn its Everyday Food title
into an online publication. The company also began retooling its
broadcast division to focus more on Internet services, including
 AOL Inc. (AOL)  and Hulu LLC, rather than traditional television.  “Dan has specific expertise helping companies run
efficiently and productively,” Stewart, the company’s non-executive chairman, said in the statement. “I look forward to
working with him to strengthen and further expand our brand and
create new opportunities to significantly grow.”  Perfectionist Chairman  Dienst will be operating under Stewart, the home-decor
perfectionist who holds almost 90 percent of voting rights at
the company. Stewart, 72, stepped down as CEO when she went to
prison for obstructing justice in an insider-trading probe. Her
sentence included a ban from leading her company for five years
-- a deadline that has since passed.  Dienst replaces Lisa Gersh, who announced plans to leave in
December after only five months on the job. Stewart extended her
own employment through 2017 as part of an agreement last year.  Sims announced Dienst’s retirement in February. The company
credited him with completing two mergers, improving safety
conditions and establishing operations in  China .  Martha Stewart Living rose less than 1 percent to $2.40
yesterday at the close in New York. The shares have dropped 2
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  