-- Maruti Profit Beats Estimates as Weaker Yen Pares Import Costs
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2013-10-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/maruti-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-weaker-yen-cuts-import-costs.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, reported second-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates after a weaker Japanese yen
cut import costs.  Net income  at  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian unit almost
tripled to 6.7 billion rupees ($109 million) in the three months
ended September, the New Delhi-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That exceeded the 5.48 billion-rupee median of 43
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  carmaker  benefited as the  rupee  gained more than 5
percent against the Japanese yen in the 12 months ended
September, making components imported from  Japan  cheaper.
Maruti’s local deliveries gained 15 percent in the quarter to
241,562 units, as a deadly riot in the year-earlier period led
to a drop in output.  “Maruti has benefited from the  exchange rate ,” said
 Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. “Going forward, the second half of the year
will be challenging as volume growth will be tepid, the
discounts are rising and the exchange rates are also becoming
unfavorable.”  Average discount in the quarter was 17,500 rupees,
according to Mayank Pareek, the company’s sales chief. That
compared with 13,426 rupees in the preceding three-month period.  Sales Trails  Shares of Maruti rose 0.3 percent to 1,513.35 rupees
yesterday in Mumbai before the announcement. The stock has
gained 1.6 percent this year, compared with a 5.9 percent
advance in the S&P BSE Sensex Index.  Net sales rose 27 percent to 102.1 billion rupees, lagging
behind the 103.3 billion-rupee median of 44 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The earnings include the results of unit
Suzuki Powertrain  India  Ltd., which was absorbed in the year
ended March 31.  Maruti exported 34,024 cars in the quarter, an increase of
67 percent, it said in the statement. The carmaker also said it
gained from foreign exchange rates in the period.  Last month, India’s automakers’ body forecast the first
annual drop in passenger vehicle sales since 2002 as an economic
slowdown damps demand for cars and SUVs. The group had in April
forecast a 5 percent to 7 percent increase.  “The economic scenario continues to be uncertain and we’ll
have to rely on our own efforts to enhance sales,” Chief
Executive Officer Kenichi Ayukawa said at a press conference in
 New Delhi  yesterday. “In the long term we are confident of the
growth potential of India, but are not in a position to predict
sales in the short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  