-- Atletico Routs Betis to Close on Barcelona; Roma Stays Perfect
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-28T00:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/atletico-routs-betis-to-close-on-barcelona-roma-stays-perfect.html
Atletico Madrid  routed Real Betis
5-0 to move within a point of Spanish soccer league leader
Barcelona, which defeated Real Madrid at the weekend. Roma set a
record for the best start to Italy’s Serie A.  David Villa  scored twice last night, with 18-year-old
Oliver Torres, Diego Costa and Gabi adding the other goals as
Atletico rebounded from its first La Liga loss of the season the
previous week.  Two days ago, Neymar and  Alexis Sanchez  scored in
Barcelona’s home win over Real that lifted the defending
champion to 28 points atop the standings after 10 games. Jese
Rodriguez got Real’s goal in stoppage time at the Camp Nou.  Roma posted a ninth straight victory to extend its 100
percent Serie A start with a 1-0 win at Udinese. U.S. midfielder
 Michael Bradley  got the goal in the 82nd minute, after his
teammate Maicon was red-carded for picking up two cautions.  Juventus had won nine straight matches at the start of the
2005-2006 campaign, although the Turin-based team was stripped
of that championship and the previous season’s for its role in a
match-fixing scandal.  Napoli beat Torino 2-0 yesterday to stay in second place
ahead of Juve, which defeated Genoa by the same score.  Roma has 27 points, followed by Napoli and Juve with 22 and
 Inter Milan  and Fiorentina on 18.  In Germany’s Bundesliga, defending champion Bayern Munich
had a 3-2 win over Hertha Berlin two days ago, Borussia Dortmund
won 3-1 at Schalke and  Bayer Leverkusen  defeated Augsburg 2-1.  Bayern leads with 26 points, followed by Dortmund and
Leverkusen on 25.  Matuidi Rescues PSG  In France, Blaise Matuidi’s stoppage-time goal gave Paris
Saint-Germain a 2-2 draw at Saint-Etienne to preserve the
capital club’s unbeaten Ligue 1 start. The home team blew a 2-0
lead after having Fabien Lemoine red-carded in the 59th minute.  PSG leads Monaco on goal difference atop the standings
after Claudio Ranieri’s team beat Lyon 2-1 earlier yesterday.
Third-place Lille won 1-0 at Nantes on Oct. 25.  In the Netherlands,  PSV Eindhoven  and PEC Zwolle missed the
chance to go top yesterday as PSV lost 2-1 at Roda JC and Zwolle
was beaten 2-0 at home by AZ Alkmaar.  FC Twente  lost 3-2 at Den
Haag and Ajax drew 0-0 with RKC Waalwijk. Twente, Ajax and AZ
lead the standings with 19 points  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  