-- Aussie Drops to 2-Week Low as Stevens Sees It ‘Materially Lower’
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-29T05:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/aussie-drops-to-1-week-low-as-stevens-sees-it-materially-lower-.html
Australia’s dollar fell to the
lowest in nearly two weeks after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn
Stevens  said it may be “materially lower” in the future.  The Aussie dropped versus all 16 of its major counterparts
after Stevens said there will eventually be a tapering of U.S.
stimulus that has debased the greenback. The Australian
currency’s loss today pared its monthly gain versus the  U.S.
dollar  to 2 percent, which is still the most among peers.  New
Zealand ’s kiwi weakened before its central bank meets Oct. 31
and as Asian stocks fell.  “The Aussie’s dropped on the Stevens comments but it was
already under a bit of pressure anyway,” said  Tim Kelleher , the
head of institutional foreign-exchange sales in Auckland at ASB
Bank Ltd. “The market got a little carried away on the topside
with both the Aussie and kiwi over the last fortnight and we’re
now seeing them drift back off.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.7 percent to 95.09 U.S. cents at
4:51 p.m. in Sydney and touched 95.04, the least since Oct. 16.
It slumped 0.8 percent to 92.78 yen. New Zealand’s dollar lost
0.3 percent to 82.74 U.S. cents and 0.5 percent to 80.70 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional stocks dropped as
much as 0.5 percent.  “The foreign-exchange market is perhaps another area in
which investors should take care,” Stevens said today in the
text of a speech in Sydney. “It seems quite likely that at some
point in the future the Australian dollar will be materially
lower than it is today.”  ‘Ramping Up’  The comments mark a “significant ramping up” of RBA
opposition to the level of the Aussie,  Todd Elmer , a Singapore-based currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. wrote in a note to
clients today. Investors may benefit by positioning for declines
in Australia’s dollar versus New Zealand’s, he wrote.  The Aussie declined 0.3 percent to NZ$1.1496, falling for a
second day.  The RBA is grappling with the economic impact of a currency
that’s about 10 percent above its average in the past decade
even as a record mining investment boom ebbs. Stevens has
slashed  interest rates  to a record low 2.5 percent and there’s
about a 42 percent chance policy makers will cut borrowing costs
again by May, swaps data show.  The value of projects under construction or committed in
Australia slid 0.7 percent to A$464.7 billion ($442 billion) as
of Sept. 30 from three months earlier, Deloitte Access Economics
said in a report released today.  “The decline in overall business investment is expected to
strip the better part of a year’s worth of growth out of the
Australian economy over the next three years,” according to the
report.  The nation’s  10-year bond yield  fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.99 percent. The three-year rate fell
four basis points to 2.97 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  