-- Bank-Structure Plan Dealt Blow as EU Lawmaker Says No Time
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-28T17:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/bank-structure-overhaul-dealt-blow-as-eu-lawmaker-says-no-time.html
The European Parliament’s top
financial lawmaker said time has run out for the assembly to
deal with proposals to regulate the structure of banks in a bid
to prevent lenders from becoming too big to fail.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s internal market
commissioner, has left it too late ahead of parliamentary
elections to submit promised proposals to prevent banks being
too internally complex,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the
Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee, told
reporters in  London  today.  Delays in unveiling the blueprint mean there is “no
chance” of his plans becoming law before the assembly adjourns
in preparation for elections next year, Bowles said. “Whatever
he does is likely to be controversial, and secondly we’ve got
other issues in the pipeline that we would really have to finish
and would take priority.”  Regulators are seeking ways to overhaul banks’ operations
so that riskier activities are separated from core lending and
backed by capital reserves. The U.K., France,  Germany  and
 Belgium  are already putting national plans in place for internal
firewalls at their lenders.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are among EU banks
to have lobbied publicly against proposals by a high-level
group, led by Bank of Finland Governor  Erkki Liikanen , to force
lenders to separate their trading activities. The group was set
up by Barnier to generate ideas for possible EU legislation.  ‘Working Seriously’  “Considering the likely date for the adoption of our
proposal,” as well as other key financial regulation priorities
“we of course know there cannot be a final agreement on our
forthcoming proposal during this legislature,” Barnier said in
an e-mailed statement via his spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes .  The commission’s aim is that legislators, after making
progress early next year, will “resume discussions in the next
Parliamentary session to reach final agreement later in 2014,”
he said.  Barnier said last month that he was aiming to present his
blueprint in November. His proposals require approval by the EU
Parliament and by national governments before they can take
effect.  The Parliament is set to  adjourn  for the election campaign
in mid-April, with the elections themselves to be held in EU
nations between May 22 and May 25.  Housekeeping Matters  The newly elected assembly will formally convene in July,
and will work on housekeeping matters such as sharing out
committee slots, making internal appointments and holding
hearings on candidates to join the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm. A new team of EU commissioners is set to take
office in November.  The fate of existing legislative proposals after the new
Parliament and commission are in place is uncertain, as the
institutions are free to redefine their priorities.  “Ideally this should have been dealt with as soon as early
2010 in response to the Volcker rule in the U.S.,” Nicolas
Veron, fellow at the Brussels-based Bruegel research group, said
in a telephone interview, referring to U.S. plans to ban
commercial banks from proprietary trading.  “But we are where we are, and given that this is in the
category of important, not urgent, and that it won’t be finished
in this parliamentary term, it would be best left to the new
team next year,” he said.  Final Accord  While the Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee may be able to agree on its negotiation position on a
possible Barnier proposal by the elections, there wouldn’t be
enough time left to hammer out a final accord with governments,
Bowles said.  Parliament is already racing to complete work on other
draft financial regulations before the end of its mandate,
including proposals to centralize the handling of failing euro-area banks, and plans to regulate benchmarks, Bowles said.  The assembly has “already taken on far more, and they’re
not small things we’ve taken on,” she said.  There is a need for EU rules on bank structure to prevent
an incoherent patchwork of national measures, Veron said. This
is especially true for the euro area, whose leaders have
committed to build a banking union with pooled oversight and
crisis management of banks, he said.  “If the single rulebook is to have any meaning this should
be part of it,” he said. “ France  and Germany going it alone is
bad behavior, also in terms of their banking union commitment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  