-- Barclays Expects Asia Boost for Euro Bonds Amid Record Sales
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-28T06:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/barclays-predicts-asian-boost-for-euro-bonds-amid-record-sales.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, predicts Asian companies will further
increase sales of euro-denominated bonds after issuing a record
amount of debt in the currency.  Companies from Asia outside  Japan  have sold 5.5 billion
euros ($7.6 billion) of bonds in the shared currency since Dec.
31, more than any previous year and double 2012 volumes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s
largest refiner, led 1.55 billion euros of note offerings this
month, the most by the region’s issuers since May, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Issuers here are finding that the euro market is
increasingly competitive,” said Jon Pratt, head of debt capital
markets for  Asia  at Barclays. “We have introduced a range of
European insurance companies and pension funds to Asian
companies this year. These investors have previously never
bought Asian credits.”  Money flows into European bond funds hit a 25-week high in
the period to Oct. 23, even as total debt funds took in just
$527 million, according to data provider EPFR Global. The
political impasse in the U.S. as Congress struggled to reach an
agreement on raising the debt ceiling sapped appetite for the
nation’s assets while favoring  Europe , EPFR wrote in an e-mailed
note dated Oct. 11.  About 35 percent of a global high-yield bond fund run by
Brandywine Global Investment Management LLC, a unit of Legg
Mason Inc., is already invested in Europe, according to Brian
Kloss, a Philadelphia-based  money manager  at the company, which
oversees about $48 billion. The fund will increase its holdings
as the region returns to growth, he said in an interview last
week in Hong Kong.  Globally, borrowers pay an average 1.91 percent for euro
debt, 29 basis points less than for dollar notes, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Euro-denominated notes
gained 1.22 percent this year as of the end of last month,
beating Asian dollar-denominated bonds, the indexes show.  “Some Asian investors are shifting some of their
investments into euro currency as they are getting more
comfortable with the currency fundamentals and are seeing more
supply from the region,” said Pratt. These funds view it as a
way to “partially mitigate the risks of U.S. dollar currency
depreciation and rising U.S. interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  