-- Bidvest Succession Under Way as Joffe Focuses on Strategy
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-10-28T16:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/bidvest-s-ceo-succession-under-way-as-joffe-focuses-on-strategy.html
Brian Joffe, chief executive officer
and founder of  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , said planning for his
succession is progressing “very well” with a senior team
already in place at South Africa’s biggest diversified
industrial company by revenue.  Bidvest said in March that  Cyril Ramaphosa  would retire as
chairman and be succeeded by Lorato Phalatse. Joffe, appointed
executive chairman in 1988 and CEO in 2004, has presided over an
increase in the company’s market value in the past 20 years to
about 86 billion rand ($8.8 billion) from 782 million rand,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales surged to 153
billion rand from 775 million rand.  “The seamless succession of Cyril Ramaphosa by Lorato Phalatse inevitably raises questions about my own succession,”
Joffe, 66, said in the company’s annual report published on its
website. “This process is already under way. A strong senior
team is already in place.”  Bernard Berson, 48, chief Executive of Bidvest Foodservice
and Lindsay Ralphs, 57, chief Executive of Bidvest  South Africa 
have been delegated “more and more responsibilities,” Joffe
said. “My focus is increasingly on strategic issues and major
acquisitions.”  Succession Plan  “There is no indication that Mr. Joffe will step down in
the short term and the recent succession plan disclosure in the
2013 annual report provides no new information to the market,”
Brent Madel, an analyst at Cape Town-based BPI Capital Africa
Pty Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions. “We believe
the comments are merely to reassure investors that there is a
succession plan in place and that Mr Joffe will focus on the the
group’s strategy and acquisitive growth opportunities.”  Bidvest  shares  rose 1.6 percent, the most since Oct. 21, to
264.25 rand in Johannesburg, extending its gain this year to 23
percent. The  165-member FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  has
risen 16 percent over the same period.  “No doubt the market continues to attribute a premium to
the Bidvest stock due to Mr. Joffe’s very successful historical
acquisitive strategy which investors believe he can replicate
going forward,” Madel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  