-- Blackstone’s James Cuts Stake in Company With Third Sale
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-28T04:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/blackstone-s-james-cuts-stake-in-company-with-third-sale.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  President Tony
James is reducing his stake in the private-equity firm he helped
build into the world’s largest manager of alternative assets
over the past 11 years.  James sold 3.25 million shares of New York-based Blackstone
between Oct. 23 and Oct. 25 at prices ranging from $26.71 to
$27.85, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission last week. James has sold at least 8.25
million shares this year in three transactions, about a fifth of
the equity he held in Blackstone at the beginning of the year,
according to regulatory  filings .  James said he has no plans to leave the firm. Some
colleagues inside Blackstone have been speculating that the 62-year-old may be seeking a new career outside of private equity,
according to people familiar with the firm, who asked not to be
identified because the matter was internal.  “I am not leaving Blackstone,” James said when reached by
telephone over the weekend. “I will not leave Blackstone in
years.”  Peter Rose, a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
James’s share sale.  Blackstone has  rallied  71 percent this year and this month
reached the highest level since 2007, the year the firm went
public.  This month’s transactions were valued at about $88.6
million, the filing showed. They were made through a company
controlled by James, his spouse and a trust for his children. In
two other sales this year, James sold 3.5 million shares, valued
at about $64.2 million in February and 1.5 million shares, worth
about $34.2 million, in July.  Previous Sales  James previously made a large divestment in April and May
of 2011, when he sold 1.25 million shares, filings show.  Tom Hill, Blackstone’s vice chairman, also sold shares this
year as the stock rallied. The 65-year-old, who runs the firm’s
fund-of-hedge-funds business, sold 1 million shares in February
and March, according to filings, earning $19 million.  James holds about 33.7 million shares following his sales
this year, compared with 231.9 million owned by Stephen Schwarzman, the firm’s co-founder and chief executive officer,
and 40.6 million shares held by Jon Gray, Blackstone’s global
head of real estate, who joined the firm in 1992.  A former chairman of global investment banking and private
equity at Credit Suisse First Boston, James joined Blackstone in
2002 and has become one of the most senior executives afterSchwarzman, 66. The two approve all investment decisions by the
firm.  James’s Tenure  During James’s tenure at Blackstone, he engineered the
firm’s 2008 acquisition of GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
business run by his friend and colleague  Bennett Goodman . GSO’s
assets have grown to $63 billion from about $10 billion since
Blackstone bought it.  James also played a role in fashioning Blackstone’s 2007
IPO, when the company sold shares at $31 apiece before the onset
of the financial crisis. Blackstone fell as low as $3.87 in
February 2009 before rebounding.  The firm oversees an industry-record $248 billion in
private-equity, credit, property and hedge-fund assets. In a
push led by Schwarzman and later James, Blackstone diversified
soon after its founding to grow assets and reduce its reliance
on volatile buyout earnings.  Profit , measured by economic net
income, is up 49 percent to $2 billion in the first nine months
of the year compared with the same period last year.  Peers such as  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  have followed Blackstone in selling shares to the
public and starting new business lines to manage assets besides
buyout holdings. Carlyle, the second-largest alternative-asset
manager, oversees $180 billion.  Succession Plans  James received $66 million in 2012, including a $30 million
bonus, according to Blackstone’s annual 10-K, filed with the SEC
in March. That followed bonuses of $50 million in the previous
two years combined. The rest of his annual payout has typically
included dividends on his stock ownership, a salary and his
share of investment profits.  James said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik
Schatzker  last month that the firm has a deep management team
and succession plans for any of the group heads, as well as
himself and Schwarzman.  “I love my job and I’ve got the best job in the world,”
James said during the interview at the  Clinton Global Initiative 
in New York. For him to leave, “it would take a job where I
could really use all of my brain power. If I thought I could do
something good for the world, I might consider that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  