-- BMW Joins VW in Backing Germany’s Electric-Vehicle Goal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-10-28T15:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/bmw-joins-vw-in-backing-germany-s-electric-vehicle-goal.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  backed
the German government’s goal to have 1 million electric cars by
2020 on the country’s roads, a week after  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said the
target is achievable under broader terms for alternative drives.  Developing the European Union’s electric-vehicle market
will need the backing of authorities, though official support in
the bloc is lagging behind initiatives in the U.S. and  China ,
BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today in a
speech at an industry conference in Munich.  “I hope the ongoing discussions between national
governments, the European Parliament and the European Commission
lead to a package that’s viable,” Reithofer said at the
conference sponsored by Handelsblatt newspaper. “At the moment,
the commission’s  proposals  don’t offer incentives to speed up
introduction of alternative drives.”  Carmakers are promoting electric-powered models to comply
with tightening regulations that apply to their fleets’
emissions across the globe. Munich-based BMW, the world’s
biggest maker of luxury vehicles, is putting the 34,950-euro
($48,200) all-electric i3 city car into showrooms in  Germany 
next month.  VW CEO Martin Winterkorn said last week that the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based manufacturer, Europe’s largest volume carmaker,
will “contribute” to the German goal for electric vehicles to
play a larger role in the market by 2020. Authorities’ plans are
feasible as long as they include plug-in hybrids, which can
switch between rechargeable battery power and conventional
combustion engines, as the models offer the biggest market
potential, he said.  Electric Golf  Volkswagen outlined plans in September to offer as many as
40 electric or hybrid models in the event that demand for low-emission cars takes off. The manufacturer will produce 14
vehicles with alternative drive through next year after
introducing electric versions of the Golf hatchback and Up! city
car at  the Frankfurt auto show  last month. VW also showed new
plug-in hybrid versions of the Porsche brand’s Panamera four-door coupe and Audi’s A3 compact.  Corporate enthusiasm for alternative-drive engines has
failed to translate into significant sales amid consumers’
concerns that powering systems offer only limited distance
before a recharge is required and objections to higher prices.  German Registrations  Purely or partly battery-powered vehicles accounted for
4,157 new car registrations in Germany in 2012, about twice as
many as the year before, according to the  VDA  auto-industry
association. Germany’s new car market amounts to about 3 million
vehicles a year.  Volkswagen’s e-Up! went on sale in Germany this month for
26,900 euros. The model is “deliberately positioned” against
BMW’s i3, Rudolf Krebs, head of electric-powertrain technology
at VW, said on Sept. 4.  BMW presented the i3 at the Frankfurt show, as well as a
plug-in hybrid version of the X5 sport-utility vehicle.
Reithofer reiterated today that the i8 plug-in hybrid sports car
will be added to BMW’s lineup in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Munich via 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  