-- Rousseff Said to Oppose Brazil Central Bank Independence
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-10-28T18:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/brazil-central-bank-independence-said-to-be-opposed-by-rousseff.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff
opposes efforts by the Senate chief to grant fixed terms to
central bank directors, a move her party sees as limiting her
authority, a legislator and a government official said.  Senate President Renan Calheiros said Oct. 25 he would hold
a vote this year on a bill that would block Rousseff from firing
central bank board members without congressional approval. His
comment came after the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in a report urged the country to approve such
legislation to avoid undermining its credibility.  The legislator, who asked not to be named to avoid a public
debate, said Calheiros’ proposal is a bargaining chip to obtain
benefits for his PMDB party, a partner in the ruling coalition.
The government official, who is not authorized to speak publicly
about the issue, said the proposal is a political tactic to push
for concessions in other areas.  “I’m certain we won’t support this measure,” Devanir
Ribeiro, legislator and co-founder of the ruling Workers’ Party,
said by telephone. “The government can’t give up authority over
strategic issues like monetary policy and foreign exchange
policies.”  The presidential press office declined to comment when
asked about Rousseff’s opinion of the bill.  Formal Independence  Rousseff’s Workers’ Party historically has opposed formal
independence for the central bank, which it says already enjoys
the operational autonomy needed to meet the inflation target,
Ribeiro said.  The monetary authority led by Alexandre Tombini cut its
benchmark  interest rate  in October last year to a record 7.25
percent as Rousseff vowed to lower borrowing costs to
“civilized” levels.  Policy makers in April reversed course, starting the
world’s biggest tightening cycle in a bid to slow above-target
inflation. This month they raised the benchmark Selic rate to
9.5 percent after inflation twice this year breached the 6.5
percent ceiling of the inflation target range.  Rousseff said three weeks before the April rate increase
that she didn’t agree with anti-inflation policies that
sacrifice growth, prompting interest rate futures to fall. Hours
later her speech, following a request by Rousseff to clarify her
statement, Tombini said it is the central bank that comments on
interest rate policy and the government that speaks about
inflation.  Operational Autonomy  Rousseff and Tombini have repeatedly said the central bank
has operational autonomy to make make its decisions.  The OECD in the report published last week said statements
on interest rates from officials outside the central bank risk
confusing market participants and hurting policy makers’
independence.  “Both could result in inflationary expectations becoming
unanchored from the inflation target,” according to the report.  The Senate bill would grant the chief a four or six-year
fixed term that wouldn’t coincide with the president’s time in
office. Directors could only be removed with Senate approval,
Calheiros said during a Senate speech Oct. 25.  “At a moment when a central bank can be pressured because
of a lack of autonomy, it risks losing respect and credibility
by actors in the economy,” said Calheiros.  The PMDB may get the bill approved in Congress if the
government isn’t careful, said the legislator who requested
anonymity.  “It would be a positive surprise if it were approved,”
Juan Jensen, a partner at consulting company Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, said by phone from Sao Paulo about the
bill. “The degree of the central bank’s autonomy today is
questionable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  