-- Brent Adds to Premium Over WTI as Libyan Production Falls
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-28T19:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/brent-crude-rises-from-11-week-low-as-libyan-oil-output.html
Brent crude rose the most in two
weeks as Libyan output fell, widening the premium to West Texas
Intermediate. Futures also gained on speculation that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will maintain the pace of stimulus.  Brent oil traded in  London  surged 2.5 percent after state-run National Oil Corp. said crude production in Libya declined
to 250,000 barrels a day because of labor protests. WTI in New
York advanced 0.9 percent a day before the Federal Open Market
Committee starts a two-day meeting at which it is likely to
delay reducing, or “tapering,” monthly bond purchases until
March, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The Libyan production drop is the main driver and is also
the reason why Brent is stronger,” said Jacob Correll, a
Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at energy
management firm Schneider Electric Professional Services.
“There’s a growing belief that the Fed will agree to keep the
full-bore bond buying program. The outlook for tapering anytime
soon is fading.”  Brent for December settlement rose $2.68 to end the session
at $109.61 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Volume was 13 percent higher than the 100-day average.
The European benchmark crude closed at a $10.93 premium to WTI,
up from $9.08 on Oct. 25. The intraday spread reached $13.37 on
Oct. 23, the most in six months.  WTI for December delivery gained 83 cents to settle at
$98.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
touched $95.95 on Oct. 24, the lowest intraday level since June
27. The volume of all futures traded was 26 percent below the
100-day average.  Brent Impact  North Sea-produced Brent, the benchmark for half the
world’s oil, is more sensitive to changes in Middle Eastern and
North African  output (IPMGCHNG)  than WTI because Europe depends more on
shipments from the regions. WTI price gains are limited because
of ample U.S. crude stockpiles.  “Brent is getting a lift from Libya,” said Bill O’Grady,
the chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management
in St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion of assets. “The FOMC
will probably have a doughnut-and-coffee meeting with no changes
announced.”  Production at Libya’s Sharara oil field fell almost 50
percent from approximately 300,000 barrels a day because of a
stoppage yesterday, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for the state-run National Oil Corp., said by telephone from Tripoli. Libya
was pumping 600,000 barrels a day, Mustapha Sanalla, board
member of the National Oil Corp., said Oct. 22.  Libyan Production  Libyan output  tumbled 275,000 barrels to 300,000 barrels a
day in September, a Bloomberg survey of oil companies, producers
and analysts showed. It was the sixth straight decrease sent
production to the lowest level since September 2011. Two years
after the war that deposed Muammar Qaddafi, efforts to revive
output are being stymied by feuding militias and protests.  Iraq ’s crude exports last month dropped to 62.1 million
barrels, or 2.07 million barrels a day, in September amid
maintenance work,  Asim Jihad , an oil ministry spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  A series of car bombs in Shiite areas of  Baghdad  yesterday
killed at least 39 people and wounded dozens of others, the
Associated Press said, citing police and health officials.  Iraqi Violence  “There seems to be some questions about Libya’s production
and there’s also been a lot of violence in Iraq,” said Phil Flynn, a senior market analyst for Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “The combination of those two factors really seems to
put the risk premium back into the Brent price.”  Weaker-than-forecast U.S. factory production data added to
speculation the Fed will delay scaling back its $85 billion a
month of bond purchases. Output rose 0.1 percent, figures from
the Fed showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent gain.  “The factory numbers weren’t impressive but the market
actually bounced a bit,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “We’re in a bizarre world where disappointing
economic data can be positive for the markets because of what it
may mean for Fed tapering.”  U.S. Inventories  WTI fell the past three weeks because of rising U.S. crude
supplies and falling demand from refineries undergoing seasonal
maintenance. Stockpiles gained 6.8 percent to 379.8 million
barrels in the five weeks ended Oct. 18, according to data from
the Energy Information Administration. Refineries operated at
85.9 percent of capacity in the week ended Oct. 18, the lowest
level in almost six months, the EIA said Oct. 23.  “The WTI-Brent spread is widening again,” O’Grady said.
“The wider it gets, the greater the incentive for refineries
here to speed up maintenance and get back on line.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 19.5 percent, up from 18.9 percent Oct. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 399,646
contracts as of 2:52 p.m. It totaled 390,150 contracts Oct. 25,
33 percent lower than the three-month average. Open interest was
1.78 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  