-- Bristo-Myers Shares Rise on Drug Trial Results
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-28T20:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/bristo-myers-shares-rise-on-drug-trial-results.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  rose to its
highest closing price since 2001 after releasing trial results
that showed its experimental drugs for  lung cancer  and
rheumatoid arthritis helped patients.  Bristol-Myers rose 6.7 percent to $52.02 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, the highest closing value since December 2001 and the
biggest one-day gain since March 2009. The New York-based
company released data over the weekend that showed its top
pipeline project, an immune-system based cancer treatment,
extended the lives of lung cancer patients. The company’s
experimental rheumatoid arthritis treatment was found to be
about as effective as a current standard treatment sold by
 AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , a study found.  In a trial of 418 rheumatoid arthritis patients, 78 percent
of those who took Bristol-Myers’s clazakizumab with methotrexate
reduced their symptoms by at least 20 percent, the company said.
That was twice the rate of patients who took only methotrexate,
a generic treatment for the disease. Of patients taking
methotrexate and Humira, AbbVie’s injectable drug that  sold 
$9.27 billion last year, 76 percent had symptoms fall by at
least 20 percent.  “It’s encouraging, especially since they had a comparator
arm there with Humira plus methotrexate,” said Grant Louie, a
rheumatologist and professor of medicine at  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine . “It does appear to be
comparable.”  Sales Returning  Bristol-Myers’s  sales  are returning to growth after patent
expirations shrank revenue in the past five quarters, led by the
loss of marketing exclusivity for the anti-stroke pill Plavix.
New products, led by the company’s cancer and hepatitis C
franchises, are emerging and may boost sales further.  The company on Oct. 25 also released additional survival
data on nivolumab, its experimental lung cancer treatment. The
study showed that 42 percent of treated patients were alive
after a year, and 24 percent after two years. The two-year
survival data are an improvement over previous results and are
“reasonably encouraging,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, said in a note to
clients.  Bristol-Myers is deciding whether to move clazakizumab, the
rheumatoid arthritis drug, into the final of three stages of
clinical trials usually required for approval before applying
for marketing clearance, said Pushkal Garg, a Bristol-Myers’s
head of immunoscience development.  Development Path  “We’re very excited about the results here, and we’re
mapping out the next phases of the development plan,” Garg said
in a telephone interview.  Rheumatoid arthritis causes inflammation of the joints,
often in the hands and feet. It is thought to be caused by
problems with the immune system, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. About  1.5 million
people  in the U.S. have it, according to the Arthritis
Foundation.  Clazakizumab’s biggest difference may be in getting a
portion of patients in remission from the disease, or reducing
its symptoms severely, Garg said.  “Where we really see the unmet need for clazakizumab, is
you have 70 percent or more of patients who don’t get into
remission,” he said. “We really want to try and get patients
into remission.”  Symptoms Reduced  The drug cut symptoms of the disease by 70 percent for 27
percent to 38 percent of patients in the study compared with 19
percent on Humira. Measures of remission were also greater on
clazakizumab than on Humira, according to the study.  The data were released as part of the American College of
Rheumatology annual meeting in  San Diego .  Future trials will need to show the drug’s side effects are
manageable, especially since doctors are already familiar with
treatments on the market. Patients in the study released today
had reactions at the injection sites at a higher rate than those
taking Humira, and the drug also raised cholesterol levels and
liver enzymes that could signal toxicity.  “That could raise concerns for the patient and the
regulatory agency,” Louie said. “Often in the real world,
patients say, ‘To heck with it,’ and discontinue medication
instead of dealing with it.”  Bristol-Myers hasn’t touted clazakizumab much to  investors ,
with executives focusing on the experimental drugs for cancer
and hepatitis. If successful in final stage trials, it would
compete with the multibillion-dollar drugs that currently
dominate for rheumatoid arthritis, Humira and Enbrel, which is
sold by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Drug Deals  Bristol-Myers bought the drug in 2009 from closely held
Alder Biopharmaceuticals Inc. The deal gave Alder an initial
cash payment of $85 million, and as much as $764 million in
milestone payments and the potential for more than $200 million
in payments and royalties if the drug gets to market.  Rheumatoid arthritis patients typically start treatment
with methotrexate, a cheaply available generic drug. If
methotrexate doesn’t work or becomes less effective, doctors can
add a therapy such as like Humira or Enbrel. There’s no cure for
the chronic disease.  Clazakizumab works through a pathway called IL-6, helping
to block the inflammatory effects of rheumatoid arthritis.
Basel,  Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG  has a related drug,
Actemra, which sold $898 million last year. AbbVie, based in
North Chicago,  Illinois , is developing a drug that uses the IL-6
path, ALX-0061, which it licensed from Ablynx last month in a
deal worth as much as $840 million.  The study didn’t offer data on another measure of disease
control, called radiographic progression, that uses imaging to
measure the breakdown in joints, Louie said. That may be an
important measure for regulators when the decide whether to
approve a drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  