-- California Chef Cooks Carrots With Coffee, Hippie Delight
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-10-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/california-chef-cooks-carrots-with-coffee-hippie-delight.html
Daniel Patterson is as self-effacing
as some of his television counterparts are loud and self-promoting.   His restaurant, Coi, in San Francisco, holds two Michelin 
stars and ranks No. 58 in the Top 100 list published with 
World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards.  Now, the quiet man is turning up the volume. Patterson is
promoting “Coi: Stories and Recipes,” in which he discusses
his philosophy of food and cooking and the genesis and story of
his dishes. There are recipes too, though not simple ones.  “ Cooking  is the most primal way that human beings interact
with each other,”  Patterson  says in an interview during a visit
to Bloomberg, London. “It’s how we connect to our families, our
friends, our communities. It’s very important to me that that
emotional connection be in the food.  “We try to combine a sense of familiarity with something
new. So if we have a dish with tomato and basil, we can’t just
serve a piece of tomato with basil on it and a little bit of
olive oil, because that’s not what people come into our
restaurant for. That’s something they’ve seen a million times.  “We have to keep the essential pleasure and show it in a
way that’s different. So we have an inverted tart with cherry
tomato and basil. There’s an almost traditional tomato pesto but
it’s pureed, set with gelatine and forced through a siphon so
the flavor’s very pure and light. You wouldn’t find it in home
cooking. Then there’s a black olive crisp on top. It’s
intense.”  Hippie Food  Other  dishes  include carrots roasted in coffee beans, with
mandarin juice and mint; a fromage-blanc tart with fennel and
wheatgrass; and  California  Bowl, a play on hippie food of brown
rice -- turned into a crisp -- with sprouts and avocado.  Patterson, 45, prepared lunch at the Ledbury, London,
earlier this month for some of Europe’s leading chefs, including
Rene Redzepi of Noma, Pierre Koffmann (Koffmann’s), Sat Bains
(Restaurant Sat Bains) and Brett Graham of the Ledbury. How
would he feel about cooking somewhere other than California?  “If I lived somewhere else, I would have this same basic
philosophy but the ingredients would push me into a totally
different direction,” he says. “If I was here, in  London , I’d
cook with probably a little bit more meat, a little bit more
dairy and definitely more flavors of the ocean because there’s
such incredible seafood in the area.  “Then I think, what vegetables are in the area and how can
I create the relationships to actually find them? What do I do
in the middle of the winter when there’s nothing coming out of
the ground because everything’s frozen over? So I’d have to
change the dishes and the style a lot.  “In a general sense as a cook, I want to make delicious
food that makes people happy. Cooking for someone, feeding
someone, is the most emotionally charged thing that we can do.”  He pauses and smiles, “Well, second.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Martin Gayford 
on art and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines on  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 