-- Five Killed as Car Runs Into Crowd at Tiananmen Square
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T23:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/car-runs-into-crowd-near-tiananmen-killing-3-qianlong-com-says.html
(Corrects description of vehicle in first paragraph,
location of gate in sixth paragraph.)  A sport-utility vehicle crashed into
a crowd by Beijing’s Tiananmen Square close to where the
portrait of  Mao Zedong  hangs, killing five people and injuring
38.  Three people in the vehicle were killed, along with
tourists from the  Philippines  and  Guangdong province , the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing the police.
The injured included tourists from  Japan  and the Philippines, it
said.  Those hurt were taken to hospitals and an investigation is
under way, according to the report. Pictures of the incident
posted by users of Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo service
showed a car in flames, billowing smoke.  Authorities had by 2:30 p.m. yesterday put up blue and
green canvas covering a portion of the area at Tiananmen gate
near Mao’s portrait, which had been sealed off by dozens of
police officers. Car traffic on Chang’an Avenue, which runs
between the gate and  Tiananmen Square , had returned to normal
after Beijing’s transportation department said earlier it was
halted. Tiananmen Square was also cleared.  Calls to the news department of Beijing’s public security
bureau weren’t answered yesterday. A woman who answered the
phone at the Tiananmen police station, who declined to give her
name, said she didn’t have information on the situation and
wasn’t able to comment.  Tiananmen Square, located at the center of the capital, has
been subject to tight security since the government violently
put down student protests there in 1989. Individuals and their
belongings are subject to security screenings before entering.
Tiananmen gate, just north of the square, is a popular tourist
destination and an entrance to the Forbidden City.  Similar Incident  A similar incident occurred in 2009, when three people
inside a car set themselves on fire at the intersection of
Wangfujing and Chang’an avenues, located a few blocks from
Tiananmen Square. The three were in Beijing for “personal
petitions,” Xinhua reported at the time.  Earlier this year, a wheelchair-bound man set off a
homemade bomb at Beijing’s international airport to protest what
he said was a beating by police in 2005. He lost his hand in the
July blast and a police officer suffered minor injuries.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  