-- Icahn Says Bill Gross Should Join Giving Pledge as He Did
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-28T17:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/carl-icahn-says-bill-gross-should-join-giving-pledge-like-he-did.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  should join him
in pledging to give at least half his wealth to charity, after
Gross urged Icahn to dedicate more time to helping people
instead of pushing Apple Inc. to buy shares.  “If you really want to do good, why not join” the Giving
Pledge, Icahn wrote in a message on Twitter today, referring to
a group that Bill Gates and investor  Warren Buffett  founded to
encourage the world’s richest to give the majority of their
wealth to charity.  Icahn’s response escalates an exchange that started last
week when Gross, manager of the world’s biggest mutual fund,
said Icahn should leave Apple alone. Gross said Icahn should
instead spend more time like Gates, the Microsoft Corp. co-founder and the world’s richest man, who with his wife Melinda,
has started a foundation aimed at improving people’s lives.  Icahn, ranked 34th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index of
the world’s richest people with a personal wealth of $21.2
billion, is pushing Apple to buy back $150 billion of shares and
has criticized the board for not acting to enhance value. Icahn
has signed the Giving Pledge. In 2012, he gave $200 million to
the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, the biggest donation ever to
the New York City teaching hospital.  Gross’s Wealth  Gross’s personal wealth is estimated at $2 billion. The 69-year-old, who manages the $250 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ,
has endowed a foundation with $293 million in assets and raised
money for Doctors Without Borders, a medical charity, by selling
parts of his stamp collection.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, declined to comment last
week on whether Gross had signed the pledge. Porterfield didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment today.  Gross’s name doesn’t appear on the  Giving Pledge  website,
which shows about 114 current pledgers, including couples. Other
donors who are money managers include Pershing Square Capital
Management LP’s  Bill Ackman  and his wife, Karen; Bridgewater
Associates LP’s  Ray Dalio  and his wife, Barbara; and Carlyle
Group LP’s  David Rubenstein .  After Gross’s Twitter message on Oct. 24 that said “Icahn
should leave Apple alone & spend more time like  Bill Gates ,”
Icahn appeared on the television network CNBC and said Gross had
a right to his opinion, yet he will continue to tackle what he
views as problems in corporate governance.  In a Twitter message on Oct. 25, Gross said he too should
spend more time on philanthropy and called Gates and his wife
“great paragons.” The money manager gave $20 million to
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center last year and $20 million to Mercy
Ships, an international medical charity, in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net  