-- China Money Rate Snaps Seven-Day Increase as Cash Crunch Eases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T09:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/china-money-rate-snaps-seven-day-advance-as-cash-crunch-eases.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined for the first time in eight days as a cash squeeze
caused by fiscal-deposit and corporate-tax payments eased.  The People’s Bank of China drained a net 58 billion  yuan 
($9.5 billion) in the week ended Oct. 25, the most since
February, and hasn’t offered reverse-repurchase contracts since
Oct. 17,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Corporate tax payments
contributed to the spike in rates, Pin Ru Tan, a Hong Kong-based
interest-rate strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd., said Oct.
23. Companies pay levies in the month following the quarter-end,
typically leading to higher government income that needs to be
parked at the central bank as fiscal deposits.  “The tightness last week was mainly due to the fiscal-deposit payments and corporate-tax payments, especially when it
happened after the PBOC suspended reverse repos,” said Song Qiuhong, an analyst at Shunde Rural Commercial Bank in Foshan.
“Now that it’s come to an end, we expect rates to fall back.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate  dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 5 percent as of 4:16 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It touched 5.06 percent on Oct. 25,
the highest since it surged to a record 12.45 percent in June. A
daily  fixing  of the rate released by the center climbed 138
basis points last week, the most since the week ended June 23.  The  overnight repo  rate was little changed at 4.56 percent
today, while the 14-day repo rate climbed 49 basis points to
6.39 percent.  ‘Policy Continuity’  The central bank today asked lenders to submit orders for
91-day bills, 28-day repurchase contracts, as well as seven- and
14-day reverse repos as usual, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “Out of concerns over the monetary policy continuity, the
chance is small to resume reverse repos in the short-term,”
said Yang Feng, a bond analyst at Citic Securities Co. in
Beijing, wrote in a report today. “On the other hand, the PBOC
has a strong intention to maintain stable rates after the June
crunch, so the tightness should ease soon.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, gained four basis points
to 4.11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose 11 basis points last week, the most since August.  The yield on  government bonds  due August 2023 declined one
basis point to 4.22 percent, according to data from the
Interbank Funding Center. The  yield  on 10-year sovereign notes
rose 10 basis points last week to 4.23 percent, the biggest
weekly advance since August, according to ChinaBond data.  The China National Audit Office has submitted its report on
 local government debt  to the State Council and the size of the
borrowings is more than 14 trillion yuan, Caijing magazine
reported, without saying where it got the information.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  