-- China May Revamp Rural-Land Rights as Part of Reforms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T07:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/china-may-revamp-farmers-land-rights-as-yu-sees-deeper-reform.html
China  Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng
said the Communist Party would consider “unprecedented”
economic reforms next month, as a top research agency proposed
changes to rural land ownership rules and social security.  The Development Research Center under the  State Council , or
cabinet, has also proposed adding “outside investors” to boost
competition, China News Service reported Oct. 26, citing a
publicly released plan. Yu’s comments in the southern city of
Nanning were reported Oct. 26 by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Credit Suisse Group AG said the proposals are ambitious and
exceed its expectations, while Nomura Holdings Inc. said the
government’s effectiveness in implementing reforms remains to be
seen. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News this month said
policies flowing from the meeting, called the third plenum, will
reduce the odds of a severe slowdown or financial crisis.  The meeting “will focus on studying comprehensive and deep
reform,” Yu was quoted as saying in Xinhua’s report. “The
depth and strength of the reforms will be unprecedented and will
promote profound changes in every area of the  economy  and
society.”  The plans are part of “probably the most ambitious”
economic initiatives since the People’s Republic of China was
formed and should be viewed as the foundation of President Xi Jinping’s reform framework to be unveiled at the third plenum,
Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse, said in
a note today. Even so, the “details are missing at this
moment” and their effectiveness depends on “policy design and
execution,” Tao wrote.  Stock Market  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks closed
little changed today. While money-market rates rose last week by
the most since a June cash crunch, China’s brokerages are
betting that the increase is a sign of strength in the economy
rather than finance-industry weakness.  The research agency’s plan was previously reported Oct. 1
by China Reform magazine, a Caixin Media publication, which
cited what it said were excerpts from the proposal. Domestic
media seized on the plan over the weekend. China Reform listed
policy shifts including reducing administrative approvals,
breaking monopolies, lowering barriers to entry in the financial
industry and setting up a deposit-insurance system.  The proposal also includes making the yuan an international
reserve currency in some markets, setting up funds to invest and
manage state assets, adjusting the system of transfer payments
for local governments and reducing government stakes in
financial institutions, according to China Reform.  Confirm Reports  The State Council Information Office didn’t immediately
respond to a faxed request from Bloomberg News for comment on
the reports.  Yu is ranked fourth in the seven-strong Politburo Standing
Committee headed by party chief and President Xi. The comments
were made in a speech at a forum to promote relations with
 Taiwan .  Premier Li Keqiang has pledged to cut the state’s role in
the economy, change the financial and fiscal systems, and
overhaul land and household registration rules to sustain growth.  The research center’s proposal to let farmers use land as
collateral or transfer it to others is “highly controversial,”
and the party’s final plan may be vague and reflect a lack of
consensus for aggressive change, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura in Hong Kong, said in a note today. Under
existing regulations, farmers own rights to use land
collectively and can’t sell to developers directly, leading to
grabs by local governments.  Earlier Plans  Many of the proposals in the research center’s plans
appeared in China’s five-year plan released in 2011 and progress
“has not been significant,” Zhang said.  Officials are searching for ways to deal with a surge in
local-government debt. China’s National Audit Office has
submitted its report on the situation to the State Council and
the level of debt exceeds 14 trillion  yuan  ($2.3 trillion),
Caijing reported yesterday on its website.  The government said yesterday that it will make it easier
for some companies to register and cut costs for starting a
business, according to a statement following a State Council
meeting led by Premier Li on Oct. 25.  Yu’s remarks follow comments Xi made to foreign business
executives last week that “comprehensive reforms” would be
“planned out” during the plenum, according to an English-language Xinhua  report  on Oct. 23 that didn’t specify any
policies. Dates for the meeting haven’t been announced.  Third Plenum  Next month’s gathering will be the third full meeting, or
plenum, of the party’s current  Central Committee , including Xi,
Li, ministers and the heads of the biggest state firms and banks,
who took over in a once-a-decade power transition that started
in late 2012. Thirty-five years ago, a similar Communist Party
gathering saw Deng Xiaoping and his allies inaugurate a series
of reforms that began to open up China to foreign investment and
loosen state controls over the economy.  “I don’t expect to see concrete measures announced at the
meeting, but I do expect to see concrete setting of a clear
direction and objectives,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Hong Kong who
previously worked for the World Bank in Beijing. “It’s clear
that in the financial and monetary areas there’s a full mandate
to move ahead, but so far we haven’t had the same signals in
other key areas of reform.”  The government has already made progress in areas including
cutting regulation, “but that’s low hanging fruit,” Kuijs said.
“Some recent statements, such as on the fiscal front, seem to
indicate it’s going to be pretty tame.”  U.S. Production  Elsewhere in the world today,  Sweden  reports on September
retail sales and  Italy  will provide a business-confidence index.
The U.S. will see releases on September industrial production
and pending home sales.  China has pared its growth ambitions, targeting annual
expansion of 7 percent this decade, compared with the 10.5
percent  average  pace of the last 10 years.  Bloomberg’s survey of analysts conducted from Oct. 11 to
Oct. 18 indicated that the odds of a severe slowdown in China or
a credit crisis will fall after the summit as leaders tackle
local-government debt and financial reforms.  Fifteen of 23 economists and political analysts said
policies flowing from the meeting will reduce such risks, and a
majority said the plans will help China become a high-income
economy by 2030.  Asked which reforms are most needed now and most likely in
the next 12 months, survey respondents ranked changes in
financial markets and local-government funding as both most
urgent and probable. Expectations were lower for reforms to the
residence-registration or hukou system, which limits labor
mobility, the rule of law and state-owned enterprises.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Tan in Beijing at 
 ztan39@bloomberg.net ;
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  