-- China to Monitor Air Pollution Effects in Cities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-29T04:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/china-to-start-monitoring-pollution-effects-in-worst-hit-cities.html
China  will start monitoring the
effects of air pollution on the health of people in areas
including Beijing and  Shanghai , the government’s latest step to
address public anger over the issue.  The country plans to set up a nationwide monitoring network
in 16 of the worst-hit cities and provinces within three to five
years, the National Health and Family Planning Commission said
in a statement on its website yesterday. Provinces to be
monitored include Hebei, Jiangsu, Sichuan and  Inner Mongolia ,
according to the statement.  Authorities are stepping up efforts to clean up the
nation’s air and water in an effort to assuage public anger
sparked by environmental degradation. Pollution is the top cause
of social unrest in China, according to Chen Jiping, a former
leading member of the Communist Party’s Committee of Political
and Legislative Affairs.  Harbin, the capital of northeastern Heilongjiang province,
last week closed schools for two days because of a spike in
pollution that pushed the  air quality  to severe levels after
municipal heating began.  As cold weather arrives, northern cities including Harbin
start to provide heating by burning coal to produce steam that’s
piped into homes and offices.  Worst Air  Binzhou city in the eastern province of Shandong was home
to the nation’s worst air today, with concentrations of PM2.5,
fine air particulates that pose the greatest health risk, at
1,000 micrograms per cubic meter as of 11 a.m., according to the
 China Environmental Monitoring Center . That reading was 40 times
higher than the  World Health Organization ’s recommendation of no
higher than 25 micrograms for day-long exposure.  The health commission said initiatives would include
monitoring PM2.5 concentrations, collecting information on
deaths and analyzing the effects of air pollution on children.  The air improved in the capital today following
“hazardous” readings yesterday. The concentration of PM2.5 in
Beijing was 3 micrograms per cubic meter as of 11 a.m. near
 Tiananmen Square , according to the Beijing Municipal
Environmental Monitoring Center. A U.S. Embassy pollution
monitor showed air quality as “good” as blue skies returned.  Beijing last week released plans for coping with
“serious” levels of pollution in the city. The city will order
30 percent of government cars off roads, close kindergartens,
middle and primary schools, and halt some industrial production
when such pollution is forecast, according to the plan.  Stay Indoors  The air across most parts of Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei and
Shandong was “heavily polluted” over the past 24 hours, the
second-worst rating on the government’s six-level scale. At that
level, the government recommends children, the elderly and
people with heart and lung ailments avoid outdoor activities.  China may “soon” release a plan on the environment, which
may be discussed at the third party plenum, the China Securities
Journal reported on Oct. 17, citing unidentified people.  The third plenum of the Chinese Communist Party’s central
committee, which includes President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang , will be held in November and will discuss deepening of
reforms, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  