-- China Construction Bank Profit Growth Slows on Bad Loan Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T08:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/china-construction-bank-profit-growth-slows-matching-estimates.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ’s
third-quarter profit rose 9.4 percent, matching analysts’
estimates for slower growth as bad loans increased and the
nation’s second-largest lender paid more to attract deposits.  Net income  rose to 56.8 billion yuan ($9.3 billion), the
Beijing-based lender said yesterday. Total third-quarter profit
at the nine Chinese banks traded in Hong Kong may grow by 11
percent, Deutsche Bank AG estimated before the statement.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) , the world’s second-largest by market value, and the rest of the country’s five
biggest lenders report on Oct. 30.  Construction Bank boosted profit as a rebound in the
world’s second-largest economy fueled demand for loans and fee-based services such as investment accounts and advisory work.
Growth in net income slowed to the weakest pace in six quarters
as the bank set aside more for soured debt and competition drove
the lender to pay savers more for deposits.  “CCB’s results showed that other Chinese banks are also
likely to see their profit growth slowing,” said Chen Xingyu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities Group. “They’re
unlikely to report the strong earnings gains seen in the past
few years, because the recent credit boom has created bad loan
issues which are now appearing and crimping profit.”  Soured Loans  Chinese banks advanced 40.5 trillion  yuan  of lending from
the end of 2008 through September as the government sought to
spur the economy after the global financial crisis. As some of
those borrowers defaulted, the industry’s nonperforming loans
rose for seven straight quarters through the end of June, the
latest period for which official data are available.  Construction Bank set aside 9.29 billion yuan of new
provisions against  soured debt  in the third quarter, compared
with 8.26 billion yuan a year earlier, according to the
statement. Its  nonperforming loans  rose to 82.1 billion yuan as
of Sept. 30 from 80.3 billion yuan three months earlier.  “We view CCB’s provisioning levels as appropriate”
because reserves increased by 3 percentage points to 268 percent
of soured debt, while slipping 1 basis point to 2.62 percent of
total loans, Mike Werner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in Hong Kong, wrote in a note.  Construction Bank  shares  rose 1.1 percent to HK$5.77 in
Hong Kong, trimming their loss this year to 7.2 percent. The
city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has gained 0.7 percent in 2013.  Largest Lenders  Construction Bank is the first Hong Kong-listed Chinese
bank to report third-quarter earnings. Along with  ICBC (1398) , lenders
scheduled to report on Oct. 30 include  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. (601288) , Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications Co.  The average  estimate  of 10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg
had called for Construction Bank to post net income of 57.2
billion yuan. Earnings per share rose to 0.23 yuan from 0.21
yuan a year earlier, according to the statement.  Construction Bank extended 864.9 billion yuan of  new loans 
in the first nine months of this year, taking the outstanding
amount to 8.38 trillion yuan.  Net interest income rose 8.2 percent to 98.9 billion yuan
in the third quarter, while fee income, from businesses such as
credit cards, trade finance and custodian services, rose 19
percent to 24.6 billion yuan.  Shrinking Deposits  “Loan growth kept momentum but deposit acquisition
suffered,” Sanjay Jain, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research report today. “The key
surprise was deposit growth of -0.3% considering CCB’s better-positioned franchise. It was mainly driven by shrinkage in low-cost demand deposits.”  China ’s economic growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in the
July-September period, accelerating for the first time in three
quarters, as Premier Li Keqiang spurred factory output and
investment to meet the government’s expansion goal for 2013. The
economy may expand by 7.6 percent this year, the slowest pace
since 1999, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  China’s policy makers announced the country’s second
national audit of local government financing vehicles’ debt on
July 28 amid concern that some may struggle to repay borrowings.
Provincial and municipal authorities may have more than 20
trillion yuan of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng
said in April, almost double the figure given by the National
Audit Office in 2011.  China’s big four banks are “well-provisioned” and LGFV
loans are limited to 6.1 percent of their loan books through
repayments and restructuring, Tracy Yu, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank, wrote in an Oct. 21 report.  Construction Bank’s  net interest margin  in the first nine
months, a measure of lending profitability, narrowed to 2.71
percent, down 3 basis points from a year earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  