-- Chrysler Amends IPO Filing, Highlighting Fiat Conflicts
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-29T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/chrysler-amends-ipo-filing-highlighting-fiat-conflicts.html
Chrysler Group LLC , the automaker
controlled by Fiat SpA, amended its initial public offering
registration statement yesterday, adding details and altering
some characterizations.  The filing, for example, no longer describes Chrysler’s
history of product introductions as “successful,” and said
that the Jeep Cherokee, which began production in June, began
shipping to dealers in late October, later than planned.  The automaker also added definitions of what it means when
describing vehicles as “new” or “significantly refreshed,”
and gave data to illustrate improvements in production quality.
Chrysler also said it saved about $450 million through joint
purchasing with Fiat, which was “slightly lower” than
estimated in its 2010-2014 business plan.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
Fiat, its majority owner, has been working for four years to
combine the two companies into an automaker better able to
compete globally with the likes of  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Fiat owns 58.5 percent of
Chrysler and wants to acquire the rest from the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care trust, which acquired the stake
during Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy.  Marchionne finds himself in the position of running the
company that’s being listed and also the controlling shareholder
that’s opposed to the IPO. Chrysler acknowledges the CEO’s
awkward role in the share sale preparation, saying in the filing
that he and other executives “may have conflicts of interest
with respect to matters involving both companies.”  Gualberto Ranieri, a Chrysler spokesman, declined to
comment yesterday.  Forced IPO  The health-care trust forced the IPO last month in a move
that may ultimately help resolve a dispute between it and  Fiat (F) 
over the value of the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based carmaker.  The shares are being offered by the trust, which owns the
41.5 percent of Chrysler not held by Turin-based Fiat.  The trust, a voluntary employee beneficiary association, is
seeking a price for its Chrysler stake that is at least $1
billion more than Fiat wants to pay.  Marchionne said last month that the UAW’s trust “should
buy a ticket for the lottery” if it wants to get at least $5
billion for its holding. Fiat has the right to buy the entire
stake for $4.25 billion, plus 9 percent annual interest
calculated from January 2010. The trust received the holding as
part of Chrysler’s government-backed bankruptcy in 2009.  Fiat started accumulating Chrysler stock in June of that
year as part of the government bailout of the U.S. carmaker,
which was losing as much as $100 million a day at the time.
Rather than paying cash for the initial 20 percent holding and
subsequent 15 percent stake, Fiat provided management experience
and technology and helped Chrysler meet various performance
milestones, such as developing models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  