-- Citigroup Currency Staff Work London Evenings on Dodd-Frank
-- B y   J u l i a   V e r l a i n e
-- 2013-10-28T16:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/citigroup-currency-staff-work-into-night-in-london-on-dodd-frank.html
For the foreign-exchange sales team
in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s London office, Dodd-Frank regulations mean
extra hours at work.  At least two members of staff have been staying until after
9 p.m. because some clients are no longer allowed to deal with
Citigroup colleagues in  New York , Alex Jackson, head of European
investor sales, foreign exchange and local markets, said in a
phone interview on Oct. 25. That’s because the Dodd-Frank Act
prevents people in the U.S. from trading with counterparts who
haven’t agreed to International Swaps & Derivatives Association
rules, Jackson said. European money managers and Brazilian  hedge
funds  are among customers relying on the arrangements, he said.  “No non-compliant investor or client is able to trade with
a U.S.-based salesperson or trader physically located in the
U.S.,” London-based Jackson said, citing a footnote to the
 regulations  on swaps trading. “Any client who has not signed
the ISDA protocol falls under this.”  Citigroup, the second-biggest currency trader, is among
banks around the world that are adapting to regulatory
initiatives introduced to curb financial-market risks following
the 2008 credit crisis and subsequent recession. Of the dozens
of derivatives rules being completed, the most contentious have
involved how to oversee swaps traded across borders.  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  is the largest currency dealer, according to Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc.  Ensuring Compliance  “This whole regulatory issue is what keeps people at some
of these financial institutions up at night in terms of how they
have to structure their business, what they have to do to end up
making sure they make both their customers happy and that they
comply with all of the regulations,” Eric Busay, a currency and
international fixed-income  money manager  in  Sacramento  at
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S.
public pension, with $278.1 billion in assets, said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 25.  To provide customers with round-the-clock trading, foreign-exchange dealers typically share online instant-message chats
between staff in  Asia ,  London  and the U.S., passing contacts to
the next team at the end of each region’s working day. Phone
lines are also redirected, meaning New York colleagues take over
from London at around 5 p.m. U.K. time.  Working Overtime  Citigroup asked staff in London, who start at around 7
a.m., to work later after calculating that a “material” number
of trades were done each day that could have breached the new
rules because they were handled by a part of the firm that’s a
U.S.-registered swaps dealer, according to Jackson.  While “a handful” of clients have taken advantage of
this, demand has been “relatively light,” and the number of
people working late was reduced to two from four, Jackson said.
There are 17 people on the team in London.  Citigroup will probably review in the future whether to
continue offering the service, he said. With more clients
signing up to the ISDA rules, the bank may move any remaining
trading to its Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. unit as an
alternative, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the sixth-largest  currency trader  as
ranked by Euromoney, moved some clients to trade with its J.P.
Morgan Securities Plc unit in response to the regulations,
according to two people with knowledge of the arrangements. It
isn’t keeping London staff late on account of Dodd-Frank, said
the people, who asked not to be identified, because they’re not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Patrick Burton, a London-based spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment when contacted today by phone.  Sebastian Howell, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in London,
also declined to comment on that bank’s trading arrangements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Verlaine in London at 
 jverlaine2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  