-- Coalition of 13 EU Ministers Urges Action on Climate Policies
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-28T12:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/coalition-of-13-eu-ministers-urges-action-on-climate-policies.html
Environment and energy ministers
from 13 European Union countries joined forces to call on the
bloc to agree on ambitious emission-reduction rules for the next
decade and strengthen the EU’s carbon market.  The ministers, who believe tackling  climate change  will
help foster economic growth in the 28-nation bloc, urged the EU
at a conference in Brussels today to provide regulatory
certainty to investors. The bloc also needs to ensure it puts an
ambitious carbon-reduction offer on the table at a world
leaders’ climate summit next autumn, they said.  “The stakes are high,” U.K. Energy and Climate Change
Secretary  Ed Davey  told the conference. “If we do not act, we
could all lose out in the low-carbon race.”  The EU is considering options for its 2030 policy framework
and an overhaul of its 53-billion-euro ($73 billion) carbon
market after emission prices slumped to an all-time low in April
amid a record glut of permits aggravated by a recession. The
region is trying to reconcile its ambitions to lead the global
fight against climate change with efforts to help the economy
recover.  The European Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, will
probably propose a policy paper on 2030 around the turn of the
year so that EU leaders can analyze it at their summit in March
2014, the ministers said in a statement today. It also is
considering bringing forward legislation to improve the EU
emissions-trading system as a part of the package, they said.  Regulatory Uncertainty  While reducing  carbon emissions  is necessary to ensure
development of new technologies and lessen the dependence of the
EU on fossil fuels, some lobbies insist the bloc should continue
the business-as-usual scenario, according to EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard . Investors will suffer a long
period of regulatory uncertainty unless EU leaders provide a
clear indication on the future climate and energy policies at
the March summit, she said.  “There are strong forces that would like us not to use
this opportunity,” Hedegaard told the conference. “We shall
not delay and dilute; we shall deliver.”  The EU goal for 2020 is to cut greenhouse gases by 20
percent compared with 1990, increase the share of green energy
to an average of 20 percent and to boost  energy efficiency  by
one-fifth. Leaders of the bloc have voiced political support for
cutting pollution by at least 80 percent in 2050.  In its analysis on the 2030 framework, the commission is
considering three potential targets for reducing  greenhouse
gases : 35 percent, 40 percent and 45 percent domestically,
Hedegaard said. Domestic reductions don’t include imported
offset credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  