-- Cocoa Falls as Harvesting Advances in West Africa; Cotton Slides
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-10-28T19:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/coffee-falls-to-2009-low-on-south-american-output-cocoa-drops.html
 Cocoa futures fell on speculation
that global supplies will climb as the harvest accelerates in
West Africa, the world’s top producing region. Cotton, sugar and
orange juice also slid.  Wet weather forecast for  Ivory Coast  and  Ghana , the biggest
cocoa growers, won’t disrupt harvest progress and will boost the
mid-crop gathered later this season, David Streit, an
agricultural meteorologist at Commodity Weather Group, said in a
telephone interview today. Prices jumped 20 percent this year as
dry weather in West Africa threatened production.  “Harvest pressure typically exerts its downward effects on
the cocoa market until about 70 percent” of crops are
collected,  Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options
in Port St. Lucie,  Florida , said in an e-mail.  Cocoa for December delivery slid 1.1 percent to settle at
$2,684 a metric ton at 1:24 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York . Prices fell 0.3 percent last week, a second straight drop.  Cotton futures for December delivery declined 0.5 percent
to 78.65 cents a pound in New York. Prices fell for a seventh
straight session, the longest slide since late May.  On Oct. 25, stockpiles at warehouses monitored by ICE
expanded for a 13th day to the highest since July 30. About 21
percent of the crop in the U.S., the largest shipper, was
 collected  as of Oct. 20, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . The USDA will update its data on harvest progress
today.  “The cotton market is under harvest pressure,”  Keith Brown , the president Keith Brown & Co. in Moultrie, Georgia,
said in a telephone interview. “Many people are also expecting
the USDA to boost its estimate for world stockpiles to a new
record” in a Nov. 8 report on supply and demand, he said.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery lost 0.6 percent to
18.91 cents a pound on ICE. Orange-juice futures for January
delivery tumbled 1.5 percent to $1.196 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  