-- Congo Prime Minister Halts Asset Sales Before Cabinet Change
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-10-29T05:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/congo-prime-minister-halts-asset-sales-ahead-of-cabinet-changes.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo Prime
Minister Augustin Matata Ponyo forbade sales of state assets and
the signing of new contracts while the country awaits a cabinet
reorganization, according to a letter to his ministers.  Government officials should be prepared to hand over their
posts after Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  said he plans to
create a new government of “national cohesion,” Ponyo said in
an Oct. 24 letter obtained by Bloomberg and confirmed by the
government. Kabila’s announcement marked the end of a national
conference last week to promote unity and reconciliation in
 Africa ’s second-biggest copper producer.  During the transition, there is a “prohibition on the
sale, transfer, or disposal of state assets,” it said. The
order applies to all state-owned companies, while officials are
also forbidden from concluding new financial engagements and
procurement contracts, according to the letter.  Gecamines, Congo’s state-owned mining company, is facing
pressure from advocacy groups including  Kofi Annan ’s Africa
Progress Panel after announcing it may sell its shares in
Glencore Xstrata Plc-controlled Kamoto Copper Corp. Between 2010
and 2011, the company sold stakes in several of its joint
ventures at prices well below market value, costing the country
hundreds of millions of dollars, the 10-member panel said in
May.  New Tender  Publish What You Pay, a London-based anti-corruption
campaign, and a group of Congolese non-governmental
organizations monitoring the  mining industry  called for
Gecamines to undertake a new tender process if it decides to
sell the stake in KCC, which may become Congo’s biggest copper
producer next year.  Congo’s Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  told Gecamines in
an August letter that he had not been informed of the sales
process and that the company was not adhering to regulations
requiring the publication of contracts.  In an Oct. 24 statement, the groups also question
Gecamines’ plan to create an offshore company to separate its
profitable joint venture stakes from its nearly $1 billion debt.
The company hopes to use the entity to attract financing for a
$2.8 billion development plan.  The groups “fear that this subsidiary will only serve to
launder funds that could be embezzled by Gecamines’ officials
since it will be difficult for Congolese authorities to control
the subsidiary,” according to the statement.  Congo’s new government will be made up of members of the
presidential majority and of opposition parties, as well as
representatives from civil society, Kabila said on Oct. 23.  Several of the country’s opposition parties, who still
challenge the validity of Kabila’s 2011 re-election, boycotted
the conference. Kabila also faces a violent rebellion in eastern
Congo and insecurity in copper-rich Katanga province.  Congo was the world’s eighth-largest producer of copper
last year and is the biggest source of cobalt, used in
rechargeable batteries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  