-- Countrywide, Investors Seek Approval of $500 Million Pact
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-28T17:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/countrywide-investors-seek-approval-of-500-million-pact.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Countrywide
unit and investors in its devalued residential mortgage-backed
securities will ask a federal judge to overrule objections from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and approve a $500 million
class-action settlement.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles, who in
August gave preliminary approval to the settlement, is scheduled
to hear arguments today on final approval of the accord, which
the plaintiffs’ lawyers says is the largest of a mortgage-backed
securities class-action lawsuit to date.  The FDIC, as receiver for 19 failed banks that had invested
in the securities before the collapse of the U.S. housing market
in 2007, objects to the settlement, saying it favors a small
group of investors whose securities were among those owned by
the plaintiffs that filed the first securities-fraud claims
against the mortgage lender.  “Named plaintiffs and class counsel have a conflict of
interest with the members of the class that invested in 9,325 of
the 9,383 covered tranches,” the FDIC said in its Oct. 7
objection to the settlement.  The settlement resolves claims that Countrywide Financial
Corp., which was bought by Bank of America in 2008, provided
false and misleading information in the offering documents for
the securities. The investors alleged that Countrywide, at the
time the largest U.S. mortgage lender, lied about the quality of
the loans that were pooled for the securities.  Credit Ratings  Many of the securities, which had been given the highest
credit ratings when they were issued, were cut to junk after a
surge of defaults. When Calabasas, California-based Countrywide,
which originated or purchased about $1.4 trillion in mortgages
from 2005 to 2007, could no longer sell mortgages to the
secondary market, it was taken over by Bank of America.  The settlement is separate from the proposed $8.5 billion
settlement Bank of America reached with institutional investors
in Countrywide residential mortgage-backed securities who
brought claims against the bank for breaching its obligations to
repurchase delinquent mortgages pooled for the securities.  Pfaelzer in a series of rulings in 2010 and 2011 excluded
Bank of America, as corporate parent, from the cases before her
and narrowed the number of securities the investors could sue
over to include only those individual segments of them that were
bought by the plaintiffs who filed the first lawsuits in
 California  state court in 2007 and 2008.  The settlement involves three lawsuits, including the ones
that had been pending in state court until last year. Pfaelzer’s
rulings on which segments of the securities could be included in
the cases weren’t yet applied to the ones transferred to federal
court, creating what the FDIC called a “loophole” for the
plaintiffs in those cases to settle on behalf of all investors.  ‘Remarkable’ Settlement  Lawyers for the named plaintiff said in Oct. 21 filing that
the settlement is “remarkable,” in particular given the
potential risk Bank of America could put the Countrywide unit
into bankruptcy court protection because of the billions of
dollars in possible legal claims.  “Because the court has already dismissed Bank of America
as potential defendant, any sizeable verdict in plaintiff’s
favor at the conclusion of a trial, or upon a successful appeal
of this court’s rulings on standing and tolling, would be an
empty victory if Countrywide would declare bankruptcy,” the
lawyers said.  Of the $500 million, the lawyers seek $89 million in fees
and expenses. Investors in the 58 segments of the securities
that were owned by the first plaintiffs in state court will
receive $267 million. Investors in 111 segments, for which there
were plaintiffs who sought to represent other investors and for
which the claims were filed too late, will get
$85 million.  That leaves $41 million for investors in 9,214 of the
slices, according to the FDIC’s objection. That amounts to 0.012
percent of the face value of the securities for most of the
investors, the FDIC said.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-00302, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 