-- Countrywide $500 Million Accord Gets Tentative Approval
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-28T22:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/countrywide-500-million-rmbs-accord-gets-tentative-approval.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Countrywide
unit won tentative final approval of a $500 million securities
class-action settlement with investors in its devalued
residential mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, at a hearing today in
 Los Angeles , set aside objections from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which had argued as receiver of 19 failed banks
that the accord disproportionately favors a subclass of the
investors.  “I’m going to have to write something,” the judge said.
“Nothing is final until the court has written an order.”  The settlement resolves claims that Countrywide, the
largest U.S. mortgage lender when it was taken over by Bank of
America in 2008, misled investors in offering documents about
the quality of the home loans that were pooled for the
securities. Many of the securities had been given the highest
credit ratings and lost value when they were cut to junk during
the collapse of the U.S. housing market.  “I think this a very, very significant case,” Pfaelzer
told the lawyers who filed the first class-action cases against
Countrywide as far as back 2007. “It was really a very
enterprising thing for you to do.”  Delinquent Mortgages  The $500 million deal is separate from an $8.5 billion
settlement pending in state court in  New York  which resolves
claims that Countrywide breached its contractual obligation to
replace delinquent mortgages that were pooled for the
securities.  The class-action settlement also resolves claims on behalf
of investors whose securities weren’t held by plaintiffs in the
first securities lawsuits and whose claims were dismissed as
time-barred by Pfaelzer. The FDIC had objected that those so-called dismissed claims involved the vast majority of the
securities and received too small a part of the total
settlement.  Spencer Burkholz, a lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said at
the hearing that the $500 million settlement had been proposed
by an independent mediator. The allocation of the money was
based on the strengths and weaknesses of the “live” claims,
the dismissed claims and appellate rights, he said.  “You don’t need to litigate every dismissed claim up to
 Supreme Court  before you settle them,” Burkholz said.  Countrywide’s lawyer, Brian Pastuszenski, said his client
was settling the lawsuit for business reasons and the settlement
was by no means a concession that Countrywide had violated any
laws.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-00302, U.S. District Court, Central District
of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Federal court in Los Angeles at  epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  