-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Altria Leading $7.8 Billion of Sales
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-28T21:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-altria-leading-7-8-billion-of-sales.html
A measure of U.S. company credit
risk held before a Federal Reserve policy meeting begins
tomorrow.  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  is leading dollar-denominated bond
offerings of at least $7.8 billion planned today.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.2 basis point to 71.9 basis points at 3:56 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark closed
Oct. 22 at 70.1 basis points, the lowest level since November
2007 in data that adjust for the effects of the market’s shift
to a new version in September.  The index touched the six-year low last week as investors
speculated the Fed will maintain $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases until next year, continuing record stimulus measures
that have bolstered credit markets. As traders await a statement
from Fed policy makers at the conclusion of their two-day
meeting on Oct. 30, the index may hover at about current levels,
according to Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager at ING
Investment Management, which oversees about $230 billion.  Credit spreads have been moving mostly on “the main
economic developments, given that the default rate of corporates
is low and earnings statements and balance sheets are relatively
strong,” Garay said in a telephone interview.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 1.6 percent this
year, compared with 2.8 percent in 2012, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Altria Offering  The swaps index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Altria, the largest cigarette maker in the U.S., sold $1.4
billion of 4 percent, 10-year notes to yield 155 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $1.8 billion of 5.375
percent, 30-year securities at a relative yield of 175 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The bonds may be rated Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Proceeds will be used to repurchase as much as $2 billion
of notes in a tender offer that the Richmond, Virginia-based
company announced today.  RBS Risk  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , a San Jose, California-based semiconductor
company, plans to sell $1 billion in senior notes, according to
a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Credit risk for  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  fell amid market
speculation that the lender may complete a restructuring plan
that would separate the bank’s toxic assets from the remaining
part of its balance sheet by the end of this week, Gavan Nolan,
director of credit research at Markit Group Ltd., wrote in a
research note.  Five-year, euro-denominated swaps tied to the debt of RBS
decreased 6 basis points to 149.5 basis points as of 1:32 p.m.
in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 0.9 basis point to 347 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 0.6 basis point to 125.8
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  