-- Czech Gridlock Looms as Parties Gear Up for Cabinet Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-10-29T15:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/czech-parties-gear-up-for-cabinet-talks-as-feud-risks-gridlock.html
Czech parties are preparing for
talks to form a ninth government in 10 years as a leadership
fight within the election-winning  Social Democrats  complicates
the search for partners.  Social Democrat Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka is at risk from
what he called a “coup” to topple him after the party garnered
the country’s lowest-ever tally for first place. Runner-up ANO,
founded by billionaire Andrej Babis, meets tomorrow to set terms
for negotiations after last week’s ballot.  Voters punished traditional parties following graft
scandals and a government austerity drive and elected a record
seven parties into a fragmented parliament. Pro-business ANO
opposes plans to increase taxes after a record-long  recession ,
raising the chances of protracted talks, said Otilia Dhand, an
analyst at political risk evaluator Teneo Intelligence.  “The Social Democrats would have a difficult time aligning
their tax policy priorities with ANO,” she said yesterday by
phone from  London . “The unclear situation within the Social
Democrat party also means that potential partners don’t really
know who has the actual mandate to negotiate with them.”  The Social Democrats, the largest opposition party in the
last seven years, will have 50 of parliament’s 200 seats,
followed by ANO with 47 and the  Communists  with 33. The
Christian Democrats will have 14 deputies.  Volatile Past  The fragmented legislature is compounding a history of
political instability that’s brought 12 governments since Czech
independence 20 years ago. Investors have ignored the political
track record as the  economy  doubled in size from 2003 to $196
billion, according to World Bank data.  The yield on the country’s 10-year government debt has
averaged 3.8 percent over the past decade, compared with 5.6
percent for  Poland  and 3.5 percent for higher-rated  France .  Yields on 10-year  koruna  bonds, the lowest in emerging
 Europe , fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.31
percent as of 4:28 p.m. in Prague, 21 basis points, below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
koruna slipped 0.2 percent to 25.752 per euro.  The Social Democrats, who pledged to re-ignite economic
 growth  with more state spending, succumbed to an internal rift
one day after the election. The party leadership called on
Sobotka to resign because of disappointing results and left the
party’s nominee for the prime minister off the team for
government talks.  Sobotka’s Defiance  Sobotka, a 42-year-old former finance minister, refused to
step down and said he’ll lead his own talks with Babis and
Christian Democrat leader Pavel Belobradek.  “The Christian Democrats and ANO are the partners with
whom we should be negotiating the next government,” Sobotka
said yesterday in an interview during a rally organized by his
supporters in front of the  Prague  castle. “This schizophrenia
must end.”  The party’s split will be resolved Nov. 10 at the latest
during a meeting of its higher executive council, which has the
power to dismiss the chairman, Sobotka said in televised
comments today.  The Social Democrats plan to raise taxes on top earners and
businesses including banks, utilities and telecommunication
companies to finance spending increases on pensions and
infrastructure. The party’s higher executive council, which has
the power to dismiss chairman, will meet Nov. 10 to debate the
split, Sobotka said in televised comments today.  ANO’s Tolerance  While ANO isn’t planning to enter government, the party
will consider “tolerating” a minority cabinet led by Social
Democrats if there’s enough policy overlap, according to Slovak-born Babis.  “We will be united and we will insist on fulfillment of
our program,” Babis, the second-richest Czech with a fortune
estimated by Forbes at $2 billion, said in a statement
yesterday.  The  Christian Democrats , who return to parliament after
failing to gain representation in 2010 elections, campaigned for
the introduction of constitutional limits to curtail state debt,
a proposal the Social Democrats have rejected in the past. The
Christian Democrats are waiting for the election winners to
resolve their internal rift.  “The situation within the Social Democrats is completely
unclear at the moment,” said Daniel Herman, the Christian
Democrats’ spokesman.  Zeman’s Pick  President Milos Zeman, a former chairman of the Social
Democrats, has the right to name a party leader to try to form a
cabinet. He said Oct. 27 that he won’t name the new premier
before parliament meets for an inaugural session in the last
week of November.  The election result has created an uncertainty over the
formation of the new government that may hinder loosening fiscal
policy after years of austerity, according to Mohammed Kazmi, an
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
in London.  “Significant delays herein, or a failed confidence vote
following the prime minister’s appointment, suggest that the
2014 budget may not be approved in time for the start of next
year,” Kazmi said by e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  