-- Czech Stocks to Benefit as Election Puts Tax Pledge on Hold
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-10-28T15:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/czech-stocks-to-benefit-as-election-puts-tax-promise-on-hold.html
Czech shares may get a boost after
parties pledging to increase company taxes failed to gain
control of parliament in general elections, according to the
chief economist at BH Securities in Prague.  The Social Democratic Party, who vowed to raise taxes on
utilities and banks to as much as 30 percent from 19 percent,
won 50 of parliament’s 200 seats in the Oct. 25-26 election.
While they gained more than any other party, they didn’t garner
enough to secure a majority with the help of their favored pre-ballot choice, the Communists, who came in third with 33 seats.  “Tax increases for big businesses are now off the table,”
Vojtech Benda at BH Securities stock brokerage said by phone
today. “That is positive for Czech stocks.”  CEZ AS, the nation’s largest power producer, Komercni Banka
AS, a unit of Societe Generale SA, and Telefonica Czech Republic
AS, the country’s biggest phone company, have all underperformed
industry peers in the past year amid a record-long recession and
campaign pledges by leading parties to raise corporate taxes.  The Czech stock market is closed today for a state holiday
and will resume trading tomorrow.  CEZ has tumbled 29 percent in the past 12 months, the worst
performance among 16 global industry peers tracked by Bloomberg.
Western Europe’s Stoxx 600 Utilities Index, which CEZ joined on
Sept. 23, has gained about 3.4 percent in the period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Slightly Positive’  Komercni’s 10 percent gain in the past year compares with a
25 percent rally for the Stoxx Europe 600 Banks Index.
Telefonica Czech shares are down 18 percent in the period, while
peers in Europe have gained 24 percent.  Most opinion polls favored the Social Democrats and the
Communists for the majority of seats in the legislature. The
parties had planned some tax increases and higher public
spending to boost the economy after a three-year austerity
program by the previous administration helped trigger an 18-month recession, which ended in the second quarter.  Social Democrats are seeking to form a government supported
by billionaire Andrej Babis’s pro-business ANO party, which
rejects tax increases, and by the Christian Democrats. ANO came
second in the ballot, winning 47 mandates in the parliament,
while the Christian Democrats will have 14 deputies.  “The overall result may be slightly positive for market
sentiment,” Marek Drimal, a Prague-based economist at Komercni
Banka, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Any government
will raise public spending, but with Babis now being a key
player, the funds are more likely to go into things like
transport infrastructure rather than social benefits. Taxes may
increase, but not as much as the Social Democrats planned.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  