-- Demise of Kirchner Era Seen as Bondholders Win: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-10-28T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/demise-of-kirchner-era-seen-as-bondholders-win-argentina-credit.html
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  failed to secure enough votes to seek a third term in
yesterday’s mid-term election, ensuring the end of her rule in
2015 and validating investor optimism a more market-friendly
government will emerge. Bonds rallied.  Fernandez’s Victory Front alliance received 33 percent of
nationwide votes while her main candidate in Buenos Aires
province lost to former Cabinet Chief and opposition leader
Sergio Massa by 12 percentage points. Argentine dollar debt rose
today, adding to a  14 percent jump  since Aug. 11 primaries that
is five times the average in  emerging markets , on speculation
Fernandez’s waning popularity would dash any chance her
coalition would capture enough votes to push through a
constitutional change and enable her to seek four more years in
office.  The decade-long hold that Fernandez and her predecessor and
husband Nestor Kirchner have had on presidential power in
Argentina led to currency controls, government takeovers of
private companies and annual inflation that’s now estimated at
25 percent. Barclays Plc says yesterday’s results may bolster
confidence that the next administration will roll back some of
the economic policies that pushed the country’s  borrowing costs 
to 11.6 percent -- among the highest in developing nations.  “These elections are a very important departure point for
the markets,” Sebastian Vargas, an economist at Barclays, said
in a telephone interview from New York. “It’s very important to
know that there will be a change in policy in the future.”  Succession Race  While Fernandez maintained her alliance’s majority in
Congress, her candidates lost in the city of Buenos Aires and
the populous provinces of Cordoba, Mendoza and Santa Fe.  Attention will soon turn to who Fernandez, 60, who is still
recuperating after surgery this month to remove a blood clot
close to her brain, may designate as her successor in 2015.  Daniel Scioli, the governor of Buenos Aires province who
has been the most visible official in her absence, leads as the
most-prepared politician to replace Fernandez with 21 percent,
according to a Management & Fit survey. He was vice president
under her husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner.  The 40-year-old Massa, who is currently the mayor of the
Tigre municipality north of Buenos Aires, was second in the
survey with 19 percent. Mauricio Macri, the mayor of Buenos
Aires city, who said last night he will be a presidential
candidate, had 11 percent in the poll taken Oct. 11-18.  Bond Rally  Any talk of transition is premature and Fernandez will
finish out her constitutional term that ends in December 2015,
Defense Minister Agustin Rossi said yesterday. Fernandez who was
absent from the campaign and election, will be back soon, her
Vice President  Amado Boudou  said yesterday.  This year, Argentine’s dollar-denominated bonds have
returned 13.6 percent even as a legal dispute with disgruntled
creditors left from the nation’s $95 billion default in 2001 has
pushed the cost to protect against non-payment to the highest in
the world.  Stocks in the  Merval (MERVAL)  benchmark index, which have jumped 53
percent since Aug. 11, rose 0.3 percent at 1 p.m. in Buenos
Aires, extending gains this year to 62 percent.  Argentina, South America’s second-biggest economy, hasn’t
borrowed internationally from bond investors since its default.  Investors demand 8.74 percentage points of extra yield to
hold Argentine debt instead of U.S. Treasuries, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gap has narrowed 1.62 percentage points
since the primaries.  ‘Open Higher’  “This result marks the beginning of a transition to a new
government,” Hernan Yellati, head of research at BancTrust &
Co. in Miami said in an e-mail. “Markets should open higher
reflecting the coming changes.”  Before investors can focus on a new government in 2015,
Argentina will have to find a way to stem a plummet in the
nation’s foreign-currency reserves, which the government relies
on to pay its debt. In October 2011, two days after Fernandez
won re-election by a landslide, she began requiring Argentines
to obtain approval from the tax agency to buy dollars before
banning purchases for savings in July 2012.  Argentines are bracing for a new wave of economic measures
as early as today as the government looks to preserve depleted
 reserves  by tightening currency controls and accelerating the
pace of peso depreciation, according to BancTrust.  “Yes, she’s weaker, yes, she’ll face more opposition, but
she’ll still be in control until 2015,”  Daniel Kerner , director
of Latin America research at Eurasia Group Ltd., said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “Assuming that her health
doesn’t deteriorate she’ll still be in charge of policy agenda.
I don’t see her backing down.”  Currency Gap  Argentines rushed to buy dollars last week before the
election, pushing up the cost to buy foreign currency in a black
market to 10.05 per dollar, 70 percent more than the official
rate of 5.8901. Investors pay as much as 9.34 pesos to obtain
dollars in a financial transaction market known as the blue-chip
swap, where peso-denominated bonds or shares are exchanged for
dollar-based assets abroad.  To safeguard reserves and persuade Argentines to keep their
pesos in savings accounts, the government may speed up the pace
of depreciation of the peso and raise interest rates, according
to an Oct. 25 report from JPMorgan.  Central bank reserves  have tumbled 21 percent this year to
a six-year low of $34 billion as the nation’s energy import
demands surge and Argentines spend more abroad to skirt the
controls.  In the last month, the government agreed to settle
arbitration claims with five companies and is in talks with the
World Bank to tap $3 billion of loans. Those steps show more
moderation in policy, Barclays’s Vargas said.  “We’re going to see more moderation in economic decision-making,” he said. “We’ve already had some confirmation of that
direction given the government’s actions after the primary
elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Buenos Aires at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  