-- Deutsche Bahn Selling Bonds as European Yields at Four-Month Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-28T10:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/deutsche-bahn-selling-bonds-as-european-yields-at-four-month-low.html
Deutsche Bahn AG,  Germany ’s state-owned railway, is issuing 300 million euros ($414 million) of
bonds as European borrowing costs hold at the lowest in four
months.  The seven-year notes will be issued through the company’s
Deutsche Bahn Finance BV unit to yield about 28 basis points
more than the mid-swap rate, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The average yield investors demand to hold
investment grade bonds in euros was little changed at 1.9
percent, the lowest since June 19, Bloomberg  bond index  data
show.  Bond investors are being encouraged by speculation the
Federal Reserve won’t reduce its stimulus program until March as
policy makers await signs the U.S. economy and labor market are
improving. Euro credit markets have also been buoyed by data
showing the currency bloc is recovering from its longest-ever
recession.  “The delay in tapering has been one of the drivers of
falling yields,” said Richard Klijnstra, the head of credit at
Kempen Capital Management NV in Amsterdam with 1.6 billion euros
under management in credit. “We’ve also seen an uptick in
economic data which has been good for risk assets.”  The cost of insuring corporate debt against losses fell to
the lowest in a week, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings dropping as much as two basis points to 85 basis points
in  London .  Debut Bonds  Also in European credit markets today,  Eramet SA (ERA) , a Paris-based mining company, is selling debut bonds. The unrated
borrower is raising 300 million euros to 500 million euros of
seven-year notes that will yield 4.625 percent to 4.75 percent,
according to a person familiar.  “Some deals in the market are really taking advantage of
the current climate of low yields,” said Klijnstra. “We’re
looking in particular at non-rated issues because they have to
pay a premium to come to the market, and we’re positive on
subordinated paper as well.”  Solvay SA (SOLB) , a Belgian manufacturer of chemicals and plastic,
hired banks to arrange European investor meetings for a deeply
subordinated undated bond sale. The Brussels-based company
that’s planning to put its polyvinyl chloride assets in a joint
venture with Ineos Group Holdings SA, will sell the notes
through its Solvay Finance SA unit.  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, Spain’s third-biggest bank, will hold an
investor call today for a sale of subordinated Tier 2 bonds in
euros that may price tomorrow, according to a person familiar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  