-- Dollar Gains for Third Day Versus Yen as Fed Meets; Rand Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-29T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/dollar-set-for-monthly-losses-against-most-peers-as-fed-meets.html
The dollar rose for a third day
against the yen as the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee began
a two-day meeting amid forecasts it won’t announce any major
changes to its asset-purchase program.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index climbed to the highest
level in more than a week before the policy makers issue a
statement tomorrow.  Australia ’s dollar slid versus all of its 16
major peers after  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said it
will probably become “materially lower,” and the South African
rand dropped against all but the Aussie. The yen gained earlier
versus the dollar as jobs and retail sales rose before a Bank of
 Japan  meeting this week.  “Ahead of the FOMC, people might be a bit more prudent and
reducing risk positions,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  New York , said in
a phone interview. “The foreign-exchange market in general is
more reticent to take on risk than the stock market.”  The dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to 98.19 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time, reversing a decline that saw it weaken as much as
0.2 percent. The greenback appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3745
per euro and touched $1.3737, the strongest level in a week. It
has fallen 1.6 percent versus the 17-nation currency this month.
The euro gained 0.2 percent to 134.96 yen.  Bloomberg’s dollar gauge, which monitors the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, advanced 0.4 percent to
1,006.12 and reached 1,066.22, the highest since Oct. 17. The
index dropped on Oct. 23 to 997.94, the least since February.  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining
0.6 percent.  Volatility Increases  A gauge of price swings among the currencies of Group of
Seven nations rose. The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  was at 7.63
percent after falling yesterday to 7.48 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 21. The 2013 average is 9.39 percent.  South Africa ’s rand fell against the dollar for a third day
after demand for credit in the country slowed more than
predicted, adding to evidence that growth in  Africa ’s biggest
economy is losing momentum. The currency declined 0.6 percent to
9.8919 per dollar.  The Australian dollar dropped for a third day versus its
U.S. peer after the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Stevens said the
South Pacific currency’s level wasn’t supported by costs and
productivity in the economy. The Aussie slid 1 percent to 94.79
U.S. cents.  The greenback lost 0.5 percent over the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 0.4 percent, while
the euro gained 1.3 percent.  ‘Showing Strength’  “The dollar is showing strength across the board,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said
in a telephone interview. “It’s already been very well priced-in that the Fed doesn’t change policy tomorrow. With the dollar
being sold off over the last couple of weeks, there could be
some profit-taking and positioning ahead of the meeting.”  The  Federal Reserve  will pare its $85 billion in monthly
bond buying at its March meeting, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts on Oct. 17-18. The purchases, made to push
down long-term yields and spur growth, tend to debase the
greenback. Policy makers last month refrained from slowing the
stimulus to await further evidence of economic recovery.  Japanese  retail sales  climbed 1.8 percent in September from
the previous month, the nation’s statistics bureau said. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 4 percent.  Bank of Japan  The  Bank of Japan  buys more than 7 trillion yen ($71
billion) of  government bonds  every month in its bid to combat
deflation. It meets Oct. 31. An exchange rate of 100 yen per
dollar would be good for the economy, Koichi Hamada, an adviser
to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said on Jan. 18.  “The Japanese government generally said at the beginning
of the year that they’d like to see dollar-yen around about 98-100,” said  Neil Mellor , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon in  London . “The yen has been going sideways
ever since because the market believes that’s where the
government wants it and will actively strive to keep it.”  Morgan Stanley entered long positions on the dollar and
euro versus the yen, according to a client note written by
analysts led by  Hans Redeker , the firm’s London-based head of
global strategy. Long positions are bets currencies will gain.  Japanese policy makers have repeatedly said a weaker yen is
important to reaching their 2 percent inflation target, and the
firm believes “they will deliver on their promises,” the
analysts said. Morgan Stanley’s targets are 105 yen per dollar
and 139 yen per euro, the analysts said.  Canada’s Currency  The Canadian dollar slid to the weakest level in seven
weeks after Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz told lawmakers
in Ottawa he would extend a three-year pause in interest-rate
increases. The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0469 and
touched C$1.0471, the least since Sept. 6. It rose earlier amid
bets it had reached a low point.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $49 billion, from $30 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the U.S.-
Canada-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $9.7 billion, the
largest share of trades at 20 percent. Options on the dollar-yen
rate totaled $8.9 billion, or 18 percent.  U.S.-Canada options trading was 900 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
32 percent above average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  