-- Doncasters Shifts Strategy to Aerospace Growth as Sales Improve
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-28T09:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/doncasters-shifts-strategy-to-aerospace-growth-as-sales-improve.html
Doncasters Group Ltd., a supplier of
advanced metal castings to turbine makers from  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  to  Siemens AG (SIE) , is shifting strategy toward global
expansion as its turnaround plan nears completion.  Doncasters, owned by Dubai International Capital LLC, may
set up operations in India and eastern  Europe , or expand its
facility in  China  to help tap new markets and lower costs, Chief
Executive Officer Tariq Jesrai said in an interview.  “After two years of trying to get our arms around the
business and getting the fundamentals right, it is now about
gaining growth,” said Jesrai, who joined the Burton-Upon-Trent-based company in October 2011 from McKechnie Aerospace. The
company has a “strong interest” in aerospace assets, he said.  Doncasters, founded by Daniel Doncaster in 1778 in the
northern England city of Sheffield that dominated the U.K.’s
steelmaking industry, was acquired by Dubai International in
2006 for 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) from  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc . The company had sales of about 800 million
pounds last year, Jesrai said, compared with approximately 600
million pounds in 2008.  Doncasters, which raised $1.3 billion in loans in April to
refinance debt, agreed in June to acquire fastener maker
Automatic SMP to expand its aerospace activities. Competitor
 Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP)  has signed nine acquisitions in the
last 18 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Doncasters has yet to complete its turnaround so a sale of
the business by its private equity owner is not on the near-term
agenda, Jesrai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  