-- Dortmund Touts Lewandowski for $11.3 Million, Star Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-28T08:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/dortmund-touts-lewandowski-for-11-3-million-star-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Dortmund Deal  Borussia Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  is being
offered to Premier League teams for 7 million pounds ($11.3
million) to try to prevent him from joining Bundesliga rivals
Bayern Munich on a free transfer, the  Daily Star reported .  Dortmund wants to sell Lewandowski, whose contract expires
at the end of this season, in the January transfer window and
 Manchester United , Manchester City and Chelsea are monitoring
the situation, the newspaper added.  Rooney Offer  Chelsea will make a 35 million-pound bid for Manchester
United forward  Wayne Rooney  in January after failing with an
offer of 30 million pounds in the offseason, the  Daily Express
reported .  Blues officials have been impressed by Rooney’s start to
the season and are willing to offer him a four-year contract
worth 300,000 pounds a week, the Express said. Rooney’s United
deal expires after next season, the paper added.  Palace Coach  Crystal Palace target  Tony Pulis  is said to have
reservations about replacing  Ian Holloway  as manager of the
Premier League’s bottom club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Pulis, who has had preliminary talks about the job, wants a
contract worth at least 1.5 million pounds and a big bonus
should he prevent a team that’s lost eight of its first nine
games from getting relegated, the newspaper added.  Platini Plan  Michel Platini , president of European soccer’s governing
body UEFA, said the World Cup should be expanded from 32 to 40
teams, the  Times of London reported .  Platini has conducted a study into the expansion, which he
said shows that a 40-team event with an additional group game
would take only three days longer, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  