-- Dubai Expo Bet Spurs Property-Led Debt Rally: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-10-28T08:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/dubai-expo-bet-spurs-property-led-debt-rally-islamic-finance.html
As spotless black sedans shuttled
World Expo officials through Dubai’s streets last week, yields
of Islamic bonds from local developers  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  and
Nakheel PJSC dropped to record lows.  The declines underscored growing optimism that the Middle
East business hub and second-richest member of the  United Arab
Emirates  will be named as host of the  2020 event  when members of
the  Bureau International des Expositions  vote in Paris next
month. Sukuk from Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest tower,
and Nakheel, which built Dubai’s artificial palm-shaped island,
are rising even as regional peers retreat.  “Real estate is the first sector to come to mind in terms
of beneficiaries of a win,” Yaser Abushaban, executive director
of asset management at  Emirates Investment Bank PJSC (EIBANK) , said by
phone from Dubai Oct. 24. “It would have a positive impact on
sentiment and pricing, and not just in construction and real
estate. There could be a boom across economic sectors.”  Selection would be a milestone in Dubai’s recovery
following the property crash that wiped 65 percent off values
and a 2009 request to delay $25 billion of debt payments.
Winning the right to host the Expo would prompt 26 billion
dirhams ($7.1 billion) of infrastructure, HSBC Holdings Plc said
in a Sept. 25 research note. Economic growth will receive a 0.5
percentage-point boost per year and about 2 percentage points in
2020,  Bank of America Corp.  said in a Sept. 26 report.  Win’s Effect  The yield on Nakheel’s sukuk due August 2016 fell to an
all-time low of 7.15 percent at 12:56 p.m. in Dubai, bringing
its drop this year to 212 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate on Emaar’s bond due the same
month tumbled to 3.45 percent, a decline of 96 basis points.
That compares with a 110 basis-point increase to 4.28 percent on
Oct. 25 for average corporate sukuk in the Gulf Cooperation
Council, HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes show.  “Emaar will benefit significantly by being strong in both
hospitality and real estate,” Amol Shitole, a Bangalore, India-based credit analyst at SJ Seymour Services Pvt. Ltd., said by
phone Oct. 23. “If Dubai wins the Expo, there will be further
tightening of the yields on real estate credit.”  A delegation of representatives of the 167 member nations
of the  Bureau International des Expositions  toured Dubai the
week of Oct. 21 to assess its bid, visiting landmarks including
Jebel Ali port and Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building. A
 decision is expected  at the Bureau’s two-day meeting scheduled
to begin Nov. 26.  Desert Pavilions  A winning bid will speed up plans for a 5 billion-dirham
expansion of the city’s metro network, Dubai’s Roads and
Transport Authority said in June. A new purpose-built exhibition
center with themed pavilions will be constructed in the desert
south of the city, according to Dubai’s bid website.  Failure may bring a temporary halt to yield declines,
according Montasser Khelifi, a Dubai-based senior manager for
global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd. Even if it wins,
expenses, combined with about $42 billion of debt coming due in
the next two years, could put pressure on Dubai’s borrowing
costs, Jean-Michel Saliba, an economist at BofA in  London , said
in a note to clients on Sept. 26.  “If we don’t win, as with every piece of bad news, there
may be a few days where we see a negative impact,” Khelifi said
by phone Oct. 24. “But it will not affect the fundamentals,
because Dubai is still growing with a solid and diversified
economy.”  Recovery Continues  Property prices in Dubai, one of the seven United Arab
Emirates, have recovered by about a third since reaching a
bottom in 2011, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., after the
2008 crash. Nakheel wrote down its real estate by $21.4 billion
from 2008 to mid-2010 and received an $8.6 billion bailout from
Dubai’s government, helping it avoid default.  Emaar’s third-quarter profit climbed 50 percent to 581
million dirhams, the company said in a statement last week. The
operator of the Dubai Mall, the world’s largest by area, will be
among the biggest winners if the sheikhdom hosts the Expo, first
as land values and construction increase and then as hotel and
retail businesses expand, HSBC said.  “Dubai’s reputation will grow and the city will become
more attractive to investors and expatriates,” Khelifi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  