-- Ecclestone Bribery Fight Spreads to Second Front in U.K.
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s ,   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-10-28T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ecclestone-bribery-fight-spreads-to-second-front-in-u-k-.html
For a man used to life in the fast
lane,  Bernie Ecclestone  is finding the courts slow going.  The 83-year-old Formula One chief executive officer may
wait months for a German court to decide whether prosecutors
have enough evidence try him for paying a bribe to facilitate
the sale of a stake in the racing series almost eight years ago.  He’s got a more immediate problem in  London  where a civil
case related to the bribery allegations starts tomorrow. German
prosecutors may be watching for anything that will help their
case.  “Ecclestone is engaged in a multiple-front war, facing the
problem of multiple defense lines,” Alexander Engelhardt, a
German defense lawyer who specializes in public relations during
litigation, said in an e-mail. “What might help in the U.K. may
well hurt in Germany, and whatever is produced in either
proceeding must be expected to resurface in another civil or
criminal proceeding somewhere sometime.”  The bribery scandal related to the 2005 sale of Bayerische
Landesbank’s controlling stake to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. has
hung over Ecclestone since 2011. That’s when German police
arrested Gerhard Gribkowsky, the former risk manager of
BayernLB. Gribkowsky was convicted of taking bribes and German
prosecutors are now seeking permission to try Ecclestone on
bribery and breach of trust charges.  In the London trial,  Constantin Medien AG (EV4)  is suing
Ecclestone for $171 million. The German media company says
BayernLB’s stake was sold to CVC too cheaply because of the
bribe to Gribkowsky.  ‘Not Ideal’  “It’s not ideal, it would be better if it wasn’t
happening, but we can’t change the court system,” Ecclestone
said in a telephone interview, when asked if it would clash with
his duties as CEO. He said CVC, a U.K.-based buyout firm, wants
him to remain as chief executive.  The billionaire is scheduled to give evidence in the first
week of November. CVC co-founder Donald Mackenzie is also set to
testify.  CVC paid $814 million for the 47 percent stake in 2006
while lawyers for Ismaning, Germany-based Constantin said in
court documents that the stock was worth $2.8 billion.  “The Constantin case is not only about a huge amount of
money,” Engelhardt said. “The U.K. proceeding is dangerous in
that it may produce incriminating evidence which could be used
by Munich prosecutors.”  Sham Contract  Gribkowsky, who managed the lender’s interest in Formula
One, said during his trial in a German court that he was paid
$44 million to steer the bank’s holding in the racing series to
CVC and agreed to a sham contract under which Ecclestone
received a kickback.  Gribkowsky was convicted in June 2012 of taking bribes from
Ecclestone and sentenced to 8 1/2 years in prison. Prosecutors,
when they won the conviction last year, said that Ecclestone was
a “co-perpetrator” in the bribery scheme. It took them almost a
year to file formal charges in May. Then the court had the 223-page indictment translated into English and sent to Ecclestone
and his lawyers for comment before it could start deliberating
the charges. In complex white collar crime-cases in
 Germany , the court approval process can take months.  Ecclestone has repeatedly said the payments were made to
Gribkowsky following threats that he would inform U.K. tax
authorities about a family trust controlled by his then wife.  Ecclestone chose to pay Gribkowsky “off rather than face
the aggravation, delay and potential risks, however unjustified,
that” was threatened, his lawyers said in court documents.  $100 Million  Constantin, a former stakeholder in Formula One, says it
should have received more than $100 million because of a
contractual obligation to be paid a percentage of the proceeds
of a share sale. Sabine Lais, a spokeswoman for Constantin,
declined to comment on the trial.  Ecclestone is worth at least $2.8 billion, according to
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. This excludes the value of Bambino
Holdings Ltd., the multi-billion dollar trust that Ecclestone
said Gribkowsky threatened to tell tax officials about.  The delays have slowed Formula One’s progress toward a
planned share sale. The racing circuit suspended plans for an
initial public offering in June of last year, citing market
conditions, and hasn’t resurrected the plans amid Ecclestone’s
legal wrangles.  IPO ‘Silly’  Ecclestone said in an interview in May that it would be
“silly to go into the market” until the court cases are
resolved.  The uncertainty over Ecclestone’s legal status hasn’t
shaken his support from some allies in the racing community.
Formula One’s reputation won’t be damaged by the trial whatever
the outcome, Paul Stoddart former owner of the now defunct
Minardi racing team, said in a telephone interview.  “Bernie is the reason why F1 is in the position it is in
today,” he said. “I’ve not seen an ounce of credible evidence
that proves he is guilty. F1 will be much poorer the day Bernie
is not there.”  The case is Constantin Medien AG v. Bernard Ecclestone,
case no. 11-02586,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  