-- EDF Said Near to Agreeing Split of Dalkia Assets With Veolia
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-28T14:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/edf-said-near-to-agreeing-split-of-dalkia-assets-with-veolia.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) , the
world’s biggest operator of nuclear reactors, and  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  are near an agreement to split their Dalkia
energy-services company, said people familiar with the matter.  EDF will take full control of Dalkia’s French activities,
while Veolia gains the international operations and pays EDF 550
million euros ($758 million) to offset a valuation gap, said the
people, who asked not to be identified discussing a private
matter. EDF will also have a right of first refusal over any
future sale of Dalkia’s international assets over five years,
one of the people said.  The transaction will allow EDF, which owns 34 percent of
Dalkia, a bigger anchor in its home market for energy services.
Veolia will gain momentum in its plan to expand in growth
markets. Dalkia gets almost half its sales in  France . The
company, which has 49,800 employees in 35 countries, managed
revenue last year of 8.9 billion euros, according to  its
website .  The agreement must be approved by the two companies’
boards, which are meeting today. The transaction is expected to
close mid-2014, the people said.  Veolia spokeswoman Sandrine Guendoul declined to comment on
Dalkia as did Alison Marquilly, a spokeswoman for EDF. The
companies’ plans for Dalkia were earlier reported by Le Figaro
and  Les Echos .  Discussions over ownership of the asset, which has
contracts for heating and cooling office buildings and
hospitals, have been contentious, with the two companies having
been involved in legal action over it.  Extended Talks  In September 2012, EDF Chief Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal proposed ending the alliance at a meeting in  London 
with Veolia Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot and CFO
Pierre-Francois Riolacci after failing to agree on strategy for
expansion abroad, said a person with knowledge with the matter.
Talks stalled after that meeting although they resumed in May.  Philippe Villin, a former chairman of the French unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. who now works independently, is
advising both companies on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  