-- Edwards Falls on Forecast Miss as Rival’s Device Approved
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-28T20:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/edwards-falls-on-disappointing-forecast-and-rival-valve-approval.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (WBMD) , maker of
the Sapien aortic valve, fell the most in six months after it
forecast fourth-quarter earnings lower than analysts’ estimates
and a rival heart valve reached the European market.  Earnings excluding certain items will be 81 cents to 85
cents, the  Irvine , California-based company said today. The
 outlook  was less than the 86-cent average 22 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Edwards declined 5 percent to $73.24 at
the close in New York, its biggest decline since April 24.  Sales of the company’s Sapien valve, which is used to
repair a damaged aortic valve in the heart without cracking open
the chest, were slower than expected in the U.S. in the third
quarter. The valve will soon be facing increased competition.
 Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  said today it received approval for its
Lotus  heart valve , a second-generation device, in Europe, and
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  plans to present data on its CoreValve at a
medical meeting tomorrow.  “While the third quarter 2013 represents a usually
seasonally weak quarter given lower procedure volumes in the
summer months, the Street had been anticipating a U.S.
transcatheter heart valve beat, which did not transpire,” said
Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. “Our sense
is that an expected beat was a major driver of the stock’s
recent run, with shares up almost 13 percent in the last four to
six weeks.”  Third-quarter  net income  rose to $76.9 million, or 68 cents
a share, from $69.2 million, or 58 cents, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement. Revenue increased to $495.6 million
from $447.9 million a year earlier, with sales of Sapien outside
the U.S. beating analyst estimates.  A German court ruled rival Medtronic’s CoreValve infringed
Edwards’ patent in July, though Sapien sales haven’t increased
yet because of it, said Jason McGorman, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  