-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Samsung Leads Technology Rally
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-10-28T21:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/emerging-stocks-rally-first-time-in-four-days-as-samsung-climbs.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days as Samsung Electronics Co. led a surge
in technology shares. Malaysia’s ringgit climbed to the highest
level in four months amid deficit reduction measures.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.7 percent to
1,034.38. Samsung, the biggest seller of smartphones, jumped 2.3
percent after two brokerages raised their share-price estimates.
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  climbed the most in seven months as the
Brazilian state-run energy company said it’s asking the
government to raise local fuel prices to international levels.
The ringgit gained after Prime Minister Najib Razak announced a
goods and services tax to help cut the fiscal deficit.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the measure for developing-nation
equities advanced, led by technology companies. The industry,
which surged to the highest on record last week, is also driving
gains in the broader gauge this month. Samsung is introducing
software to help share content across devices, inviting
developers to create more applications for its products.  The rally in technology shares “looks justified to me for
the companies with the right business model and growth
prospects,” said  Michael Ganske , who helps manage $8.5 billion
of developing-nation fixed-income and currencies as the head of
emerging markets at Rogge Global Partners Plc in London.  The gauge for developing nations has climbed 4.8 percent in
October, poised for a second monthly advance. It trades at 10.7
times projected earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 14.4
for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.6 percent to $43. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 0.7 percent to 20.86.  Global investors are taking inordinate risks with emerging-market equities, and are “egregiously overweight” on consumer,
Internet, telecommunications names, Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch said in an e-mailed note.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa gained for the first time in four days as
Petrobras jumped 7.6 percent. Chief Executive Officer Maria das
Gracas Foster said in a Oct. 25 statement she’s seeking a fuel
policy that brings local prices more into line with global
levels.  Russian stocks rose to the highest level in a week as OAO
Magnit, the nation’s largest retailer, posted record quarterly
profitability after negotiating better terms with suppliers.  Price Estimates  Samsung drove gains in the Kospi Index after Korea
Investment increased its share-price estimate, saying third-quarter earnings showed competitiveness in the chip and phone
industries. HI Investment also raised its stock forecast.  Most Chinese stocks fell as disappointing earnings at
liquor and health-care companies offset gains for energy shares.
 Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , the nation’s second-largest liquor maker,
and Yunnan Baiyao Group Co., a producer of Chinese medicine,
slid at least 6.8 percent after reporting results.  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  lost 0.6 percent, dropping for a fifth
day, ahead of the central bank’s policy meeting tomorrow.
 Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan, who vowed to
quell price pressures when he took over at the central bank in
September, will boost the repurchase rate by 25 basis points to
7.75 percent, 20 of 24 analysts said in a Bloomberg survey.
 State Bank of India  fell for the first time in seven days.  Ringgit Climbs  Malaysia’s ringgit rose to the highest level since June.
The government plans to introduce a 6 percent GST rate in April
2015 and is seeking to shrink the shortfall between revenue and
spending to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product next year from
4 percent in 2013, Najib said in his annual budget on Oct. 25.  Egyptian stocks slid the most since August on concern the
trial of former President Mohamed Mursi will trigger the return
of political instability and after the benchmark jumped to the
highest level in more than two years. Luxury property company
Palm Hills Developments SAE tumbled 5.2 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 312 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in  London  at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  