-- Eneva Agrees Option to Buy Out OGX Gas Venture Under Default
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-28T14:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/eneva-agrees-option-to-buy-out-ogx-gas-venture-under-default.html
Eneva SA (ENEV3) , the Brazilian utility
controlled by  Germany ’s EON SE and  Eike Batista , agreed to buy
out a natural gas company shared with  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA  if the venture defaults.  Eneva signed an option with OGX Maranhao Petroleo & Gas
SA’s three bank creditors to buy 66.7 percent of the shares it
doesn’t own in the venture for 200 million reais ($91.5
million), the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a statement
today. Banco Itau BBA SA, Banco Santander SA and Morgan Stanley
will have the right, starting on Feb. 19, to sell their shares
to Eneva if they execute guarantees on OGX Maranhao, it said.  Eneva is attempting to disentangle itself from the collapse
of OGX, Batista’s oil producing company. Dusseldorf-based EON
starting buying shares from the former billionaire in January
2012 to gain a foothold in  Brazil  as domestic profit declined.
Eneva is in talks with banks and partners to avoid redemption of
the debt owed by OGX Maranhao, three people with knowledge of
the talks told  Bloomberg News  earlier this month.  EON became Eneva’s largest holder on May 29 and increased
its stake in a private placement on July 4, three days after OGX
said it would probably have to shut its only producing oil
field, and Batista was replaced as Eneva chairman. OGX Maranhao,
where Eneva has a 33.3 percent stake, operates eight blocks in
Brazil’s Parnaiba basin, producing natural gas for the utility’s
thermoelectrical plants.  Eneva  gained  0.7 percent to 4.37 reais at 11:13 a.m. in  Sao
Paulo  after earlier gaining as much as 2.5 percent, its biggest
intraday increase since Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  