-- Herbalife Profit Tops Estimates as Americas Sales Gain
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-29T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/herbalife-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , the nutrition
company at the center of a battle between hedge-fund managers
 Bill Ackman  and  Carl Icahn , posted third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as sales gained in the Americas.  Net income rose 27 percent to $142 million, or $1.32 a
share, the Cayman Islands-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Profit excluding some items was $1.41 a share,
beating estimates. Analysts projected $1.14, the average of six
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Johnson  is working to
expand sales of Herbalife’s vitamins, skin creams and meal-replacement shakes in  emerging markets  while fending off
Ackman’s accusations that the company operates an illegal
pyramid scheme. Herbalife’s sales volumes in the quarter rose 9
percent in  North America , compared with an 11 percent gain in
the second quarter, and 32 percent in South and Central America.  “Although trends in North America slowed slightly, they
remain near 10 percent,”  Meredith Adler, an analyst with
Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in a note to investors
yesterday. That’s a number “that management finds comforting
given the amount of bad publicity the company has gotten in the
U.S. because of the loudly-expressed views of  Pershing Square .”  Adler rates the shares overweight, the equivalent of a buy.  During a conference call today, Johnson said it will
implement formal online training for new sales leaders globally
by the end of next year centering on return policies, proper
direct selling methods and nutrition club rules. Existing sales
leaders will complete annual training, as well.  Herbalife was little changed at $67.93 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than doubled this year, compared with
a 24 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Profit Forecast  Worldwide net sales  rose 19 percent to $1.21 billion in the
quarter. Analysts estimated $1.2 billion.  Profit this year will rise to as much as $5.23 a share, up
from Herbalife’s previously forecast maximum of $4.95. Analysts
estimated $4.98, on average. Full-year 2014 profit will rise to
as much as $5.65 a share, matching the average of analysts’
estimates.  Former U.S. Surgeon General Richard H. Carmona was
appointed to the board, the company also said. Carmona, who
served under President  George W. Bush , is a professor at the
 University of Arizona  and  Ohio State University . He also serves
on the boards of Clorox Co. and Taser International Inc.  Short Position  Ackman said in an Oct. 2 letter to investors at his
Pershing Square Capital Management that he replaced a portion of
his original short position, which was valued at about $1.5
billion, with long-term put options. Pershing Square can still
make money if the company fails “within a reasonable time
frame” even as it reached an all-time high last month, Ackman
said.  The move reduced the equity short position held by Pershing
Square to 12 percent from 16 percent of the firm’s $10.8 billion
portfolio, he told investors.  Ackman has accused Herbalife of swindling unsophisticated
consumers with false get-rich promises using overpriced products
that hide a pyramid scheme. He has urged U.S. regulators,
elected officials and community activists to help shut it down.
Herbalife has repeatedly denied the allegations, saying it makes
money from selling unique products.  “Somebody gave me a quote this weekend and said, ‘It’s
useless to attempt to reason a man out of a thing he was never
reasoned into,’ and that seems to sum up this temporary
distraction,” Johnson said, referring to Ackman, at the end of
the conference call. “Our focus remains on supporting our
members.”  Pyramid Schemes  Operators of pyramid schemes typically seek to make money
by recruiting new members who pay fees to existing members
rather than relying on just the sale of goods and services. The
Federal Trade Commission has said modern pyramid schemes can use
products to hide their true intent.  In August, Ackman sent a 52-page letter urging Herbalife’s
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to pay attention to
“serious accounting and disclosure issues.” The nutrition
company hired the auditor in May after its previous accounting
firm, KPMG LLP, resigned because of alleged  insider trading  by
an auditor.  ‘Clean Read’  PricewaterhouseCoopers is re-auditing statements for 2010
through 2012. Herbalife Director Jeff Dunn, who runs Campbell
Soup Co.-owned Wm. Bolthouse Farms Inc. and is a former Coca-Cola Co. president, said in mid-October that he expects a
“clean read” when the re-audits are completed. Herbalife
expects the re-audits to be completed by the end of December,
executives reiterated today during a conference call.  The executives on the call said they would evaluate a 2014
share repurchase plan once the re-audits are completed and more
options are available. They also left open the possibility of a
capital restructuring, such as a tender offer.  Icahn, who disclosed a 13 percent stake in Herbalife in
February, has continued to add to his investment and held about
16 percent of the shares as of June 30.  Billionaire  George Soros ’s family office also has entered
the dispute. Soros Fund Management LLC acquired a 4.9 percent
stake in Herbalife valued at $227.5 million as of June 30,
according to an Aug. 14 filing. The company was Soros’s third-largest U.S. stock-listed holding at the time.  Herbalife earlier this month lost a bid to dismiss a
lawsuit by a former California distributor of its nutrition
products who alleged the company’s business model is a pyramid
scheme that didn’t allow him to make a profit. U.S. District
Judge Beverly Reid O’Connell in  Los Angeles  denied Herbalife’s
request to throw out the case.  The judge said in an Oct. 11 court order, the plaintiff,
Dana Bostick, who seeks to represent other distributors in a
class-action lawsuit, had sufficiently argued the allegation at
that stage of the proceeding for the case to go forward.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  