-- Merck Narrows Forecast After Sales of Januvia Decline
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-28T20:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/merck-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-gardasil-sales.html
Merck & Co., the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker, narrowed its full-year forecast as the company
continues an overhaul of its sales and research operations.  Profit for 2013 will be $3.48 to $3.52 a share, Merck said
today in a statement. The previous outlook was for $3.45 to
$3.55. Chief Executive Officer Ken Frazier said he is still
looking at whether  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck’s
animal health and consumer businesses, as well as its drug
projects, might be divested or partnered outside the company.  “A company is a living, breathing thing, and over time one
has to evaluate the opportunities going forward,” Frazier said
in an interview today. “The question becomes, are we the right
owner of those businesses?”  Merck this month announced it would fire 8,500 workers and
overhaul research and development. The firings add to 7,500 job
cuts already announced, amounting to a 20 percent reduction in
Merck’s workforce. The company had about 80,000 employees as of
Sept. 30. Drugmakers have been cutting expenses, research
programs and positions to focus on creating new medicines, as
well as selling or splitting off non-pharmaceutical businesses.  Merck’s changes are about focus, not slashing expenses,
Frazier said. “Merck is and will remain committed to investing
in R&D internally, and importantly, externally,” he said.
“It’s about precision, it’s about focus, it’s not about
reduction.”  Shares Decline  Merck declined 2.6 percent to $45.35 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The company has  struggled  to keep investor support, with
its stock falling 1.7 percent in the last 12 months, compared
with a  23 percent gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Pharmaceuticals Index.  Third-quarter revenue fell 4 percent to $11 billion,
missing the $11.1 billion estimate of analysts, as Januvia sales
dropped 5 percent and foreign currency exchange weighed on
results.  “Januvia/Janumet widely missed consensus,”  said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy & Investment
Group LLC, in a note to clients. “We would expect the company
to back off its prior guidance to expect ‘mid-single digit’
year-on-year Januvia franchise growth.”  Net Income  Net income  dropped to $1.12 billion, or 38 cents a share,
from $1.73 billion, or 56 cents, a year earlier, the company
said. Earnings, excluding one-time items, were 92 cents a share,
beating by 5 cents the average of 17 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Merck sentiment continues to get really bad,”
Schoenebaum said. “I’ve become increasingly frustrated with
fighting this management discount.”  Merck shareholders have been most concerned that sales of
Januvia will face more competition, said  Tony Butler , an analyst
with Barclays Plc. Third-quarter sales of Januvia fell to $927
million from a year earlier.  Half-a-dozen new treatments that could compete with Januvia
may begin selling in the next two years. The medicine has
already experienced most of its potential growth, while
competitors are cutting prices and marketing harder, Butler
said. “Both volume and pricing opportunities for
Januvia/Janumet are limited going forward,” he said in a note
to clients this month.  Januvia Rebates  The company’s sales unit is pushing to expand prescriptions
of Januvia in the face of new competitors. It’s had to offer
rebates and discounts in order to hold into what it says is
around an 80 percent market share of the class of drugs, called
DPP4s.  “The branded oral diabetes market is relatively flat,”
Adam Schechter, Merck’s president of global human health. “The
rebate and discounting will continue to be aggressive in the
marketplace,” he said on a conference call discussing results
today. “We are losing a little bit of market share each
month.”  That may be the new reality for the best-selling drug in
the class. “We view this is as a weak quarter for Merck that
highlights some of the issues that led to our downgrade back in
July,” said Alex Arfaei, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets
Corp. who has a “market perform” rating on the stock. He said
new competition in the diabetes market could force down
expectations for the company.  Gardasil, Remicade  Sales of the Gardasil vaccine rose 15 percent to $665
million from a year earlier, while revenue from the rheumatoid
arthritis drug Remicade jumped 17 percent to $574 million.  Under new R&D chief  Roger Perlmutter , Merck is overhauling
its research labs to put more emphasis on vaccines, cancer,
diabetes and hospital care. The moves will save $2.5 billion a
year by 2015, according to the company.  Perlmutter said today he was displeased with the quality of
the company’s R&D efforts, particularly with submissions to U.S.
regulators.  “I’m not happy with where we stand in terms of how our
organization has been able to deliver documents that meet
regulatory guidelines,” Perlmutter said on the call. “I have
been leaning into this process very, very heavily.” He planned
to hire a new head of global safety, as well as make additional
hires to improve the safety and quality of the company’s
clinical trials.  “Merck’s belated attempts to restructure their R&D
organization are encouraging, but we continue to expect material
earnings disappointment compared with consensus forecasts,”
 Andrew Baum , an analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in a note to
clients before the earnings report was released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  