-- Tesla Says Model S Driver Unhurt in Mexico Crash
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-29T04:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/tesla-says-model-s-driver-unhurt-in-mexico-crash.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the top-selling
maker of premium electric cars, said a customer was unhurt in a
crash and fire this month in Mexico in which a Model S struck a
concrete barrier.  The accident happened Oct. 18 near Merida, Mexico,
according to a  report  by Diario de Yucatan, which was confirmed
by Liz Jarvis-Shean, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-based Tesla. Photos and video of the crash show the car’s front
end smashed by the barrier and flames consuming the vehicle.  “We were able to contact the driver quickly and are
pleased that he is safe,” Jarvis-Shean said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “This was a significant accident where the
car was traveling at such a high speed that it smashed through a
concrete wall and then hit a large tree, yet the driver walked
away from the car with no permanent injury.”  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said
last week it found no evidence that a Model S fire on a
Washington state highway this month resulted from defects or
violations of U.S. safety standards. In that Oct. 1 incident,
the car struck metal debris that pierced its lithium-ion battery
pack, according to state officials and Tesla.  The U.S. safety agency is aware of the incident in  Mexico 
and will continue to monitor the performance of Tesla vehicles,
it said late yesterday by e-mail. NHTSA doesn’t investigate
vehicle accidents that happen outside the U.S., the agency said.  Quiet Acceleration  A spokesman for the state police of Yucatan, which includes
Merida, wasn’t available to comment on the matter.  The quick-accelerating Model S, priced from about $70,000
to more than $100,000, quietly gets to high speeds without the
sounds drivers are used to in gasoline-engine autos, said Karl Brauer, an industry analyst for Kelley Blue Book.  “In that sense, the sensation of speed is largely removed
from the car,” said Brauer, who is based in  Irvine ,  California .
“There have been two serious accidents involving Model S, but
there have been two serious accidents where the people inside
the vehicles were fine.”  The driver involved in the Washington accident is trying to
get a new Model S to replace his damaged car, Tesla Chief
Executive Officer Elon Musk told Bloomberg Television last week.
The Tesla customer in Mexico also plans to purchase another
Model S, the company said.  “He is appreciative of the safety and performance of the
car and has asked if we can expedite delivery of his next Model
S,” Jarvis-Shean said.  ‘Explosive’ Gasoline  Regulators formally investigated fires in two other
battery-powered vehicles,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt
and Fisker Automotive Inc.’s Karma.  Fisker agreed to a recall. GM voluntarily asked Volt owners
to bring their cars in for service before NHTSA concluded its
investigation. That avoided designating the action as an
official recall because it wasn’t coordinated through NHTSA, GM
said at the time.  “We’ve known that gasoline is explosive, but after 100
years we’ve gotten used to it,” Brauer said. “It’s not that
electric cars are any more dangerous. If you pierce the battery
pack, damage wiring and release that high voltage, odds are
you’re going to have a fire.”  Tesla fell 4 percent to $162.86 yesterday in New York. The
shares have surged more than fourfold this year, the biggest
gain among more than 1,000 companies in the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY) ,
which is up 24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  