-- Telefonica CEO Pledges to Avoid Telecom Italia Job Cuts
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-29T18:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/letta-is-said-to-seek-telefonica-pledge-to-investing-in-italy.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  Chief Executive
Officer Cesar Alierta pledged to avoid job cuts in  Italy  as the
carrier boosts its influence in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Alierta met Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta today in
 Rome  after gathering with Telecom Italia CEO Marco Patuano
yesterday, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the meetings are private. Telefonica, Telecom Italia’s biggest
shareholder, agreed last month to gradually buy out co-investors
in Telco SpA, the holding company that owns 22.4 percent of
Telecom Italia and controls its board.  The Telefonica CEO confirmed the Spanish carrier’s
commitment to invest in Telecom Italia’s fiber fixed-line grid
and 4G mobile networks, promising also to maintain Telecom
Italia employment levels, the people said.  The meetings in the last two days are crucial to deciding
the strategy to be put to Telecom Italia’s board on Nov. 7. With
its  debt  rating cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service this
month, Milan-based Telecom Italia is considering measures
including a capital increase of as much as 2 billion euros ($2.8
billion), a cost-cut program, asset sales, as well as the
scrapping of its dividends and a spinoff of its telephone
network, people familiar with the matter said last week.  Carrier Networks  Letta today also requested guarantees to allow Telecom
Italia’s rivals access to the carrier’s networks, said one of
the people. Representatives for Letta’s administration and
Telefonica declined to comment on the summit.  Franco Lombardi, the head of minority shareholder group
Asati, said today in a letter addressed to Letta that “Alierta
did not provide any guarantees about the potential sale of Tim
Brasil.”  The Spanish executive refused to consider a making a full
takeover bid for the rest of the Italian company at a price not
lower than 1.1 euros a share or a merger via a stock swap,
Lombardi said in the statement. Telefonica boosted its stake in
Telco by acquiring stock from Telco investors at 1.09 euros
each.  Telecom Italia rose 6.1 percent to 72 euro cents in Milan.
The stock is up 5.3 percent this year after eight consecutive
years of decline. The company has a market value of 13.1 billion
euros, less than half of the adjusted net debt of 28.8 billion
euros at the end of June.  Grip Tightened  For Letta, asking Telefonica to commit to keeping jobs
comes as the country’s  unemployment  returned in August to 12.2
percent, the all-time high reached in May.  Speaking on Rai 3 TV channel Sept. 29, Letta said Telecom
Italia, which employs more than 82,000 workers, needs a strong
investor: “I have no objections to the investor being foreign
and they can continue to trust Italy,” he said.  Telefonica had just tightened its grip over Telecom Italia
days earlier with a $1.2 billion cash-and-stock transaction to
buy out its partners in Telco over time. Other Telco investors
are  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   Following that agreement, Italian labor leaders have said
that Telefonica may eliminate jobs at Telecom Italia. Letta’s
administration has signed a decree giving the state a say in any
sale of the fixed-line network to a foreign buyer. Meanwhile, a
senator in Letta’s  Democratic Party  wants to change Italy’s
takeover law that would force a mandatory bid for a company when
a buyer acquires effective control.  ‘Loaded Guns’  “There are still several loaded guns pointed to the
Telecom Italia-Telefonica deal,” said Francesco Galietti,
founder of Rome-based consultancy Policy Sonar that specializes
in risk analysis. “The government has just categorized the
network as a quasi-military asset, a move that gives it the
power to veto a transfer in case of a EU-based buyer.”  During the negotiations that led to the Sept. 24 accord,
Telefonica expressed it would back a Telecom Italia capital
increase only if it comes with measures to shore up the Italian
carrier’s finances, such as a disposal of its stake in  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  in the medium term, people familiar with the
matter said at the time. They asked not to be identified because
the deliberations were confidential.  Full Merger?  Tim is scheduled to release third-quarter earnings after
the market close today.  In the longer term, Alierta is in favor of a full merger
with Telecom Italia as he sees Italy as a good market to expand
its operations in  Europe  amid the current consolidation wave in
the industry, people close to him said last month, declining to
be identified because the discussions are private.  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein,
wrote in a note last week that a capital increase in the
appropriate context could pave the way for a full merger between
Telefonica and Telecom Italia.  “Politically Telefonica cannot stand by and watch in the
interim as TI fails to improve parlous Italian infrastructure,”
she wrote in the Oct. 25 note. “Telefonica must guard against
the risk that it will have to defend its stake against
opportunistic feints by various shareholders and outside
interests, with an offer for the whole company sooner than they
hope.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  