-- Euro Jobless Fault Line Festers as Italy Scars Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-28T16:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/euro-jobless-fault-line-festers-as-italy-scars-recovery.html
Euro-area  jobless numbers  this week
may lay bare a fault line scarring the region’s recovery as
evidence of  Germany ’s employment muscle contrasts with the
political quagmire destroying work in  Italy .  While the currency bloc’s longest-ever recession has ended,
unemployment held at 12 percent in September, according to the
median of 36 forecasts in a  Bloomberg survey  of economists.
Within that data lies a rift between two of its largest
economies, with Italy’s rate  seen by economists  to have reached
12.3 percent, the highest since records began in 1977 -- and
more than double Germany’s comparable level.  Italy will “critically determine the fate of the euro
area” and the region won’t prosper if that country can’t
restore economic growth, European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said last week. Italian officials predict
joblessness in the euro zone’s third-biggest economy will keep
rising, against a backdrop of a fragmented coalition jeopardized
by the legal woes of former premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  “We are still in a very discouraging situation for most of
the euro area,” said Anatoli Annenkov, an economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “That’s particularly true for Italy,
where politics has come to a rest and necessary structural
reforms are not kicking in at all.”  German Unemployment  The extra yield investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year
debt instead of similar-maturity German bunds stood at 245 basis
points at 5:12 p.m. in  Frankfurt  today, little changed from 247
basis points on Oct. 25. That compares to a 2013 high of 361
basis points on March 28. The euro traded near a two-year high
against the dollar before the  Federal Reserve  begins a two-day
meeting tomorrow.  The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg will
publish euro-area labor data at 11 a.m. on Oct. 31. That’s the
day after Germany’s Federal Labor Agency releases numbers for
 Europe ’s biggest economy, predicted by all but two of 36
economists to show a  6.9 percent jobless rate , the same as in
August. The level comparable with other euro countries was 5.2
percent, the second-lowest after  Austria .  Italy’s statistics office Istat will release labor numbers
for September an hour before the euro area report. Last month,
data showed the jobless rate among people aged between 15 and 24
reached an historic high of 40.1 percent.  ‘True Nightmare’  “Youth unemployment is the true nightmare of our
country,” Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta said on Oct. 21
in  Rome . In Washington three days previously, he warned of the
risk of a “lost generation.”  Such blight afflicts economies throughout southern Europe,
from  Greece  to  Spain . But Italy was the country Asmussen singled
out in a speech in Milan on Oct. 25, as he called on its
political class to confront the need for structural reforms.  “The future of the euro area will not be decided in Paris
or Berlin, or in Frankfurt or Brussels -- it will be decided in
Rome,” he said. “The euro area cannot prosper if its third-largest economy has a potential growth rate of zero.”  Asmussen spoke an hour after  Fitch Ratings  affirmed Italy’s
BBB+ rating with a negative outlook, saying that the cumulative
damage from the recession there that started in 2011 may exceed
4 percent of output. While the company predicts that slump to
cease this year, it said that gross domestic product is now down
8 percent from its high point in 2007.  Crucial Reforms  “We have to break open our labor markets,” Euro group
head Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in a speech in  Madrid  today. “A
further reform of the labor markets is crucial.”  Italian unemployment will probably average 12.4 percent in
2014, up from 12.1 percent this year, according to Bloomberg’s
monthly survey of economists published Oct. 10. Joblessness will
decline in Germany and Spain next year and hold at 12.1 percent
in the euro area, the survey shows.  Leaders of Italian unions expressed worries this month that
foreign investors might eliminate jobs as Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
tightened its grip on  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and Alitalia SpA’s
crisis deepened, potentially souring Air France-KLM Group’s
appetite to increase its stake in the carrier.  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-biggest home appliances
maker, said on Oct. 25 that it will start examining the
competitiveness of its Italian manufacturing setup for major
appliances at four plants employing about 3,500 people.  Some economists say that ultimately, the Italian job market
will benefit from an economic recovery in the euro area, the
country’s biggest export market.  Job Creation  “Improvement in demand forecasts will likely be the key
determinant of  job creation  in the coming quarters,” said
Guillaume Menuet, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“Italy and Spain are our top picks from the periphery, assuming
that the recovery continues.”  Italian  business confidence  unexpectedly increased in
October, climbing to the highest since August 2011. The gauge
rose to 97.3 this from a revised 96.8 in September, Istat said
today. That compares with a median estimate of 96, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.  “Letta’s government has given new impulse to the reform
process,” Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said in
a letter to the Financial Times today, citing a number of
measures including changes in the political system, a
simplification of the tax regime and steps to attract foreign
direct investment.  Draghi’s View  European new car sales rose the most in more than two years
in September and euro-area  consumer confidence  rose for an 11th
month in October. Spain emerged from a two-year recession in the
third quarter, strengthening Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
efforts to repair the nation’s finances and leave the four-year
old sovereign debt crisis behind.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation bloc  grew  0.3
percent in the three months through June after six quarterly
contractions, and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
expects a further recovery toward the end of the year.  “Confidence indicators up to September confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels,” he said on Oct. 2. Even so “the risks surrounding the
economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the
downside,” he said.  A recovery in Europe’s labor market will be “modest and
uneven,” Citigroup’s Menuet said. There’s a “significant
likelihood of high unemployment becoming a permanent feature of
the euro area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  