-- European Stocks Fall After Three-Week Rally as Fiat Drops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-28T17:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/european-stock-futures-advance-before-fed-policy-meeting.html
European stocks  declined, snapping a
three-week rally for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as U.S. factory
production and home sales missed economists’ forecasts.  Fiat SpA (F)  retreated 3.2 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
downgraded automakers. Volvo AB slid 4.3 percent as Natixis SA
cut its rating on the Swedish truck producer. TNT Express NV,
the Dutch package-delivery company, rallied 4.3 percent after
releasing results.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  climbed 3.3 percent as the
Italian investment bank reported increased profit.  The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.2 percent to 319.49 at the close of
trading, erasing an earlier gain of 0.3 percent. The benchmark
gauge rose 0.5 percent last week as disappointing U.S. jobs data
fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will maintain its stimulus
measures until at least March. The index has soared 14 percent
in 2013, closing at a five-year high on Oct. 22.  “We have hit the point now where markets are questioning
more and more what could drive the markets up further,” Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH,
which oversees about $22 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“We have seen quite a significant move, but it is running out
of steam now.”  U.S. factory production rose rose 0.1 percent in September,
missing the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey
that called for a 0.3 percent gain, figures from the Fed showed.
Total industrial production, which also includes output by mines
and utilities, advanced 0.6 percent as higher temperatures drove
up electricity use.  Mortgage Rates  Fewer Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy
previously owned homes in September as rising  mortgage rates 
slowed momentum in the housing market. The  index  of pending home
sales slumped 5.6 percent, exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of economists and the biggest drop in more than
three years, the National Association of Realtors reported.  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  are scheduled
to meet Oct. 29-30, when they will consider scaling back  asset
purchases  that have helped the Stoxx 600 more than double since
March 2009. Policy makers will wait until March before starting
to taper the $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, a Bloomberg
survey showed this month.  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 14.8 times estimated earnings,
the most expensive valuation since the end of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Profit Taking’  “We are seeing profit taking,” Soeren Steinert, who helps
manage about $24 billion as associate director for equities
trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH in Frankfurt, wrote in
an e-mail. “Air is becoming thinner at these levels.”  Fiat retreated 3.2 percent to 5.74 euros as a gauge of
carmakers fell the most among the 19 industry groups in the
Stoxx 600. PSA Peugeot Citroen sank 5.8 percent to 9.38 euros,
the lowest level since July.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest luxury-car
maker, declined 1.5 percent to 82.39 euros and Volkswagen AG,
Europe’s largest carmaker, slipped 1.3 percent to 174.25 euros.  JPMorgan downgraded automakers to neutral from overweight,
meaning investors should no longer hold more of the shares than
are represented in regional benchmarks.  “Autos are the best performing sector year-to-date in
Europe,”  Mislav Matejka , chief European equity strategist at
JPMorgan, wrote in a report today. “We think that their
earnings momentum could be stalling in the near term as PMIs
have stopped moving higher,” he wrote, referring to gauges of
services and manufacturing growth known as purchasing managers’
indexes.  Volvo Downgrade  Volvo dropped 4.3 percent to 84.30 kronor as Natixis cut
its rating on the truck maker to neutral from buy. The shares
tumbled 6.6 percent on Oct. 25 after the company reported a
surprise drop in operating profit.  Technip SA (TEC)  fell 2.1 percent to 87.80 euros. Europe’s
second-largest oilfield-services provider won’t pay employees a
share of 2013 earnings because of insufficient orders, according
to a report in weekly newsletter La Lettre de L’Expansion, which
did not say where it got the information.  Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
 Spain ’s largest lenders, dropped 2.8 percent to 6.35 euros and
2.8 percent to 8.60 euros, respectively, as a gauge of banking
stocks in the Stoxx 600 dropped 0.8 percent.  TNT Express (TNTE)  climbed 4.3 percent to 7.09 euros even after
the package-delivery company reported a decline in sales and
operating income. The company said it will step up restructuring
efforts, without providing further details.  Mediobanca advanced 3.3 percent to 6.54 euros after fiscal
first-quarter profit climbed 57 percent at  Italy ’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank. Net income rose to 171.2
million euros in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 109
million euros a year earlier, including a 58.8 million-euro gain
from the sale of part of its holding in Telco SpA.  Aggreko Plc, the world’s largest provider of mobile power
generators, rallied 6 percent to 1,608 pence after saying
“underlying” revenue and trading margins were “slightly ahead
of last year” in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  