-- Ex-Slaughter, Linklaters Lawyers Fail to Dismiss Lawsuit
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2013-10-28T09:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ex-slaughter-linklaters-lawyers-fail-to-dismiss-lawsuit.html
A former  Slaughter and May  lawyer
and her boyfriend who worked for Linklaters LLP lost a bid to
dismiss a Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission lawsuit
alleging they used inside information to trade shares.  Young Bik Fung, Lee Kwok Wa and his two sisters made HK$2.9
million ($374,000) trading shares of Hsinchu International Bank
ahead of a takeover offer by  Standard Chartered Plc  and of Asia
Satellite Telecommunications Ltd. before a privatization offer,
the SFC says.  Hong Kong High Court Judge Anthony Chan today dismissed
their application to strike out the SFC’s lawsuit on grounds
including that the regulator lacked jurisdiction as the trading
of Hsinchu shares took place in  Taiwan . The four said they
bought the shares of the two companies in 2006 and 2007 without
any inside information.  Maurice Lee, a lawyer for the four, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment. Neil Hyman, a partner
at Slaughter and May in  Hong Kong , declined to comment on the
case.  Lee Kwok Wa “left this firm in 2007,” Amanda Clarke, a
spokeswoman for Linklaters in Hong Kong, said by e-mail. “We
have no comment to make on his personal legal proceedings.”  The SFC, which is seeking court orders for the four accused
to disgorge their profits and pay damages, won confirmation of
its power to independently sue parties suspected of market
misconduct at Hong Kong’s top court this year.  Young, who worked on the Hsinchu Bank offer, tipped off her
boyfriend Lee and his sisters to buy the shares before the deal
was announced, the SFC has said. Lee allegedly alerted Young and
his sisters to the proposed privatization of Asia Satellite, the
regulator said.  The case is Securities & Futures Commission v Young Bik
Fung et al. HCMP2575/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of First
Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  