-- Texas Abortion Law Hospital Privilege Requirement Blocked
-- B y   D a v i d   M o n t g o m e r y   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-28T21:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/texas-abortion-law-s-hospital-privilege-requirement-blocked.html
A new  Texas  law requiring abortion
doctors to affiliate with local hospitals puts a “substantial
obstacle” in the path of women seeking the procedure, a federal
judge ruled, blocking its enforcement.  The measure “does not bear a rational relationship to the
legitimate right of the state in preserving and promoting fetal
life or a woman’s health,” U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel in
Austin said today. The provisions, part of a larger piece of
legislation passed in July, were to take effect tomorrow.  The state immediately appealed the ruling, and a
spokeswoman said the issue may be decided by the U.S. Supreme
Court. Similar measures have been blocked by provisional courts
in  Alabama ,  Mississippi ,  Wisconsin  and  North Dakota .  Yeakel declined to void the state’s ability to enforce
restrictions on using drugs to end a pregnancy, except where
they would place an undue burden on a woman if a doctor
determined the abortion was necessary to preserve her
life or health.  Yeakel’s decision followed a 2 1/2-day trial last week.  Planned Parenthood sued Texas last month seeking to block
the measures signed into law July 18 by Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican.  Opposition to the legislation from state Senator Wendy Davis, a Democrat from Fort Worth, placed her in a national
spotlight and became the springboard for an announcement earlier
this month she would seek her parties’ nomination for governor.  Attorney General  State Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a Republican and a
named defendant in the lawsuit, is also running to succeed
Perry.  “Today’s decision will not stop our ongoing efforts to
protect life and ensure the women of our state aren’t exposed to
any more of the abortion-mill horror stories that have made
headlines recently,” Perry said in a statement today. “We will
continue fighting to implement the laws passed by the duly-elected officials of our state, laws that reflect the will and
values of Texans.”  Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas, a prospective Republican
presidential candidate, said in a statement, “I hope the Fifth
Circuit will uphold Texas’s reasonable law protecting the health
of Texas women and unborn children,” referring to the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans .  State’s Appeal  “The state has already appealed the court’s ruling,”
Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for the attorney general, said in a
statement. “As everyone -- including the trial court judge --
has acknowledged, this is a matter that will ultimately be
resolved by the appellate courts or the U.S. Supreme Court.”  The lawsuit was filed by the New York-based  American Civil
Liberties Union  and the Center for Reproductive Rights.  Those organizations, in a statement issued jointly with
 Planned Parenthood , applauded Yeakel’s decision on the hospital-affiliation rule, while criticizing his decision to let the bulk
of the drug-induced abortion restriction stand.  “Today’s decision has averted a catastrophic health crisis
for women across the state of Texas,” President Nancy Northup
of the Center for Reproductive Rights said in a statement.
“Politicians, not doctors, pushed for both these
unconstitutional restrictions -- despite the best medical
standards for women’s health care.”  ACLU Disappointed  “We are disappointed by the ruling on the medication
abortion restriction, which ignores accepted medical practice
and will force providers to use less safe methods,” said Louise Melling, deputy legal director for the ACLU.  The groups contended the requirements threatened women’s
abilities to obtain the constitutionally protected procedure in
large swaths of the second-biggest U.S. state. Proponents of the
legislation said they were necessary to protect women’s health.  Witnesses who testified for Planned Parenthood included a
doctor who performs abortions, a  University of Texas  demographer
and the founder of a company that operates women’s health
clinics in five Texas cities.  The state presented no witnesses, relying instead on court
filings, cross-examination of Planned Parenthood witnesses and
oral arguments.  Yeakel said at the beginning that his role wasn’t to decide
whether women should be allowed abortions. The issue before him,
he said, was whether the challenged legislation fell within
“existing constitutional confines.” He returned to that theme
in today’s ruling.  Divisive Issue  “There is no issue that divides the people of this country
more than abortion,” he wrote. “Sincere and caring persons of
good will are found on both sides of the issue, but neither side
will ever change the position of the other.”  The legislation required a doctor performing an abortion to
have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles
(48 kilometers) of the clinic.  It also effectively barred drug-induced abortions after the
seventh week of a pregnancy, citing the on-label use authorized
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Planned Parenthood
contended the limited approved use, adopted in 2000, is
outdated.  Two drugs that will induce an abortion when used in
combination are typically taken a day or two apart, according to
court papers. The first, Mifepristone -- also known as RU-486 or
Mifeprex -- is typically administered by a doctor.  The drug is the only one approved for ending pregnancies.
Doctors can legally prescribe it for uses beyond the one it’s
approved for, as with any prescription medication.  Law’s Impact  The second, Misoprostol, also called Cytotec, can be taken
by a patient at the time and place of her own choosing, a
practice that would be ended by the new law, according to
Planned Parenthood’s complaint.  “The evidence demonstrates that the privilege requirement
will not enhance the safety of women” seeking abortions,
Planned Parenthood lawyer Janet Crepps said Oct. 23 in closing
arguments. Thirteen clinics would no longer be able to provide
abortions under the law, she said.  Women living in rural West Texas might be forced to drive
more than 300 miles to El Paso or  Dallas , Crepps said.  Several cities, including  Fort Worth  and Lubbock, would be
completely without abortion services, she said.  Texas Deputy Solicitor General Andrew S. Oldham in his
closing remarks, told Yeakel that the plaintiffs had the
“extraordinarily high” burden to prove the contested
provisions are unconstitutional and that they had failed to meet
that challenge.  Unsupported Claims  He said the abortion-rights group’s claims were unsupported
by economic data. Doctors would have recourse under state law if
they were denied admitting privileges because they perform
abortions, he said.  “Plaintiffs cannot prove an undue burden by pointing to a
fear of discrimination,” Oldham said.  Yeakel rejected the state’s contention in his ruling today,
finding that the admitting-privileges requirement would force
many abortion clinics to close.  “The record reflects that 24 counties in the Rio Grande
Valley would be left with no abortion provider because those
providers do not have admitting privileges and are unlikely to
get them,” he wrote.  The judge largely rejected challenges to the drug-induced
abortion restrictions. He said that while the FDA-tied protocol
is “clearly more burdensome” because it requires an additional
trip to the doctor and additional costs, the plaintiffs hadn’t
proved the burden was so great the law needed to be invalidated
in all instances.  Long-Term Issue  Courts and legislatures will continue to grapple with
abortion rights for the foreseeable future, the judge forecast.  “No ruling of this court will sway the opinion regarding
abortion held by anyone,” said Yeakel, an appointee of
Republican President  George W. Bush .  The case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Montgomery in federal court in Austin
;
Andrew Harris in federal court in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 