-- Factory Slowdown Shows U.S. Has Little Traction: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-10-28T20:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/factory-output-slowdown-shows-u-s-has-little-traction-economy.html
Factory output rose less than
forecast in September and contract signings for U.S. home
purchases fell the most in three years, showing the economy was
having trouble gaining traction before the government shutdown.  The 0.1 percent advance in manufacturing followed a revised
0.5 percent gain in August that was smaller than initially
estimated, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed today in
Washington.  Pending sales  of previously owned homes slumped 5.6
percent in September, the fourth straight month of declines, the
National Association of Realtors reported.  “The economy is in a shutdown-related soft patch in the
fourth quarter,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS
Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts , who correctly predicted a 0.6
percent gain in total industrial production, which also includes
mines and utilities. “Everyone started to be a little more
cautious in September.”  Advances in housing and manufacturing would help generate
the employment gains sought by Fed policy makers, who begin a
two-day meeting tomorrow. A pickup in consumer and business
sentiment depends in part on how companies and households
respond to an agreement by lawmakers that funds the government
into early next year.  Stocks rose, leaving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index poised
for the best annual gain since 2003, as the weaker economic data
fueled bets the Fed will maintain stimulus. The  S&P 500  climbed
0.1 percent to 1,762.11 at the close in  New York .  Mortgage rates  last month reached two-year highs, reducing
affordability at the same time prices rose. With some would-be
buyers pushed to the sidelines, the pace of recovery in real
estate is cooling.  Fourth Quarter  “We’ll be in this weakness for a little bit, maybe even
going into the fourth quarter,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in New York, the second-best forecaster
of pending home sales over the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month’s drop in pending home sales was the biggest
since a 28.9 percent plunge in May 2010, when the extension of a
government tax credit expired.  Today’s Fed data showed that  factory (IPMGCHNG)  output, excluding a
pickup in motor vehicle assemblies was stagnant after a 0.2
percent August gain as production of appliances, electronics and
chemicals weakened. Economists projected a 0.3 percent increase
in manufacturing, which accounts for about 75 percent of total
output, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Total industrial production last month was boosted as
higher temperatures drove up electricity use. The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed called for a 0.3 percent
September gain.  Global Manufacturing  Manufacturing in  Europe  is also having trouble
strengthening. An  index  of factory output in the euro area
increased to 51.3 in October from 51.1 a month earlier and 51.4
in August, according to London-based Markit Economics.  Factory production in  China  has shown signs of picking up.
Industrial output in September climbed 10.2 percent from the
same month last year, according to Oct. 18 figures from the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics. In June, the year-over-year increase was 8.9 percent.  Today’s Fed report also showed that  factory capacity 
utilization, which measures the amount of a plant that is in
use, held at 76.1 percent. In February, it reached an almost
five-year high of 76.5 percent.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, rose 0.2
percent after a 0.6 percent gain. Utility output jumped 4.4
percent, the most since March, after falling for five straight
months.  Warmer September  The average temperature last month was 67.3 degrees
Fahrenheit (19.6 Celsius), making it the sixth-warmest September
on record, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . The agency’s index on residential  energy demand 
showed September was 9 percent above average.  Factory production of non-durable goods declined 0.3
percent in September, the third straight decrease. Output of
textiles dropped 0.7 percent, while production of chemicals fell
0.6 percent.  Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S. chemical maker by
revenue, this month reported profit that trailed analysts’
estimates amid higher costs and lower sales in the unit that
makes epoxy, used in plywood and can linings.  Demand for motor vehicles has been a bright spot for
manufacturers, with cars and light trucks selling at a 15.2
million annualized rate in September after climbing in August at
the fastest pace since 2007, figures from Ward’s Automotive
Group showed.  Vehicle Production  Production of motor vehicles and parts climbed 2 percent
after a rising 5.2 percent a month earlier, today’s report
showed. Automaker assemblies rose to an 11.55 million annualized
rate in September, the most since June 2006.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  earned a $2.3 billion profit in  North
America  in the third quarter and raised its forecasts for pretax
profit and operating margin for the full year. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said last week that its automotive sales
rose 12 percent to $33.9 billion. It also earned a rare profit
on overseas operations on rising demand for Focus compact cars
in China and B-Max vans in Europe.  Eaton Corp., which makes electrical equipment for buildings
and hydraulics for machinery, is seeing steady, albeit slow,
improvement in the  U.S. economy , Chief Executive Officer Sandy Cutler said during an Oct. 25 conference call. The U.S.
accounted for about half of Eaton’s revenue in 2012.  ‘Gradually Improving’  Cutler said the economy is “gradually improving” while
not “rocketing back” in the U.S. He forecast an increase in
demand in the company’s markets of as much as 4 percent next
year, spurred by economic recovery in Europe.  “The biggest turnaround in a region is likely be Europe,”
Cutler said in an Oct. 25 telephone interview. “Whether you
think growth’s a half-point positive or a point positive, it’s
sure going to be better than negative 1 percent for a couple of
years in a row.”  A recovery in the company’s orders in the third quarter has
marked a “change in momentum,” Cutler said. Eaton, which is
based in Dublin and operates from  Cleveland , is forecasting zero
growth for its markets this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  