-- Fairfax at 14-Year High Shows BlackBerry Is Gravy
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-28T20:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/fairfax-at-14-year-high-shows-blackberry-is-gravy.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  has
climbed to the highest level since 1999 after investments in
Irish banking and Canadian cattle feed surged, more than
offsetting any potential loss from a $4.7 billion bid for
smartphone maker BlackBerry Ltd.  Fairfax, which has a portfolio worth $24.1 billion, has
 gained  32 percent this year, compared with a 7.6 percent rise in
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. The investment firm
has returned 13 percent annually over the past 20 years,
mirroring the  rise  of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Like Berkshire Hathaway, they tend to focus on the long
term,” Colin Stewart, Toronto-based chief executive officer of
JC Clark Advisor Ltd., said in a phone interview Oct. 22.
“There have been some headlines recently on some of their more
high-profile investments like BlackBerry. But it’s just one
investment in a large portfolio. It’s not something I worry
about or focus on.”  Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa, 63, who founded the Toronto-based
insurer in 1985, makes contrarian bets that often pay off,
including a stake in the  Bank of Ireland (BKIR)  that has  risen  141
percent since Fairfax invested in July 2011. The offer to buy
Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry, which has lost more than 90
percent of its value since 2008, is his biggest publicly
disclosed deal yet.  Breakup Fee  Fairfax, which announced Sept. 23 its offer to take
BlackBerry private with a group of investors, hasn’t made public
its partners or financing details for the bid. BlackBerry co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and Douglas Fregin said this month
they’re also considering a bid. Cerberus Capital Management LP,
a New York-based private equity firm, is said to be weighing an
offer, a person with knowledge of the situation said earlier
this month.  Fairfax said it wants to reach a definitive agreement on
BlackBerry by Nov. 4, and one element of support for its shares
may be the unusually high breakup fee it has devised.  BlackBerry will pay Fairfax $157 million if the smartphone
maker strikes a better deal with another buyer during the due
diligence period. If a higher rival bid comes in after the
Fairfax group has agreed to a deal, the fee rises to about $262
million. Fairfax is BlackBerry’s biggest shareholder with about
a 9.9 percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Group Bid  Fairfax rose 1.2 percent to C$473.58 at the close in
Toronto today, its highest level since March 22, 1999.  Paul Rivett , president of Fairfax, declined to comment on
Fairfax’s performance and strategy.  Fairfax has successfully invested as part of a group
before. It joined WL Ross & Co. and  Fidelity Investments  and two
other investors to buy a combined 34.9 percent stake in Bank of
Ireland, the country’s largest lender.  Watsa takes specific risk with companies trading at a
significant discount and offsets that with a “pretty hefty,
safe and secure portfolio,” Jonathan Adams, a senior analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, said in an Oct. 22 phone interview from
Skillman,  New Jersey . “What makes this company different? Part
of the answer certainly lies in investment strategy.”  Watsa has said in remarks to shareholders that Buffett
guides his investment strategy, leading him to choose
undervalued stocks and holding them for the long term.  Fairfax’s investment portfolio includes everything from pet
insurance to cattle feed and Greek malls.  Greek Recovery  Fairfax benefited from betting against U.S. banks and
insurers during the financial crisis, then bought $100 million
of convertible debt of Chicago-based  USG Corp. (USG)  in November 2008
and profited from the housing recovery. USG, the world’s largest
gypsum product manufacturer, has risen about 300 percent since
then as  housing starts  recovered, fueling demand for the
ingredient in plaster.  Watsa is now wagering on  Greece ’s recovery. Fairfax
 allocated  about 164 million euros ($226 million) to boost its
holding in Athens-based Eurobank Properties Real Estate
Investment Co. to about 42 percent from 19 percent. The company
leases offices and malls. Fairfax raised its holdings in
 Mytilineos Holdings SA (MYTIL) , also based in  Athens , to 5.02 percent
from 4.25 percent on Oct. 18. The energy and metals producer has
 gained  35 percent this year.  Fairfax’s investment in Winnipeg, Manitoba-based  Ridley
Inc. (RCL) , an animal feed manufacturer, rose about 75 percent since
it acquired a C$81 million ($77.5 million) stake in 2008.  Insurance Business  “People always saw Fairfax as an insurance company that
was more dependent upon its investment returns to generate
earnings,” said Stewart, whose Toronto-based firm manages C$230
million in assets and has been a Fairfax investor for at least
two decades. “Now there’s the potential for continued strong
investment returns but also improving results in the insurance
business, which is encouraging to see.”  Net income among U.S. private property and casualty
insurers advanced 42 percent to $24.5 billion in the first half
of 2013 from the same period a year earlier, with average rates
of return increasing to 8.2 percent from 6.1 percent, according
to an Oct. 3  report  by  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Insurance
Services Office Inc.  Premiums, or the prices paid by clients for coverage, rose
over last year but are still below normal due to higher taxes on
their products, the report said.  “Insurers now need much better underwriting results just
to be as profitable as they were in the past,” said  Michael
Murray , ISO’s assistant vice president of financial analysis.  Undue Attention  Fairfax posted a loss of $157.8 million in the second
quarter compared with a profit of $93.7 million in the year-ago
period as its bond portfolio slipped on higher  interest rates .
The Toronto-based company reports third-quarter results on Oct.
31. Fairfax climbed 2.9 percent on Oct. 25 to C$468.11 in
Toronto, raising its market value to C$10 billion.  Not all the insurer’s picks have paid off. Fairfax invested
$17.6 million in Zoomermedia Ltd., a lifestyle publisher. The
stock has declined about 48 percent since the deal was finalized
on June 15, 2009. In 2009 Watsa wrote down losses of $65 million
in Dell Inc. and his C$64 million bet on children’s toy-maker
MEGA Brands Inc. soured as its shares fell 70 percent in the
last five years.  Watsa’s investment in BlackBerry has not worked out so far.
Fairfax more than doubled its stake in BlackBerry in January
last year to 26.9 million shares. The device-maker’s stock has
fallen 49 percent since then as the company lost market share
for its products to Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Fairfax currently
holds 51.9 million shares of BlackBerry, according to Bloomberg
data.  The BlackBerry deal “has got an undue amount of attention
considering the magnitude and the size of Fairfax’s investment
portfolio,” Stewart said. “Their long-term results have been
excellent and we don’t have reason to believe that will
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  