-- Fate of NZ Asset Sales May Rest on Performance of One Stock
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-29T02:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/fate-of-n-z-asset-sales-may-rest-on-performance-of-one-stock.html
The fate of New Zealand’s asset-sales program may rest on the performance of one stock.  Meridian Energy Ltd., the biggest of four state-owned
companies in the program, rose to NZ$1.09 on debut in Wellington
today from its NZ$1 issue price after the largest initial public
offering in New Zealand’s history. The shares were priced at the
bottom of the government’s projected range after Mighty River
Power Ltd., the first of the IPOs in the sovereign sell-off,
fell from its listing price.  “If it still doesn’t perform, then you’ve got some really
big concerns,”  Shamubeel Eaqub , principal economist at the New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research in Wellington, said about
Meridian. “It’s going to be very closely watched and if it
doesn’t go well they’re going to find it really hard” to
proceed with further asset sales, he said.  Prime Minister John Key’s government is selling stakes in
state companies to fund infrastructure and reduce debt that
spiraled after the global financial crisis. He may struggle to
reach the targeted NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion after Meridian
raised less than forecast and loss-making Solid Energy New
Zealand Ltd. dropped out of the sale program.  In an effort to boost interest in Meridian, the government
sold the shares as installment receipts, allowing investors to
pay NZ$1 upfront and the remainder 18 months later while
receiving full dividends. The partly-paid shares began trading
at NZ$1.08 today.  ‘The Big One’  “It’s done pretty well for its first day,” said James Lindsay, who helps oversee $21 billion at Tyndall Investment
Management Ltd. in Auckland “This was the big one in size terms
for Key and they’ve priced it reasonably.”  Meridian’s full shares priced at NZ$1.50, the bottom of the
indicative NZ$1.50-to-NZ$1.80 range, raising NZ$1.9 billion from
the 49 percent stake sold. As recently as May, Key said the IPO
would raise about NZ$3 billion.  Demand may have been damped by the performance of Mighty
River, New Zealand’s fourth-biggest power company, which traded
at NZ$2.19 today compared with its NZ$2.50 listing price. That
IPO in May raised NZ$1.7 billion.  The government next plans to sell down its shareholding in
national carrier Air New Zealand Ltd. to 51 percent from 73
percent and divest as much as 49 percent of Genesis Energy Ltd.
in another IPO.  ‘Future Floats’  “If the performance of the Meridian stock is positive,
it’s going to assist the future floats,” said Ganesh Nana,
executive director and chief economist at business and economic
research company  BERL  in Wellington. “If the stock did poorly,
that would make it a lot more difficult and one would think it
would make the government rethink its strategy.”  Meridian is New Zealand’s biggest power company, with seven
hydroelectric dams and four wind farms generating about 30
percent of the country’s electricity needs. It also has a wind
installation in  Australia  and another under construction.  Finance Minister Bill English said last week that some
investors were scared away from Meridian by the opposition’s
plan to reform the electricity market if it wins the next
election, due in late 2014.  Even so, it was the largest investment in an IPO by retail
investors and “a real boost for New Zealand’s capital markets
and our economy,” English said, adding the government intends
to press ahead with the asset-sales program.  Key’s Defense  Key also defended the program today, telling TV3 that if
Solid Energy had been partly privatized, “it may well not have
gotten itself in the mess it did.”  Key outlined the government’s asset-sales plans prior to
the 2011 general election, in which his National Party gained
its best result in 60 years. Proceeds from the IPOs go to the
Future Investment Fund, with NZ$1 billion earmarked for each of
health and education, according to a  press release  announcing
the Meridian sale in May.  New Zealand has about NZ$73 billion of sovereign debt
outstanding, up from NZ$42.6 billion in the final quarter of
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  It may be a challenge to entice investors to another energy
stock now that four large power companies -- TrustPower Ltd.,
Contact Energy Ltd., Mighty River and Meridian -- are listed.  Genesis Challenge  “Air New Zealand I think they’ll be able to sell quite
easily, it’s whether they go ahead with Genesis,” said William Curtayne, senior analyst at Milford Asset Management in
Auckland. “If Meridian goes on an absolute tear, Genesis will
be easier to get away. If it doesn’t, then it’ll be difficult
and they’ll have to sell Genesis very cheap.”  The Treasury advised the government to keep offerings below
NZ$3 billion in any 12-month period to ensure the New Zealand
stock market could absorb the listings, according to a March
2011  document  published on its website.  “By flooding the market with electricity companies,
against the advice of Treasury, National has reduced the revenue
the Crown received from the sales,” Green Party co-leader
Russel Norman said today. “Pushing ahead with the sale of
Genesis and Air New Zealand in the coming months, hard on the
heels of the failed Mighty River and Meridian sales, would be
completely irresponsible.”  Investor Sentiment  In addition, investor sentiment has turned away from
defensive stocks in favor of more growth-oriented companies,
according to Curtayne. The  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  rose to a record on Oct.
23 and has advanced 20 percent this year.  “There are other options,” Curtayne said. “Potentially
you could break Genesis up and sell it to the existing listed
companies without going to the market.”  Still, one of Key’s rationales for the privatization
program is to encourage New Zealanders to invest in assets other
than property.  House-price inflation  is running at the fastest
pace since early 2008 and the central bank this month imposed
limits on low-deposit home loans.  The asset-sale program “hasn’t been successful in doing
that,” said BERL’s Nana. “While you shouldn’t be looking at
the short-term performance of Mighty River Power, you can’t get
away from the public perception that it’s failed. That’s another
reason why most New Zealanders won’t go near the stock market.”  In May last year, the Treasury estimated that as many as
250,000 people might participate in each of the flotations.  Of the 440,000 people to pre-register for Mighty River
shares, only 113,000 bought them. The Meridian IPO attracted
62,000 investors, the government said last week.  Meanwhile, opposition parties have forced the government to
hold a referendum on the asset sales by getting 10 percent of
eligible voters to sign a petition. The referendum will be
conducted by post from Nov. 22 through Dec. 13.  Even if the Meridian shares do well in coming months, the
government faces an uphill battle, said Eaqub from NZIER.  “Either it’s underpriced and you gave it away, or it’s too
expensive and they’ll say you’re stealing from hard-working mums
and dads,” he said. “There is no way to win when you’re
selling the family silver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  