-- FIFA Plans to Question Russia on Racist Chants at Soccer Matches
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/fifa-plans-to-question-russia-on-racist-chants-at-soccer-matches.html
FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke 
said soccer’s governing body will question 2018 World Cup host
 Russia  about racist incidents at matches after Manchester City’s
Yaya Toure said he was abused by CSKA Moscow fans.  Speaking to reporters in  London  yesterday, Valcke said he
will meet with Alexei Sorkin, the chief executive of Russia’s
2018 World Cup organizing committee, in Moscow to discuss the
issue this week.  “The Russian authorities and local organizing committee
are working together to try and solve this problem,” Valcke
said.  A day earlier, speaking at the English Football
Association’s 150th anniversary dinner in London, FIFA President
 Sepp Blatter  renewed his call for tougher sanctions on soccer
teams whose fans racially abuse players, including points
penalties and banning them from competitions.  Blatter, 77, said punishments imposed by European body
 UEFA , such as fines and banning fans from stadiums, are
insufficient and called them “a nonsense.”  On Oct. 23, City midfielder Toure said he was subjected to
racist chants by CSKA Moscow fans during a Champions League
match in the Russian capital. The club denied the incident but
UEFA said it will penalize the Russian club.  On Oct. 4, UEFA fined  Italy ’s Lazio 40,000 euros ($55,000)
and ordered the club to play in a partly-empty stadium for one
match after racist chanting by its supporters. Croatia’s Rijeka
and Dinamo Zagreb, Cyprus’s APOEL, and Poland’s Legia Warsaw
have also received UEFA penalties after racism by fans.  ‘Nonsense’  Blatter said such sanctions don’t go far enough.  “It is a nonsense for racism to be dealt with by fines,
you can always find money from somebody to pay them,” Blatter
told an audience that included UEFA President  Michel Platini .
“It is a nonsense to have matches played without spectators
because it is against the spirit of football and against the
visiting team.  “We need to eliminate teams from a competition or deduct
points,” Blatter said. “Only by such decisions is it possible
to go against racism and discrimination. If we don’t do that it
will go on and go on.”  Blatter made similar comments in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  