-- Flaherty Says Canada’s 2015 Budget Surplus Won’t Be Tiny
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-28T16:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/flaherty-says-canada-s-budget-surplus-in-2015-won-t-be-tiny-.html
Canada  will move decisively into
surplus in the fiscal year that begins April 2015, Finance
Minister Jim Flaherty said today.  Speaking to reporters after meeting economists in Ottawa
today, Flaherty said the surplus that year won’t be “tiny.”  “I can tell you that the plan is to budget a surplus in
2015, and not a tiny surplus,” Flaherty said. “There’ll be no
doubt that we’re balanced in 2015.”  Earlier today, the Parliamentary Budget Officer issued a
 report  forecasting a C$200 million ($192 million) surplus for
that year. Flaherty, who predicted an C$800 million surplus in
his March budget, said the budget officer’s projections didn’t
take into account a freeze on government operating spending.  Final 2012-13 numbers released by the finance department
last week showed the deficit shrank by 28 percent to C$18.9
billion in the fiscal year ended March 31, or C$7 billion less
than projected six months ago.  Craig Wright, chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s largest lender, said at the press conference today the
lower deficit figures were a result of a “prudent budget
process,” and government departments not spending all the money
that was allocated to them.  “On the C$7 billion, the composition is C$5 billion on the
spending side and C$2 billion revenue, so the revenue did
provide a bit of a lift,” Wright said. Public-sector
constraints will “further enhance the ability to get to smaller
deficits and eventually to a surplus.”  Flaherty said he has no intentions of intervening further
in the housing market, although his department is monitoring the
acceleration in some areas.  Output  forecasts  released by the finance department in June
are still valid, Flaherty said, adding that while global
challenges will continue to crimp growth, Canada will see a
modest but real expansion. The rotation to private-sector jobs
from the public sector is healthy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  