-- Fonterra to Sell Its First China Baby Formula in Expansion Drive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/fonterra-to-sell-its-first-china-baby-formula-in-expansion-drive.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, will introduce its first baby
milk formula across  China  as it expands and seeks to regain
 consumer confidence  in the country after a contamination scare.  The company, which started selling its Anmum-brand infant
milk powder in the Southern Chinese city of Guangzhou as part of
a pilot project, will start sales nationwide within the next
year, Kelvin Wickham, managing director of Fonterra’s China and
India units, said in an interview.  “High competition and lots of regulations to ensure that
products are high quality and safe means it’s not an easy
market,” Shanghai-based Wickham said. “If you want to be a
global dairy player, you have to be in China. The Chinese
consumers are getting stronger and stronger, and they will
define the standards for the world and expectations.”  Fonterra, based at Auckland,  New Zealand , is seeking to
enter a baby food market currently dominated by  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN) , Hangzhou Beingmate Group Co. and Danone, and
where regulation is being tightened. Meiji Co., the Japanese
confectioner and dairy products company, said last week it would
pull out of the infant nutrition market in the world’s second-largest economy due to rising costs and intensified competition.  China is New Zealand’s  biggest dairy customer , buying NZ$3
billion ($2.5 billion) worth of dairy products in the year
through June.  The company is considering Shanghai and Chengdu among the
next cities for a roll out of the formula and will expand their
presence to 70 Chinese cities in the next three years, the
executive said on Oct. 25.  Boosting Workforce  Fonterra will hire as many as 500 new employees, boosting
the workforce by about 50 percent in the next year, as it seeks
to expand its consumer and farm businesses on the mainland,
Wickham said.  The company two months ago introduced its Anchor-brand
ultra-heat treated milk into the Chinese consumer market and
plans more product introductions under the brand, Wickham said.  Fonterra has faced some roadblocks in China in recent
months. The company said Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe at a
processing plant may have tainted a whey protein used in baby
formula with a botulism-causing bacteria. While government
testing subsequently found the contamination didn’t pose a food
safety risk, Fonterra undertook a review of its handling of the
scare.  “There are still consumers who are confused and uncertain,
and we still have to do more to explain to consumers that it is
a false alarm,” said Wickham, who added that Fonterra’s Chinese
business was impacted by the botulism scare.  Chinese authorities also fined Fonterra about 4.5 million
 yuan  ($740,000) in August for violating anti-monopoly rules. The
company cut prices for its Anmum supplements for pregnant women
by 9 percent in July after the National Development and Reform
Commission, China’s top economic planning agency, began an
investigation that month into the pricing of their products.  Mead Johnson is ranked first in China’s milk-formula market
with a 14 percent share last year and Hangzhou Beingmate Group
was No. 2 with 10 percent, according to researcher Euromonitor
International. Danone was third with a 9.2 percent market share.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  