-- Food-Stamp Benefits Will Drop 5% as 2009 Boost Expires
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-29T16:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/food-stamp-benefits-to-be-cut-by-5-percent.html
Congress is poised to let a
temporary boost in food-stamp benefits end later this week for
more than 47 million Americans.  The extra Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program aid,
which subsidizes purchases by lower-income families, was
included in the 2009 economic-stimulus law. Food-stamp spending
reached a record  $78.4 billion  in fiscal 2012 as annual average
enrollment climbed 77 percent from 2007, government data show.  Unless legislation is enacted before Nov. 1 -- and none is
scheduled for a vote in Congress -- benefits for a family of
four will fall by  $36 a month , according to the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. At maximum benefit levels in the 48 contiguous
states and the District of Columbia, that works out to 5.4
percent less for that family of four.  “It’s not going to get any easier for any of our families
on Nov. 1,” said Sarah LeStrange, a spokeswoman for the Capital
Area Food Bank of Texas in Austin, which serves 300,000 people a
year. “They don’t need that money less.”  The drop in benefits is frustrating, LeStrange said.  “We can’t tell people to call their representatives
because it’s too late,” she said.  Representative John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, has
introduced a bill, H.R. 3108, that would extend the aid increase
through fiscal 2016. The measure, filed on Sept. 17, has 55 co-sponsors, all Democrats. It hasn’t been scheduled for committee
action.  ‘Tall Order’  “It’s a tall order to see how it gets reversed, but we’re
heartened by the fact that there are a number of members of
Congress who are sponsoring the bill,” said Ellen Vollinger,
legal director of the Washington-based Food Research and Action
Center, which advocates for policies to eradicate hunger in the
U.S.  She said Congress could still reinstate the benefits if it
misses Friday’s deadline: “There is time to undo the cuts if
there is the political will.”  Representative Michael Conaway, a member of a House-Senate
panel working on a farm-subsidy bill that includes food stamps,
H.R. 2642, said he expects no debate on reviving the higher
level of benefits.  Ending the increase is settled and “it’s the law,” said
Conaway, a Texas Republican.  Enrollment Figures  Monthly enrollment for the aid peaked in December at 47.8
million and was  47.6 million  in July, according to the most
recent USDA data. In 2007, about 26.3 million Americans received
food stamps at a cost to taxpayers of about $33.2 billion, the
data show.  Retailers such as supercenter operator  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and grocery discounters such as Aldi Inc. and  SuperValu Inc. (SVU) ’s
Save-A-Lot chain benefit from the program, according to a
Bloomberg Industries analysis.  The House-Senate committee considering the larger
legislation, known as the farm bill, is scheduled to meet for
the first time on Wednesday. The two sides are furthest apart on
funding food stamps.  Democrats, who control the Senate, would cut $4 billion
over 10 years. Republicans, who run the House, would take out
$39 billion, or almost 10 times the Democrats’ figure, over a
decade. The House bill also would require recipients to work or
get job training, let states make drug testing a condition of
eligibility and set food aid on a different authorization
timeline from farm subsidies, a move to divorce food stamps from
the farm bill entirely.  Though Democrats are now leading calls for the 2009
increase to be extended, the benefits were cut back to pay for
other legislation by Democratic majorities in both the House and
the Senate, according to a  report  from the Washington-based
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonpartisan research
institute that examines the effects of fiscal policies on low-and moderate-income Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  