-- Ford Explorer in Rearview Is a Cop as Crown Vic Rides Off
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-10-28T21:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ford-explorer-in-rearview-is-a-cop-as-crown-vic-rides-off.html
Brad Brewer, a Vancouver Police
Department sergeant, and Mohamed Zakout, a  New York  City taxi
driver, get wistful when they talk about it.  “A lot of people were really freaked out by the Crown Vic
going away,” said Brewer.  “This is a strong car,” said Zakout.  The last Ford Crown Victoria, the backbone of many police
and taxi fleets for more than two decades, rolled off the
assembly line in 2011. Now, Ford Motor Co., facing the biggest
challenge to its police and taxi dominance in decades, is
bringing out an array of cars and sport-utility vehicles to keep
those sales going.  “The Crown Victoria was a wonderful vehicle and it was
difficult for us to see it have to go away,” Gerry Koss,
marketing and product strategy manager for  Ford (F) ’s North America
fleet operations, said by telephone. “We started four years
before the end date to work on creating these new products so
that the industry would have something that was as good or
better.”  The bulky Crown Vic sedan traces its roots to two-door,
six-seater coupes in the 1950s. A redesign for the early 1990s
took on then-General Motors Corp.’s Chevrolet Caprice and was
embraced so widely that its rival exited the market. The Ford
became a fleet staple because it was tough, relatively
inexpensive to maintain and roomy enough to accommodate police
equipment and luggage.  Steady Business  While sales to fleets usually aren’t as profitable for car
companies as those to retail buyers, the Crown Vic underwent few
elaborate updates over the years, limiting the cost for Ford to
produce them. And the automaker sees value in having its brand
associated with being the vehicle of choice among cops who race
in to save the day and cabbies whose cars endure the toughest
service.  In an age of lighter, more fuel-efficient cars, however,
the Crown Vic became a dinosaur.  Ford has new offerings to stretch its police fleet to the
broadest it has ever been: from its first-ever four-cylinder
patrol cars to an Interceptor utility vehicle equipped with its
highest-horsepower engine. The company also has made extensive
changes to its Transit Connect van to meet the needs of taxi
buyers in the U.S. market.  Still,  law-enforcement  agencies in markets such as  Los
Angeles  that loaded up on Crown Victorias are being courted by
other Detroit automakers. And while Nissan Motor Co.’s so-called
Taxi of Tomorrow suffered a legal setback in New York that
reopens the market to Ford, other manufacturers also are poised
to jump in.  Plan Quashed  A New York judge this month quashed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to mandate a uniform fleet of van-like yellow
Nissan NV200 cabs, ruling that the administration does not have
the authority to dictate a specific vehicle. The Taxi of
Tomorrow plan for the city, the largest market for cabs in the
U.S., will die when the mayor leaves office unless the city wins
an appeal before Dec. 31. It would have begun today.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  The demise of Taxi of Tomorrow would be welcomed by Ford
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who was asked about the
city’s taxi market by a shareholder and former New Yorker during
the company’s annual meeting earlier this year.  ‘Never Over’  “It’s never over until it’s over, and they are always
looking for the latest innovation,” Mulally, 68, said at the
meeting in May. When asked by the shareholder if Ford was still
pushing to sell taxis for the city, he replied: “You bet.”  Ford slipped 0.2 percent to $17.57 at the close in New
York. The shares have climbed 36 percent this year compared with
the 24 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Cabbie Zakout, 36, who has driven Crown Victorias
exclusively since he began shuttling passengers in 2000, said
his next taxi will be a Toyota Highlander because Ford’s Transit
Connect drives like “a decoration.”  Ford remains the market’s leader. While researchers such as
R.L. Polk & Co. lack U.S. registration data on the taxi
business, Ford estimates that it captures about 60 percent of
the market, down from about 70 percent in the Crown Victoria’s
heyday.  Combined sales of the police-package Taurus sedan and
Explorer utility climbed to 16,234 this year through August,
already surpassing total deliveries for all of last year,
according to Polk. Deliveries of Chrysler’s Dodge Charger sedan
and Durango utility police vehicles totaled 8,876 through the
year’s first eight months, followed by GM’s  Chevrolet Tahoe 
utility and Impala at 8,793.  ‘Responsive’ Carmaker  More than one-fifth of the cabs in New York, the most
populous U.S. city, are replaced every year. Taxi and Limousine
Commission rules mandate that taxis retire after three years, or
after five for vehicles that run fewer shifts.  James Vasey, the third-generation owner of Cab Management
Corp., said he plans to replace the 53 Crown Victorias in his
 Long Island  City-based fleet with Ford’s Transit Connect taxis.  “We have found Ford to be responsive to the needs of our
business,” said Vasey, 54, who has been running the business
for 32 years.  The Crown Victoria still has a few years before largely
going extinct. New York’s orphaned cabs have long found a second
life in parts of  New Jersey  and Long Island, where they’re
repainted and rejoin fleets.  “These cars will probably start up mini fleets across the
country,” Lorenzo Tulsi, manager at the Wailing Management cab
company in  Long Island City , said of the last Crown Victorias in
New York. He said the garage has sold old cabs to buyers from
 Canada  to  Georgia .  L.A.’s Stockpile  Brewer, the sergeant in  Vancouver , said one of his
colleagues on Ford’s Police Advisory Board bought 1,200 Crown
Victorias for the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s department before
the car went out of production. The department is starting to
exhaust that pool.  “It was the iron maiden of law enforcement for 15 or 20
years,” Brewer said in an interview this month in Dearborn,
 Michigan , where Ford is based. He along with dozens of police
personnel visited Ford’s test track, where engineers dedicated
to police vehicles ride shotgun with officers and fleet managers
and gather information.  The new cruiser of choice may no longer be a beefed-up
passenger car like the Crown Victoria or Chevrolet Caprice of
yesteryear. Ford’s  Interceptor Utility , a souped-up Explorer,
has been running at 60 percent of the company’s police vehicle
sales, said Jonathan Honeycutt, police vehicle marketing
manager. That’s about double the mix that the automaker was
anticipating, he said.  ‘More Room’  “Space is key and durability is key,” Honeycutt said in
an interview. “The police guys have so much stuff they have to
put in their car. It’s amazing all the amount of equipment:
guns, safety items, laptops. The utility, they love it from the
standpoint that it’s got more room.”  The Seminole County Sheriff’s Office near  Orlando ,  Florida ,
owns about 650 vehicles, said John Blackwood, the department’s
fleet manager. The county decided last year to replace its
entire Crown Victoria fleet with the new Interceptor utility.  “We have a 4,000-pound vehicle that’s actually larger than
the Crown Vic, it’s getting 20 percent better mileage, and it’s
faster, it stops better, it turns better, and it’s safer,”
Blackwood said in an interview.  Still, Seminole County’s fleet plans call for hanging onto
vehicles five to seven years from the time of purchase, or
80,000 to 100,000 miles.  “We have a lot of Crown Vics,” Blackwood said. “We’ll
keep driving those as long as we can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  