-- French Cable Company Numericable Raising $900 Million in IPO
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-28T11:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/french-cable-company-numericable-to-raise-900-million-in-ipo.html
French cable provider Numericable
SAS is seeking to raise about 652.5 million euros ($900 million) 
in the country’s biggest initial public offering in four years 
and the latest indication of demand for Europe’s landline assets.  The shares are being offered at 20.30 euros to 24.80 euros
apiece, Numericable said today. The range values the company at
5.06 billion euros to 5.57 billion euros including debt, Chief
Executive Officer Eric Denoyer said at a press conference.
Pricing will be decided Nov. 7, with trading scheduled to begin
the following day in Paris.  Numericable joins online advertiser  Criteo SA (CRTO)  and floor
maker Tarkett SA attempting to list in their home market and in
the U.S. this quarter. The IPO, if completed, would be the
largest listing in Paris since December 2009, when automotive
distributor CFAO SA raised more than 800 million euros. Carlyle
Group LP and Cinven Group Ltd. are selling Numericable stock
valued at about 402.2 million euros, accounting for the majority
of the shares offered.  “The story we’re telling you today is about growth, about
investing to accelerate,” Denoyer said. “We think our network
will be enough for us to reach our growth forecasts. We don’t
need a tie-up, and we don’t need anything else.”  Cable Valuation  The cable operator’s enterprise value would be in a range
of 5 billion euros to 6 billion euros,  Bloomberg News  reported
last week. Numericable has about 2.75 billion euros in net debt.  Including debt, the stock would be valued at as much as 6.4
times the company’s 2012 sales. That compares with an average of
4.5 times for peers  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,  Liberty Global
Plc (LBTYA) ,  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET)  and  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Volumes of IPOs on European exchanges have nearly doubled
to about $19 billion this year as investors resumed buying on
strengthening economies and an easing euro debt crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe’s cable assets are in demand. Billionaire  John Malone , the biggest U.S. investor in the region’s cable
operators, acquired Virgin Media Inc. this year and has
increased his stake in Dutch provider Ziggo.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
snapped up  Kabel Deutschland  in Germany. In Spain, Grupo
Corporativo ONO SA is also considering an IPO.  Price-Earnings Ratios  European cable companies are trading at a median price-to-earnings ratio of 19 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a median of 14 times the region’s
phone companies are valued at.  Numericable, which competes with  Orange SA (ORA)  in selling TV,
phone and high-speed Internet packages, plans to appeal to
investors by tapping into rising demand for speedier Internet
connections, Denoyer said in an interview this month.  “I’m not going to compare us to any of our cable rivals in
 Europe  -- a lot of them have gone through deals, and that’s not
necessarily the story we are writing,” he said today.  The company, based in Champs-sur-Marne on the outskirts of
Paris, forecasts revenue growth of 2 percent to 5 percent a year
from 2013 to 2016, with an adjusted margin on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 50 percent in
2016. Last year, sales shrank 0.3 percent to 1.3 billion euros
and the Ebitda margin was 47.6 percent.  Private-equity firm Altice will become Numericable’s
biggest shareholder with a 30 percent stake after the IPO. Under
a so-called over-allotment option, Carlyle and Cinven may
increase the Numericable shares they sell by 15 percent. Should
those shares be fully subscribed, Carlyle’s holding will fall to
24.5 percent, and Cinven’s to 15.2 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are managing the
share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  