-- G4S Rejects $2.5 Billion Charterhouse Bid for Cash Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-10-28T08:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/g4s-rejects-2-5-billion-charterhouse-bid-for-cash-unit.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  rejected a 1.6 billion-pound
($2.5 billion) offer for its cash-handling unit from
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, saying the business is a
strategic part of the security-services company.  The offer for the division, which transports cash using
high-security vehicles and manages ATM machines, “fundamentally
undervalues the business and its prospects,” the company said
in a statement today. “The board regards the nature and timing
of the approach to be highly opportunistic.”  G4S, which in August agreed to sell its cash-handling unit
in  Canada , has suffered a series of blows to its home-market
reputation. The Crawley, England-based company replaced its
chief executive officer after failing to provide enough guards
for last year’s London Olympics and was accused by the
government of overcharging for electronic tagging of prisoners.  The world’s biggest security services provider, which
generated about 10 percent of revenue last year from U.K.
government contracts, last week said that U.K. chief Richard Morris will be replaced by an executive hired this year from
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL division.  Investor Pressure  Before today, G4S shares had dropped 17 percent in London
trading in the last six months, valuing the company at 4 billion
pounds, while the British FTSE 100 index gained 4.6 percent.
Today, the stock gained as much as 2.4 percent to 264.60 pence
and was up 1.8 percent as of 8:02 a.m.  Bloomberg reported the potential bid by Charterhouse on
Oct. 19. The private-equity firm had approached banks and its
investors over financing a deal, people familiar with the matter
said earlier this month. Other private-equity firms have also
shown interest in G4S’s cash-solutions business, said one of the
people.  Cevian Capital AB, a Stockholm-based hedge fund and
shareholder in G4S, has pressed the company to sell units
including the cash-handling unit, the Sunday Times reported
Sept. 29, without saying how it got the information.  “The cash-solutions business is integral to G4S’
operations and strategic plans,” G4S said today. Between 2007
and 2011, cash in circulation grew at a compound annual growth
rate of 7 percent in mature markets and 12 percent in  emerging
markets , with transporting cash proving a resilient business
during economic downturns, G4S said.  G4S’s cash solutions business made a profit before
interest, tax and amortization of 135 million pounds on revenue
of 1.29 billion pounds in 2012, according to G4S’s website. The
business accounted for 24 percent of total profit.  Government Contracts  The U.K. government has said it may exclude the company
from tendering for future tagging contracts.  Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said July 11 the company
overcharged for the electronic tagging of offenders, including
billing for dead people. The Serious Fraud Office said it is
examining the tagging allegations, dealing another blow to the
company after the bungled 2012  London  Olympic Games contract.  In July, U.K. prosecutors also said they were reconsidering
whether to charge former employees of G4S after a jury in London
ruled that a man in their custody was unlawfully killed while
being deported to  Angola . In October, a U.K. parliamentary panel
said G4S was providing “squalid” and “run-down” housing to
asylum seekers under government contracts.  Former CEO Nick Buckles told lawmakers last year that G4S’s
reputation was “in tatters” and that he agreed the bungled
Olympics contract was a “humiliating shambles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  