-- Georgian Billionaire Premier’s Pick Wins Presidential Ballot
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-10-28T13:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/georgia-billionaire-pick-wins-presidency-early-results-show-1-.html
Georgia ’s billionaire prime
minister, Bidzina Ivanishvili, wrapped up a clean sweep of the
Black Sea nation’s top jobs as his candidate won an election to
replace outgoing President Mikheil Saakashvili.  With almost 99.7 percent of votes counted at the country’s
3,741 polling stations, Georgian Dream candidate Giorgi Margvelashvili had 62.1 percent versus 21.7 percent for UNM
candidate Davit Bakradze, followed by  Nino Burjanadze  at 10.2
percent, the Electoral Commission said today.  Capturing the presidency completes a transition from the
2003 Rose Revolution that strengthened Georgia’s ties with the
U.S. and  Europe  at the expense of  Russia . With his goal of
reshaping politics complete after an upset win in parliamentary
elections a year ago, Ivanishvili said he’ll hand his job to an
ally after the new president is sworn in next month.  “These elections prove that we’re a real democracy with
European values,” Ivanishvili said yesterday in the capital,
Tbilisi, after casting his vote. “Democratic institutions must
develop more but our main challenge in the future will be the
economy and we promise to improve that.”  Bakradze congratulated Margvelashvili on his victory,
pending official results. Voter turnout was at 46.6 percent when
polls closed, according to the  Electoral Commission .  Diminished Powers  While Margvelashvili’s campaign featured pledges to support
entrepreneurs and pursue friendly relations with Europe, the
U.S. and Russia, his remit would be smaller than Saakashvili’s
as Georgia becomes a parliamentary democracy.  Ivanishvili, who said Oct. 23 that he’d step down a week
after the new president’s Nov. 17 inauguration, vowed to raise
 living standards , boost ties with Russia and improve the justice
system as he assembled his Georgian Dream coalition. He may name
his choice to take over on Nov. 1 or 2, he said today.  Joao Soares, special co-ordinator of an observer mission
for the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe,
called the ballot “positive and transparent,” saying it
indicates that the nation’s democracy is maturing.  “The EU congratulates President-elect Margvelashvili,”
European Union foreign affairs spokesman  Michael Mann  said
today. “We also congratulate Georgia on what appears to have
been a well-managed election.”  Free, Fair  The vote was free and fair, according to Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who said he hopes ties between the two
countries will continue to improve five years after they fought
a war over the breakaway region of  South Ossetia .  “We’ve had some success in normalizing relations with
Russia,” Margvelashvili said today. “I don’t think the feeling
when neither side trusted the other is there any longer.”  Amid uncertainty over Georgia’s direction, the economy has
soured, with growth in gross domestic product slowing to 1.5
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, down from as
high as 8.2 percent in the same three months of 2012. Foreign
direct investment, which fueled 5.1 percent average expansion in
2007-2012, fell for the first year in three in 2012 as
Ivanishvili clashed with Saakashvili.  “Ivanishvili may well remain a key political decision-maker in Georgia,” Lilit Gevorgyan, senior analyst at IHS
Global Insight in  London , said yesterday in an e-mailed note.
“His strong influence after the appointment of a new prime
minister could have a calming impact in the coming months but in
the long-term it will not serve the interests of Georgian
democracy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  