-- German Stocks Are Little Changed After Three-Week Rally
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-28T08:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/german-stocks-are-little-changed-after-three-week-rally.html
German stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index completed a three-week rally, as
investors awaited U.S. data to gauge the strength of the
recovery in the world’s largest economy.  Evotec AG (EVT)  climbed to its highest level since February 2007
after saying it reached its first targets in a drug research
project with partner UCB SA.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  declined 2.2
percent after a report that the steelmaker may not be able to
sell its plant in Brazil.  The DAX increased 0.1 percent to 8,992.79 at 9:53 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge has climbed 4.6 percent in
October as U.S. lawmakers agreed to lift the federal debt
ceiling and investors speculated that a worse-than-forecast
payrolls report would delay a reduction in the  Federal Reserve ’s
stimulus program. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.2 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 39 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. data today may show industrial production climbed 0.4
percent for a second month in September, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. A  separate report  will show
pending home sales were unchanged last month after dropping 1.6
percent in August, economists predicted.  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  begin a two-day policy meeting tomorrow to consider slowing the pace of
asset purchases that have helped push the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index up 160 percent since March 2009. Policy makers will
probably wait until March before starting to taper the $85
billion of monthly bond purchases, a Bloomberg survey showed
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  