-- Goldman Pushes Junior Investment Bankers to Take Weekends Off
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/goldman-sachs-encourages-junior-bankers-to-take-weekends-off.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , this
year’s top merger adviser, is discouraging  investment banking 
analysts from working weekends as it overhauls demands placed on
entry-level employees and the support they receive.  Goldman Sachs developed a “junior banker task force” of 
executives from around the world earlier this year to improve 
analysts’ work environment and career development, said  Michael DuVally , a company spokesman. The bank will have 332 analysts in 
its 2014 class, up 23 percent from 2012, he said.  Wall Street firms are working to guard the best recruits
from poaching by rivals such as private-equity funds. New York-based Goldman Sachs decided last year to stop offering two-year 
contracts to investment-banking analysts, instead making them 
full-time employees from the start. It plans to give analysts 
more-predictable working hours and provide more opportunities to 
get feedback from managers, DuVally said.  “The goal is for our analysts to want to be here for a
career,”  David Solomon , Goldman’s co-head of investment
banking, said in an e-mailed statement. “We want them to be
challenged, but also to operate at a pace where they’re going to
stay here and learn important skills that are going to stick.
This is a marathon, not a sprint.”  Morgan Stanley abandoned an attempt this year to block
first-year bankers from talking with recruiters for outside
firms after employees complained, people with knowledge of the
matter said in April.  Pay Declining  The moves seek to combat the view of early careers on  Wall
Street  as filled with 100-hour weeks and no time off. They come
as average pay is dropping at the largest U.S. banks. Goldman
Sachs cut the amount it set aside for employee compensation by 5
percent in the first nine months of the year, even as revenue
climbed by 2 percent.  Analysts typically make base salaries in a range of $70,000
to $90,000, with bonuses bringing the total compensation figure
to as much as $140,000, according to New York-based compensation
consultant Johnson Associates Inc. The junior-banker title
doesn’t refer to research analysts who recommend stocks to
investors.  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein
told the firm’s interns earlier this year that they shouldn’t
ignore pursuits outside of finance, noting that he was a history
major and his predecessor  Hank Paulson  studied English
literature.  “You have to be interesting, you have to have interests
away from the narrow thing of what you do,” Blankfein, 59, said
in an address that was rebroadcast online. “You have to be
somebody who somebody else wants to talk to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  