-- Google Would Cut Minimum Levy on Rivals to Settle EU Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e ,   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-28T18:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/google-s-antitrust-offer-tested-on-rivals-as-eu-seeks-feedback.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  cut the minimum amount
it would seek to charge competitors to show their links in its
latest offer to settle a European Union antitrust probe,
according to an EU official.  While the minimum reserve price to bid for links to appear
as an answer to specialized search queries would go down to 3
euro cents ($0.04) per click from  10 euro cents  or less, users
would have the option to hide alternative search sites, said the
official, who isn’t authorized to be cited by name, in line with
EU policy.  The change adds to Google’s earlier offer under which the
pricing process would only apply to search queries that trigger
specialized advertising services like Google Shopping.
Competitors of Google, the world’s largest search engine, got
details of the company’s revised proposal today.  The latest round of commitments may allow EU regulators to
end a three-year probe into how Google promotes its specialist
search services, such as Google News and Google Finance, copies
competitors’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry. A group representing  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
Expedia Inc. and Nokia Oyj said the offer still isn’t enough and
should be made public.  “The commission sent 125 copies of the proposal to
organisations, along with a group of questions -- and the
requirement that we all keep everything confidential,”  Thomas Vinje , a Brussels-based lawyer for FairSearch  Europe , said in a
statement. “Daylight will prove Google’s point if it is
right.”  Significant Changes  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , said that it
has made significant changes to its offer to address the EU’s
concerns, including increasing the visibility of rival services.  Following the bidding process, three rival links would
appear without the user having to scroll down, the EU official
said.  “Unfortunately, our competitors seem less interested in
resolving things than in entangling us in a never-ending
dispute,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman for Google,
said in a statement.  The EU sent the latest version of the Google offer to all
companies and groups that responded to the previous commitments
earlier this year. They all have four weeks to reply.  ‘Restore Competition’  Michael Weber, director of hot-map.com, said it’s
“astonishing that many of the issues that deal with mapping
aren’t even touched upon” in the 96-page document he received
from EU regulators.  “If Google offers its aggrieved small rivals to bid
against each other and pay per-click for slightly enhanced so-called rival ‘links’ beneath Google Maps’ billboards, Google
will cash in on its antitrust settlement,” Weber said in an e-mail. “I don’t see how that is possibly going to restore
competition.”  Almunia has said positive feedback would allow him to make
the new offer legally binding for five years. He said this month
that he’d sought the improvements after “very negative”
responses from rivals to an offer Google made earlier this year.  Google’s offer covers the European mobile and desktop
versions of its search web page and won’t affect its Google.com
which targets a U.S. audience.  A settlement won’t involve a separate complaint into
Google’s Android operating system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  