-- Graham Vows to Block Obama Nominees Over Benghazi Attack
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-28T20:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/graham-vows-to-block-obama-nominees-over-benghazi-attack.html
Senator Lindsey Graham vowed to
block President  Barack Obama ’s nominees unless U.S. lawmakers
hear from survivors of the deadly 2012 attack on the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi, Libya.  Graham, a South Carolina Republican, has criticized the
administration’s handling of the attack, which killed Ambassador
Christopher Stevens and three other Americans. On Fox News
today, Graham said he would “block every appointment in the
United States Senate until the survivors are being made
available to the Congress.”  He couldn’t on his own stop the confirmation of any
nominee. It takes 41 senators to block confirmation. Without
those votes, Graham could still delay nominees’ consideration
for several days.  The Senate may before the end of the year consider the
nomination of Janet Yellen to head the Federal Reserve. An aide
to Senator  Rand Paul  said Oct. 25 that the Kentucky Republican
was considering whether to obstruct Yellen’s nomination unless
he can get a vote on his bill to require regular audits of the
Fed’s operations.  So far, Paul is the only senator to say he may try to block
Yellen’s nomination, and no senator has joined Graham’s call to
block all nominations.  Watt, Lew  Nominees pending before the Senate include those of
Representative Mel Watt of North Carolina to head the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to be a
member of the International Monetary Fund’s board of governors
and three candidates to sit on the Federal Communications
Commission.  The nominations of Watt and Lew could be considered as soon
as this week, along with Alan Estevez to be deputy
undersecretary of defense, Katherine Archuleta to be director of
the Office of Personnel Management, Thomas Wheeler to sit on the
FCC and Patricia Millett to be circuit judge for the D.C.
Circuit Court of Appeals, according to a Senate Democratic aide,
who requested anonymity because the schedule wasn’t public.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, today
moved to end debate on those nominations.  Graham’s comments underscore the tensions between Senate
Republicans and the White House over Obama’s nominees. A last-minute deal in July averted a partisan showdown and paved the
way to confirm Obama’s nominees to head the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, the Labor Department and the Environmental
Protection Agency and members of the National Labor Relations
Board.  ‘Ugly Head’  Reid said today obstruction had once again “reared its
ugly head,” adding that the Senate would seek to confirm
several nominees before taking a break for the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday.  “It’s no secret that the Republicans have systematically
slow-walked or blocked scores of President Obama’s judicial and
executive-branch nominations,” Reid said on the Senate floor.
“It’s time to move forward without delay and fill these crucial
posts.”  The Senate postponed a vote until tomorrow on the
nomination of Richard Griffin to be general counsel of the
federal labor board. Obama used his powers to fill vacancies
during a Senate recess to appoint Griffin to the board, sparking
Republican criticism and legal challenges on constitutional
grounds. The July agreement included a commitment to have
Griffin step down as a board member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  