-- Michelin Tightens Cost Controls as Currency Burdens Sales
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-29T08:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/michelin-tightens-cost-controls-as-currency-headwinds-sap-sales.html
Michelin & Cie. (ML) , Europe’s largest
tiremaker, said currency shifts in the U.S.,  Japan  and  South
America  more than offset global delivery gains causing it to
review spending plans after third-quarter revenue dropped.  Sales fell to 5.12 billion euros ($7.06 billion) from 5.44
billion euros a year earlier, even as delivery volumes rose 2
percent, the Clermont-Ferrand, France-based company said late
yesterday in a statement. That missed the 5.33 billion-euro
 average  of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock fell the most in three months.  The tiremaker forecast that operating profit will rise by
about 150 million euros before one-time items and currency
effects, which will be “more deeply negative” than anticipated
at the beginning of the year.  The depreciation of the dollar and yen has undone the
French manufacturer’s efforts to boost volumes by growing
outside  Europe , where demand has been hit by recession. The
company is investing in additional capacity in new markets and
by selling tires for mining equipment and other large vehicles.
Europe’s contraction has already prompted the tiremaker to look
at ways to trim costs in the region, where about 59 percent of
its 107,000 workers are employed.  Shares Drop  The stock fell as much as 4.6 percent, the  biggest drop 
since July 25, and was down 3.9 percent at 76.68 euros as of
9:11 a.m. in Paris trading. The shares have gained 7 percent
this year, valuing the company at 14.4 billion euros.  Michelin expects foreign-exchange fluctuations to burden
full-year operating profit by about 250 million euros, Chief
Financial Officer Marc Henry said on a conference call. The
company previously forecast a negative currency impact of as
much as 150 million euros for 2013. Nine-month revenue declined
5.3 percent to 15.3 billion euros.  To offset foreign-exchange headwinds, the company will
further tighten control over costs. Michelin still sees global
volumes steady as Europe recovers from the effects of the
sovereign-debt crisis. Car, truck and specialty tires global
markets all advanced over the first nine months of the year.  “In light of the outlook for volume growth in the fourth
quarter, Michelin confidently maintains its full-year objective
of stable volumes,” the company said in the statement.  Michelin laid out a strategy on Sept. 18 to deliver 1
billion euros in structural free  cash flow  a year by 2020, as
well as at least a 15 percent return on capital employed.  The company expects its expansion outside Europe to ease
foreign-exchange risks over time, as costs and revenues in
various currencies are more balanced.  “What is clear to us is that Michelin provides a natural
hedging through a balanced geographic portfolio,” said CFO
Henry on the call. “The geographical portfolio and the
portfolio of activities of Michelin is bringing us a natural
hedge that is quite impressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  