-- Michigan’s Snyder Calls Detroit Bankruptcy Largest Issue
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-28T19:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/michigan-s-snyder-calls-detroit-bankruptcy-largest-issue.html
Michigan Governor Rick Snyder told a
federal judge that he considers  Detroit ’s bankruptcy the
“largest issue” facing the U.S., while declining to answer
some questions about how the case may affect retired workers.  Snyder, 55, took the witness stand in Detroit today to
defend his actions in authorizing the city to file the biggest
U.S. municipal bankruptcy. Snyder, a Republican, appointed the
emergency financial manager who filed the July bankruptcy
petition, which listed $18 billion in debt.  The governor repeatedly declined to answer some questions,
citing his right to not reveal information he received in
meetings at which legal strategy may have been discussed. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes has ruled that such meetings are
covered by the attorney-client privilege.  Peter D. DeChiara, an attorney for the United Auto Workers,
which opposes the bankruptcy, asked in several different ways
whether Snyder tried to find out from Kevyn Orr, the emergency
financial manager, how much payments to the city’s pension
system would have to be cut.  “That may be subject to attorney-client privilege,”
Snyder said. In one six-minute period, the governor invoked the
privilege four times.  Michigan Constitution  Critics of the bankruptcy claim that a proposal to cut
pensions violates the  Michigan  constitution and therefore the
bankruptcy should be dismissed. They have also said Orr didn’t
negotiate in good faith before filing.  Attorneys for retired city employees and municipal unions
claim that state officials conspired with Jones Day, the law
firm that Orr hired to file the bankruptcy, to create a new
emergency manager law and use it to file for bankruptcy, giving
Detroit leverage over unions and retirees. Orr was a partner at
Jones Day before taking the Detroit job.  Under questioning by William A. Wertheimer, an attorney
representing retired city workers, Snyder said he has been
focused on Detroit since he took office in 2011. He said he has
spoken with Orr about the city either by phone or in person
weekly since appointing him in March.  “I describe it as the largest issue in our country,”
Snyder said. “This has been a large issue for 60 years.”  Cutting Payments  Orr testified last week and earlier today before Rhodes,
who must decide whether Detroit is entitled to court protection.
Orr has proposed addressing the city’s financial woes in part by
cutting payments to the system that funds retiree pensions.  Snyder said he hasn’t offered Detroit any state money to
avoid any cuts to pension obligations.  James Spiotto , a bankruptcy lawyer who has studied the
history of Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which covers
municipalities, said Snyder’s testimony “may be unique to
Michigan and Detroit.”  “In virtually all other situations, the governor is not
part of the approval process for filing,” Spiotto said in an
interview. “So his testimony evolves from his appointment of
the EFM and his required approval of the Chapter 9 filing.”  Under bankruptcy protection, Detroit’s assets can’t be
seized by creditors and the city is shielded from lawsuits that
may disrupt its restructuring effort.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it’s
insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  