-- Ranieri Says Tight Mortgage Lending May Be Worse Than Crisis
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-28T15:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/tight-mortgage-credit-may-be-worse-than-crisis-ranieri-says.html
The U.S.  mortgage market  has
experienced an “irrational restriction” of credit as lenders
and regulators overreact to the loose lending during the bubble
that burst in 2007, mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri said.  “If this legacy persists the consequences will be more
profound for the country than the economic losses” caused by
the bust, Ranieri said today at an annual conference hosted by
the Mortgage Bankers Association in  Washington .  Ranieri, the chairman of Uniondale, New York-based Ranieri
Partners, helped expand the mortgage-securities market in the
1980s at Salomon Brothers Inc., where he was vice chairman. His
firm’s investments include Selene Finance LP, which targets
 soured debt , and home lender Shellpoint Partners LLC.  Tight credit and foreclosures pushed down the U.S.
homeownership rate to 65 percent in the first half of this year
from a peak of 69.2 percent in June 2004, according to Census
Bureau  data .  Most lenders no longer offer borrowers the ability to
qualify without fully documenting their incomes and assets.
Starting next year, qualified mortgage rules, known as QM, will
expose originators to higher legal liabilities on loans carrying
risky features or when payments exceed 43 percent of the
borrower’s pay.  ‘Unacceptable Legacy’  Borrowers from ethnic minority groups, women, young people
and newly married couples are being harmed by excessive concern
over whether loans will be repaid and the potential need to
repurchase mortgages with flawed underwriting, Ranieri said.  “The most truly unacceptable legacy of the market collapse
is the legacy of the irrational restriction and contraction of
credit that we have today,” he said. “Fear and not fact is
making credit tighter than it should be.”  Qualified mortgage rules will also send more business
toward government programs, which are exempted from some
requirements, even as policy makers are seeking to reduce their
role, Ranieri said. Taxpayer-backed lending accounts for more
than 85 percent of new mortgages.  The market for new home-loan securities without government
backing is “amazingly fragile and amazingly thin” and probably
won’t exceed $13 billion this year, he said.  While non-agency issuance has grown this year after halting
five years ago amid tumbling  home values  and soaring defaults,
sales have slowed since July. About $12.5 billion in deals tied
to new loans have been completed this year, up from $3.5 billion
in all of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006.  There are only about five to 10 “consistent buyers” for
the top-rated portions of the debt and “it used to be
hundreds,” Ranieri said.  “Somebody sneezes and spreads widen by hundreds of basis
points,” he said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 