-- Impala Workers Vote for Strike at Biggest Platinum Mine
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-29T15:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/impala-workers-to-strike-at-world-s-biggest-platinum-mine.html
The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union, the largest labor group at  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s South African operations, said its members voted
to go on strike at the world’s biggest platinum mine.  Workers made the decision at a union meeting yesterday near
Rustenburg in North West province, AMCU Treasurer Jimmy Gama
said by phone. The timing of a strike isn’t decided, he said.
Impala accounts for about 25 percent of global platinum supply.  The AMCU is demanding basic monthly wages for underground
workers of 12,500 rand ($1,275) from the three largest South
African platinum producers, where it has usurped the  National
Union of Mineworkers  as the dominant labor representative. The
companies’ profit margins have declined after prices fell and
costs increased.  Implats, as the second-biggest platinum producer is known,
hasn’t received a strike notice from the AMCU and is “hopeful
that talks will continue and that we could still avert the
strike,”  Johan Theron , a company spokesman, said today by
phone. “Further  strike action  in the industry is clearly not in
the interest of the country, employees and employers.”  Implats  shares  fell 0.1 percent to close at 123.75 rand in
Johannesburg.  Rejected Offer  The AMCU rejected a pay offer of 8 percent for the year
through June, Theron said Oct. 24.  South Africa ’s inflation rate
was 6 percent in September.  Implats offered to increase pay by 7 percent in the second
and third years of the proposed agreement, Theron said. That
would increase the total monthly remuneration of entry-level
underground workers to 10,756 rand by the end of the cycle, with
the cash portion accounting for about 7,000 rand.  “We have a direct relationship with our employees and duty
to also communicate our wage offer and financial position to
them,” Theron said.  The union is also in wage negotiations with  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AAL) , or Amplats, and  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)   Amplats has received confirmation that the AMCU referred
its wage dispute with the company to the Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, Mpumi Sithole, a
spokeswoman for the world’s biggest platinum producer, said by
e-mail. “We are awaiting a date from the CCMA for the meeting
of the parties,” she said.  Lonmin, the third-largest, began pay talks with the AMCU
earlier this month, said Sue Vey, a spokeswoman for the company.
“Our negotiations started Oct. 1 and are progressing,” she
said in a text message today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  