-- Indian Rupee Fluctuates Before RBI, Fed Monetary Policy Reviews
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-28T04:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/indian-rupee-fluctuates-before-rbi-fed-monetary-policy-reviews.html
India ’s rupee swung between gains
and losses before tomorrow’s central bank meeting, with
economists predicting an increase in borrowing costs for the
second time in as many months.  The Reserve Bank of India will raise the benchmark
repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from 7.50 percent, according to
20 of 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . One forecasts a move
to 8 percent and three no change. Barclays Plc sees rates on
hold, which will help boost growth in Asia’s third-largest
economy and spur equity inflows.  “The RBI’s October meeting may provide some support to the
rupee,” analysts at Barclays, including Singapore-based Hamish Pepper, wrote in a research report. “But we acknowledge the
risk of one more repo-rate hike given the new RBI governor’s
preference to convey a stern inflation-fighting message.”  The rupee traded little changed at 61.48 per dollar as of
10:11 a.m. in Mumbai, compared with 61.46 on Oct. 25, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It rose and
fell as much as 0.1 percent. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, climbed eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 11.76 percent.  The currency strengthened 1.8 percent this month after the
Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from paring stimulus
that’s boosted demand for emerging-market assets. The Fed is
likely to delay lowering its monthly bond purchases until March,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists conducted
Oct. 17-18. The Federal Open Market Committee starts a two-day
meeting tomorrow, the first since a 16-day government shutdown
took at least $24 billion out of the economy.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.2 percent to
62.86 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were steady at 62.94. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  