-- Infosys Said to Reach Settlement With U.S. on Visa Probe
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-29T12:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/infosys-said-to-reach-settlement-with-u-s-on-visa-probe.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  is preparing to pay
about $35 million to avoid restrictions on its use of U.S. work
visas under a potential resolution of the company’s use of entry
permits, said a person with direct knowledge of the talks.  The company reached a settlement with the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of  Texas  that will be announced
Oct. 30, two other people familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  Infosys,  India ’s second-largest software exporter, received
a federal grand jury subpoena seeking records related to its
sponsorships for B-1 business visas and its use of them,
according to an Oct. 11 regulatory filing. The company and
“certain” employees are targets of the investigation,
according to the filing. Infosys said it was cooperating with
the probe.  Bangalore-based Infosys said it had reserved $35 million
for a settlement tied to the probe and that it was engaged in
talks to resolve the matter.  “The resolution has not been finalized,” according to
today’s e-mailed statement.  The company resolved two whistle-blower cases in Alabama
and  California  in the past 14 months after employees alleged it
misused B-1 visas, which are temporary business permits, to
avoid limits on H-1B employment visas. Proposed changes to
immigration laws in Congress, which would limit the ability of
large Indian companies to access H-1B visas, may damage
Infosys’s business model of relying on North America for more
than 60 percent of its revenue.  Sub-Contracting  “This investigation has been on since 2011, so any damage
to the company’s reputation is already done,” said Ankur Rudra,
a Mumbai-based analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt. “Now they get on
with business, which may be a little more expensive going
forward in terms of finding talent, but the result could have
been worse.”  The information-technology industry is spending about 25
percent to 30 percent more for on-site workers as  H-1B visas 
become more difficult to attain, Rudra said. Companies,
including Infosys, are losing about 1 percent of their annual
revenue by sub-contracting employees instead of sending cheaper
labor from India to work face-to-face with their clients in lieu
of visas, he said.  The shortage led to a Justice Department probe of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , which was investigated
for violating anti-discrimination charges by stating visa-status
preferences in job ads. IBM agreed to pay $44,400 and will
remain subject to reporting requirements for two years,
according to a Sept. 27 statement.  The Infosys settlement with the U.S. was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  