-- Investors Purchase Biggest Share in Year at Treasury 2-Year Sale
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-28T23:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/investors-purchase-biggest-share-in-year-at-treasury-2-year-sale.html
Investors bought the biggest share
in a year of an auction of Treasury two-year notes as demand for
the securities climbed less than two weeks after a partial
government shutdown raised concern of a potential U.S. default.  The notes at yesterday’s sale yielded 0.323 percent, the
lowest since May.  Primary dealers , who must bid in U.S. debt
sales, purchased 40 percent of the securities, the least since
October 2012. The government reopened Oct. 17 after a last-minute deal by lawmakers funded operations and extended U.S.
borrowing authority into early 2014. The  Federal Reserve , which
refrained last month from slowing stimulus to await further
evidence of economic recovery, opens a two-day meeting today.  “All of the uncertainty that remains ahead with debt
ceiling and the budget debate is putting a wrench in the Fed’s
plan to taper, and helped auction demand,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, one of
the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. “With the relaxation of earlier
default fears, we still have the safety bid present regarding
the future.”  Current (USGG2YR)  U.S. two-year note yields were little changed at
0.30 percent yesterday in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader Prices. The 0.25 percent securities due in September 2015
traded at 99 29/32.  The auction’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.32, the highest since April, versus an average of 3.3 for the
past 10 sales.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders,  an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 29 percent of the notes, the most since
the July auction, compared with an average of 23 percent for the
past 10 sales.  Direct bidders,  non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 31 percent, the
most since February. The average for the past 10 auctions was
22.4 percent.  “There was a strong reception to the auction, with strong
nondealer demand,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We have ongoing uncertainty, policy still headed into the end
of the year, and the economic data, while delayed, certainly
hasn’t been robust, which continues to underpin demand in the
front end.”  The Fed won’t begin to slow the pace of its $85 billion in
bond purchases until March, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News Oct. 17-18.  ‘Grade A-’  A government report last week showed U.S. payrolls rose by
148,000 in September, versus the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey for a gain of 180,000 jobs. The data indicated the
economy lost momentum leading up to the 16-day government
shutdown, which  Standard & Poor’s  estimated shaved at least 0.6
percent off fourth-quarter growth.  “Last week’s lackluster data might have served to keep the
bullish momentum intact in rates,”  George Goncalves , New York-based head of interest-rate strategy at the primary dealer
Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to clients. “Overall, we
assign a grade A- to this auction.”  The size of yesterday’s note sale was cut by $1 billion for
the third straight month, the longest stretch of reductions
since October 2010. The amount of the securities sold each month
peaked at $44 billion from October 2009 through April 2010.  A Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers forecast
an auction yield of 0.322 percent.  Two-year notes have gained 0.3 percent this year, compared
with a decline of 1.8 percent by the broader Treasuries market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The two-year
notes returned 0.3 percent in 2012, while Treasuries overall
rose 2.2 percent.  The government will sell $35 billion in five-year debt
today and $29 billion in seven-year securities on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  