-- Iran Says Time Right for New Approach With Atomic Monitors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-10-28T16:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/iran-says-time-right-for-new-approach-with-iaea-nuclear-monitors.html
Iran  and nuclear monitors are
attempting to find a new approach that would ensure the Persian
Gulf nation’s atomic program is intended for exclusively
peaceful purposes, officials said.  Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi met with
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano
today in Vienna. Nuclear inspectors are seeking wider access to
people and places suspected of conducting undeclared nuclear
activities. Talks between IAEA and their Iranian counterparts
will continue tomorrow.  “This is the time to take a new approach to resolving
questions between Iran and the IAEA and look to the future for
further cooperation,” Araghchi told reporters before talks
began. Inspectors need to play a role “to ensure  Iran’s nuclear
program  is peaceful and remains peaceful,” he said.  Meeting world powers earlier this month in Geneva, Araghchi
said Iran was willing to assent to more stringent inspections as
part of confidence-building measures intended to defuse the
decade-long standoff. Atop the IAEA’s list of sites it would
like to visit is the Parchin military base 20 kilometers (12
miles) southeast of Tehran, where Iran allegedly experimented on
triggers for a nuclear device.  “This meeting is a very important opportunity for us to
discuss a way forward,” Amano said. “It is important for all
of us to show concrete progress.”  More Talks  After a decade of talks punctuated by threats of military
action and trade sanctions, Iran may be moving toward a deal on
its nuclear program with the so-called P5+1 powers -- the U.S.,
the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia  and  China . The two sides will
hold another round of negotiations next month.  New Iranian President Hassan Rouhani spoke by phone with
President  Barack Obama  last month, while Britain and Iran are
moving toward reopening embassies in each other’s capitals.  Iran, with the world’s No. 4 proven oil reserves, denies
that it is seeking nuclear weapons and insists its program is
peaceful. While investigators regularly enter Iran’s declared
nuclear facilities, including its two enrichment plants, they
say they still need to determine the extent of alleged hidden
nuclear-weapons work by Iran.  After meeting with Amano, Araghchi called today’s session
“useful and constructive,” adding that he is “hopeful of a
good result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  