-- Israel Holds Rate in First Decision Since Flug Nomination
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-28T17:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/israel-holds-rate-at-1-in-first-decision-since-flug-nomination.html
The Bank of  Israel  left the
benchmark lending rate unchanged in its first decision since the
cabinet approved Karnit Flug as governor, as it assesses the
impact of last month’s cut.  The five-member monetary policy panel kept borrowing costs
at 1 percent, the lowest in four years. Twenty-three of 24
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had forecast the decision,
while one predicted a quarter-point cut.  “The Bank of Israel prefers to wait and see the impact of
the last rate cut, even though it is clearly worried by
developments in the export sector,” said Ilan Artzi, chief
investment officer at Halman-Aldubi Investment House in Tel
Aviv. A shekel trading about 3.5 to the dollar “doesn’t ease
concerns,” he said, predicting another cut down the line.  Since 2011, the central bank has reduced the  key rate  from
3.25 percent to spur the country’s export-driven economy, which
has been hurt by a strong shekel that has made exports less
competitive. It also began buying dollars in April to curb the
currency after a lull of almost two years, including $835
million in September. Last week, Finance Minister Yair Lapid
said the shekel was “too strong” and that he would work with
Flug, whose appointment the cabinet approved yesterday, to
weaken it.  Interest rate swaps and the shekel both gained after
today’s rate decision, and some analysts said the Bank of Israel
move signaled that no more cuts were in the offing.  Other Ways  “For now, the rate will hold,” said Ori Greenfeld,
economist at Psagot Investment House Ltd. “The Bank of Israel
understands the rate cuts’ effect on the currency exchange rate
is weakening. The bank will probably try other ways to influence
the currency exchange rate, and maybe even do something with the
Finance Ministry to try to weaken the shekel if necessary.”  The Bank of Israel noted in its decision that it has
reduced rates by 75 basis points since May, including a quarter-point cut last month. It said the shekel’s appreciation halted
over the past month, with the currency weakening 0.7 percent
against the dollar while most currencies strengthened.  “The path of the interest rate in the future depends on
developments in the inflation environment, growth in Israel and
in the global economy, the monetary policies of major central
banks, and developments in the exchange rate of the shekel,”
the central bank said in a statement announcing the decision.  Growth Slowing  The bank expects economic growth to slow to 3.4 percent in
2014 from 3.6 percent this year as exports languish. Last month
it forecast that exports, excluding diamonds and startups, will
shrink by 1.1 percent this year.  “Currency appreciation is something that needs to be dealt
with via structural measures and quite possibly via the setting
up of a sovereign wealth fund,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , chief
emerging-markets economist at Morgan Stanley in  London . Another
quarter-point cut won’t make “a material impact,” he added.  The shekel’s 11 percent rise against the dollar in the past
12 months has made it the best performer among the 31 major
global currencies Bloomberg tracks.  The shekel gained 0.2 percent following the decision, and
was trading at 3.523 to the dollar at 6:38 p.m. in Tel Aviv.
One-year interest rate swaps rose to 0.94 percent, up from 0.91
percent before the decision. Two-year swaps rose to 1.13 percent
from 1.12 percent.  Maneuvering Room  With  inflation  at 1.3 percent, the low end of the 1 percent
to 3 percent target range, the central bank has room to lower
borrowing costs further. That would risk fueling housing prices,
which soared 72 percent between 2007 and 2012, according to the
Central Bureau of Statistics in  Jerusalem .  “You can’t really say that indicators have improved since
the last decision,” Katz said, citing “poor”  industrial
production  and industrial export figures and a decline in raw
material imports. Other countries, such as  Chile , are also
cutting rates, he said.  “The question is if a rate cut will be effective in
preventing shekel appreciation, and is it maybe causing a bubble
to develop in the housing market,” Katz said. “When you look
for and against, I’m not sure a rate cut will improve the
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  