-- Mizuho Probe Concludes Controls Failure Rather Than Coverup
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-10-28T07:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/mizuho-panel-sees-lack-of-awareness-no-coverup-on-crime-loans.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s
investigators said a probe into loans made to gangsters
uncovered a failure in internal controls rather than efforts by
Japan’s third-largest bank to deliberately mislead regulators.  There was no evidence of a coverup and President Yasuhiro Sato didn’t know about the transactions even after they were
highlighted in documents distributed in executive meetings, a
panel of lawyers hired by the bank said in a report today.  The findings may ease pressure on Sato, who is set to
outline changes to the board today after submitting a report to
the Financial Services Agency on how he aims to prevent more
loans to yakuza crime syndicates. The  shares  rose 2.5 percent,
paring their drop since the regulator ordered Mizuho to improve
compliance a month ago for failing to act on 200 million yen ($2
million) in credit extended to members of such groups.  “The report will definitely help Sato stay on as Mizuho’s
president,” said  Yoku Ihara , an investment adviser at Retela
Crea Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The third-party panel accepted
Mizuho’s explanation that Sato didn’t know about the loans.”  Sato will brief the press at 5 p.m. in Tokyo on the bank’s
report to the FSA and changes to the board, spokeswoman  Masako
Shiono  said by telephone today. She declined to comment on the
panel’s findings.  The three-member committee, led by former High Court Chief
Justice Hideki Nakagome, said Tokyo-based Mizuho didn’t have
clear disclosure rules on issues relating to criminal
organizations. Communication between compliance divisions and
other sections of the company was lax, it added.  ‘Lacked Awareness’  “Mizuho lacked awareness of the significance of tackling
the issue of relationships with antisocial groups,” the panel
said in the report.  Nakagome told reporters that the company didn’t have any
incentive to hide the matter from regulators. There was no
evidence that issues relating to the loans were discussed at
compliance and board member meetings attended by Sato, 61, and
Chairman Takashi Tsukamoto, 63, according to the report.  The committee interviewed 81 current and former Mizuho
officials and four Orient employees and reviewed e-mails of 12
individuals, according to the report. It didn’t check e-mails of
Sato, Tsukamoto or former banking unit chief Satoru Nishibori,
Nakagome said.  The panel said that during the FSA’s investigation, a
Mizuho official wrongly told the agency that crime loans weren’t
reported to senior compliance and board meetings. That led to
the bank’s incorrect report to the regulator that only lower-level compliance officials were aware of the loans.  Boxed Text  Mizuho acknowledged the mistake this month, saying that
some top managers including Nishibori, knew of the assets. Sato,
who took the helm at Mizuho in June 2011, said he himself was in
a position to have found out about the transactions in reports
that he overlooked at executive meetings.  One of the lawyers, Gaku Ishiwata, said that text referring
to the loans was set off in boxes in the more than 10-page
documents, making it “not unreasonable” to think that top
executives could have read it.  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said last week that he
will respond appropriately to the company’s reports, including
the findings of the lawyers. Lawmakers from both sides of
parliament have asked to question Sato.  Mizuho’s banking unit made 230 transactions, mostly loans
for automobiles, through its  Orient Corp. (8585)  consumer credit
affiliate, according to the regulator. Pay for officials at
Mizuho Bank Ltd., including Sato, will be cut as punishment, the
Nikkei newspaper reported on Oct. 25.  Management Handover  The panel also highlighted a lack of communication when top
executives changed, saying Nishibori didn’t properly hand over
the crime-loan issue to his successor, Tsukamoto, when he
stepped down in June 2011 following a computer glitch. No one
explained the issue to Sato either, according to the report.  Sato has driven measures designed to improve management at
Mizuho, which has been penalized for lapses ranging from
computer failures to trading errors since its creation in 2000
through the merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Fuji Bank Ltd.
and Industrial Bank of  Japan  Ltd.  In May 2011, the FSA ordered Mizuho to improve operations
and repair its “corporate culture” following system
malfunctions at its retail bank that delayed transactions in the
wake of the nation’s March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  