-- Mizuho Punishes Officials for Crime Loans as Chairman Quits
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-10-28T10:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/mizuho-punishes-officials-for-crime-loans-as-bank-chairman-quits.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  cut pay
for President Yasuhiro Sato and said the chairman of its lending
unit will step down after Japan’s third-biggest bank by market
value failed to address loans made to crime groups.  Takashi Tsukamoto will give up his role as chairman of
Mizuho Bank Ltd. while keeping the post at the parent company,
the Tokyo-based bank said in a  statement  today. He and Sato will
forgo pay for six months and 52 other current and former
executives will be penalized.  Sato bowed in apology at a news briefing in  Tokyo , hours
after submitting a report to the Financial Services Agency
outlining measures such as database sharing and the addition of
an outside director to prevent further transactions with yakuza
crime syndicates. Lawyers commissioned by Mizuho to investigate
the loans earlier said the bank’s shortcomings stemmed from lax
internal controls rather than attempts to mislead regulators.  “Mizuho’s internal punishment won’t be negative for the
share price as Sato remains president,” said  Takehito Yamanaka ,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “We still need
to pay careful attention to whether the FSA will hand down any
additional severe punishment.”  Sato, 61, who has driven measures designed to improve
management at Mizuho since taking the post in June 2011, said he
didn’t consider stepping down even while acknowledging the
incident dented his authority.  Hurt Leadership  “Mizuho’s top management including myself deeply regret
this issue,” he said. “My leadership was severely hurt, but I
don’t think it’s impossible to recover.”  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said he received the
bank’s business improvement report today. The government will
examine the contents and decide any punishment taking into
account the findings of the panel of lawyers, he said.  Shares of Mizuho closed 2.5 percent higher at 209 yen
before Sato spoke, paring their decline since the regulator
ordered the bank to improve compliance a month ago. The lender
failed to act on 200 million yen ($2 million) in about 230
transactions with members of crime groups through its  Orient
Corp. (8585)  affiliate, the agency said on Sept. 27.  There may have been about 460 transactions initially, Sato
said today. He declined to give a yen amount.  Mizuho will share its database of crime groups with Orient
and help the consumer credit company improve its system for
verifying customers applying for loans, the lender said in the
statement. Hiring an external board member and establishing a
committee to avoid transactions with antisocial groups are also
part of the business improvement plan, it said.  Outside Director  The banking unit will appoint Tatsuo Kainaka, a 73-year-old
former Supreme Court judge, as its first outside board member,
Sato said. Currently the parent company has three external board
members while Mizuho Bank has none.  The three-member committee, led by former High Court Chief
Justice Hideki Nakagome, said earlier today that Mizuho didn’t
have clear disclosure rules on issues relating to criminal
organizations. Communication between compliance divisions and
other sections of the company was lax, it added.  There was no evidence that issues relating to the loans
were discussed at compliance and board member meetings attended
by Sato and Tsukamoto, 63, according to the report.  Sato said he can’t remember seeing any reference to crime
loans through Orient in reports distributed at executive
meetings. Earlier this month, he said he was in a position to
have found out about the transactions from the reports yet
wasn’t aware of them until the FSA told him in March.  Interviews, E-Mails  The three lawyers interviewed 81 current and former Mizuho
officials and four Orient employees and reviewed e-mails of 12
individuals. It didn’t check e-mails of Sato, Tsukamoto or
former banking unit chief Satoru Nishibori, Nakagome said.  The committee said that during the FSA’s investigation, a
Mizuho official wrongly told the agency that crime loans weren’t
reported to executives at compliance and board meetings. That
led to the bank’s incorrect report to the regulator that only
lower-level compliance officials were aware of the loans.  The panel also highlighted a lack of communication when top
executives changed, saying Nishibori didn’t properly hand over
the crime-loan issue to his successor, Tsukamoto, when he
stepped down in June 2011 following a computer glitch. No one
explained the issue to Sato either, according to the report.  Nishibori will remain an adviser to the bank, while
returning part of three months’ salary, Mizuho said.  Mizuho has been penalized for lapses ranging from computer
failures to trading errors since its creation in 2000
through the merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Fuji Bank Ltd.
and Industrial Bank of  Japan  Ltd. In May 2011, the FSA ordered
Mizuho to improve operations and repair its “corporate
culture” following system malfunctions that delayed
transactions after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  