-- Jimmy Choo’s Mellon Kicks Coke Habit, Raises Stilettos
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/jimmy-choo-s-mellon-kicks-coke-habit-raises-stilettos.html
Reading Tamara Mellon’s memoir, “ In
My Shoes ,” is a lot like wearing a pair of stilettos: thrilling
and uncomfortable at the same time.  Until 2011, Mellon strode around in shoes by  Jimmy Choo ,
the high-end brand she founded in  London  in 1996 with Choo, a
Malaysian couture shoemaker, and her father, entrepreneur Tommy
Yeardye, who had worked with Vidal Sassoon.  She was 28, single, living in her parents’ basement,
recently fired from British Vogue and getting over a nightclub-and-cocaine habit.  The business made her famous. Marriage to a man from a
wealthy American family made her a Mellon. By book’s end, she’s
cashed out of  Jimmy Choo  for a reported $135 million and is
starting a new brand, Tamara Mellon.  The memoir follows the rise of Jimmy Choo alongside the
more interesting tale of the making of Tamara Mellon as she
melded society, celebrity and fashion in her own life.  Tory Burch  and others have built brands around their
images. The dirt usually comes out later. Mellon is fearless in
choosing to start her label with a chronicle of her drug use,
love affairs, depression and major mother troubles.  One of her best traits is a steely will. By her account it
took her just six weeks in rehab to get clean.  It’s the things she can’t control that drive her crazy --
such as Mr. Choo, her mother and a series of private-equity
executives who have their way with the shoe company.  Back Stabbing  “I simply never imagined when I started this journey just
how many back stabbings, cliff-hangers and oncoming trains lay
ahead,” she writes.  So much bile comes Mellon’s way that I couldn’t help
wondering if she had done something to deserve it. She doesn’t
admit to any fault or take any blame. Whatever the truth, a life
lived fighting people off and feeling alone is sad. All the
glamour -- outfitting stars at the Oscars, holidays in Capri --
does very little for her.  Even her fairytale wedding is drained of joy:  “My face hurt from maintaining a beauty contestant’s
frozen smile, and I was counting the hours. I had one more
costume change, an amazing gray silk cocktail dress from Chloe
for going away. Then I’d throw the bouquet and go back to the
hotel and cry.”  Family Law  Soon enough she divorced Matthew Mellon, tired of what she
calls his “lovable incompetence”; became a single working mom;
and defended herself against a lawsuit brought by her mother,
who thought she owed her money.  Fortunately, there are some parts that Mellon seems to take
genuine joy in telling: the story of her father, who began with
nothing; the story of how she started designing Jimmy Choos when
she decided Choo himself wasn’t up to the job.  Mellon went to the flea market for inspiration and met with
a manufacturer in  Italy  to get the shape of the heel just right.  “The few times that Jimmy had anything to say about
design,” she writes, “it was with a complaint that I was
making the heels too high.”  The book closes with Mellon finally claiming happiness,
living in  New York  and dating former Hollywood talent agent
 Michael Ovitz , about whom she writes, “It’s such a relief to be
with a real grown-up.”  “In My Shoes” is published by Portfolio/Penguin (275
pages, $29.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Amanda Gordon is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  