-- JPMorgan Probe Prosecutor Put Away Tomato Racketeer
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/jpmorgan-probe-prosecutor-put-away-tomato-racketeer.html
Benjamin Wagner, the top U.S.
prosecutor for mostly rural eastern  California , has busted the
head of a tomato-packing company for racketeering and wrangled a
settlement from a lumber company over a wildfire.  He’s also prosecuted more than 250 people for mortgage
fraud in a district that includes six of the 10 U.S. cities
hardest hit by foreclosures since the 2008 financial crisis.  While the typical bad guys Wagner targets are local
mortgage brokers and foreclosure scam artists, he has one
investigation that stands out. He’s leading the criminal probe
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
refused to close down when the government and the bank reached a
tentative $13 billion settlement over mortgage-related
malfeasance, a person familiar with the matter said.  Since Wagner’s appointment by President  Barack Obama  in
2009 as the U.S. attorney in Sacramento, the state capital, he’s
taken on the role of sheriff of the region’s housing market.
He’s prosecuted people such as Eric Hernandez, a Bakersfield,
California, home loan broker sentenced last month to about 11
years in prison for cheating lenders, including JPMorgan, out of
$6 million by submitting fraudulent applications to obtain
loans.  Targeting a major bank like JPMorgan is long overdue, said
David Torres, Hernandez’s attorney.  “It’s about damn time,” said Torres, who claims lenders
that encouraged mortgage brokers to break the rules to boost
their  subprime  business weren’t pursued while prosecutors went
after easier marks.  ‘Totem Pole’  “They have been penalizing the low man on the totem
pole,” Torres said by phone from his office in Bakersfield.  Wagner’s investigation of New York-based JPMorgan came to
light in August, when the bank disclosed in a  regulatory filing 
that his office had preliminarily determined that the company
had violated securities laws in connection with its sales of
securities backed by subprime loans from 2005 to 2007.  A criminal investigation was also under way, said JPMorgan,
the  largest U.S. bank  by assets. Wagner has led the probe,
reporting back to Holder on his progress every two weeks, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the matter
isn’t public.  Wagner, 53, a career prosecutor, is a member of the Justice
Department’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, set up by
Obama to investigate causes of the financial crisis. The
JPMorgan investigation came to Wagner through the task force’s
Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group. Wagner is
co-chairman of the task force, along with the U.S. attorney in
 Colorado .  Probe’s Beginnings  Two of Wagner’s deputies, Rich Elias and Colleen Kennedy,
began digging last year and uncovered alleged fraudulent
activity in the packaging of home loans before the mortgage
crisis of 2008, Wagner said. Using pre-complaint information
gathering allowed under the Financial Institution Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, known as FIRREA, the two
worked hard to gather and analyze evidence, Wagner said in an
e-mail.  “One of my priorities has been to add to our white-collar
and affirmative civil litigation teams,” Wagner said. “It is
not that surprising that we would step up to handle a major case
like this one.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail after regular business hours
yesterday seeking comment on Wagner’s probe.  ‘Reach Down’  James Wedick, a former Federal Bureau of Investigation
special agent in Sacramento, said in an interview that Wagner
“has always followed the money.”  “It would not be unlike Ben to reach down into the barrel
and follow it and see if it doesn’t develop into something
big,” Wedick said.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said Oct. 25 that
JPMorgan agreed to pay $5.1 billion to settle claims related to
home loans and mortgage-backed securities the bank sold to
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , resolving part of the $13 billion
accord the company has been negotiating.  In September, Holder, Wagner and other government attorneys
met with JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon at the
Justice Department in  Washington  and told him the bank could end
the criminal investigation by pleading guilty to making false
statements related to sales of toxic mortgage bonds, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The bank instead sought a nonprosecution agreement, which
Holder rejected, the person said. Under the tentative
$13 billion accord, JPMorgan will cooperate with Wagner’s
criminal investigation.  ‘Substantial Discretion’  “Going forward, we will have very substantial discretion
in how we handle the investigation, and we will go where the
evidence takes us,” Wagner said. “I will be consulting
closely, of course, with my colleagues in D.C.”  Wagner, born and partly raised in New York, attended
Dartmouth College and New York University School of Law. He
began his law career in New York advising banks, not including
JPMorgan, on public offerings and other securities transactions.  Wagner’s father, Rodney, worked for JP Morgan & Co. before
its 2000 merger with Chase Manhattan Corp., rising to managing
director and vice chairman.  Wagner said his father, who died eight years ago, worked in
international banking, including sovereign debt workouts,
development finance and projects such as the loan agreements to
finance the rebuilding of  Kuwait  after the first Gulf War. The
family lived in the Middle East for a few years in the 1970s
when the elder Wagner managed a local bank there that was partly
owned by JPMorgan, Wagner said.  Sacramento Start  Benjamin Wagner took a job as a prosecutor in  Sacramento  in
1992. He started with narcotics and violent crime cases in a
district encompassing 87,000 square miles stretching from the
Oregon border to Bakersfield. Forty-five percent of the district
is federal land.  Wagner’s high-dollar cases include a 2012 settlement valued
at $114.5 million with Sierra Pacific Industries Inc. to resolve
a lawsuit alleging the company was responsible for a 2007
wildfire that burned through 46,000 acres of national forest and
destroyed 400-year-old trees. The company denied starting the
fire and didn’t admit wrongdoing under the accord.  Sierra Pacific said at the time the case settled that
prosecutors had a “bounty hunter mentality” and called the
case “a misguided effort to collect exorbitant cash damages
that could be boasted about later.”  Tomato Racketeer  Wagner’s white-collar crime cases have included a
racketeering and bribery case against the top executive at a
tomato processing company in central California, where one-third
of the world’s tomato products are prepared.  Frederick Scott Salyer, the former CEO and owner of SK
Foods LP, a now-defunct Lemoore, California-based tomato paste
processor and seller, pleaded guilty in March 2012 to
encouraging a food broker to pay bribes and kickbacks to
purchasing managers at Kraft Foods Inc. and Frito-Lay Inc. to
ensure they bought products from SK Foods, according to court
documents.  Investigators used wiretaps to crack the case, which led to
guilty pleas by the purchasing managers and a six-year prison
term for Salyer.  Elliot Peters , an attorney for Salyer, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the case.  Broker’s Surrender  Hernandez, the Bakersfield loan broker, is scheduled to
surrender Dec. 16  to begin serving his prison sentence. A
federal judge in Fresno ordered him to pay $6 million in
restitution to banks, including $723,000 to JPMorgan, according
to a court filing.  Wagner said the cases he’s brought involving wrongdoing in
the Northern California housing market are as important as the
more systemic securities industry issues at stake in the
JPMorgan probe. Targets of his prosecutions have included real
estate investors, large developers, mortgage brokers, bankers,
and real estate investment fund principals, he said.  They included “some folks who were pretty high fliers
locally at one point,” he said. “Those are the kind of folks
who committed a lot of the mortgage fraud in this region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  