-- Kuwait Premier Assails Welfare State in Plan to Review Subsidies
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-10-28T08:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/kuwait-premier-assails-welfare-state-in-plan-to-review-subsidies.html
Kuwait ’s government, which under
parliamentary pressure agreed this year to pay $2.6 billion to
write off a portion of personal loans, is urging citizens to
reduce their reliance on an “unsustainable” welfare state.  Kuwait, which like other neighboring oil-rich nations has
used the windfall from energy exports to provide free fuel,
education and health care to citizens, plans to review its
policies on subsidies and public services, according to a four-year development plan. The government said the plan, sent to
parliament yesterday, won’t affect people with low income.  “Everyone must understand that the existing welfare state
that Kuwaitis are used to cannot continue,” Prime Minister
Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah said, according to the text of
the development plan. “It’s necessary that Kuwaiti society
shifts from a consumer of the nation’s resources to a productive
people.”  The  International Monetary Fund  has repeatedly urged
members of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes Kuwait, to reduce energy subsidies, as rising public
spending pushes some governments toward posting budget deficits.
The  Middle East  and North Africa accounted for about 50 percent
of global energy subsidies in 2011, according to an IMF study
released this year.  Kuwait, which recorded surpluses for the past 14 fiscal
years, can expect a budget deficit in 2021, depending on  oil
prices  and spending growth, according to the government’s
program. Kuwait is the third-biggest producer among members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The plan will be reviewed by parliament, which starts a new
term tomorrow after a summer recess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  