-- NATO Allies Leaving Afghanistan End Rebuilding in South
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-10-28T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nato-allies-leaving-afghanistan-end-rebuilding-in-south.html
NATO allies yesterday marked the end
of an almost decade-long involvement in building schools,
hospitals, roads and government institutions in a swath of
southern  Afghanistan .  Australia ’s Prime Minister Tony Abbott stood facing a wall
memorializing fallen allied soldiers that read “only the dead
see the end of war.” His visit to Camp Holland, on the
outskirts of the town of Tarin Kot, reflected Australian
leadership since last year of the effort in Uruzgan province,
which previously had been supervised by the Dutch after being
started by the U.S. in 2004.  Such ceremonies will become commonplace amid the planned
drawdown of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces from
Afghanistan by the end of 2014. The U.S. and Afghanistan are
attempting to negotiate a long-term security agreement. Without
one, the Obama administration has said it will remove all troops
from the country rather than maintaining a residual force to
train Afghan forces and combat terrorists.  Uruzgan “is still a poor and difficult province, even by
Afghan standards,” Abbott said yesterday.  While Abbott listed accomplishments of the reconstruction
effort -- including a 20-fold increase in schools for girls
since 2001 and a 200-kilometer (124-mile) road network -- Paul
Fishstein, an American specialist on Afghanistan, has said that
the project’s been marred by corruption and that the aid has had
a destabilizing effect on tribal politics.  Taliban Insurgents  The end of the reconstruction project in Uruzgan is the
last of three such efforts to be handed over to Afghans in a
region of south and south-central Afghanistan that includes
Kandahar, Zabul and Daykundi provinces.  The region is home to
the original leaders of the Taliban, including Mullah Mohammad Omar.  Security in Uruzgan province has improved in the past few
months because of successful military operations against Taliban
insurgents, Lieutenant Colonel Armando Hernandez, a Kandahar-based spokesman for the U.S.-led International Security
Assistance Force, said in an e-mail.  In Uruzgan, the Afghan National Army and police forces
“have held their gains and contained the insurgency,”
Hernandez said.  Afghan President Hamid Karzai has criticized the provincial
reconstruction efforts throughout the country because donor
nations bypassed the central government and funded projects
directly. Speaking in February 2011 in Munich, Karzai called for
a speedy end to such reconstruction efforts.  Different Strongmen  Different aid agencies favored different strongmen and
exacerbated rivalries that drove losing groups to support the
Taliban, Fishstein wrote in a August 2012 paper published by
Tufts University’s Feinstein International Center in Somerville,
 Massachusetts .  “The capture of a disproportionate amount of aid by one
group allied with President Hamid Karzai’s Popalzai tribe as a
result of its political and economic power created resentment
among the groups who lost out,” he said in the paper titled,
“Winning Hearts and Minds in Uruzgan Province.”  In Uruzgan, provincial reconstruction teams from the U.S.,
Australia, and Holland had led to “millions of dollars of
support” for building schools, roads, administrative buildings
and improving governing capacity, the province’s governor, Amir
Mohammad Akhunzada, said in Tarin Kot yesterday.  Even though direct aid to the province had ended, “I hope
that friendly countries will continue their help through”
Afghanistan’s central government, Akhunzada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Tarin Kot, Afghanistan at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  