-- New Haven Selling Roads to Yale Shows Fiscal Strain: Muni Credit
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/new-haven-selling-roads-to-yale-shows-fiscal-strain-muni-credit.html
New Haven , Connecticut, sold two
streets this year to  Yale University , its biggest employer, and
raised taxes to bolster its finances. The moves haven’t been
enough to win over investors and ratings companies.  The hometown to the 312-year-old Ivy League school saw the
extra yield buyers demand on part of a $38 million bond sale
last week almost double from issues in August and last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings both cut New Haven’s credit grade twice since
April and give it a negative outlook.  Even with the financial support of Yale, which employs
12,000 and is the city’s fifth-largest taxpayer, New Haven
hasn’t been able to halt two straight years of deficits or
bypass the same fiscal hurdles that plague municipalities
nationwide, such as rising liabilities for pensions and retiree
health care.  “There is open debate as to whether New Haven has
stabilized or it is continuing to erode,” said Robert E. Amodeo, head of munis in  New York  for Western Asset Management
Co., which oversees $28 billion in local debt, including New
Haven bonds. “We expect improvement -- but it’ll be slow.”  Cities’ Challenge  The community of 130,000 on Long Island Sound northeast of
New York joins U.S. localities still struggling to repair their
finances after the 18-month recession that ended in 2009. While
cities project that revenue will rise for the first time since
2006, it’s still not enough to meet climbing costs for their
workers’ benefits, a survey from the Washington-based  National
League of Cities  showed this month.  Like cities such as Boston and Providence,  Rhode Island ,
which host universities that are exempt from property taxes, New
Haven seeks voluntary payments from Yale to bolster its $500
million general-fund budget. Yale and the smaller Albertus
Magnus College sit on $2.5 billion worth of tax-free property in
the city, according to Joe Clerkin, New Haven’s budget director.  The university provided an $8.1 million payment in lieu of
taxes last year, more than any other school in the U.S. save
 Harvard University , which paid a combined $10 million to Boston,
Cambridge and Watertown, according to the Lincoln Institute of
Land Policy, a Cambridge-based group that examines tax and
regulatory policy.  Yale’s Payments  “Yale knows of no other municipality that receives as much
revenue for hosting a university as New Haven does,” said
Thomas Conroy, a spokesman for the school. He provided figures
showing the city has received $74 million in voluntary payments
since 1990.  The school and Yale-New Haven Hospital are the city’s top
employers, according to Fitch. Yale’s $20.8 billion endowment is
the second-largest in higher education behind Harvard’s.  Two years ago, the university paid $3 million for rights to
a parking lot on Broadway Street. This year it spent $3 million
to purchase two downtown roads that it had been leasing.  “Did we need the money? I think that was a factor in the
decision,” Clerkin, the budget director, said in a telephone
interview.  To make ends meet in the past five years, the city has also
dipped into savings, leaving the fund balance at the lowest
levels since the early 1990s, Clerkin said.  The city raised property taxes by 4.94 percent in June,
wrapped up negotiations with unions and no longer relies on one-time revenue such as asset sales to balance its budget.  “It is a sound budget,” Clerkin said of the spending plan
for this fiscal year.  Manufacturing Heyday  New Haven’s heyday came after World War II as a
manufacturing hub for arms and clothing. It lost employment as
factories closed, said Joshua Sandman, a political-science
professor at the University of New Haven. He said the city’s
changing economy is leaving behind people who lack college
degrees.  Yale and the hospital are attracting companies involved
in biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and life-science, Fitch said.  “In a knowledge-based economy, you need people with
knowledge,” Sandman said. “It is a different type of pattern
we see emerging.”  The municipality’s unemployment rate was 12.2 percent in
August, exceeding the state’s 8.1 percent level and the
country’s 7.3 percent average. About 26 percent of residents
live below the poverty level, more than double the state average
of 9.5 percent, U.S. Census data show.  Chopping Block  Fitch cut New Haven’s rating in April and August, leaving
it at A-, four steps above speculative grade. The company cited
deficits, pension costs and the potential for reduced state aid
-- which makes up 42 percent of the budget. Moody’s lowered it
in June and October, to an equivalent level. In August,  Standard
& Poor’s  dropped New Haven to BBB+, three levels above junk.  The second Moody’s move came after a change in how the
state distributes municipal aid delayed about $1 million in
expected payments to New Haven. That caused the city to revise
its projected deficit higher for a third time this year.  “New Haven was already running very lean,” said Thomas
Compton, an analyst for New York-based Moody’s. “They just
didn’t have the flexibility to absorb it.”  Proceeds from last week’s tax-exempt bond sale will go
toward renovating schools, buying fire-fighting equipment,
repairing a bridge and purchasing a phone and commuter system.  Spread Sense  Only one of the 17 maturities was uninsured. That segment,
due in September 2014, priced to yield 1.25 percent, or 0.99
percentage point above a Bloomberg BVAL  benchmark . That spread
is about double the level in an August sale by New Haven. At
that time, the spread on a similar maturity, also uninsured, was
about 0.5 percentage point, Bloomberg data show. By the city’s
calculation, the gap rose only 60 percent from one sale to the
next.  “It would make sense to me that in light of a downgrade
you’d see more of spread,” said Michael O’Neil, New Haven’s
controller.  That one maturity offers only a single data point -- not
enough to measure the city’s progress in the eyes of investors,
O’Neil said. He pointed out that in the period between the two
sales, S&P, which gives the city the weakest grade of the three
rating companies, remained unchanged.  “If it was me buying a bond, I’d be looking at the S&P
rating,” he said. “I’d be more concerned with where the lowest
rating was. That tells me there is something else at play there
with that maturity.”  He said the sale of the uninsured maturity was executed via
a sealed bid, and only one bidder came forward.  Insurance Effect  In a part of the sale maturing one year later, in September
2015, and carrying insurance, the yield spread was about 0.6
percentage point, Bloomberg data show. Moody’s rates the insured
maturities one step higher than the city’ credit.  In the market this week,  Connecticut  is among localities
nationwide offering a combined $5.6 billion of long-term munis
for sale, down from $7.8 billion last week, which was the
busiest since July.  The governments are borrowing as muni yields are the lowest
in four months. Benchmark 10-year munis yield  2.68 percent , a
level unseen since June, compared with 2.51 percent for
Treasuries of the same maturity, Bloomberg data show.  The ratio of the two yields is about 107 percent, compared
with an average of about 99.5 percent since January 2009. The
higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
Treasuries.  The following is a pending sale:  Connecticut plans to sell $600 million of special-tax bonds
as soon as this week to finance transportation infrastructure
projects, offering documents show. Debt service is paid from
revenue pledged by the state under a 1984 act for construction
and repair of highways, bridges, waterways and mass transit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  