-- Nielsen to Begin Counting Mobile Viewing Audiences in TV Ratings
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nielsen-to-begin-counting-mobile-viewing-audiences-in-tv-ratings.html
Nielsen, the provider of television
ratings used to calculate payments by advertisers, will begin
counting some mobile viewing of shows as broadcast and cable
networks make more programs available online.  TV shows that are viewed through some digital formats and
within certain time frames will be counted starting in the TV
season that begins in September 2014, the company, part of
 Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , said today in a  blog post .  The move gives TV networks a way to aggregate viewing on
various screens, providing a fuller count as traditional
audiences are fragmented by Web-connected sets, tablet computers
and smartphones. Nielsen ratings help to determine billions of
dollars in advertising payments.  “This unified encoding approach for video enables
measurement to follow content across screens and ad models,”
 Megan Clarken , a Nielsen executive vice president, said in the
blog post.  Nielsen will use digital markers to track shows viewed
online, working with data providers such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Some
viewing won’t be eligible for Nielsen’s TV ratings because too
much time has elapsed for credit, the shows carry so-called
dynamic ads that are inserted in real-time and target viewers
like Web ads, or the content originated online. Those will be
measured separately through Nielsen Digital Ratings.  Through four weeks of this year’s TV season, broadcast
network audiences have climbed 2.4 percent to an average 8.2
million viewers a night in prime time, according to Nielsen
data. Viewers ages 18 to 49, a group sought by advertisers, are
little changed during the same time period.  Nielsen, based in  New York , was little changed at $39.04 in
New York on Oct. 25. The stock has increased 28 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  