-- Nine Entertainment Owners Said to Seek A$2.6 Billion IPO Value
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-28T04:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nine-entertainment-owners-said-to-seek-a-2-6-billion-ipo-value.html
Nine Entertainment Co.’s owners,
including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Oaktree Capital Group
LLC (OAK) , will seek a valuation including debt of about A$2.6 billion
($2.5 billion) in the company’s initial public offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The IPO will value the media company at about 8.5 times its
forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of A$305 million, said the person, who asked not to
be identified as the information is private. The shares will be
marketed at A$2.05 to A$2.30 apiece, the person said.  Apollo and Oaktree will both retain a stake in Australia’s
second-largest broadcaster after the deal, the person said. The
funds took control of Nine last year in a debt-for-equity swap
that saw previous owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd. lose the
majority of its investment.  Nine, which also owns a ticketing business, last month
bought its affiliate station in Western  Australia  state and the
50 percent of digital venture Mi9 that it didn’t already own
from Microsoft Corp. earlier this month.  Under the restructuring plan agreed last October, about 60
percent of a A$5.75 billion debt and equity investment by CVC
was wiped out. Senior lenders including Apollo and Oaktree
received A$573 million in cash and a 95.5 percent stake in Nine,
according to Federal Court documents in December. London-based
CVC had bought the broadcaster from billionaire James Packer’s
Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd.  The prospectus for the IPO will be published next week, and
the company may start trading on the Australian Securities
Exchange in early December, the person said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and Macquarie Group Ltd. are among banks leading the
share sale, according to the person.  Victoria Buchan, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Nine,
declined to comment. The Australian reported the terms of the
deal earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  