-- NQ Mobile Sued by Investor in New York After Stock Plunge
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-29T13:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nq-mobile-sued-by-investor-in-new-york-after-stock-plunge.html
(Corrects spokesman gender reference in sixth paragraph in
story published yesterday.)  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  was sued by an
investor who seeks to represent a group of shareholders who
allegedly lost money after a research firm said the Chinese
company’s revenue was largely exaggerated.  Phuong Ho, a stockholder, filed the complaint today in
federal court in Manhattan on behalf of all investors who bought
NQ Mobile securities from a May 5, 2011, initial public offering
to Oct. 24.  The stock price of Beijing-based NQ Mobile, a mobile
Internet services provider that traded on the New York Stock
Exchange, “fell a shattering 47 percent” to $12.09 a share
when the research report was issued Oct. 24.  The report by Muddy Waters LLC “asserted that NQ Mobile
has greatly overstated and exaggerated its true financial
performance,” according to the complaint.  The research firm alleged that at least 72 percent of the
company’s revenue in  China  is fictitious and that its actual
market share in China is 1.5 percent instead of 55 percent that
it had claimed, according to the complaint. The report also
questioned financial statements filed with the Chinese
government and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Kim Titus, a spokesman for NQ, declined to comment on the
lawsuit and referred to an Oct. 24 statement by the company in
which it said the allegations in the report were false.  ‘False Allegations’  “NQ Mobile will respond quickly, transparently and
forcefully to these false allegations regarding our company,”
it said in the statement.  Ho seeks damages under federal securities laws on behalf of
investors who bought common stock and call options or sold put
options of NQ Mobile from the time of the IPO. Investors lost
about $500 million when the company’s stock price dropped after
the report was issued, according to the complaint.  NQ Mobile was founded in 2005 and offers products such as
NQ Mobile Vault, NQ Mobile Call Blocker and NQ Space, according
to the complaint.  The case is Phuong Ho v. NQ Mobile Inc., 13-cv-07608, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in  Brooklyn , New York. at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  