-- NQ Swells 57% Plunge on Report ZTE Partnership Has Ended
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J i m   J i a
-- 2013-10-28T20:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nq-swells-57-plunge-on-report-partnership-with-is-over.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , the Chinese mobile-services provider that sank 57 percent last week after  Muddy
Waters LLC  said it inflated sales, extended declines on
speculation  ZTE Corp. (000063)  ended a contract with the company.  Shares of NQ Mobile plunged 17 percent to $8.80 in New
York. The stock had gained as much as 20 percent today before a
report on the Seeking Alpha website. The three-day, 62 percent
tumble reduced the company’s surge this year to 46 percent, from
279 percent as of Oct. 23.  ZTE, China’s third-largest smartphone vendor, doesn’t have
a partnership to use NQ Mobile’s services, according to the post
on Seeking Alpha which quoted a report on NetEase Inc.’s website
on Oct. 25 that cited unidentified people at ZTE.  Muddy Waters 
founder  Carson Block  wrote in an Oct. 24 report that investors
should sell NQ Mobile, saying the company inflated revenue and
misrepresented cash balances. NQ Mobile denied the allegations
the next day.  “So far responses from NQ haven’t been convincing enough
and there are still many questions raised by Muddy Waters that
need to be answered,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR Investment
Strategy LLC in  San Francisco , said by phone. “Negative news
like the report posted on Seeking Alpha today could hurt shares
further unless management takes more efficient actions to help
dispel people’s doubts about the company.”  Kim Titus, an NQ spokesman based in  Dallas , said by e-mail
that the partnership is still in place. Margret Ma, ZTE’s
Shenzhen-based media relations manager, didn’t reply to phone
calls and e-mailed messages seeking comment after hours.  ZTE said in  June 2012  that its V961 handset had NQ Mobile’s
security application built in.  NQ, based in Beijing, posted the biggest weekly decline
since its 2011 initial public offering last week.  Block said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on
Oct. 25 that the company will end up like Sino-Forest Corp., the
Chinese plantation company listed in Canada that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  last year after Muddy Waters claimed it
exaggerated revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Jia in Beijing at 
 jjia1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  