-- NTT Communications Said to Buy Virtela for Cloud Services
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-28T04:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ntt-communications-said-to-buy-virtela-for-u-s-cloud-services.html
NTT Communications Corp. agreed to
buy Virtela Technology Services Inc. for about 50 billion yen
($512 million) to expand in U.S. cloud computing, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the situation.  The deal will increase overseas sales and enable NTT to
boost its global cloud services business, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the information isn’t
public. NTT Communications is a unit of Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp.,  Japan ’s largest fixed-line operator.  Telecommunications companies are expanding outside Japan,
the world’s fastest-aging major economy, to tap new sales and
reduce their reliance on stalling growth at home. Virtela
provides fixed-line and wireless network management, security
and cloud service, according to its  website .  “NTT is seeking a growth engine overseas as the Japanese
market is shrinking,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , the Tokyo-based
chief fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of more than $6 billion. “NTT’s
infrastructure business is weak, so it has saved time by buying
an established business.”  The Virtela deal was reported earlier today by Nikkei.  “No decision has been made on the acquisition,” said
Minako Yamashita, a spokeswoman for NTT Communications. Jane Morrissey, a spokeswoman for  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based
Virtela, declined to comment.  Shares (9432)  of Nippon Telegraph rose 1.6 percent to 5,130 yen as
of 12:47 p.m. in  Tokyo . The stock has gained 41 percent this
year,  outpacing  a 39 percent advance for the benchmark Topix
index.  Nippon Telegraph is the  controlling shareholder  of  NTT
Docomo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s biggest wireless operator.  Competitor  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the nation’s third-largest
wireless company, this year paid $21.6 billion for control of
 Sprint Corp. (S)  to add U.S. customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  