-- NYC Firm Helps De Blasio Go From Obscurity to Frontrunner
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-28T04:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/nyc-firm-helps-de-blasio-go-from-obscurity-to-frontrunner.html
As Bill de Blasio weighed a longshot
run for  New York City  mayor, he needed help from people who
shared his self-described activist-progressive views. He found
it in a political consulting firm, hatched in a  Manhattan 
sublet, where many on the staff are closer in age to his
children than to him.  BerlinRosen Public Affairs, the eight-year-old firm founded
by Valerie Berlin and Jonathan Rosen, has built a reputation
working behind the scenes for Democratic candidates and causes
such as paid sick leave, limiting police stop-and-frisk tactics
and universal preschool -- issues that dominated de Blasio’s
message and helped take the 52-year-old from underdog to
frontrunner.  With polls showing de Blasio 40 percentage points ahead of
Joseph Lhota a week before the election, and with Lhota’s fellow
Republicans outnumbered 6-to-1 in the most populous  U.S. city,
de Blasio is likely to be the first Democrat to run  New York 
since 1993. That leaves BerlinRosen poised to extend its
influence and access to power.  “They are of the long-term vision that you really need to
have with progressive politics, but they’re also completely
grounded in the reality of getting votes and sowing messages,”
said Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general. BerlinRosen
helped him win election in 2010 by a margin of almost 450,000
votes.  Long Relationship  The company provides help with public relations, strategic
advice, political consulting and advertising. “We specialize in
bringing field and media strategy together to help our clients
engage, organize and mobilize key constituencies,” according to
its website.  Clients include New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver of
Manhattan, the top Democratic lawmaker in  Albany  since 1994; 16
current and aspiring New York City Council members, Greenpeace,
 Cornell University  and several unions. Rosen, 35, and Berlin,
46, said they began giving campaign advice to de Blasio as early
as 2010.  Other, more established, strategic communications firms
have seen their fortunes rise after advising a winning candidate
for mayor. Howard Rubenstein, the 81-year-old founder and
president of Rubenstein Associates Inc., had been in business 19
years before advising Abraham Beame, a former city comptroller
he helped get to  City Hall  in 1973. Rubenstein, whom former
Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  called “the dean of damage control,”
has worked with mayors and expanded his business ever since.  Boy Politico  Rosen and Berlin met in 2001. He was an intern at a  law
firm  assigned to help a union save the jobs of subway token-booth clerks. Schneiderman, then a state senator, got involved.
Berlin was his chief of staff.  Rosen had been a political junkie since childhood. While
still in high school, he ran a field operation out of his
parents’ living room to help re-elect the mayor of Cherry Hill,
New Jersey. Berlin came to New York from  Michigan  in 1989 to be
an organizer for the Association of Community Organizations for
Reform Now, known as ACORN.  In 2005, the pair set up shop in the  Murray Hill ,
Manhattan, apartment that Rosen sublet from his sister-in-law.  “We thought, ‘We work well together. We share the same
values,’” Berlin said in an interview. “Let’s see what we can
do.”  Like Minds  They call it a mission-driven company and said they turn
away potential clients who don’t share their ideals and values.
Some organizations they represent advocate raising the minimum
wage, protecting  voting rights  and providing more services for
poor children and families.  “Our goal is to take on interesting work that we all feel
good about,” Rosen said.  Interviews with a dozen clients and peers elicited
descriptions of BerlinRosen’s staff as smart, hard-working and
good listeners. Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor of The Nation
magazine, called it “a powerhouse firm of strong progressive
credentials.” Assembly speaker Silver said he relies on Rosen
as a “trusted adviser.”  The firm has also reached beyond its political roots to
attract nonpartisan, institutional clients such as the  Brooklyn 
Public Library and the  MacArthur Foundation , known for its
“genius” grants.  They’ve also represented Brookfield Office Properties, a
subsidiary of the owner of Zuccotti Park, from which  Occupy Wall
Street  was ousted in 2011, and Bruce Ratner, founder and
chairman of Forest City Ratner Cos., developer of Brooklyn’s 22-acre Atlantic Yards, which includes Barclays Center with plans
for thousands of market-rate and discount apartments.  Selling Cornell  BerlinRosen’s staff has doubled since 2011 to 34, with
offices in lower Manhattan and Washington. Most employees have
worked in government, nonprofits, community organizing or
unions. Dan Levitan, a company vice president who is de Blasio’s
campaign spokesman, was previously communications director for
the Working Families Party.  Its founders say one of the company’s most important
victories came when Cornell University was an underdog in
competition with  Stanford University  to build an engineering
campus in New York City. Rosen led the campaign.  He pitched Cornell’s cause as if it were in a political
campaign, Rosen said, “enlisting the faculty and a wide array
of alumni in the tech world to go out as ambassadors” to news
organizations “to create buzz, to create excitement” and to
catch the attention of public officials. It worked.  BerlinRosen sold de Blasio the same way it sold Cornell,
said  Stu Loeser , a strategic communications consultant and
former press secretary to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  “Slow and steady,” Loeser said. “They set their themes
and their goals and remained flexible if circumstances
changed.”  Slope Folks  Berlin said she met de Blasio when he ran  Hillary Clinton ’s
successful 2000 campaign for  U.S. Senate  in New York. Rosen met
the candidate when he was a city councilman from Brooklyn and
worked with him to stop the sale of Starrett City, a 140-acre
subsidized middle-class housing complex, to a private developer.  Berlin and Rosen live two blocks apart in Park Slope,
Brooklyn. They are neighbors of de Blasio and his wife, Chirlane McCray, who was a speech writer for New York’s last Democratic
mayor, David Dinkins. Berlin’s spouse, Amy Rutkin, is chief of
staff for U.S. Representative  Jerrold Nadler  of Manhattan and
Brooklyn. Rosen’s wife, Debbie, is Silver’s deputy chief of
staff.  Starting Slowly  The early days of de Blasio’s campaign were a tough slog
for the company. Their candidate was viewed as a longshot, out
of sync with the conventional wisdom that voters wanted
continuity with the Bloomberg administration -- not the changes
de Blasio advocated.  Bloomberg, the 71-year-old founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally barred from
running for a fourth term.  De Blasio, after declaring his candidacy in January, drew
support at about 10 percent for months. That began to change in
August, when he emerged as the leading critic of the New York
Police Department’s stop-and-frisk policy. That month, the issue
reached a turning point when a federal judge ruled the tactics
unfairly targeted minority men. She appointed a monitor over the
department.  The firm’s ability to place de Blasio at the center of news
coverage of the issue was important because campaign spending
limits made it impractical to buy  television advertising  until
closer to election day, said Emma Wolfe, the deputy campaign
manager, who’s not a BerlinRosen employee.  New Members  De Blasio’s poll numbers began to rise and on Sept. 10, he
won the Democratic nomination with almost 41 percent of the vote
in a seven-way race.  “New York’s a small town run by 1,000 decision-makers and
BerlinRosen is about to join the club,” said Hank Sheinkopf,
who’s been a strategic communications consultant for more than
40 years.  Although Berlin and Rosen say their firm will remain the
same in the event de Blasio is elected mayor, that may prove
difficult, Sheinkopf said.  “There’s a potential issue as they get bigger: reconciling
the contradiction between their ideals and the interests of
people who hire them for their influence,” Sheinkopf said. Such
clients, he said, “may not share the progressive ideology upon
which the firm was founded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  