-- Obama Tells FBI Leaders He’ll Press Congress to Lift Budget Cuts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-28T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/obama-tells-fbi-leaders-he-ll-press-congress-to-lift-budget-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
keep pressing Congress to lift across-the-board budget cuts to
ease the limits they have placed on the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and other critical agencies.  At the formal installation ceremony for James Comey as the
seventh director of the FBI, Obama said resources for the agency
have been trimmed by the automatic cuts known as sequestration
even as the the FBI’s mission has been expanding to confront the
threat of terrorism.  “The least we can do is make sure you’ve got the resources
for it and that your operations are not disrupted because of
politics in this town,” Obama said.  A congressional committee will meet this week to come up
with a plan for taxes and spending to replace the automatic
spending cuts approved in 2011. Comey said in a speech in
Philadelphia last week that the budget limits mean that as many
as 3,500 positions will be cut and agents will be furloughed,
radio station KYW reported.  Comey, the former No. 2 official at the U.S. Justice
Department under President  George W. Bush , began his duties on
Sept. 4 and has a 10-year term. He replaced  Robert Mueller  as
the first new head of the FBI since before the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the U.S.  Obama called Comey “a remarkable new leader for this
remarkable institution.” He cited the FBI’s motto of
“fidelity, bravery, integrity,” and said Comey is “one who
lives those principles out every single day.”  Comey, 52, is leading a law-enforcement agency that has
shifted its focus since the Sept. 11 attacks to one that
concentrates on domestic terrorism, intelligence gathering and,
more recently, increased threats posed by computer hackers.  FBI Changes  Changes in the crime-fighting agency come amid heightened
public concerns over the reach and scope of classified
surveillance programs disclosed by a former intelligence
contractor.  The agency has defended itself on the use of drones, the
unmanned aerial vehicles used to conduct domestic criminal and
national security cases.  Comey was the Justice Department official who refused in
the dramatic hospital-room confrontation of ailing then-Attorney
General John Ashcroft to re-authorize a warrantless
eavesdropping program amid pressure from top Bush
administration officials.  Changes in that program, still classified, were eventually
made.  Comey left government service in 2005, becoming general
counsel to  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and to hedge fund Bridgewater
Associates LP. Before rejoining government service, he was
nonexecutive director on the board of London-based bank  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  