-- Occidental Plan to Split Off California Seen as Early
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W a r d
-- 2013-10-28T10:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/occidental-plan-to-split-off-california-seen-as-early.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ’s plan to
separate its $16 billion oil and natural gas business in
 California  as part of a restructuring effort may have hit a
snag: some shareholders aren’t that interested.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Chazen, who began talking
to investors and analysts in April about the possibility of
turning Occidental’s California operations into a stand-alone
company, is facing skepticism as the promise of tapping one of
the biggest U.S. oil reservoirs has yet to be realized. While
Chazen hasn’t made any specific proposal public,  shareholders 
including Cambiar Investors LLC and Frost Investment Advisors
LLC are questioning whether more patience is needed to realize
the best value from a spinoff or initial public offering.  “Keeping California under one umbrella with the other
assets would be ideal right now until they prove it up more,”
said Tim Beranek, a  money manager  at Denver-based Cambiar, which
owns more than 1.6 million shares in Los Angeles-based
Occidental. “There needs to be more data, more understanding of
California before an IPO.”  Producers including Occidental have been stymied by complex
geology, the state’s strict environmental scrutiny and a slow
permitting process for wells, all of which have historically led
investors to discount California assets compared to other
states, said Beranek.  Chazen made no mention of separating the California
business in an Oct. 18 announcement about asset sales in the
 Middle East  and  North Dakota . Occidental is the biggest energy
company to tackle restructuring after a year of shareholder
activism spurred a wave of management changes and asset sales.  Rock Variations  Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman for Occidental, declined to
comment on the status of the company’s plans for California. The
value of its business there is about $16 billion, Deutsche Bank
AG analyst  Paul Sankey  said in an Oct. 20 note to investors.  The feasibility of harvesting California’s Monterey shale,
a vast rock formation that spans much of the state and is
estimated by U.S. energy officials to hold two-third’s of the
nation’s potential shale oil resources, has been questioned by
executives including Chevron Corp.’s John Watson and  Continental
Resources Inc. (CLR) ’s  Harold Hamm .  Shale formations such as the Marcellus in  Pennsylvania  and
the Bakken in North Dakota are fairly uniform, while the
Monterey rocks are more varied, said Don Clarke, a consulting
geologist based in  Los Angeles . That means a producer might
target a brittle layer of rock perfect for hydraulic fracturing,
only to hit a more resilient, fracking-resistant rock farther
along, Clarke said.  Dry Holes  Venoco Inc., which has 46,000 net acres in the Monterey,
drilled 29 wells in the formation from 2010 to 2012 and as of
June hadn’t seen any production, according to a company filing.
It’s now reduced spending in the region.  The experience of shareholders in Venoco and other
California oil and gas companies may be a cautionary tale for
Occidental,  Leo Mariani , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in
Austin, said in a telephone interview.  “If you look at the history of these companies in
California, they’ve never had big multiples,” Mariani said.
“There’s never been much of an interest from investors in
California assets.”  Other companies with significant California operations such
as  Warren Resources Inc. (WRES)  and Berry Petroleum Co. are valued
among the lowest of producers focused more on oil than gas.
Berry’s output is more than six times that of  Diamondback Energy
Inc. (FANG) , a newly formed operator in  Texas ’s Permian basin, yet the
companies have about the same market capitalization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Methodical’ Decision  “This management team is going to look at it methodically
and make sure the timing’s right,” said  John Williams , an
analyst at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore, which has $647
billion under management, including Occidental shares.  Occidental might reassure skeptical investors by acquiring
more traditional oil field assets in the state such as those
being sold by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., Duane Grubert, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, said in an
Oct. 7 note to clients. Having the cash from older assets to
fund growth would command a higher valuation. Without that, a
California spinoff or IPO may not be well received, he said.  Occidental saw the promise of a turnaround in investor
sentiment in 2011 after announcing a big discovery in
California’s Kern County. Shares rose to an all-time high of
$115.74 on May 2, 2011, after an analyst said the company’s
California prospects might hold as much as 10 billion barrels of
oil.  Faded Promise  Since 2010, Occidental hasn’t been able to increase
production there beyond an average 1 percent in any three-month
period -- far below the expectations of analysts such as Bank of
America Corp.’s  Doug Leggate , who said in 2011 that the company
could be worth $200 a share once it realized all the benefits of
its California assets.  A slow permitting process and high costs have held
Occidental back from boosting production more rapidly, CEO
Chazen has said. The company’s business in the state will
generate free cash flow of $1 billion this year based on a $1.5
billion capital program. Occidental’s California operations can
raise output by 5 to 8 percent a year while generating a rate of
return higher than 20 percent, according to a company
presentation in July.  “For this asset, given its potential, I’m content to take
a more patient approach to its development,” said  Ted Harper ,
who helps oversee more than $9 billion at Frost Investment
Advisors LLC, including Occidental shares. “It may be a little
too early.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Ward in  New York  at 
 pward41@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  