-- London Billionaires Row Site for Sale After Khans Lose Case
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-10-28T16:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/london-billionaires-row-site-for-sale-after-khans-lose-control.html
Six luxury apartments in London’s
Knightsbridge neighborhood and a site on a street known as
Billionaires Row were put on sale after a legal fight between
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and a former Pakistan government minister.  Receivers hired Knight Frank LLP to market the properties,
the broker and receiver Eddisons Commercial Ltd. said in a
statement. The site on Bishop’s Avenue in north London’s
Hampstead area was valued at about 30 million pounds ($49
million) and the apartments are worth about 35 million pounds,
said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
named because they weren’t authorized to discuss it publicly.  Deutsche Bank took control of the properties after winning
a court fight against former Pakistani privatization minister
Waqar Ahmed Khan, his father Gulzar Khan and companies set up by
the Khan family. The Frankfurt-based bank sought early repayment
of about 55 million pounds of loans used to buy the apartments
near Hyde Park and the Bishop’s Avenue property. The Khans in
March lost a lawsuit against the bank that sought about 60
million pounds.  The group of properties is “one of London’s most
substantial prime residential portfolios,” James Liddiment,
associate director at Eddisons, said in the statement.  Daisy Ziegler, a spokeswoman for  Knight Frank , declined to
comment on the estimated prices.  Bishops Avenue  The six Knightsbridge apartments may be sold together or
separately, Knight Frank and Eddisons said. The apartments are
valued at 2.6 million pounds to 7.25 million pounds each. The
site on Bishops Avenue has planning permission for a 46,000
square foot home, according to the statement.  Prices for London’s luxury homes outpaced all types of real
estate over the last few years as buyers seek a safe investment.
Prime London residences have risen more than 60 percent from
their low in 2009, according to London-based Knight Frank.  Bishops Avenue is considered one of the most expensive
streets in the world. It’s sometimes referred to as Billionaires
Row, a title also used to describe Kensington Palace Gardens to
the west of Hyde Park.  Nick Probert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in  London  at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  