-- Lone Star Said to Close $6.6 Billion Real Estate Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-28T19:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/lone-star-said-to-close-6-6-billion-real-estate-fund.html
Lone Star  Funds, the world’s biggest
buyer of delinquent mortgages, finished raising its $6.6 billion
commercial real estate debt and equity fund, a person with
knowledge of the closing said.  The Dallas-based firm limited the second and last phase of
fundraising to $600 million for the pool, Lone Star Real Estate
Fund III, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
details are private. Demand was so high that Lone Star could
only accept one-third of the amount pledged by each investor in
the final round, the person said.  Lone Star’s new fund is the biggest raised by a private-equity company for global property investments, according to
Preqin, a London-based research firm for alternative assets.
Additional capital pledges from Lone Star founder and Chairman
 John Grayken , the firm’s partners and employees of Hudson
Advisors, its asset-management arm, brought the total raised to
$7.1 billion, according to the person. Lone Star has said it
expects to invest half of the new pool in Europe.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is raising the largest Europe-only
fund, with a target of 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion), according
to Preqin. Blackstone, based in  New York , has raised about $2
billion for the fund, its fourth focused on European real
estate.  Grayken’s firm has produced returns exceeding 20 percent in
the past two decades and has never had a losing fund, attracting
repeat investments from investors such as pension funds. Lone
Star in May finished raising $5.1 billion for a residential-focused pool, Lone Star Fund VIII, which also is buying soured
loans from  Europe ’s banking crisis.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star at the public
relations firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, declined
to comment on the new fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  