-- Moody’s Increases CMBS Protection as Loans Become Riskier
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-10-28T20:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/moody-s-boosts-cmbs-protection-as-underwriting-standards-ease.html
Moody’s Investors Service is
boosting the level of credit protection required to achieve
investment-grade rankings on newly issued commercial-mortgage
bonds as loans get risker.  The so-called credit enhancement on such debt averaged 7.63
percent in the third quarter, up from 5.83 percent in 2011,
Moody’s said today in a statement. Credit enhancement is equal
to the amount of losses the deal can withstand before the
security loses principal.  The ratings company is adjusting its rankings as
competition between lenders increases amid surging sales.
Issuance is poised to double to $70 billion this year, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG. Offerings are reviving after the
market froze during the credit market seizure in 2008 following
a record $232 billion sold in 2007.  “Issuers continue to originate loans backed by weak malls
even as first-generation loans backed by similar collateral have
realized large losses,” Moody’s analyst Tad Philipp said in the
statement. “This exemplifies why we need continued diligence on
these transactions.”  Moody’s said last year it was altering the way it assesses
weaker shopping malls contained in CMBS deals, citing a growing
number of properties that may struggle to survive.  Forgoing Rankings  Wall Street banks that package commercial mortgages into
bonds are forgoing a ranking from the rater on riskier portions
of deals as Moody’s toughens its stance. The New York-based
ratings business didn’t grade lower-ranking portions on nine of
14 deals it’s rated since mid-July, according to Jefferies Group
Inc.  Wells Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
currently marketing a $904 million commercial-mortgage bond deal
that doesn’t include Moody’s on a $47.4 million portion that
Fitch Ratings and DBRS Ltd. ranked the lowest rung of investment
grade, according to people with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public.  The size of property loans relative to buildings’ values,
or the LTV, is climbing, according to Moody’s. The average LTV
increased to 103 percent in the third quarter from 102.6 percent
in the prior three-month period, the report said. Higher
leverage makes it harder to pay off debt.  Banks have submitted mortgages with LTVs as high as 150
percent for review to be included in commercial mortgage-backed
securities offerings, according to Moody’s. Such loans were
excluded after the reviews, Moody’s said.  “The fact that they continue to be originated indicates
that flaws remain within the CMBS business model,” the analysts
led by Philipp said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  