-- Morgan Stanley’s Continuum Dumps Suzlon Model for Growth
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-29T05:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/morgan-stanley-s-continuum-dumps-suzlon-model-for-growth.html
Morgan Stanley-backed Continuum Wind
Energy Pte, which plans a more than 10-fold surge in its  India 
capacity, is dumping a 20-year model that helped  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL)  dominate  Asia ’s second-biggest turbine market.  Continuum aims to build 1,360 megawatts of wind farms by
2017, almost all of that on its own, abandoning an industry
practice of hiring turbine makers to execute projects on a
turnkey basis, Chief Executive Officer Arvind Bansal said. The
new model will help utilities manage the assets better and boost
their profitability, he said.  Developers in India are building more productive wind farms
by doing away with a system set up by turbine makers Suzlon and
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , which handed ready-made projects to
investors. Continuum, whose expansion is set to beat the present
operating capacity of India’s biggest wind utility  CLP Holdings
Ltd. (2) , has already managed to cut generation losses at its farms
under the new model.  “The turbine manufacturer’s focus is to sell turbines,”
Bansal said in an interview. In contrast, the utility’s focus is
to sell the most units of electricity possible. “That’s where
the disconnect starts.”  Fighting Blackouts  India, which is fighting blackouts that hold back growth,
is seeking to cut dependence on imported fossil fuels and double
clean energy capacity to about 59 gigawatts by 2017. Its wind
capacity is forecast to increase by 2,050 megawatts this year,
topping the U.S. in annual installations for the first time,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The market’s shift to wind utilities focused on maximizing
electricity output will force manufacturers to compete on
turbine performance alone. That could benefit  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and ReGen Powertech Pvt. over entrenched suppliers such as
Suzlon, said Madhavan Nampoothiri, founder of Chennai-based
 RESolve Energy Consultants .  Suzlon declined to comment as it’s observing a silent
period before announcing second-quarter results tomorrow. Shares
of the Indian turbine maker have dropped 43 percent this year to
10.60 rupees, compared with a 6 percent gain in the benchmark
 S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   Generation Loss  Within a year, Continuum will triple capacity to more than
300 megawatts, including a 264-megawatt farm in Satara, in the
state of Maharashtra, that is India’s largest held by a single
owner. There, it’s installing machines from three vendors side-by-side to maximize generation.  Wind farms supplied by turbine makers can suffer as much as
6 percent in generation losses due to challenges such as
transmission lines tripping or poor roads lengthening
maintenance downtimes, he said. Continuum has reduced such
losses to 1 percent.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Infrastructure Partners holds an undisclosed
majority stake in the Singapore-registered Continuum. It has
invested more than $100 million in the company.  Turbine manufacturers “want to stuff as many turbines into
the project as possible,” Bansal said at his office in Mumbai.
“You are buying the down side. There’s no mechanism to optimize
your returns.” With self-development, a utility has the
flexibility to choose the best sites, the suppliers, the number
of turbines, as well as the ability to gather better wind data
and generate as much power as possible, he said.  Tax Breaks  Turnkey deals allowed investors with no power background to
buy windmills for tax benefits rather than to generate energy.
Most of India’s 20,000 megawatts of wind capacity was built
claiming tax breaks, leading to small, fragmented holdings that
owners often allowed to rust and idle once the depreciation
benefits were claimed.  Continuum’s strategy and full ownership is also paying off
after Indian regulators imposed a directive on July 15 ordering
wind farms to forecast their day-ahead power output or face
fines. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s ReNew Wind Power Pvt. and  Tata
Power Co. (TPWR)  warned the rule would wipe out industry profits
because it was too difficult to meet.  Complying with the rule is nearly impossible when a farm
has multiple owners because no investor will allow his turbine
to be switched off to optimize total generation, Bansal said.
Also, it’s difficult to share penalties. Continuum foresaw such
challenges in 2010 and has been practicing forecasting for more
than two years, he said.  Larsen, Tata  Wind farms are already able to supply power at the same
cost or cheaper than new coal-fired plants in some states.
That’s opening up a market for wind utilities to sell directly
to industrial and commercial businesses, which pay the highest
power tariffs, Bansal said.  Continuum completed its first such project in Gujarat state
where a 28-megawatt wind farm sells its output to  Larsen &
Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  under a 12 1/2-year contract at
a price that is lower than what those companies pay for grid
power.  Proposed reforms in India’s electricity market to separate
power distribution and transmission, both largely monopolized by
state-run companies, could spur such deals, he said.  India’s biggest developers, CLP and Tata Power, buy turnkey
wind farms from turbine manufacturers who require cash to fund
execution of the projects.  Globally, manufacturers including Suzlon, Vestas and  Gamesa
Corp Tecnologica SA (GAM) , have cut at least 9,000 jobs and closed
plants amid overcapacity as machine prices  fell by a quarter 
from their peak in 2009. Suzlon last year ceded its position as
India’s top wind-turbine supplier for the first time in at least
a decade after defaulting on bond repayments and struggling to
carry out orders due to a lack of capital.  “Developers that haven’t been doing self-development will
start having to,” Bansal said. “The inventory of turnkey
projects has dried up because manufacturers don’t have the
working capital to fund them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  