-- Orrick, Pillsbury in ‘Exploratory’ Talks: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-05T12:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/orrick-pillsbury-in-exploratory-talks-business-of-law.html
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP
and Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP said they are in talks
about merging the San Francisco-based law firms.  “Our firms are in exploratory discussions about a possible
combination,” the law firms said Oct. 25 in a joint statement.
“These talks are serving to confirm the great respect our firms
have for each other.”  According to the American Lawyer, a trade publication, 977-lawyer Orrick had $866 million in gross revenue last year,
making it the 27th-wealthiest firm in the country.  Pillsbury, with 609 lawyers and $561 million in gross
revenue last year, was ranked 56th in terms of wealth, according
to American Lawyer rankings.  The announcement is consistent with accelerating
consolidation in the legal industry, said Kent Zimmermann, a
Chicago-based legal consultant for Zeughauser Group LLC.  “It seems like everyone is talking,” Zimmermann said.
“There are more firms now that are interested in pursuing a
combination. Some firms do deals out of necessity because
they’re weakening, and other firms do it to double down and
become the best in their core areas of focus.”  U.S. law firms have entered 58 mergers so far this year,
compared to 60 in all of 2012, according to legal consultant
Altman Weil Inc.’s MergerLine.  Jaime E. Bruck, a Pillsbury spokeswoman, and Adi Weisman,
an Orrick spokeswoman, declined to comment on the talks beyond
the joint statement.  Orrick has 25 offices in North America,  Europe  and  Asia ,
with more extensive coverage in Europe and Asia than Pillsbury,
according to the firm’s website. Pillsbury has 15 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and  Abu Dhabi , according to its website.  Patton Boggs Said in Merger Talks With Locke Lord, Reuters Says  Patton Boggs  LLP is in talks to merge with a larger U.S.
 law firm , said to be  Locke Lord Bissell and Liddell LLP , Reuters
 reported , citing two former Patton Boggs partners who left the
firm earlier this year.  The former partners had knowledge of the merger talks from
lawyers inside Washington-based Patton Boggs, Reuters said.  Separately, Patton Boggs, with more than 450 lawyers, is
also in merger talks with an unidentified law firm outside the
U.S., Reuters reported, citing the partners.  “All firms that recognize the rapidly changing landscape
for the legal profession should be looking for ways to improve
their platform for their partners and to better serve their
clients, and Patton Boggs is no different,” the firm said in an
e-mailed statement. “We are constantly evaluating ways to
improve our platform and the way that we provide legal services.
If we find a combination that accomplishes these goals, we would
have an announcement if and when we pursue it.”  Locke Lord said it doesn’t comment on speculation about
potential mergers.  “In line with our strategic plan, we regularly look at
growth opportunities that would benefit our firm and our
clients,” Locke Lord said in an e-mailed statement.  Patton Boggs, which is known for its lobbying and
litigation and practices, hired earlier this month Locke Lord’s
former partner and chair of the private-equity practice in the
Dallas office Gina E. Betts. The firm has 10 offices in the U.S.
and in the  Middle East , according to its website.  Locke Lord is recognized for its litigation, insurance and
reinsurance and energy practices. The firm has 13 offices
including in Hong Kong and  London , according to its website.  American Law Firm Herzfeld & Rubin Opens Office in Myanmar  Herzfeld & Rubin PC announced Oct. 25 that it opened a law
office in Yangon, Myanmar, in July, staffed by American and
Myanmar attorneys. It is named Herzfeld, Rubin, Meyer & Rose Law
Firm LTD. The firm also plans to open a satellite office in
Myanmar’s capital Nay Pyi Taw.  Andrew Ngun Cung Lian, who was the deputy chief negotiator
of the Chin National Front in its peace negotiations with the
Myanmar government, will be managing director of the office and
will lead a staff of five U.S. and Myanmar attorneys.  U Kyaw Hoe, a member of the National League for Democracy
party’s  Central Committee , heads HRMR’s litigation practice. He
represents clients in contracts, real estate, labor and
immigration law, as well as intellectual-property matters, the
firm said.  “Herzfeld & Rubin’s attorneys have a rich history of
helping develop legal frameworks in several emerging and
frontier economies around the world, and our presence in Myanmar
represents a substantial commitment to Southeast Asia,” Eric C.
Rose, a principal of HRMR, said in a statement.  Based in New York, Herzfeld & Rubin has more than 200
attorneys there and four affiliated offices in the U.S., Europe
and Israel, the firm said. The new office will be a full-service
firm and will handle matters related to the emerging and
frontier markets.  In September, Duane Morris LLP opened an office in Yangon
as a branch of Duane Morris & Selvam LLP, a joint law venture
the Philadelphia-based firm formed with Singapore-based Selvam
LLC in 2010.  The foreign interest in Myanmar results from the European
Union and other countries lifting most trade sanctions that were
previously imposed on Myanmar. The country has implemented
political and economic reforms under the leadership of President
U Thein Sein. The country has abundant resources including
natural gas, petroleum, timber, tin, zinc, copper, lead, coal,
precious stones and fertile land, Herzfeld & Rubin said in their
statement.  “The result of sweeping political and economic reform has
ignited interest in Myanmar by American and other global
investors -- including our clients,” Herzfeld & Rubin’s
managing director, Ian Ceresney, said in a statement. “Their
renewed focus in the region, and Southeast Asia generally, is
the impetus behind our decision to establish a presence there.”  Moves  Bingham Adds to Latin America Capabilities in New York Office  Bingham McCutchen LLP added Juan Manuel Trujillo as a
partner in the corporate practice in the New York office. He was
previously at Arnold & Porter LLP.  Trujillo focuses on corporate and finance transactions in
Latin America, as well as advising Latin American businesses and
investors on U.S. and other non-Latin American transactions, the
firm said. He is admitted to practice in Mexico and New York. He
has advised clients on mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures,
investment transactions and a variety of financing and
restructuring transactions.  “We expect Juan’s experience leading sophisticated
transactions across a variety of industries will be valuable to
Bingham’s global client base,” Kevin Sheridan, a New York-based
partner and co-leader of Bingham’s corporate practice group,
said in a statement.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Former Treasury Department Counsel Joins Stroock & Stroock  Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP announced that Anne Salladin
has joined the firm as special counsel in the national
security/CFIUS/compliance practice group. Prior to joining the
firm, Salladin spent almost 20 years in the Office of the
assistant general counsel for international affairs of the U.S.
Treasury Department.  As senior counsel she had responsibility for providing
legal advice on CFIUS matters and participated in hundreds of
CFIUS reviews and investigations, negotiated mitigation
agreements and advised on related compliance matters, the firm
said.  “Anne Salladin’s distinguished government career and
contributions to CFIUS matters at Treasury are well-known, and
include working to revise and implement the CFIUS regulations,”
Chris Griner, an adviser on foreign investment cases before the
CFIUS and the managing partner of Stroock’s Washington office,
said in a statement.  “Her practical experience with complex
international transactions and her thorough understanding of the
CFIUS process will be invaluable to our clients and our national
security group.”  Salladin is the third senior government official to join
Stroock in the last few months.  The firm’s Washington office
opened in May with the hiring of Bob Plaze, who had been deputy
director of the Division of  Investment Management  with the SEC.
The firm also added Tram Nguyen, who had been chief of the
private-funds branch of the SEC’s Division of Investment
Management.  “Our new Washington office is an important and logical
expansion of our firm, and attracting top legal minds like Anne
is a priority for us,” Stuart Coleman, Stroock’s co-managing
partner said in a statement. “Chris Griner has done a
tremendous job of establishing, at Stroock, an extraordinarily
talented and experienced team to support his National
Security/CFIUS/Compliance practice.”  Stroock & Stroock has lawyers at offices in New York, Los
Angeles, Miami and Washington.  Deals  DuPont Plans to Spin Off Volatile Performance Chemicals Unit  DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest U.S. chemical maker by market
value, plans to split itself in two by spinning off its
performance-chemicals unit, part of an effort to boost
 shareholder value  and focus on higher-margin products. Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is providing legal
representation to DuPont. Evercore Partners Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are strategic advisers on the separation.  The Skadden team includes New York partners Brandon Van Dyke and Lou Kling, mergers and acquisitions; David Rievman,
tax; and Regina Olshan, executive compensation and benefits.  The tax-free spinoff will be completed in about 18 months,
after which DuPont investors will hold all of the new company,
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said in a statement. The unit
makes pigments, refrigerants and non-stick coatings, accounting
for 29 percent of DuPont’s $6.3 billion of operating earnings
last year, the company said in a presentation.  For more, click here.  News  What to Watch: Senate Nominations including Akin Gump’s Millett  The Senate will focus on President  Barack Obama ’s
nominations when it returns this week.  The big question: Will nominees be confirmed to two of the
three open seats on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C.
Circuit.  It’s a high-profile court. It handles cases involving
federal regulations and it’s been a career stop for more than a
few Supreme Court nominees.  Of the eight current judges, four were appointed by
Democratic presidents and four were appointed by Republicans. If
more Obama selections go on that court, look for a different
philosophical mix in the three-judge panels that handle the
court’s routine business. Only one of the judges on the court,
Sri Srinivasan, was nominated by Obama.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  complained about the composition
of the court earlier this year when it ruled against the
administration on recess appointments. In a floor speech on May
22 arguing for Srinivasan’s confirmation, Reid said that “we
have a majority in that court that is wreaking havoc with the
country.”  “Instead of a balanced court,” some Democrats “want to
make sure they get favorable outcomes from this court,”  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, ranking Republican on the  Senate Judiciary
Committee , said in a Sept. 19 statement.  Grassley also said the court isn’t busy enough to warrant
filling all of its vacancies.  Reid is planning to seek votes next week to confirm
Washington lawyer Patricia Millett, who co-heads Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP’s Supreme Court practice, and
Georgetown University law professor Nina Pillard to seats on the
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia , said
a leadership aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  All eight committee Republicans voted against the two
nominations when they were reported on party-line votes.  Millett’s nomination probably will be considered first,
because the committee sent her nomination to the floor before it
reported the nomination of Pillard, said Michelle Schwartz,
director of judicial programs at Alliance for Justice, a
Washington-based advocacy group that is generally allied with
Democrats.  Before the Senate turns to the court nominations, the first
order of business will be a Monday cloture vote on Obama’s
choice of Richard F. Griffin Jr. to be general counsel of the
 National Labor Relations Board .  Griffin, who had been given a recess appointment to the
NLRB, was nominated for agency’s top legal job as part of a deal
to allow Senate confirmation of three other board nominations.
As part of that agreement, Democrats dropped efforts to win
Griffin’s confirmation to the board as well as another recess
appointee to the NLRB, Sharon Block. The Senate confirmed two
other board members after Obama withdrew their nominations.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Ecuador Judge Says He Exaggerated Bribery Claims to Chevron  A former Ecuadorean judge who testified he and a colleague
received bribes from plaintiffs who won a $19 billion pollution
judgment against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  told a U.S. court he initially
exaggerated those claims.  The former judge, Alberto Guerra, testified in a trial in
Manhattan federal court Oct. 25 that he wasn’t truthful about
some details when he first discussed the bribery allegations
with Chevron representatives in 2012.  Guerra, a key witness for Chevron in a racketeering case
against lawyers for Ecuadorean plaintiffs who claim the company
polluted their communities, has testified to receiving as much
as $40,000 to ghostwrite rulings for another judge who presided
over the Chevron case, as well as editing and polishing the $19
billion judgment. The other judge, Nicolas Zambrano, was
promised $500,000 from the proceeds of the 2011 judgment, Guerra
said in his testimony.  When first discussing those bribery allegations with
Chevron, Guerra falsely told company representatives the
plaintiffs promised him $300,000 to help steer the case in their
favor, according to his testimony.  “It was an exaggeration on my part in order to secure a
better position for myself,” he said through a translator,
under questioning by  Zoe Littlepage , a lawyer for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs’ lead attorney, Steven Donziger. “It was not true.”  Chevron is trying to prove in a non-jury trial before U.S.
District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  that Donziger and his associates
schemed to “shake down” the second-largest U.S. energy company
by pursuing a case over pollution at a drilling site in the
Ecuadorean Amazon, in part by taking advantage of corruption in
the South American country’s judiciary.  Donziger, a Harvard Law School-educated Manhattan lawyer,
denies he did anything illegal in Ecuador. He argues the
judgment is valid and that Chevron used tactics similar to those
it claims he engaged in.  Donziger claims Guerra cut a deal with Chevron in which the
company agreed to pay the former judge at least $326,000 through
2015 for his testimony.  In the racketeering case, Chevron is seeking a ruling
barring the environmental plaintiffs’ lawyers from seeking to
enforce the Ecuadorean judgment in courts around the world.  The racketeering case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In re Naranjo, 13-00772,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 