-- Total Outperforms BP as Investors Reward Spending Cuts: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-10-28T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/total-outperforms-bp-as-investors-reward-spending-cuts-energy.html
Investors are telling the world’s
largest oil companies to put their wallets away.  France ’s  Total SA (FP)  is the best-performing stock among the
world’s five biggest non-state oil companies this year and has
overtaken BP Plc in market value. It’s also the only one that’s
promised to cut capital spending. All five report third-quarter
earnings this week.  Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said last
month that Total can reduce investment while increasing oil and
gas production. The promise impressed investors and analysts,
who are concerned producers are spending too much on expensive
projects at a time when crude prices have stagnated. They’d
rather see the cash given back to shareholders.  “Total has a message that really resonates,” said  Jason Gammel , an oil industry analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd.
in London. “We see 2014 as a period where the sector as a whole
doesn’t produce enough cash to fund dividends. That implies the
cash structure has gotten somewhat out of control.”  Officials at Total and BP declined to comment on the
companies’ relative share price performance.  The so-called majors -- Total, BP,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  -- have ramped up spending as
they’re forced to drill more difficult wells to find and develop
new fields, according to Brian Youngberg, an analyst with Edward
Jones & Co. in St. Louis.  “The days of the giant, cheap oil finds are gone,”
Youngberg said. “Production growth is an ongoing challenge.”  All the big five, bar Chevron, are expected to report a
year-on-year drop in third-quarter earnings, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Maintenance halts at
oilfields and weaker margins at refineries will hold back
profit, Deutsche Bank AG analysts said in a note to clients.  Brent Crude  Benchmark Brent crude oil prices averaged $109.65 a barrel
in third quarter, just 23 cents more than the same period last
year. BP’s refining marker margin, a generic measure of
profitability, dropped to $13.62 a barrel from $23.15 a year
earlier.  Shell Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser, who steps down
at the end of the year, says cutting spending isn’t the right
response to the malaise. Companies need to “invest heavily” to
keep the world supplied with oil and gas, he said on Oct. 1.
Shell is increasing spending this year and says it will invest
more than $30 billion a year through 2015.  Exxon has said it plans to maintain capital expenditure at
about $38 billion for the next few years, and BP expects to
invest between $24 billion and $27 billion from 2014 to the end
of the decade after spending about $25 billion this year.
Chevron also plans to increase spending in 2013.  Angola Project  Total’s spending is expected to fall to $24 billion to $25
billion in 2015 to 2017 compared with $28 billion to $29 billion
this year after completing projects in Norway, Angola and
Kazakhstan.  “Total is really the only oil major projecting a fall in
absolute capital expenditure,” said Neill Morton, an oil
analyst at Investec Securities in London. “That gives
confidence that it will generate free cash flow. At current
prices, most companies aren’t generating enough cash for both
capex and dividends.”  The Paris-based company has gained 14.3 percent this year.
Exxon, the biggest company, has advanced 1.6 percent in 2013,
while Shell has lost 4 percent.  Chevron, with an 11.5 percent gain this year, has run Total
closest because they have the best prospects for production
growth after developing resources including the Gorgon LNG
project in  Australia , analysts said. The San Ramon, California-based company plans to increase output about 20 percent to 3.3
million barrels a day by 2017.  Chevron Advantage  “Chevron’s advantage is that they’re more profitable per
barrel than their peers and they have the most transparent
growth potential,” said Edward Jones’s Youngberg.  While Chevron hasn’t given any firm capital spending
guidance, Vice Chairman George Kirkland has said investment will
probably moderate as projects are completed.  At BP, up 6.2 percent this year, an $8 billion program to
buy back shares from investors hasn’t offset concern that the
full cost of litigation resulting from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill in 2010 isn’t yet known. The company said in July it
expects third-quarter production to slip because of maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  