-- OTP Drops Most in 2 Months as Loan Plan Rejected: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-28T16:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/otp-drops-most-in-2-weeks-as-loan-plan-rejected-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, slid the most in two months after the government
rejected a proposal by banks to help households with foreign-currency mortgages.  The  stock  declined 2.8 percent to 4,375 forint by the close
in Budapest, the biggest drop since Aug. 27. About 900,000
shares changed hands, or 9 percent more than the three-month
daily average. The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  index, of which OTP accounts
for about 30 percent, fell 0.7 percent.  Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said the banks’ plan doesn’t
solve problems facing borrowers with foreign-exchange loans,
according to state news agency MTI. Lenders submitted a set of
proposals last week that included helping people service their
debt and temporarily suspending evictions for some borrowers,
news website Hirado.hu reported Oct. 26, citing Levente Kovacs,
secretary general of the Hungarian Banking Association.  “The minister’s statement comes just as the banks’ and the
government’s standpoints had seemed to be nearing” Peter Varju,
a Budapest-based equities trader at Erste Group Bank AG said by
phone. “This doesn’t necessarily mean there will be a blood-bath as there are scenarios that would cause banks less harm,
but hope for a deal may vanish from the market.”  The government has promised to help borrowers whose loan
installments spiraled due to a weaker forint. Banks in Hungary
lost $1.7 billion during a 2011 program that allowed the early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at below-market exchange
rates in a lump sum.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government, which faces
elections in 2014, promised to phase-out foreign-currency
mortgages after earlier initiatives failed to ease the burden of
Hungarian households with almost $17 billion in such loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  