-- The German Miracle, Riding on Bad Roads
-- B y   S u d h a   D a v i d - W i l p
-- 2013-10-28T14:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/how-germany-s-economic-miracle-could-falter.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won re-election in  Germany  with an impressive share of the vote, but
 talks  to form a coalition remain jammed over whether to
establish a minimum wage. This focus is myopic.  The next government -- probably a grand coalition between
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and the  Social Democratic
Party  -- will need to concentrate on fundamental issues
affecting the next generation that have been neglected under
Merkel as she concentrated on  balancing  the budget.  Germany may be the export success story that other
countries want to emulate, but that powerful narrative hides
weaknesses -- aging highways and rail networks, subpar
technology investment, poor demographics -- which need to be
addressed now, if the country is to avoid stumbling later on.
After all, it was only in the 1990s that Germany was being
called “the sick man of  Europe ,” and it can happen again.  Almost 25 years after East and  West Germany  reunified, the
country remains divided when it comes to infrastructure, though
not in the way you’d think. Cities in the former communist East
Germany boast sparkling new train stations and smooth highways,
while the transport systems in many other German regions have
been neglected. The government in North Rhine-Westphalia, the
most populous state and home to blue-chip companies such as the
appliance maker Miele AG and pharmaceuticals company  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
says 300 bridges have to be repaired in the short term and 700
more later.  Fixing Railways  To maintain its competitive edge, Germany’s government
needs to spend an extra 6.5 billion euros ($9 billion) a year
maintaining its roads and railways, according to  a study  by the
German Institute for Economic Research, or DIW, in Berlin. The
Pro-Rail Alliance, a lobby,  calculated  in a survey that Germany
spends less per capita on its famously punctual rail system than
any of the seven other countries examined except  Spain .
Germany’s location and its export sector, which is worth 52
percent of gross domestic product, make it one of the largest
European markets for logistics, with about 200 billion euros in
annual turnover.  The situation of Germany’s energy supply is more acute. The
next government must plan quickly for the ambitious transition
from nuclear to green energy that was  forced  after the 2011
Fukushima disaster in  Japan , when Merkel suddenly reversed her
commitment to keep the country’s nuclear plants running. Any
coalition Merkel forms would continue with this policy, removing
18 percent of Germany’s current power generation.  The  energy industry  might already be raising the alarm if
it weren’t able to pass the costs onto consumers: Germans, who
already have some of the  most expensive  electricity in Europe,
will see their annual power bills rise about 60 euros for a
family of four by the end of next year. The next government will
have to amend the country’s  renewable  energies law to keep such
price shocks in check, if the promotion of alternative
technologies isn’t to become drag on the economy. The next
government should heed the  Federation of German Industries ’ call
for a stakeholder conference within 100 days of taking office,
and consider creating a superministry dedicated to energy.  German engineering and the strength of its small and medium
enterprises are praised around the world, but the country has
not produced heavyweights in the global technology sector, with
the exception of software producer  SAP AG. (SAP)  German politicians
are quick to press for data privacy on behalf of their
constituents, but should also contemplate creating a better
environment for technology entrepreneurship and innovation to
keep the economy humming into the future. Germany can’t afford
to wait, for example, on a strategy to  build  out a fiber-optic
broadband network to replace its often snail-like offering on
copper phone lines. This won’t appear like manna from heaven and
will require substantial public investment.  Helping Startups  Along with broadband and policies such as tax relief for
investors, Germany can boost the startups that create growth and
jobs. Early-stage entrepreneurial activity in Germany hovers
just above 5 percent  according  to the Global Entrepreneurship
Monitor, compared with 13 percent for the U.S.  A grand coalition of conservatives and social democrats
would be best positioned to carry out the investments needed to
secure Germany’s long-term prosperity, and the money can be
found. The  International Monetary Fund  has suggested Germany has
the flexibility to eliminate special reductions to the country’s
19 percent sales tax (hotels, for example, have paid a 7 percent
rate since 2010). And analysts project that returning growth
will produce a 2.5 percent increase in  tax revenue  by the end of
the year.  Finally, though Germany may be the big kid on the block in
Europe, with a population of about 80 million, its Federal
Statistical Office  predicts  a loss of 5 million people by 2030.
The under-20 age group will shrink the most, while over-65s will
increase by 33 percent, straining budgets to pay for ballooning
pensions out of a shrinking income tax-stream. The government
has to address this by making the workplace more attractive for
women -- the pay gap between men and women is among the highest
in Europe at 22 percent. Instead of funneling money into child-care subsidies for stay-at-home mothers, the new German
government  should  create more child-care centers and simplify
the visa application process for potential skilled immigrants.  Behind closed doors the political parties don’t have much
choice but to compromise on issues such as the minimum wage as
they haggle over cabinet seats. Yet once in office they need to
take the long view. The world needs this Wirtschaftswunder,
Germany’s economic miracle, to continue.  (Sudha David-Wilp is a senior transatlantic fellow in the
Berlin office of the  German Marshall Fund  of the  United States .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sudha David-Wilp at  SDavidwilp@gmfus.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 