-- Toyota to Ford Brace for Vietnam Auto Import Competition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-29T04:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/toyota-to-ford-brace-for-vietnam-auto-import-competition.html
After almost two decades of waiting
for Vietnamese consumers to become rich enough to afford cars,
manufacturers including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
will have to contend with cheaper imports.  Current Vietnamese duties of 60 percent will be eliminated
by 2018 for cars imported from within the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations , Met Arias, chairman of the  Vietnam 
Automobile Manufacturers Association and managing director of
Ford’s unit in the country, said in an interview Oct. 23.
Without a major parts industry, car production costs are higher
than elsewhere in the region because of taxes on imported
components, he said.  The government cited the auto industry as an important
driving force under a plan to become a “modern industrial
country” by 2020. The impending abolishment of protective
duties risks giving automakers little incentive to modernize or
continue running plants in Vietnam even as the country’s ascent
to  middle-income  status means more people can now afford cars.  “I was one of the early believers in Vietnam’s  auto
industry ,” said Keith Schulz, general director of lubricant
maker  Vilube Corp.  in Ho Chi Minh City, who was a consultant to
automakers setting up plants in the nation in the mid-1990s.
“But by 2018, it sounds like this industry will be cracked open
like a clam, and real economics will take over.”  The country’s auto industry is in danger of collapsing with
the planned elimination of industry import taxes, Vietnam News
 reported  in August. The nation needs immediate measures to avoid
becoming a major importer of cars, it said, citing Ngo Van Tru,
deputy head of the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s heavy
industry department.  Short Time  “Five years is a very short time for makers to enhance
competitiveness considering the current auto and supporting
industry,” Yoshihisa Maruta, president of Toyota Motor Vietnam,
said in e-mailed comments.  Based on sales last year, the top five foreign automakers
with plants in Vietnam are Toyota,  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford,
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, according to
figures from the automobile association.  Sales of vehicles assembled in Vietnam rose 20 percent
through the first nine months of this year to 67,045, led by
Toyota’s 23,324, according to figures from the group.  “If the government doesn’t significantly improve the
situation for the local manufacturers, there is always a risk”
of some makers shutting plants after 2018, said Michael Behrens,
CEO of Mercedes-Benz Vietnam Ltd.  Imported cars will be cheaper than domestically produced
ones when duties are lifted unless changes are made, such as
cutting taxes on parts that aren’t available in Vietnam, said
Arias in the interview in Ho Chi Minh City. Carmakers operating
locally must be able to compete with  Thailand , where many
vehicles are made in free-trade zones and parts are sourced
locally or imported without duties, he said.  Thai Competition  Last November, Toyota said it will meet growing demand in
 emerging markets  by boosting production in Thailand, from where
it already exports to regional countries including Indonesia,
 Malaysia  and the  Philippines .  General Motors’ Thai unit  exports  to 77 markets and has
production lines capable of making left- or right-hand drive
 cars , according to the Detroit-based company’s website.  Vietnamese consumers prefer motorbikes for now. Vietnam has
more than 38 million motorbikes on the road as of this month, up
6 percent from last year, according to the National Traffic
Safety Committee. About two million cars are currently
registered, according to the committee.  New Cars  Auto sales in Thailand, with a population of 67 million
people, were about 1.43 million units in 2012, according to data
from Toyota Motor (Thailand) Ltd. Vietnam, with 89 million
people, will probably see sales of new cars rise about 17
percent to 109,000 vehicles this year, Ford estimates.  The government still makes it very expensive to own a car
in Vietnam, with the inclusion of consumption, value-added and
registration taxes, said Horst Herdtle, CEO of Euro Auto Corp.,
which sells  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  imports in the country.  “It seems like the Vietnamese government wants to have a
car industry, but they don’t want cars on the road,” Herdtle
said. “That is a kind of paradox.”  The situation reflects the disparate objectives of the
government bodies that influence the local auto industry. The
Ministry of Finance, which applies  tax policy , is primarily
concerned with revenue, while other government agencies may want
to cut taxes, said Arias.  Inconsistent Policies  The Ministry of Planning and Investment, which oversees the
licensing of foreign projects, in September cited the auto
industry as an example of inconsistent policies hurting
investors from overseas.  The transport ministry is worried about the impact that car
purchases may have on the environment and traffic flow, said
Deputy Minister Nguyen Ngoc Dong.  “Take places like Bangkok,  Singapore ,  Taiwan : They all
discourage vehicles for individuals,” Dong said in an interview
in July. “For Vietnam, because the level of infrastructure
development is low, we have to accelerate the growth of public
transportation.”  Arias said any new master plan that emerges for the auto
industry should ensure national and provincial policies are
aligned and meet rules set by the  World Trade Organization . The
proposal should also address the competitiveness of the industry
through tax cuts, he said.  “The government has to lower the cost of doing business in
Vietnam,” said Arias.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  