-- Payfone Raises $10 Million, Valued at $500 Million
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/payfone-raises-10-million-valued-at-500-million.html
Payfone Inc. , a provider of mobile-phone security, is raising $10 million from Early Warning
Services LLC, a provider of fraud-detection tools for banks and
financial-services companies.  The deal, part of a commercial agreement between the
companies, brings New York-based Payfone’s total funding to
about $40 million, Payfone Chief Executive Officer Rodger Desai
said in an interview. Payfone’s other investors include  American
Express Co. (AXP) ,  Opus Capital , RRE Ventures and Relay Ventures.  The investment values Payfone at $500 million, according to
 Tom Taulli , who analyzes acquisitions for Los Angeles-based
IPOPlaybook.com. As consumers shift more of their financial
activity to smartphones and tablets from personal computers,
there’s a growing need to keep information secure and prevent
fraud in order to protect users and financial institutions,
Desai said.  “It’ll limit the friction consumers face when dealing with
banks,” Desai said. “We are at the very beginning of the
opportunity for mobile authentication.”  Payfone received a pre-emptive takeover offer of $200
million to $250 million from a bank last year, Desai said. No
deal resulted, he said.  “We are in no rush to sell,” Desai said.  Banks that use Early Warning will also implement Payfone’s
technology, the CEO said. Early Warning, based in Scottsdale,
 Arizona , is  owned  by Bank of America Corp., BB&T Corp., Capital
One Financial Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co.  Payfone’s system communicates with mobile carriers’
networks, helping to detect suspicious behavior, such as opening
accounts in multiple banks in a row, alerting banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  