-- Pensions Muscle Into Reinsurance in Wagers on Catastrophe
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/pensions-muscle-into-reinsurance-in-wagers-on-catastrophe.html
The $30 trillion global pension fund
industry is starting to muscle in on traditional reinsurers,
financing protection against earthquakes and tornadoes as
 interest rates  near record lows spur the search for yield.  A record $10 billion of institutional money flowed into
insurance-linked investments in the 18 months through June, and
for the first time is directly influencing pricing of some
catastrophe risk coverage, according to  Guy Carpenter , the
reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. Catastrophe bonds
can yield as much as 15 percent, LGT Capital Partners AG says.  Coverage provided by alternative capital, as pension and
hedge-fund money is known in the  insurance industry , reached $45
billion at the end of 2012, about 14 percent of the total global
property catastrophe limit purchased, Guy Carpenter says. While
welcomed by nations seeking to spread disaster burdens, pension
investment is pushing down prices, even as reinsurers press for
higher rates to compensate for more frequent extreme weather.  “This is the biggest change to the reinsurance sector’s
capital structure in the last 20 years,” said David Flandro,
global head of business intelligence at Guy Carpenter in  New
York . “Catastrophe reinsurance is relatively high-risk, high-return. Pension funds are looking for direct access. Most of the
capital is here to stay.”  In a catastrophe bond, insurers pay buyers some of the
premiums collected for protection against damage from natural
disasters. In exchange for above-market yields, investors assume
the risk of a disaster during the life of their bonds, with
their principal used to cover damage caused if the catastrophe
is severe enough. The first catastrophe bonds were issued after
 Hurricane Andrew  in 1992.  ‘Coming of Age’  New Zealand’s Superannuation Fund said in May it planned to
more than double its holdings in catastrophe bonds and other
insurance-linked assets, while firms such as PGGM NV in the
 Netherlands  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s employee-retirement fund have stepped up their reinsurance investments.
Pension assets have reached $30 trillion globally this year,
according to estimates from J.P. Morgan Asset Management.  “This is a coming-of-age moment,” said Michael Millette,
global head of structured finance at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which managed a catastrophe bond offering for the New York
Metropolitan Transportation Authority after Superstorm Sandy in
2012. “Some of the largest asset-management complexes in the
world are becoming more engaged in the space.”  Catastrophe bonds can become even more attractive in the
wake of a disaster as capital is depleted and insurance prices
rise, said Eveline Takken, head of insurance-linked securities,
or ILS, at PGGM, which oversees about 140 billion euros ($193
billion) in retirement savings for Dutch pension funds.  Bond Returns  PGGM is continuing to set up new investments in catastrophe
insurance, eight years after its first forays following
 Hurricane Katrina , she said by phone from Zeist, Netherlands.  The Swiss Re Cat Bond Total Return Index, which tracks
dollar debt sold by insurers and reinsurers, shows catastrophe
bonds have returned about 10 percent this year. U.S. 10-year
Treasuries currently yield 2.5 percent. Takken and other fund
managers interviewed declined to disclose their returns.  Pension funds like reinsurance because of its low
correlation to equity and bond markets. They can invest directly
in the securities or allocate funds to specialist asset
managers, such as  Secquaero Advisors Ltd.  and Nephila Capital
Ltd., firms that sold stakes to  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and  KKR (KKR)  & Co.
respectively this year as interest in the asset class increased.  Falling Prices  More than 80 percent of catastrophe coverage is still
provided by the Lloyd’s of  London  market and traditional
reinsurers, of which  Munich Re  is the world’s largest. Munich Re
said on Oct. 21 that rates in Germany need to rise following
this year’s weather events, which included a “centennial”
flood coming just 10 years after the last one.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a presentation in London last
month that the new capital threatened the industry’s earnings
and is depressing pricing for property-catastrophe coverage.  “Pension fund money is what everyone is talking about,”
said Maciej Wasilewicz, a London-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley. “The funds involved have all done the due diligence,
hired the right people and trained themselves up. They have the
infrastructure to invest in this in the future.”  Wasilewicz said the inflows had begun to drive pricing most
noticeably in U.S. hurricane and tornado coverage, which makes
up more than 50 percent of total ILS issuance.  Canadian regulators last month urged the nation’s insurance
companies to issue their first catastrophe bonds in the wake of
flooding that inundated downtown Calgary, the nation’s most
costly natural disaster.  ‘Extremely Watchful’  According to Goldman Sachs, which estimates sales of
catastrophe bonds to reach a record $8 billion this year,
Canadian insurers had relied exclusively on reinsurance to help
bear risks.  Guy Carpenter’s Flandro said the new money dominated
discussions at the industry’s annual meeting in  Monte Carlo  last
month, where reinsurers gathered with brokers and their clients
to negotiate next year’s policies.  John Nelson , chairman of Lloyd’s, the world’s oldest
insurance market, called on regulators in London last month to
be “extremely watchful” of alternative capital, saying the new
entrants could pose a threat by pricing risk too cheaply.  “Pension funds and other long-term investors are probably
here to stay, so long as we can provide them with a decent
return over the long term,” said Stephen Catlin, who founded
 Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL) , a Lloyd’s insurer, almost 30 years ago.  Direct Investment  Pension funds’ impact on the reinsurance market has been
felt even though most are allocating just 1 percent to 2 percent
of their portfolio to the asset class, according to fund
managers and analysts. Schroders,  Europe ’s largest independent
money manager, started its first ILS fund this month after
buying a 30 percent stake in Secquaero.  “It’s not a mainstream financial asset class,” said
Daniel Ineichen, a former Secquaero partner who is lead manager
of Schroders’s new ILS fund, which has raised $56 million.
“It’s like a hybrid” between reinsurance and a traditional
bond, he said.  KKR, the buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George
Roberts , agreed to buy 25 percent of Nephila in January. Greg Hagood, Nephila’s co-founder, said 75 percent of its $9 billion
in assets comes from pension funds.  LGT Capital, a Swiss-based manager of about $121.5 billion
in assets, bought Clariden Leu Ltd.’s ILS unit and its team of
10 specialists in 2012. Michael Stahel, a partner at LGT, which
has about $2.5 billion in insurance-linked investments, said
that almost all the capital raised this year was pension money.  Yield Gap  LGT says returns for a given catastrophe bond can vary from
2 percent to 15 percent, while some customized contracts between
two parties can yield as much as 40 percent.  The New Zealand Superannuation Fund, which manages about
$22.5 billion for the government, said in May that it plans to
invest up to $275 million in reinsurance, its second mandate in
the asset class since 2010.  RBS (RBS) ’s pension fund for employees
boosted its holdings by more than 34 percent in the past year to
521 million pounds ($842 million), according to the Edinburgh-based bank’s 2013 annual report.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which manages C$129.5
billion ($124 billion), has been investing in catastrophe bonds
since 2005, said Philippe Trahan, director of the firm’s ILS
group, who declined to disclose its specific allocation.  As long as investors look for higher yield in a record low
interest-rate environment, more opportunistic investors,
including pension funds, will allocate to ILS, said PGGM’s
Takken.  “In the end it’s all about convergence of price, and if
it’s not attractive people will move away,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  