-- Philadelphia Inquirer Owners Clash Over State for Suits
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-28T18:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/philadelphia-inquirer-owners-clash-over-state-for-suits.html
Owners of the  Philadelphia Inquirer ,
who can’t agree on the firing of the newspaper’s editor-in-chief
Bill Marimow, must wait for a judge’s decision on where to hear
their lawsuits over the dispute as they disagree on the venue as
well.  Two members of Inquirer owner Interstate General Media LLC
sued the company and its publisher in state court in
Philadelphia on Oct. 10. Another owner filed a complaint
accusing his partners of interference a week later in  Delaware 
Chancery Court. Lawyers for Interstate, publisher Robert Hall
and co-owner George Norcross all argued today that the
litigation belongs in Delaware, where the partnership was
incorporated.  The newspaper’s owners “chose Delaware knowing full well
that the principal asset was operated and managed in
Philadelphia,” Robert Heim, an attorney for Norcross, told
Judge Patricia McInerney during a hearing today in Philadelphia.
“They chose to have Delaware law apply to any disputes among
them.”  McInerney took the arguments under advisement and didn’t
indicate when she would rule in the case. She met with Norcross
and co-owner Lewis Katz privately in chambers for about 40
minutes after the hearing concluded.  Newsroom Personnel  Katz, a former owner of the New Jersey Nets, and partner
H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest, a Pennsylvania philanthropist, sued
alleging Marimow, a two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize, was
wrongfully fired without approval of the entire partnership.
Norcross’s lawyers contend in their countersuit that Katz didn’t
have the right to oversee newsroom personnel decisions.  It’s up to the judge’s discretion where the case should be
heard, Collins J. Seitz, an attorney for Katz, argued.  “What could be more compelling than a Philadelphia
Inquirer case be decided in Philadelphia?” Seitz told
McInerney.  The suit is the latest chapter in the battle between Katz
and Norcross over the direction of the Inquirer, the U.S.’s
18th-largest newspaper by circulation, according to a 2012 study
by USA Today. Both were part of an investor group that bought
the newspaper and its sister publication, the Philadelphia Daily
News, in April 2012 for $55 million. The newspapers’ parent
company filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The Delaware case is General American Holdings Inc. v
Intertrust GCN LP, CA9013, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).
The Pennsylvania case is Intertrust GCN LP v. Interstate General
Media LLC, 131000654, Court of Common Pleas Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  