-- Plum Creek to Buy MeadWestvaco Lands for $1.09 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-10-28T20:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/plum-creek-to-buy-meadwestvaco-lands-for-1-09-billion.html
Plum Creek Timber Co. (MWV) , a real estate
investment trust with investments in forest products, agreed to
acquire MeadWestvaco Corp.’s U.S. timberlands for $1.09 billion.  Plum Creek will pay $869 million for 501,000 acres of
woodlands in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia and  West
Virginia  and $152 million for “high-value” rural lands and
development-quality lands near Charleston, South Carolina, the
Seattle-based company said today in a statement.  “These assets should integrate seamlessly into our
existing timberland ownership in the Southeast and add to our
presence in key markets,” Rick Holley, Plum Creek’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The deal with Richmond, Virginia-based MeadWestvaco, a
maker of consumer packaging with operations in  North America ,
Asia, Europe and South America, also includes $65 million for
subsurface rights, mineral rights and wind-power assets
associated with the timberlands, Plum Creek said.  At closing, Plum Creek will pay MeadWestvaco $226 million
in cash and issue an $860 million 10-year installment note for
the assets, Plum Creek said in the statement.  Both companies also agreed to form joint ventures to
develop lands in  South Carolina , MeadWestvaco said in a separate
statement. Most of the proceeds from the transaction will be
distributed to MeadWestvaco shareholders, the packaging maker
said.  Plum Creek fell 1.8 percent to $49 a share after the close
of trading in  New York . MeadWestvaco dropped 0.54 percent as of
4:15 p.m. in regular trading. The announcement came after the
market’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  