-- Popular Credits in Doubt as Extension Eludes Congress: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-10-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/popular-credits-in-doubt-as-extension-eludes-congress-taxes.html
Congress may have to resurrect some
tax credits in order to kill them.  That’s one possible outcome of what has become an annual
debate on a series of tax breaks for everyone from big companies
with research arms like  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  to farmers
and teachers -- breaks lawmakers typically extend for short
periods with a promise of a more comprehensive review to follow.  Called “extenders” by lobbyists and lawmakers, the tax
provisions expire again in January 2014, the deadline Congress
set when it renewed them as part of the January 2013 deal to
avert the fiscal cliff, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Trouble is, the package of tax breaks is generally popular
with businesses, individuals and politicians -- so ending them
abruptly without any promise of a cut in tax rates or changes
through a tax-code revision probably would result in an uproar.  For lawmakers, that means renewing the breaks temporarily
and then going after them in broader tax talks next year, with
an eye toward scrapping some.  “It needs to be handled in a larger tax reform,”
Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican on the House
Ways and Means Committee, told Bloomberg BNA. “That would be my
preference but at this stage of the game anything’s possible.”  The congressional tax-writing committees have soured toward
temporary extensions of tax credits.  Leaders of the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways
and Means Committee -- Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat,
and Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican -- are
focused on using one bill to end temporary extensions, which
create uncertainty for those affected, even if the breaks go
away for a period of time in the process, aides said.  Shedding Breaks  Both chairmen say their reviews of the tax code will cover
all tax credits and deductions, with an eye toward consolidation
and possibly shedding those that fail to meet their original
purpose. In addition, lawmakers say eliminating tax credits will
help Congress reduce top corporate and individual tax rates.  There’s a chance lawmakers will address these extenders
during wider budget and deficit talks this year, though Sander Levin, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee,
told reporters last week that the top priority is addressing the
automatic spending cuts known as sequestration.  The provisions expiring in 2013 account for most of the
$451 billion cost of extending all tax provisions expiring
between 2013 and 2023, the Congressional Research Service said
in a June 27 report on tax extenders.  The immediate challenge for tax extenders is that Congress
doesn’t appear to have legislation at hand to which they can be
attached, Nunes said.  Lobbyists following the issue said they expect some
legislative measure that would extend the tax provisions to
emerge in the weeks ahead, perhaps applying retroactively if it
waits until early 2014.  60 Days  Retroactive renewal for some of the provisions is nothing
new, said Mary Kusler, director of government relations for the
National Education Association, which is pushing the tax credit
teachers receive for the school supplies they buy on their own.  “I’d like to see it in time,” she said. “There is
certainly a lot of discussion that will happen in the next 60
days.”  The credit helps teachers offset some of the $1.6 billion
they spend nationally on school supplies, Kusler said.  Other expiring provisions include the tax credit for
research and experimentation, used by Intel, Amgen and other big
companies;  bonus depreciation ; the credit for energy efficient
appliances, backed by  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) ;
incentives for alternative fuel; and the construction date to
receive the production tax credit or investment tax credit for
alternative energy, including wind companies.  Rush Jobs  Congress added a measure regarding the construction date
when lawmakers last extended the provisions, allowing companies
to qualify as long as they begin construction before the end of
2013 -- even if a project does not become operational until
2015, for instance.  Anticipating the possible expiration of the production tax
credit provision, managers of some projects may rush to begin
work before the end of the year, said Jed Roher, a tax lawyer
with Godfrey & Kahn S.C. in  Milwaukee , who advises clients with
qualifying projects.  Roher told Bloomberg BNA he has advised clients to perform
any work that could qualify as starting construction, which
might be as simple as preparing construction materials.  All of the tax provisions have constituencies ready to
defend them. The loss of bonus depreciation, for instance, would
cost the telecommunications and utility industries $100 billion
in additional tax payments, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
September report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at  mheller@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Ferguson at  bferguson@bna.com  