-- Poverty, Neglect in Childhood Affect Brain Size
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/poverty-neglect-in-childhood-affect-brain-size.html
Poverty and lack of nurturing in
early life may have a direct effect on a child’s brain
development, according to a study that found smaller brain
volumes in poor, neglected children.  The study of brain scans, published today in  JAMA
Pediatrics , found children living in poverty without adequate
nurturing had smaller hippocampus, a brain region linked to
learning and memory, than those who weren’t poor or neglected.
Poor children, even if not neglected by parents, were found to
have less gray matter, which is linked to intelligence; less
white matter, which helps transmit signals; and smaller
amygdala, an area key to emotional health.  The study adds to previous research suggesting the stress
of living in poverty in childhood can have lifelong effects on
learning and emotional health, said  Charles Nelson , who wrote an
accompanying editorial in the journal. Today’s findings brings
researchers closer to better understanding how experience shapes
biology, he said.  “This work adds to a growing body of evidence that early
life events powerfully shape not only the course of child
development but also adult development,” said Nelson, a
professor of pediatrics and neuroscience at  Harvard Medical
School  in  Boston , in an Oct. 25 e-mail. “It adds to the
literature showing that early adversity can have life-long
effects on both psychological and physical development.”  Brain Imaging  A study published last week in the journal Proceedings of
the  National Academy of Sciences  by researchers from the
University of Denver showed using brain imaging that adults who
were poor as children were less able than other participants to
minimize their emotional reactions to negative images. A second
paper the same day by researchers from the Weill Cornell Medical
College in New York found that children who had lived in an
orphanage were more anxious than those who hadn’t.  In today’s study, researchers examined 145 children, age
six to 12, who had participated in a larger preschool depression
study and underwent magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI scans.
Some in the study were healthy, others were depressed or had
disorders like attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.  The study found that while poverty did affect the brain,
the differences in the hippocampus in poor children was a lack
of care by parents. The study also showed that parents living in
poverty who were rated as poor nurturers were more stressed and
less able to nurture their children during a caregiver exercise.  The brain findings were consistent even after controlling
for the children’s depression and the other disorders, said lead
study author  Joan Luby .  Prevention Clues  The study “gives us a clue to how to maybe prevent some of
the deleterious effects of poverty on childhood brain
development,” Luby, a professor of psychiatry at Washington
University School of Medicine in  St. Louis , said in a telephone
interview today. “There’s a startlingly high percentage of
children in the nation and worldwide that are facing poverty.
This study gives us a clue as to how we can focus our preventive
interventions by focusing on parenting support or caregiver
support.”  Parents living in poverty may be less emotionally
responsive to their children because they may work two jobs,
have to regularly try to find money for food or they live in an
unsafe environment, she said. Children who are poor also
experience stress including moving to a new house, changing
schools or parents who fight regularly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  