-- Transplant Without Immune Drugs May Work, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/transplant-without-immune-drugs-may-work-study-finds.html
A 63-year-old man with  Type 1
diabetes  received a transplant of insulin-producing cells with
the aid of a device that eliminated use of immune-blocking
drugs, a potential breakthrough that may lead to safer and more
effective procedures to revive weakened organs.  The cells, which survived for 10 months, showed signs of
insulin production, according to a study released today by the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . The new
approach may lead to diabetes therapies, as well as open the
possibility of other types of tissue transplants where side
effects of immune suppression may outweigh the benefits.  The cells were extracted from a cadaver and implanted using
a gel that masked them to protect against the immune system.
Without an exact donor match, a transplant recipient’s immune
system often  rejects organs  or tissue without drugs to quiet the
response. Today’s finding offers hope for diabetics and others
with similarly difficult-to-treat organ failures.  “A lot of people have been looking for methods for
transplanting,” said Norman Block, a study co-author and the
clinical director of endocrine polypeptide and cancer institute,
at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Miami. “You
can use immunosuppression for other transplants, but in this
case, that makes the treatment worse than the disease.”  The  insulin  in human bodies is excreted from cells in the
pancreas called beta cells. These cells are difficult to
harvest, and transplanting them usually requires
immunosuppressing drugs to prevent the patient’s body from
rejecting them.  Pig Cells  Additionally, human  beta cells  are hard to come by, because
they are among the first cells to begin decaying after death,
Block said. However, pigs’ beta cells work very similarly to
human beta cells, and this device may make them useful in
treating diabetics, Block said.  Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body doesn’t produce
insulin, as opposed to the more-common Type 2 diabetes, a
condition associated with obesity in which the body doesn’t
produce enough insulin or ignores it. Insulin converts blood
sugar into energy.  The patient, a mathematician, had been given daily insulin
therapy for 20 years. The device, implanted under his skin,
contained the beta cells and a supply of oxygen to keep the
cells alive until the blood vessels could carry fuel to them.  Insulin Signs  After the transplant, his blood showed signs that insulin
was being made. When the device was removed and stimulated with
glucose, it released a marker for insulin activity. Though the
cells functioned over the entire 10 months, only slight
improvement on the man’s blood sugar levels was observed by the
scientists, and he still required insulin injections. That may
be because only a small amount of beta cells were transplanted,
according to the paper.  Today’s report, showing it’s possible to prevent rejection
without drugs, may open more avenues for transplant in other
diseases, such as those of the adrenal cortex, which releases
hormones in response to stress and where the side-effects from
transplant might otherwise outweigh the benefits. Stefan
Bornstein, at the  University Hospital Carl Gusvac Carus  in
Dresden and a co-author of the paper, is working on a project to
adapt the technology for the adrenal cortex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  