-- Red Sox Beat Cardinals 4-2 to Tie World Series on Gomes Home Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-28T05:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/red-sox-beat-cardinals-4-2-to-tie-world-series-at-two-games-each.html
Jonny Gomes’s first  World Series  hit
was a timely one: a three-run home run in the sixth inning that
helped the Boston  Red Sox  beat the  St. Louis  Cardinals 4-2 and
even the best-of-seven contest at two games each.  Gomes, plugged into the Boston lineup just over an hour
before last night’s game because of a back injury to  Shane Victorino , was hitless in nine World Series at-bats before his
tie-breaking homer at Busch Stadium in St. Louis.  “All I wanted was the opportunity, whether it’s pinch-hit,
start, anything,” Gomes said in a televised interview. “I just
wanted to be in the box.”  Game 5 in  Major League Baseball ’s championship series is
scheduled for tonight in St. Louis, where the past two games
have ended with postseason firsts.  Two days ago, the Red Sox lost 5-4 in Game 3 as third
baseman Will Middlebrooks was called for obstruction on a throw
to third base in the bottom of the ninth inning, with umpires
ruling that runner Allen Craig would have scored the winning run
if he hadn’t been tripped by Middlebrooks. It was the first MLB
postseason game to end on an obstruction call.  Last night,  Carlos Beltran , who has 16 career postseason
homers, was at the plate for the Cardinals with two outs in the
bottom of the ninth when rookie pinch-runner Kolten Wong was
picked off at first base to end the game. It was the first time
a playoff game has ended with a pickoff.  “I feel bad for the kid because I know he’s trying to
steal a base or put himself in a position where he can score,”
Beltran, who leads the Cardinals with 14 runs batted in this
postseason, told reporters last night. “It has to be a bad
feeling for him, but the best way for us to pick him up is being
able to come here tomorrow and get a win.”  Ortiz Leads  David Ortiz  went 3-for-3 with two runs scored last night
for the Red Sox and said he sought to fire up his teammates in
the dugout in between innings. The Red Sox have made seven
errors in the World Series, including the throwing error that
led to the obstruction call and Game 3 loss.  “I said, ‘You don’t come to the World Series everyday,
let’s loosen up and play baseball the way we do,’” Ortiz said.
“I know we’re a better team that what we showed, but sometimes
you get to this stage and you try to overdo things and it
doesn’t work that way.”  With the Cardinals holding a 1-0 lead, Ortiz led off the
top of the fifth inning with a double and scored on a sacrifice
fly by Stephen Drew. The next inning,  Dustin Pedroia  singled
with two outs, Ortiz walked and Gomes followed with his homer as
the first batter to face Cardinals reliever Seth Maness.  ‘Didn’t Work Out’  “Seth, he’s been a guy who’s been able to do an incredible
job in that situation all season long,” Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said at a news conference. “He’s been able to come in
and get the big out when we needed it, we wanted to give him a
shot and it just didn’t work out.”  Matt Carpenter added a run-scoring single in the bottom of
the seventh inning for St. Louis, yet it was the last run the
home team would get against the Red Sox, who used five relievers
after starter  Clay Buchholz  pitched four innings.  John Lackey 
pitched a scoreless eighth inning -- his first relief appearance
since 2004 -- and Koji Uehara closed out the Cardinals in the
ninth for his sixth save of the postseason.  St. Louis brought the tying run to the plate in the last
inning after a one-out single by Craig. Wong, 23, came in as the
pinch-runner and after Carpenter popped up for the second out,
Wong was caught leaning too far off first base and was thrown
out by Uehara to end the game.  Wong, with tears in his eyes, said after the game it was
the toughest moment of his baseball career.  “Once I turned to get back, my foot slipped out,” he said
to reporters in televised comments in the Cardinals’ locker
room. “I knew I was dead once it happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  