-- Rush to Hedge Funds Seen Courting Lame Returns: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-28T15:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/rush-to-hedge-funds-seen-courting-lame-returns-credit-markets.html
Debt investors are funneling 17
times more cash into  hedge funds  than into junk-bond funds that
returned more in each year since the crisis, heralding a shift
from chasing yields to preserving cash as  interest rates  rise.  Hedge funds that seek to profit without making large bets
on the direction of debt prices received $20.6 billion in the
first nine months of 2013, compared with a net $1.2 billion put
into junk-bond mutual funds, according to data from Hedge Fund
Research Inc. and EPFR Global. The flows are a reversal from
2012, when $72.1 billion deposited into the mutual funds was
almost twice the $41.4 billion allocated to hedge funds.  Pension plans, endowments and other institutional investors
facing the sparsest bond gains since 2008 are leading the charge
into hedge funds that returned about half as much as a broad
index of high-yield bonds in the four years after the seizure in
credit markets. Investors who’ve been led into riskier assets as
the  Federal Reserve  pushed benchmark yields to record lows are
now seeking insulation as rising rates erode returns with
economists predicting the central bank will slow its stimulus
next year.  “They’re getting nervous about the withdrawal of central
bank liquidity,” Monica Issar, the head of J.P. Morgan Asset
Management’s endowments and mid-sized pensions group, said in a
telephone interview. “In the credit space, it’s not as easy
anymore. You need skilled managers, people who can trade in
significant market turmoil.”  BlueCrest Capital  BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, the London-based firm led
by former JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader  Michael Platt , has
increased its assets by $7.2 billion since the end of 2011 to
$35 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
Pine River Capital Management LP, founded in 2002 to pursue
opportunities in global relative-value trading, boosted its
assets by $8.2 billion since January 2012 to about $13.6
billion.  Relative-value hedge funds, which make both bullish and
bearish wagers to profit from price discrepancies between
securities, have posted average annualized gains of 12 percent
in the four years since 2008. That’s about half the average 21.6
percent return each year for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Index.  Losing Steam  Almost five years after the Fed started pumping more than
$3.27 trillion into the financial system to spur economic
growth, investors are struggling to find assets that will hold
their value as the central bank considers slowing its stimulus.  After returning an average 11.3 percent annually the
previous four years, corporate bonds globally are on pace to
gain 1.6 percent this year, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield Index. That would be
the worst annual return since the market lost 7.5 percent in
2008 amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The debt plunged 2.2 percent in the three months ended June
30, the worst quarterly loss since the period ended September
2008, as benchmark borrowing costs rose after Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  outlined a road map for the central bank to reduce
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases if the labor market showed
sustainable improvement.  Taper Losses  “People always viewed bonds and long-only bond funds as a
stable anchor to their portfolio,” said Chris Paolino, senior
vice president and head of hedge-fund investments at Hartford
Investment Management Co. “What we got this summer was we
showed people interest rates could go higher along with stock
prices going down. It made people question the efficacy of the
protection of their bonds.”  The hedge funds are being looked to as a buffer even after
the loosely regulated investment vehicles were blamed for
exacerbating the crisis five years ago. By using derivatives and
borrowed money to boost leverage in an effort to amplify
returns, the funds instead magnified losses after markets seized
up when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for  bankruptcy
protection , Fed Bank of New York researchers Jaewon Choi and Or
Shachar wrote in a  report  this month.  Dollar-denominated  junk bonds  lost 31 percent in the three
months after Lehman’s September 2008 collapse, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  During the bond-market selloff this year, hedge funds fared
better than broader market gauges. The funds declined 1.2
percent in June, less than half the 2.6 percent loss on dollar-denominated junk notes and the 2.4 percent decline for
investment-grade and high-yield corporates globally, according
to HFR and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  ‘Less Leverage’  “Hedge fund strategies look more conservative than what we
saw pre-crisis, with larger cash balances and less leverage
employed,” Andrew Sheets, a London-based credit strategist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “What is driving
allocation into credit hedge funds isn’t really a reach for
yield, but a search for volatility-adjusted returns.”  BlueCrest’s $1.9 billion Multi-Strategy Credit Fund gained
4.4 percent in the nine months through September, more than the
3.8 percent gain on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Index in the period. Last year, the fund rose 7.2 percent,
less than half of the 15.6 percent returns on dollar-denominated
junk bonds.  “You’re seeing flows into credit-focused funds that can go
long and short,” said  Ken Heinz , president at HFR in  Chicago .
“Those flows are coming in at a time when interest rates are
low and widely expected to increase.”  Fed Surprise  Economists who had forecasted the Fed to slow its bond
purchases last month now expect the central bank to maintain the
pace of the stimulus through the first quarter of 2014 after a
16-day government shutdown this month furloughed as many as
800,000 federal workers. The closing, which  Standard & Poor’s 
said trimmed at least 0.6 percent from economic growth this
quarter, also disrupted collection and publication of economic
reports the Fed says it needs to determine whether the expansion
is strong enough to taper.  Policy makers probably will pare the monthly pace of asset
buying by 18 percent to $70 billion at their March 18-19
meeting, according to the median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  After the Fed’s Sept. 18 decision to maintain the
purchases, corporate-bond yields that reached as high as 4.37
percent on Sept. 5 dropped to 3.9 percent, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Yields are 1.9 percentage points
below the 10-year average. In June, when yields rose 0.48
percentage points, the notes plunged 2.7 percent, the data show.  J. Crew Bonds  “People want to have strategies that look to preserve
capital and profit modestly,” Hartford Investment’s Paolino
said. “Most investors haven’t had exposure to a rising rate
environment for a long, long time.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, J. Crew Group Inc. plans to
sell $500 million of payment-in-kind bonds through its indirect
parent to fund a payout to the retailer’s owners. Energy Future
Holdings Corp.’s $3.81 billion term loan rose to the highest
level in two months after  Texas  regulators supported a
requirement that may lead to additional payments for the power
generator.  The cost to protect against losses on corporate bonds in
the U.S. was little changed. The Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.3 basis point to 72.1 basis points
as of 11:12 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  European Index  The measure fell to 70.1 on Oct. 22, the lowest since
November 2007 in data that adjust for the effects of the
market’s shift to a new version of the index in September.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 0.7 basis point to 86.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Wells Fargo & Co. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Meaningfully Weaker’  The J. Crew parent, Chinos Intermediate Holdings A Inc.
intends to issue senior notes due 2019, New York-based J. Crew
said today in a statement. The offering would be the company’s
biggest ever, exceeding a $400 million sale of 8.125 percent
notes in March 2011, when shareholders approved a $3 billion
takeover by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP.  The company’s credit metrics “will be meaningfully
weaker” than previously estimated because of the new debt,
David Kuntz, an analyst at S&P, said today in a report ranking
the new bonds CCC+ and lowering J. Crew’s outlook to
“negative” from “stable.”  Moody’s Investors Service, which graded the new bonds Caa1,
also cut its outlook for J. Crew’s family corporate rating of B2
to negative, saying in a report that the company will have
“meaningfully less financial flexibility.”  Energy Future’s loan due in October 2014 jumped 2 cents on
the dollar to 68.9 cents at 8 a.m. in New York, the highest
since Aug. 22, Bloomberg prices show.  The Public Utility Commission of Texas agreed that it
should mandate reserve margins, giving power companies access to
extra electricity during times of peak demand, according to an
Oct. 25 video of the meeting posted on the agency website. That
may lead to the establishment of a so-called capacity market
that pays generators for having available electricity.  Energy Future, formerly called TXU Corp. and taken private
in 2007 by KKR & Co., Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and TPG
Capital in the largest leveraged buyout in history, is locked in
negotiations with creditors over a path to bankruptcy that would
reduce its $43.6 billion in debt. Senior lenders are seeking a
Chapter 11 filing before the company makes $270 million in
interest payments Nov. 1 to junior bondholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  