-- Russia Reduces Gold Holdings for First Time in a Year
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-10-28T18:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/russia-cuts-gold-assets-for-first-time-in-a-year-as-prices-drop.html
Russia  reduced gold reserves for the
first time in a year in September as  Mexico  cut holdings for a
17th straight month, according to the International Monetary
Fund. Kazakhstan expanded assets for a 12th month.  Reserves in Russia declined about 0.37 metric ton to
1,015.1 tons, data on the IMF’s website showed. Kazakhstan’s
holdings expanded 2.52 tons to 137.04 tons, the data showed.  Gold dropped in September for the first loss in three
months as the U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from
slowing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. Expectations
that tapering would start spurred losses in emerging-market
stocks and some currencies in August. Bullion has lost 19
percent this year as investors reduced holdings in exchange-traded products on prospects for a global economic recovery.  “Given the buyers were predominantly  emerging markets  and
what’s been happening in emerging markets over the last few
months, it makes sense to see either a slowdown in purchases and
the use of the banks’ balance sheet for other purposes, or
outright sales,” said Peter Richardson, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley. “When you combine that with selling from ETFs, the
whole pricing pattern starts to make a bit more sense.”  Gold for immediate delivery, which lost 4.8 percent last
month, traded at $1,356.82 an ounce at 6:21 p.m. in  London  from
$1,350.80 on Oct. 25. Holdings in ETPs have contracted every
month this year, sending assets down 29 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Investors  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of equities dropped 1.9
percent in August after tumbling 9.1 percent in the second
quarter. Global investors withdrew $26 billion from emerging-market bond funds between May 29 and Sept. 18, representing
about 10 percent of their total assets, according to Barclays
Plc, citing data from EPFR Global.  Central-bank purchases may total 350 tons in 2013, the
World Gold Council predicts, after they added 534.6 tons last
year, the most since 1964. Russia raised bullion reserves about
57.4 tons this year, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on IMF data. While the nation’s central bank will continue
buying bullion, the pace may vary, former First Deputy Chairman
and Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in January.  Gold is a so-called risk asset and Taiwan’s central bank
should cut risks when managing reserves, Governor Perng Fai-nan
said today. The bank didn’t increase gold holdings, Perng said,
responding to a lawmaker’s question whether there’s a plan to
boost them after prices fell. Perng didn’t give a timeframe.  Canada, Mexico  Canada’s holdings fell to 3 tons last month from 3.1 tons,
and Mexico’s lost 0.1 ton to 123.5 tons, the IMF data showed.
 Turkey ’s holding rose 2.9 tons to 490.3 tons in September,
increasing for a third month, the data showed. Azerbaijan’s
hoard expanded for a ninth month, while Belarus,  Kuwait , the
Kyrgyz Republic,  Serbia , and Ukraine also added to reserves.  In August, the  Philippines  bought, while  Mozambique  sold,
according to the data, which update as countries report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  