-- Ryan Moore Wins PGA Tour Event in Malaysia on First Playoff Hole
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-28T00:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/ryan-moore-wins-pga-tour-event-in-malaysia-on-first-playoff-hole.html
Ryan Moore  captured his third career
U.S.  PGA Tour  title at the CIMB Classic in Kuala Lumpur,
returning a day after the final round to beat Gary Woodland with
a birdie on the first playoff hole.  The playoff was pushed back to a Monday finish in  Malaysia 
because of darkness. Woodland had a chance to win the  golf
tournament  at the final hole yesterday, yet missed a 10-foot
birdie putt under the floodlights near the 18th green at the
Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club in Malaysia.  The players returned to the 634-yard, par-5 18th hole today
and Moore hit his third shot to within four feet of the cup,
while Woodland’s approach shot landed in the rough just off the
green. After Woodland chipped to within two feet, Moore backed
off his putt once, saying he didn’t feel comfortable, before
sinking the birdie to collect $1.26 million.  “I’ve been putting in the effort and the time and it’s
nice to see it pan out,” said the 30-year-old Moore, who tied
for ninth in last week’s PGA Tour stop in Las Vegas.  The PGA Tour’s  2013-14 season , which includes 45
tournaments through 43 weeks, started with events the previous
two weeks in San Martin, California, and Las Vegas.  Woodland and Moore finished regulation play in  Kuala Lumpur 
at 14-under par, one shot better than Chris Stroud and Kiradech
Aphibarnrat, who was denied a chance to become the first Thai
golfer to win on the PGA Tour.  Moore started the tournament with a 9-under-par 63 before
shooting rounds of 72, 69 and 70.  Early Flurry  “I started out with a bit of a flurry there the first day,
making a bunch of birdies,” Moore said in a televised
interview. “I cooled down a little bit, but was able to do what
I had to do to get to this point and fortunately just hit a
great shot there and left myself a nice short putt.”  Moore’s approach, from 157 yards on the 18th hole, set up
his first victory since the 2012 Justin Timberlake Shriners
Hospital for Children Open in  Las Vegas , the same event in which
he had a top-10 finish a week ago.  The PGA Tour’s next event is the World Golf Championships-HSBC Champions in Shanghai from Oct. 31 to Nov. 3.  All six events for the new season held this year award
FedEx Cup points for the first time. The McGladrey Classic is
held Nov. 7-10 in  Sea Island , Georgia, followed by the OHL
Classic at Mayakoba in Mexico the week after. The PGA Tour
schedule then resumes in January with its traditional swing
through  Hawaii  before moving to the U.S. West Coast for six
events in California and Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  