-- Sally Dawson, Deutsche Bank Debt Saleswoman, Dies at 39
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/sally-dawson-deutsche-bank-debt-saleswoman-dies-at-39.html
Sally Dawson, a  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG
executive in  London  who specialized in high-yield and
distressed-debt sales, has died. She was 39.  She died on Oct. 18 at the Royal Marsden Hospital in
Chelsea, according to her father, Jim Dawson. The cause was
metastatic  breast cancer , which was diagnosed early this year.  In a 17-year career at Deutsche Bank, beginning soon after
her graduation from Royal Holloway University of London, Dawson
rose to director in fixed-income sales. She worked with asset
managers and pension funds within the Institutional Client Group
of the Frankfurt-based  company ,  Europe ’s largest investment bank
by revenue.  “She had many institutional clients, not only in the U.K.
but all over Europe, and there were links to American funds as
well,” her father said yesterday in an interview. “Her
customers, institutional funds and pension funds and  hedge
funds , they all appreciated doing business with Sally because
she was personable and social and also got them what they were
looking for. That’s what you’re looking for in a salesman.”  In a statement, Deutsche Bank said, “We are deeply
saddened by Sally’s death, and our thoughts are with her family
at this time.”  Sally Hazel Dawson was born to Jim and Pearl Dawson on
Sept. 14, 1974, in Ascot, a village 25 miles (40 kilometers)
west of London known as the home of the annual  Royal Ascot  horse
races.  Her father, a chemist, worked for Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
His assignments in the Netherlands and  Venezuela  -- where she
attended the British School in Caracas for two and a half years
-- gave Dawson and her older brother, Mark, an early taste of
global business.  Career Path  Her interest in finance, her father said, “just came up
from wanting to get involved in business when she got older.”  She studied management and economics in college and joined
Deutsche Bank after working a few months for Royal Bank of
Canada, her father said.  At Deutsche Bank, “she started in the back office and she
worked through the middle to the front office, so she knew how
the whole thing worked in an integrated form,” he said.  Dawson was an accomplished tennis player and ran the London
Marathon in 2006,  finishing  in 5 hours, 24 minutes and 18
seconds. She enjoyed the opera and ballet and was a supporter of
the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
Never married, she was godmother to a number of friends’
children, her father said.  A public memorial service for friends and colleagues will
be held on Nov. 12 at 4 p.m. at St. Luke’s Church in Chelsea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  