-- Samsung Pitches Developers on New Tools
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-10-28T23:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/samsung-lures-developers-with-software-aiding-innovation.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , seeking to
capitalize on its heft in markets from TV sets to tablets,
pitched new software tools for developers to make games, sell
music and deliver advertising across a range of its devices.  The world’s biggest maker of TVs and smartphones opened its
first global developers conference yesterday in  San Francisco ,
looking to attract exclusive content and applications. Samsung,
based in Suwon,  South Korea , told 1,300 attendees it will
support  Unity , a popular video-game development platform, and
unveiled software that lets its tablets and smartphones exchange
information through gestures, wireless links and digital pens.  The three-day conference, like similar events hosted by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc., aims to raise Samsung’s profile
among developers by highlighting the company’s strengths as a
global electronics manufacturer. The tools are aimed at bridging
differences in operating systems among devices, and easing other
obstacles to creating software and services.  “There are half a billion connected devices today, yet
none are connected to each other,” Samsung President Hong Won-Pyo said in an interview. “We foster an ecosystem of multi-screen apps and user experiences to improve the way people do
the things they love, in turn, and create new business
opportunities for developers.”  Samsung yesterday released a kit for multiscreen developers
to make products, such as games and photo-sharing apps, that are
compatible with a broader range of devices, including
televisions.  ‘Very Easy’  The company’s hardware presents a challenge for app
developers because Samsung uses different operating systems
across product categories. The new kits can sit on top of
multiple systems to enable developers to design one app for many
products, according to Curtis Sasaki, senior vice president of
cloud service innovation and media solutions at Samsung.  “We want to create services that go back and forth in a
very easy way,” Sasaki said in an phone interview. “Our goal
is to set the stage for innovation and give developers a lot of
ideas they can take with them.”  A keynote demonstration showed users listening to online
radio on a Samsung Galaxy S phone, and then shifting it to a
Samsung television in the home. Another presentation showed
handwriting recognition software on a Galaxy Note 3 tablet. It
was used to find an address on Trulia.com, the real estate
website.  New Controller  The company showed off a Bluetooth game controller that can
dock with mobile devices, and suggested developers using Unity
Technologies’ video-game engine, which works across devices,
would be able to make games for tablets, phones and even
televisions.  While Samsung is the leader in smartphone sales, it’s been
criticized for failing to add features that people use, said Ben Bajarin, an analyst at Creative Strategies Inc.  “They’re trying to create proprietary value on their
hardware,” said Bajarin, based in  San Jose ,  California .
“That’s going to be goal No. 1 for them. That’s challenging
because to do that takes more than putting innovative features
in a product that not everyone uses.”  This year, Samsung added its first phone with a curved
screen to its roster, introduced its $299 Galaxy Gear smartwatch
and registered designs for spectacles to challenge Google Glass
in the wearable devices market. In July, it bought Boxee Inc., a
startup that makes video-streaming apps for phones and tablets,
as well as a Web-connected TV set-top box.  Innovation ‘Hotbed’  “Everything we do is about putting the most innovative
technology and software in people’s hands,” said Hong,
Samsung’s president. “It was also important to continue growing
our presence in Silicon Valley, the hotbed of technology
innovation.”  Samsung rose 2.3 percent to 1,482,000 won in yesterday in
 Seoul . The stock has dropped 2.6 percent this year while the
 benchmark  Kospi has added 2.6 percent.  The company posted record third-quarter earnings last week,
helped by sales of cheaper Galaxy smartphones in  emerging
markets . The mobile unit, responsible for about two-thirds of
Samsung’s earnings, reported third-quarter operating profit of
6.7 trillion won ($6.3 billion), up from 5.63 trillion won a
year earlier.  Profit at its consumer-electronics division, which includes
the TV and home-appliance businesses, declined as television
manufacturers reel from sluggish demand along with price
competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  