-- Sato Takes Pay Cut as Mizuho Awaits Crime Loans Penalty
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-10-29T00:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/sato-takes-pay-cut-as-mizuho-awaits-fsa-penalty-for-crime-loans.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s
President Yasuhiro Sato will give up six months of pay for
failing to stop loans made to criminal groups as Japan’s third-biggest bank awaits further penalties from regulators.  Takashi Tsukamoto will also forgo six months’ compensation
and will give up his role as chairman of Mizuho Bank Ltd. while
keeping the post at the parent company, the Tokyo-based bank
said in a  statement  yesterday. A total of 52 other current and
former executives will also be penalized, the lender said.  Sato bowed in apology at a news briefing in  Tokyo , hours
after submitting a report to the Financial Services Agency
outlining measures such as database sharing and the addition of
an outside director to prevent further transactions with yakuza
crime syndicates. Lawyers commissioned by Mizuho to investigate
the loans earlier said the bank’s shortcomings stemmed from lax
internal controls rather than attempts to mislead regulators.  “Mizuho’s internal punishment won’t be negative for the
share price as Sato remains president,” said  Takehito Yamanaka ,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “We still need
to pay careful attention to whether the FSA will hand down any
additional severe punishment.”  Sato, 61, who has driven measures designed to improve
management at Mizuho since taking the post in June 2011, said he
didn’t consider stepping down even while acknowledging the
incident dented his authority.  Hurt Leadership  “Mizuho’s top management including myself deeply regret
this issue,” he said. “My leadership was severely hurt, but I
don’t think it’s impossible to recover.”  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said today that his
agency will review the lawyers’ report and “improve what’s
needed to be improved.” When asked yesterday to comment on
incorrect reporting by Mizuho about the extent of top managers’
knowledge of the loans, he said “that’s the last thing a bank
should do.”  Shares of Mizuho fell 1 percent to 207 yen at 9:40 a.m. in
Tokyo. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  slid 0.6 percent.  The lender failed to act on 200 million yen ($2 million) in
about 230 transactions with members of crime groups through its
 Orient Corp. (8585)  affiliate, the agency said on Sept. 27. There may
have been about 460 transactions initially, Sato said yesterday,
without giving a yen amount.  Mizuho will share its database of crime groups with Orient
and help the consumer credit company improve its system for
verifying customers applying for loans, the lender said in the
statement. Hiring an external board member and establishing a
committee to avoid transactions with antisocial groups are also
part of the business improvement plan, it said.  Base Salary  Sato’s pay cut applies to both his roles as president of
the parent company and the banking arm. He received a combined
80 million yen base salary last fiscal year, according to
company filings made in June. His total annual compensation
including stock options was 116 million yen.  The lending unit will appoint Tatsuo Kainaka, a 73-year-old
former Supreme Court judge, as its first outside board member,
Sato said. Currently the parent company has three external board
members while Mizuho Bank has none.  The three-member committee of lawyers, led by former High
Court Chief Justice Hideki Nakagome, said yesterday that Mizuho
didn’t have clear disclosure rules on issues relating to
criminal organizations. Communication between compliance
divisions and other sections of the company was lax, it added.  There was no evidence that issues relating to the loans
were discussed at compliance and board member meetings attended
by Sato and Tsukamoto, 63, according to the report.  Can’t Remember  Sato said he can’t remember seeing any reference to crime
loans through Orient in reports distributed at executive
meetings. Earlier this month, he said he was in a position to
have found out about the transactions from the reports yet
wasn’t aware of them until the FSA told him in March.  The three lawyers interviewed 81 current and former Mizuho
officials and four Orient employees and reviewed e-mails of 12
individuals. It didn’t check e-mails of Sato, Tsukamoto or
former banking unit chief Satoru Nishibori, Nakagome said.  The committee said that during the FSA’s investigation, a
Mizuho official wrongly told the agency that crime loans weren’t
reported to executives at compliance and board meetings. That
led to the bank’s incorrect report to the regulator that only
lower-level compliance officials were aware of the loans.  Lax Communication  The panel also highlighted a lack of communication when top
executives changed, saying Nishibori didn’t properly brief his
successor, Tsukamoto, on the crime loans when he stepped down in
June 2011 following a computer glitch. No one explained the
issue to Sato either, according to the report.  Nishibori will remain an adviser to the bank, while
returning part of three months’ salary, Mizuho said.  Mizuho has been penalized for lapses ranging from computer
failures to trading errors since its creation in 2000 through
the merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Fuji Bank Ltd. and
Industrial Bank of  Japan  Ltd. In May 2011, the FSA ordered
Mizuho to improve operations and repair its “corporate
culture” following system malfunctions that delayed
transactions after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  