-- Serumpun Tin Smelters in Indonesia May Consider Joining ICDX
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-10-28T11:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/serumpun-tin-smelters-in-indonesia-may-consider-joining-icdx.html
Serumpun Tin, a group of 18
smelters, is open to the possibility of joining the  Indonesia 
Commodity and Derivatives Exchange, in contrast to its earlier
objective of selling output through a rival bourse.  The group was forced to halt sales because they wanted to
trade through the Jakarta Futures Exchange which hasn’t got a
permit, Serumpun Tin President Director Tjahyono Mukmin said in
an interview today. Rustam Effendi, governor of Bangka Belitung,
the largest producing region, will encourage smelters to join
the ICDX if the legal basis is clear, he said in an interview.  Indonesia accounts for 40 percent of global exports of the
metal used as solder. The country limited sales to metal handled
through local exchanges from Aug. 30, curbing supply and pushing
futures to six-month highs. Shipments may rise if more smelters
join the ICDX, the only bourse allowed to trade the metal before
export. JFX is reapplying for a license after its request was
rejected, Director M. Bihar Sakti Wibowo said Oct. 9.  “We cannot prohibit smelters of Serumpun Tin if they want
to trade at ICDX,” Mukmin said after meeting the governor in
Pangkalpinang, Bangka Belitung. The smelters may join the
exchange if the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency
rejects JFX’s application a second time, he said. The smelters
have 7,000 metric tons of ingots lying in  warehouses  that they
can’t export, said Mukmin.  Tin rallied 10 percent to $23,350 a ton on the  London  Metal
Exchange since the trading rule took effect and may extend gains
to average $25,000 next year, according to Stephen Briggs, an
analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  