-- Singapore Plans to Regulate Power Futures to Prevent Speculation
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-10-28T10:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/singapore-plans-to-regulate-power-futures-to-prevent-speculation.html
Singapore will seek to regulate
electricity trading to prevent speculation as Asia’s oil hub
prepares to open the region’s first power futures market.  Singapore Exchange  will begin a trial for the contracts in
2014 and intends to start trading by the end of next year, S. Iswaran, the second minister for trade and industry, said in a
speech during Singapore International Energy Week today. Six
power generation companies have said they are interested in the
market, including Keppel Merlimau Cogen Pte, Sembcorp Cogen Pte,
Senoko Energy Pte, Tuas Power Generation Pte, Tuaspring Pte and
YTL PowerSeraya Pte, he said.  “We do not want to become the object of speculative
activity, we are quite clear about that,” Iswaran told
reporters on the sidelines of the conference. “We want to
ensure that even as we create derivatives, that they serve the
purpose that they are designed for.”  The island nation of 5.4 million people has about 10.5
gigawatts of installed generation capacity operated by 14
licensees, according to the website of the  Energy Market
Authority . By contrast, the U.K. has capacity of about 93
gigawatts. Singapore generated 46.9 terawatt hours last year.  The government wants the futures market to help larger
electricity consumers better manage price volatility by allowing
them to secure longer-term prices, Iswaran said.  “A futures market will also provide an alternative avenue
for independent retailers to enter the market by enabling them
to purchase longer-term hedges,” he said. “The entry of such
independent players can in turn further spur retail competition
to the benefit of end-consumers.”  Market Makers  Households in public and private housing consume on average
about 369 kilowatt hours and 778 kilowatt hours of electricity
per month, respectively, according to the EMA. The average U.K.
household consumed 352 kilowatt hours a month last year,
according to  government  data.  An industry group is developing the electricity futures
contracts and establishing a market-making arrangement to ensure
sufficient trading liquidity, Iswaran said.  “We will want to make sure the rules, and the way players
participate in this market are carefully structured,” he said.
“Our market is small, which is why it’s important the key
players in the market come in. If that doesn’t happen then that
will be a difficult task.”  Singapore is also vying to become a hub for liquefied
natural gas, supercooled gas shipped by tankers rather than
pipelines. It opened its first LNG terminal in May with an
initial annual capacity of 3.5 million metric tons, increasing
to 6 million tons by the end of the year. Natural gas supplied
84 percent of electricity in 2012, according to the EMA.  Spot LNG  A fourth tank is planned to take capacity to 9 million tons
by 2016. That will allow Singapore to offer last-minute
deliveries, or spot cargoes, to buyers in  Asia  seeking an
alternative to long-term contracts.  “We are starting to see some evolution in gas contracts,”
Iswaran said, adding that “several large traders” have set up
in Singapore to establish a gas-trading base. “Increasingly
now, we’re seeing greater diversity in contract durations,
contract volumes, more spot traded. And also the opportunity to
find new indices are arising.”  Solar energy is Singapore’s most viable source of renewable
energy, Iswaran said in his speech. As the government seeks to
prepare for solar power in the energy mix, it started a public
consultation today on the regulatory framework for
“intermittent generation sources,” or energy that isn’t
continuously available.  “One area for consultation is how the market registration
procedures can be simplified to allow small consumers with
intermittent generation sources to be paid for supplying their
excess electricity to the grid,” he said. “Another is the
procurement of reserves to manage intermittency.”  The EMA lifted a cap on how much power that intermittent
generation sources such as solar can supply to the grid to 600
megawatts at peak from 350 megawatts previously, Iswaran said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  