-- SocGen’s Yu Is Said to Start Hedge Fund With $250 Million
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-10-28T17:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/socgen-s-yu-is-said-to-start-hedge-fund-with-250-million.html
Wayne Yu, head of event-driven
investment at  Societe Generale  SA in New York, is starting his
own hedge fund in the first quarter of next year, according to a
person familiar with his plans.  The French bank will invest $250 million in New York-based
Condorcet Global Opportunity Fund, which will trade the stocks
of companies going through corporate changes, including mergers
and restructurings, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the fund is private.  Hedge-fund starts are on track this year to reach the
highest number since 2007, after 585 firms were opened in the
first half of 2013, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc. Ben Brill and Markus Homor, currently analysts for
Yu, will join the new firm, and Steven Heller, chief operating
officer for Yu’s team, will become Condorcet’s COO.  Condorcet will use the back office of Societe Generale’s
money-management arm, Lyxor Asset Management, and will otherwise
operate independently.  Yu, Brill, Homor and Heller all declined to comment on the
plans.  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for Societe Generale, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking a comment.  The portfolio run by Yu, 42, and his team returned 8
percent a year on average since the beginning of 2010, the
person said. That compares with 6.8 percent for an index of
event-driven funds compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc. This year, the fund was up 6 percent through September,
compared with 12 percent for the index.  Prior to joining Societe Generale in November 2009, Yu
worked for six years at  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC in  Chicago .
Before joining Citadel, he was a mergers and acquisitions lawyer
at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz for six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  