-- Stevens Says Australia Dollar Likely to Be Materially Lower
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-29T00:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/stevens-says-aussie-likely-to-be-materially-lower-in-future-1-.html
Australia ’s central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the local currency’s level isn’t supported by
costs and productivity in the economy and the nation’s terms of
trade are more likely to fall than rise. The Aussie dropped.  “The foreign exchange market is perhaps another area in
which investors should take care,” Stevens said today in the
 text of a speech  in Sydney. “It seems quite likely that at some
point in the future the Australian dollar will be materially
lower than it is today.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left the cash rate unchanged
at a record-low 2.5 percent for the past two meetings as it
gauges the impact of earlier  reductions  on the economy and the
outlook for global growth. Stevens said  China ’s expansion
remains “robust” and the U.S. appears to be “healing,” while
noting the greenback had eased after the  Federal Reserve  opted
against beginning a tapering of bond purchases.  “It would be a mistake to relax for very long in the face
of this delay. Surely the ‘taper’ will come,” he told a
Citigroup Inc. conference. “For some countries, including
Australia, the beginning of a return to something resembling
more normal conditions, in at least one major advanced country,
would lessen some of the difficulties we face in our own policy
choices.”  Currency Decline  The Australian dollar touched 95.30 U.S. cents after the
speech, the weakest since Oct. 17, from 95.75 cents just before
it was released. The currency traded at 95.43 cents at 10:48
a.m. in Sydney.  The comments were “jawboning trying to get the currency to
go down and it’s worked,” said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s chief economist in Australia. “But they want it a lot
lower than this, which to me suggests in the 80s somewhere.”  The RBA is balancing low rates that are driving up housing
prices against renewed strength in the Australian dollar --
among the best performers of group of 10 currencies since late
August -- that is constraining industries exposed to exports.  Stevens said today that “some” rise in housing prices is
a normal response to lower rates and will provide incentive for
residential construction, adding that given credit growth is
between 4 percent and 5 percent per annum at the moment, it is
“a little too early to signal great concern” over price gains.  The caveats, he said, is that credit growth may pick up
over the period ahead and and borrowing is increasing “quite
quickly” in some pockets of the country.  Sydney Strength  “Investor participation in housing in Sydney, in
particular, is becoming noticeably stronger,” he said. “Over
the past year, the rate of finance approvals for this purpose
has increased by 40 percent.”  Traders are pricing in little chance of a rate reduction by
the central bank this year, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stevens also noted today that the strength of the  exchange
rate  in recent years also had a significant impact on the
central bank’s balance sheet. Treasurer  Joe Hockey  announced
last week the government will inject A$8.8 billion ($8.4
billion) into the central bank’s depleted reserve fund.  “The effect of this is that instead of it taking many
years to rebuild the capital, it will occur in the current
year,” Stevens said. “This results in a stronger balance sheet
on average, and makes it likely that a regular flow of dividends
to the Commonwealth can be resumed at a much earlier date than
would otherwise have been the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  