-- Sun Says It Addressed FDA Observations at Caraco Factory
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-10-28T05:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/sun-says-it-addressed-fda-observations-at-caraco-factory-1-.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) 
said it addressed Food and Drug Administration concerns about
quality-control breaches at a U.S. subsidiary that was shut down
by the regulator for three years because of manufacturing flaws.  Sun’s Detroit-based Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd.
unit, which said in August 2012 it was allowed to resume drug
manufacturing, received notifications from the FDA following
inspections in January and May this year, according to filings
obtained by Bloomberg via a Freedom of Information Act request.
Inspectors noted temperature-control lapses, some improperly
sealed containers and a deviation from quality-control
procedures.  The observations detailed in the FDA’s two so-called  Form
483s  are “minor” and the “company responded to these a long
time back,” Sun said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Sun, India’s largest pharmaceutical company by market
capitalization, joins smaller rivals  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) ,  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  and  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  in receiving
observations this year from the FDA over compliance concerns.
Indian drugmakers are the second-largest supplier of consumer-ready medicines to the U.S., exporting $14.6 billion of
pharmaceutical products in the year ended March.  “Once the FDA finds problems at one facility, they may
start looking deeper into other facilities -- that’s the reason
it’s important for Sun to resolve this as quickly as possible,”
said Ranjit Kapadia, an analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. in
Mumbai. “So these problems don’t spread.”  Sun declined as much as 2.1 percent and traded down 1.2
percent at 603.75 rupees as of 10:59 a.m. in Mumbai, headed for
the lowest close since Oct. 4. That compared with a 0.2 percent
gain in  India ’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index.  Heart Medication  The number of inspections of pharmaceutical production
facilities in India has more than doubled in the past five
years, according to data from the FDA in Silver Spring,
 Maryland .  Caraco’s most recent Form 483, issued on May 30, contained
only one so-called observation. In comparison, a Form 483 issued
in July to Mumbai-based Wockhardt listed 16 observations.  Sun’s billionaire founder Dilip Shanghvi expanded into the
U.S. generic drug industry with his acquisition of Caraco in
1997. In addition to the heart medication  carvedilol , Caraco
also makes antibiotics paromomycin and  minocycline , and a copy
of the  anticlotting  drug ticlopidine.  Caraco’s Detroit plants made as many as 33 drugs until June
2009, when the FDA ordered production to be stopped and U.S.
marshals seized products made at the facility after a series of
 recalls  and “continued failure to meet current Good
Manufacturing Practice requirements,” according to an FDA
 statement  at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  