-- Sunflowers to Schwinns Proposed for Keystone Pathway
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/sunflowers-to-schwinns-proposed-for-keystone-pathway.html
The debate over the Keystone XL
pipeline has gotten pretty heated and Kinder Baumgardner has an
idea to cool the emotions: a really long bike path.  The creative director for the  SWA Group , an Houston-based
architectural firm that designed Google Inc.’s corporate campus,
says building the lane along Keystone’s path through the
country’s mid-section could turn what is now a source of rancor
into a tourist attraction.  The firm sent a letter Oct. 17 pitching the plan to the
State Department and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the pipeline’s sponsor.
Its illustrations show scenes of smiling bicyclists riding over
buried pipe and by a farmer’s market, Native American teepees,
cows, sunflower fields -- and a protester in a tree.  “If you’re the average American, you live on the coasts in
a city,” he said in an interview. “You’re not going to meet a
rancher. You’ll never meet a Native American. You’re not going
to meet an oilman. The stuff in the middle of the country gets
overlooked.”  While the illustrations are tongue-in-cheek, Baumgardner
insists the idea isn’t: making Keystone more palatable by
creating a “recreational corridor” along its right of way.  “If it was built, how could you make it better for the
population?” he said his creative team asked. “To us, it was
ridiculous that you would go through all the effort and it would
have only one use.”  Eyesore Conversions  Local officials have sought in recent years to turn
eyesores into attractions, perhaps most famously in  Manhattan 
where an old freight rail line on the west side was converted
into the High Line park.  In Texas, SWA is working to build bike paths underneath
 power lines  owned by  CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP)  It already turned a
polluted waterway into a scenic promenade called the Buffalo
Bayou.  Keystone, which would stretch over 1,300 miles if a
southern leg from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the  Gulf Coast  is
included, would be on a different scale. TransCanada has asked
for permission to build the pipeline to connect the oil sands of
 Alberta  with refineries along the gulf.  Critics of Keystone reacted with a certain amount of
incredulity to the idea.  “I think it’s ridiculous,” said Jane Kleeb, the executive
director of Bold  Nebraska , which opposes Keystone because it
says it could pollute water and farm and ranch land in Nebraska.
“Why would anyone who cares about the environment want to ride
on top of a pipeline that ruins the environment? The person who
developed this is so out of touch with reality.”  Texas, California  “This seems like it should be in The Onion or something,”
said Tiernan Sittenfeld, a lobbyist with the  League of
Conservation Voters , said in an e-mail. “Seriously, this can’t
be for real.”  Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada, said he had not
heard of the idea before being contacted by a reporter. He also
wasn’t enthusiastic.  “To make sure we can maintain or access the pipeline,
permanent structures couldn’t be built in the easement,” he
said. “We do not own the land that the pipeline easement is
for.”  Baumgardner said permanent structures typically refer to
buildings and not asphalt or leveled soil. Hotels could be built
adjacent to the path, he said.  $400 Million  The price tag could reach $400 million, which would pay for
the bike lane, “interpretive elements” along the route, and
the team of designers, cultural experts, economists and
engineers to put the whole thing together, Baumgardner said.  SWA envisions federal, state and counties and townships
partnering with TransCanada to pay for the bike lane, which
communities often can’t afford on their own. The project could
be included in legislation, Baumgardner said in the proposal.  The environmental controversy over the line didn’t escape
SWA’s offices. Its employees in  Texas , an oil state, tended to
have a more favorable view on Keystone, while those in its
California offices were “shocked by the thought that it would
be built at all,” Baumgardner said.  Eventually all sides warmed to the idea of trying to make
the project better, he said.  The State Department, which is reviewing Keystone because
it crosses an international border, said it had no comment on
the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  