-- Suning, Hony to Invest $420 Million in China Video Site PPTV
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/suning-hony-to-invest-420-million-in-china-video-site-pptv.html
Suning Commerce Group Co. (002024) ,  China ’s
largest electronics retailer, said it plans to invest $420
million in video website PPTV.com together with private-equity
firm Hony Capital Ltd.  Nanjing, China-based Suning will pay $250 million for a 44
percent stake in PPTV, making it the video company’s largest
shareholder, according to a statement handed to reporters at a
press conference in  Shanghai  yesterday.  Suning has been investing in its online operations as
Chinese consumers increasingly make purchases through the
Internet. In September, it introduced an open platform to allow
other retailers to sell on its website. Last year, it bought
Redbaby, an online retailer of baby products.  The PPTV purchase gives Suning a foothold in the Chinese
online video market, which consultant IResearch estimates may
generate 16.2 billion  yuan  ($2.7 billion) in revenue next year.
Baidu Inc., China’s second-largest Internet company by market
value, bought PPStream Inc. in June for $370 million and has
been combining it with IQiyi.com to create China’s largest
online video platform.  Suning is expanding its product offerings to become less
reliant on its traditional electronics business as it faces a
weaker Chinese economy. The company said in August it had
submitted preliminary plans to relevant government departments
to set up a bank.  The retailer, which said July 30 its first-half net income
fell 58 percent to 732.5 million yuan, also faces increasing
competition from Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. and
360buy Jingdong Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  