-- U.K. Commuters Struggle to Get Home as Storm Halts Trains
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-28T17:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/u-k-commuters-struggle-to-get-home-as-storm-halts-trains.html
U.K. residents who braved southern
 England ’s worst winds in five years to get to work today face a
demanding journey home as rail companies curb timetables after
trees were blown across tracks and brought down  power lines .  Commuter specialist Greater Anglia and the Stansted Express
airport link halted service until further notice, while Southern
Trains was among operators to reduce frequencies amid a struggle
to restore routes in the aftermath of a storm that saw gusts
peak at 99 miles per hour. London Overground expects disruption
to continue until at least 10 p.m., with few of its lines open.  Devastation wrought by the low pressure system blocked
tracks, severed overhead electricity cables and closed a nuclear
power plant as it swept through this morning, leaving more than
600,000 without power. As many as four people died in weather-related accidents in the U.K., with falling trees killing a car
driver, crushing a caravan and linked to a  London  gas explosion.  “The damage caused by the storm has been more severe than
expected,” said Robin Gisby, managing director for operations
at Network Rail Ltd., the owner of Britain’s train tracks, who
added that more than 100 trees had fallen across lines or wires.  Three long-distance lines connecting London with northern
England were blocked and hundreds of commuter services were
scrapped across the south. Engineers checked track for obstacles
that might derail trains or cause people to be trapped for hours.  Stagecoach Plc’s  South West Trains , Britain’s top commuter
operator, halted at least 160 services due to the storm before
commencing a “phased re-introduction.” It warned that further
cancellations and alterations were to be expected.  Tube Delays  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) ’s Southeastern, which serves 179
commuter stations, said most connections had been restored after
more than 50 trees blocked tracks. Sister franchise Southern’s
Gatwick Express shuttles to London’s second-busiest airport
returned to running normally after major disruption.  East Midlands Trains will run no services out of London  St.
Pancras  until tomorrow following overhead wire damage, though
the station’s Eurostar Group Ltd. services were running as
timetabled and billionaire Richard Branson’s Virgin Trains,
reliant on Pendolino expresses that also draw power from cables
vulnerable to high winds, aimed to restore schedules by 4 p.m.  Rival London-Scotland operator East Coast warned of hour-long delays and First Great Western, which links the capital
with  Wales  and southwest England, was curtailing services.  On the London Underground subway there were delays on the
Piccadilly and District lines, with minor disruptions reported
on the Northern line. All other services are operating normally.  Ferries Marooned  The storm, which developed over the Atlantic and was
strengthened by a strong jet stream and warm air near Britain,
was the worst to hit the south of the country since 2008 and the
most severe to arrive in the fall in 11 years, the  Met Office 
said. The system produced as much as 50 millimeters (2 inches)
of rain, with flooding exacerbated by wind-blown debris  The storm’s impact was also felt in  France ,  Belgium  and the
Netherlands, where warnings of hurricane-force winds prompted
the idling of ferry services.  Falling trees killed a man in his 50s as he was driving in
Watford, north of London, and crushed a 17-year-old girl as she
slept in a caravan in Kent, the Press Association reported,
citing local police. A downed tree may also have caused a gas
explosion in Hounslow that killed two people, according to
London’s Metropolitan Police.  Some 200,000 U.K. customers remain without power after
407,000 connections were restored, Energy Networks Association
said. UK Power Networks, which distributes more than a quarter
of Britain’s electricity, said helicopter patrols were being
carried out to assess the state of overhead lines.  Reactors Idled  Dungeness B nuclear power station, one of nine in Britain,
automatically shut down both reactors after electricity supplies
to the site were cut off, spokeswoman Sue Fletcher by telephone,
and it may be a week before the facility is up and running again.  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest aviation hub, scrapped
about 20 percent of flights between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 10
percent between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., with cross-winds well in
excess of the 30 mph that can hamper landings and takeoffs. The
airport, which usually has close to 1,300 services a day, said
about 5 percent of flights would be scrapped from 4 p.m. onwards.  All London-area airports advised passengers to check with
airlines on the status of flights before setting out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  