-- U.K. Ministers Make Case for High Speed Rail as Labour Backs Off
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/u-k-ministers-make-case-for-high-speed-rail-as-labour-backs-off.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government argued that alternatives to its High Speed 2 rail
plan would mean 14 years of closing train routes on weekends, as
the opposition  Labour Party  suggested it could withdraw support
for the plan.  Cameron on Oct. 25 told reporters that cross-party support
was essential for the project, known as HS2, which will span
decades. Ministers have been trying to keep Labour on board by
insisting that costs won’t rise, and warning of the consequences
if the plan fails.  The 42.6 billion-pound ($69 billion) budget set in June
“hasn’t changed at all and that number includes within it a
significant amount of contingency,” Chief Secretary to the
Treasury  Danny Alexander , a Liberal Democrat in Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition, said on the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr show
yesterday. “We have set that budget and we will stick to it.”  The rail line, the first phase of which will run from
 London  to Manchester in the north of  England , was proposed by
the previous Labour government and then championed by Cameron
after he took power in 2010. Since then, a backlash from
Conservative lawmakers with constituencies on the route and
mounting costs have dogged the project, while Cameron suggested
last week that it can’t proceed without Labour’s backing.  “We have to keep a strong eye on the costs as well as on
the benefits,” Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said on the
same show after Alexander spoke. “This is a massive amount of
public money. It’s got to be well spent.”  She echoed comments on Oct. 26 on BBC Radio 5 by  Ed Balls ,
who speaks for Labour on Treasury issues. Meanwhile the party’s
transport spokeswoman, Mary Creagh, told the Sunday Times that
there are “a whole series of questions” hanging over the
project. When asked if Labour might oppose it at the 2015
election, she said she didn’t know.  Lack of Enthusiasm  While the Labour leadership’s enthusiasm for HS2 is
lacking, the party is torn on the matter. Former Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw, whose constituency is in the north of
England, told  Sky News  he strongly supports the project.  “Of course I understand that Ed Balls should worry about
the cost,” he said, speaking from Manchester. “HS2 is one way
in which we rebalance our economy north and south.”  A poll by the BBC’s Sunday Politics show of more than 20
lawmakers in northeast England found mixed views on the project,
with 43 percent in favor and 33 percent against.  The government will publish a fresh business case tomorrow,
and the legislation on the plan returns to Parliament on Oct.
31. Today, it published an analysis of the effects if the plan
were cancelled and the existing route upgraded.  Travel Times  It would involve 2,770 weekend closures along the main
routes running north from London, spanning 14 years. While the
work carried on, travel times would be doubled as passengers
were forced to take buses for part of the journey.  Bob Crow , general secretary of the RMT union, whose members
include rail workers, called on political parties to reaffirm
their backing and push through with HS2.  “The latest outbreak of political posturing between Labour
and the Tories over high speed rail is just another smokescreen
designed to allow the politicians to delay investment in
Britain’s railways even longer,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  Cheaper Alternative  Labour lawmaker Kelvin Hopkins has presented Balls with an
alternative plan to reopen a route called the Grand Central Line
that was closed in the 1960s, with a cheaper price tag of 6
billion pounds, the Sunday Telegraph reported. The line ran from
London to Nottingham, with links to Leeds and Manchester, the
Telegraph said.  Alexander said that the government will apply the same
techniques and rigor to the project that it did for delivering
work for the  Olympic Games . He said the economic case for it
remains persuasive.  “HS2 is something which can transform the economic
geography of this country,” he said. “When you talk to the
civic leaders in Manchester and Birmingham, they will tell you,
they see this as a huge boost for their cities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  