-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed as Investors Weigh U.S. Data
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-28T16:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-data.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed at a
five-month high as investors weighed worse-than-estimated data
on U.S. housing and factory output to gauge when the Federal
Reserve will slow the pace of its stimulus.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  dropped 2.3 percent after
saying that revenue growth in America slowed.  GKN Plc (GKN)  lost 2.2
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded automakers.
 Aggreko Plc (AGK)  climbed the most in more than seven months after
saying third-quarter revenue and trading margins improved from a
year earlier.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 4.48 points, less than 0.1
percent, to 6,725.82 at the close in  London , its highest level
since May 28. The gauge rallied 4.1 percent in the past three
weeks as corporate earnings beat estimates and U.S. lawmakers
reached a last-minute deal to end a fiscal impasse. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index was also little changed today and Ireland’s
ISEQ Index decreased 0.2 percent.  “The next question is when will the Fed taper,” Bettina Mueller, a senior economist in  Frankfurt  at Deutsche Asset &
Wealth Management, which manages the equivalent of $1.36
trillion, said by telephone. “We probably won’t get any big
news, but then speeches will start again and the data that will
be published is quite important because it’s data-dependent
tapering. October data may be partly distorted because of the
shutdown, but after that, we expect the data to recover again.”  Millions of U.K. commuters were advised to stay home as the
worst storm in five years forced rail operators across southern
Britain to cancel rush-hour services.  Fed Policy  The Federal Open Market Committee will meet Oct. 29-30 to
consider when to reduce $85 billion of monthly bond purchases.
The officials will decide to wait until March, a Bloomberg
survey showed this month. A partial shutdown of the U.S.
government because of a fiscal impasse hampered fourth-quarter
growth and disrupted the release of economic data, shrinking the
room for policy makers to start reducing the pace of stimulus.  A report today showed factory production in the U.S. rose
0.1 percent in September, lower than economists’ forecast of a
0.3 percent increase. Total industrial production, which
includes output from mines and utilities, advanced 0.6 percent.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 85 economists
called for a 0.4 percent advance in September industrial
production.  Fewer Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy
previously owned homes in September, the fourth straight month
of declines, separate data showed.  Falling Revenue  InterContinental Hotels lost 2.3 percent to 1,823 pence.
The owner of the Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza hotel chains said
revenue per available room in the U.S. increased 1.6 percent in
September, slower than the trend in the preceding months.  GKN, the automotive-parts supplier, dropped 2.2 percent to
364.1 pence. JPMorgan downgraded automakers to neutral from
overweight, meaning investors should hold no more of the shares
than are represented in benchmarks.  “Autos are the best-performing sector year-to-date in
Europe,”  Mislav Matejka , chief European equity strategist at
JPMorgan, wrote in a report today. “We think that their
earnings momentum could be stalling in the near term,” he
wrote.  Aggreko climbed 6 percent to 1,608 pence, its biggest
increase since March 14. The world’s largest provider of mobile
power generators said revenue and trading margins in the quarter
ended September improved from last year. The company said
underlying revenues and margins for both the second half and the
full year will also grow.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  advanced 1.6 percent to 3,301 pence. The
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker was raised to neutral from
underperform by Bank of America Corp., which said a phase of
analyst downgrades in  earnings estimates  is nearing an end and
new-product introductions had picked up.  Pendragon Plc (PDG)  gained 3.3 percent to 39.75 pence, its
highest price since November 2007. Jefferies Group LLC and Numis
both raised their estimates for profits at the seller of new and
used vehicles after the company said its performance will exceed
expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  