-- U.K. Hacker Is Charged With Theft of Data From U.S. Army
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-28T16:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/u-k-hacker-is-charged-with-theft-of-data-from-u-s-army.html
A U.K. hacker stole “massive
amounts” of confidential data from the U.S. Army and the U.S.
 Missile Defense Agency , including service members’ personal
information, the U.S. said.  Lauri Love, 28, and others also breached computer systems
at the Environmental Protection Agency and the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, according to Paul Fishman,
the U.S. attorney in New Jersey. Love was arrested Oct. 25 at
home in Stradishall,  England , said Fishman today.  “They stole military data and personal identifying
information belonging to servicemen and women,” Fishman said in
a statement. “Such conduct endangers the security of our
country and is an affront to those who serve.”  Love stole identifying information of workers at  NASA , the
Missile Defense Agency and the Army Network Enterprise
Technology Command, according an indictment unsealed today in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey. Criminal complaints also
were unsealed in Newark and Alexandria,  Virginia .  The hackers also stole data on the demolition and disposal
of military facilities, natural-resource management, defense
program budgeting data and nonpublic competitive acquisition bid
data, according to Fishman.  Love also hacked into computers at the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services, Energy Department, Sentencing
Commission and Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory, according
to a complaint unsealed in Alexandria. He stole personal
information about employees of the computer forensics laboratory
and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, according to an arrest
complaint filed by the FBI.  Five Years  Love’s arrest came in connection with an investigation by
the U.K.’s National Crime Agency, according to Fishman. He faces
as long as five years in prison on the  New Jersey  charges.  The hacking “substantially impaired the functioning of
dozens of computer servers” and caused millions of dollars in
damage to government agencies, according to the indictment.  Love conspired with two people in  Australia  and a resident
of  Sweden  from October 2012 to this month, prosecutors said.  “Computer intrusions present significant risks to national
security and our military operations,” Daniel Andrews, director
of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s computer crime
investigative unit, said in a statement.  In some attacks, the hackers found weaknesses in Structured
Query Language, a type of programming language, the U.S. said.
In others, they attacked a Web application platform known as
Coldfusion. They placed malicious code that let them maintain
access through a so-called back door or shell, according to the
indictment.  Chat Rooms  They communicated using secure Internet chat rooms, where
they frequently changed online monikers, prosecutors said.  On Dec. 25, Love began a monthlong hack of computers at the
Sentencing Commission, according to an FBI complaint. The
commission sets sentencing policies for federal courts,
including guidelines for various federal crimes.  Love and his conspirators “altered the website to display
a video that criticized the guidelines with respect to Internet-related crimes,” according to the FBI complaint. As a result,
the site was unavailable for three weeks.  Love left several clues about his hacks, according to the
FBI. In October 2012, he originated a hack from an Internet
domain he owned, according to subscriber and financial records
cited by the FBI. Love paid for the domain with a PayPal Inc.
account registered to  lauri.love@gmail.com , the FBI said.  The PayPal payment originated from an Internet Protocol
address associated with his U.K. address, the FBI complaint
said.  The indictment is U.S. v. Love, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey ( Newark ). The FBI complaint is U.S. v.
Love, 13-mj-00657, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  