-- U.K. Lawmakers Propose Changes to Set Energy Carbon Goal
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/u-k-lawmakers-propose-amending-energy-law-to-set-carbon-goal.html
U.K. lawmakers in Parliament’s upper
chamber proposed adding a carbon target for power generation to
energy legislation after an attempt in the lower house failed.  The plan by  Nicholas Stern  and Ronald Oxburgh, unaffiliated
to any party, and Bryony Worthington, a member of the opposition
 Labour Party , would amend the proposed law to compel the
government to set in 2014 a target to decarbonize the power
industry by 2030. It will be debated today in the House of
Lords.  “The U.K. needs to replace much of its electricity
generation infrastructure within the next 15 years or so as old
nuclear and fossil fuel power stations reach the end of their
lives,” Stern said in an e-mailed statement. “A requirement
within the energy bill to set an ambitious target next year to
decarbonize the U.K. power sector by 2030, is affordable,
responsible and good for growth.”  Manufacturers including Danish wind turbine maker  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  France ’s nuclear reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA) 
say the target is needed to send a signal to investors that the
government is committed to developing renewable power beyond
2020. The goal was recommended to the government by its own
adviser, the Committee on  Climate Change .  Legal Provision  Instead of setting a goal as soon as possible, ministers
included a provision in the law for a target to be set in 2016,
after the U.K.’s fifth carbon budget has been set for the five
years through 2032. The budgets set out how much carbon dioxide
the U.K. can emit in five-year periods to help the country cut
emissions by 80 percent in the six decades through 2050.  Labour and rebel members of the ruling Conservative and
Liberal Democrat coalition failed in June to amend the bill to
include a target when it was debated in the House of Commons.  The  bill , introduced to Parliament 11 months ago, seeks to
stimulate 110 billion pounds ($178 billion) of investment in
power stations and the electricity grid, needed as aging
generators retire from service.  A “target could unlock billions of pounds of private
investment in the U.K. power sector, generating a much-needed
and sustainable boost to economic growth, and providing the
extra capacity necessary to keep the lights on,” Stern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  