-- Lumen View, Redskins, Sony, NSA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-28T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/lumen-view-redskins-sony-nsa-intellectual-property.html
Lumen View Technology LLC, a
Delaware-based patent holder that has filed more than 20
infringement suits since 2012, asked a federal court to order a
company it sued to stop talking to the news media about its
settlement offers.  The request, filed in federal court in  New York  Oct. 22,
came in a suit against FindtheBest.com, a company operating a
website that enables customer research.  Lumen View filed the suit in May, and in September,
FindtheBest.com responded by filing a suit accusing Lumen View
of trying to extort a settlement. In that complaint,
FindtheBest.com said that counsel for Lumen View had accused its
chief executive of committing a “hate crime” for calling one
of the investors in Lumen View a “patent troll.” This is a
pejorative term sometimes applied to patent owners who don’t
make goods or provide services covered by the patents they are
attempting to enforce.  That case is Findthebest.com Inc. v. Lumen View Technology
LLC, 1:13-cv-006521-DLC, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  In the request filed in the case against FindtheBest.com,
Lumen Technology also asked the court to require the company and
its counsel to remove from the Internet its previous media
disclosures, blog posts or press releases related to settlement
offers.  That case is Lumen View Technology LLC v. Find the
Best.Com. Inc., 1:13-cv-03599-DLC, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NCAA Loses Bid to Dismiss Ex-Athletes’ Antitrust Claims  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  lost a bid to
dismiss antitrust claims in a lawsuit brought by ex-athletes
over the use of their images and likenesses on television and in
video games.  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland, California,
denied the NCAA’s request Oct. 25 to throw out claims by ex-college athletes that the association conspired to block them
from commercial use of their names, images and likenesses.  A four-year-old lawsuit by former University of California-Los Angeles college basketball forward Ed O’Bannon challenges
the traditional notion that only the NCAA, conferences and
schools can profit from selling the rights to players’
likenesses used in broadcasts and other media.  The NCAA says the claims are trumped by its rules
designating college athletes as amateurs. The U.S. Supreme Court
in a 1984 ruling upheld those rules.  Wilken said rules maintaining “the revered tradition of
amateurism in college sports” don’t “stand for the sweeping
proposition that student-athletes must be barred, both during
their college years and forever thereafter, from receiving any
monetary compensation for the commercial use of the names,
images and likenesses.”  The NCAA’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the ruling. Robert Carey, O’Bannon’s
attorney, had no immediate comment.  Wilken said the NCAA may still challenge the athletes
antitrust claims at a later stage of the case, and the players
will need to show evidence that archival game footage and live
game broadcasts were used primarily for commercial purposes. She
gave the NCAA 14 days to respond to the athletes’ amended
complaint.  O’Bannon alleged that the NCAA conspired with video game
maker  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  to restrain athletes’ ability to
profit from the use of their likenesses. EA announced in
September that it settled claims against it and will pay
athletes $40 million. The second-largest U.S. video-game
publisher also said it was canceling its college football title
for next year because of legal issues.  The case is In re NCAA Student-Athlete Name & Likeness
Licensing Litigation, 09-cv-01967, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (Oakland).  Washington NFL Team Denies ‘Braveheart’ Application Connection  The Washington Redskins National Football League team has
no connection to a trademark application filed by a neighbor of
team owner Daniel Snyder, a spokesman told the Washington
Business Journal.  Nixon & Vanderhye PC’s Donna Bunton filed an application
Oct. 17 to register “Washington Bravehearts” on behalf of
Snyder neighbor Aris Mardirossian, specifying that the mark
would be used with “entertainment in the nature of football
games,”  according to  the Washington Business Journal.  Snyder has been under pressure by Native American groups to
change the team name on the grounds that it is racist and
derogatory, the newspaper reported.  Mardirossian is the founder of  Technology Patents LLC ,
according to Washington Business Journal.  Armenian Commission Fines Telecom for Infringing Trademark  ArmenTel , an Armenian telecommunications company, was fined
20 million Armenian dram ($50,000) for infringing the trademark
of a competitor, that country’s Hetq online news website
 reported .  The Armenian State Economic Competition Protection
Commission acted in response to a complaint by  Orange Armenia 
that ArmentTel’s “Parzic Parz” mobile phone package sounded
too much like “Parz,” which Orange Armenia used to one of its
packages, according to Hetq.  In its complaint, Orange Armenia said ArmenTel’s ads
featured orange and red billiard balls, which was a ply on
Orange Armenia’s signature color, Hetq reported.  Orange Armenia registered “Parz” as a brand name in 2011,
Hetq reported.  Maryland’s Moonshine Tavern Changing Name Over Trademark Issue  A Baltimore-area restaurant and bar is changing its name in
the wake of a trademark complaint from a  Texas  restaurant, the
Baltimore Business Journal  reported .  The Moonshine Tavern in Canton,  Maryland , will switch its
name to Myth & Moonshine Oct. 31, following six months of
negotiations with Austin, Texas’ Moonshine Patio Bar & Grill,
according to the newspaper.  The Maryland restaurant features cocktails made from some
of its 65 varieties of moonshine, a term formerly used for home-distilled liquor, the Business Journal reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony Sues United Airlines Over Use of In-Flight Music, Videos  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Arista Music unit sued  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s United Airlines unit for copyright infringement.  The suit, filed Oct. 22 in federal court in New York,
alleges that the airline is using content from Arista and
several other Sony units as part of its in-flight music service
without authorization or compensation.  Appended to the complaint is a lengthy list of musical
performances  Japan ’s Sony Corp claims are infringed. They
include performances by cellist Yo Yo Ma, country singers Carrie
Underwood and  Kelly Clarkson , and by  Bob Dylan ,  Janis Joplin ,
 Jimi Hendrix , Santana,  Aretha Franklin ,  Michael Jackson ,
 Jennifer Hudson  and the “Glee” cast.  Sony claims that the airline and its partner producers of
in-flight entertainment have used thousands of the music
company’s sound recordings and music videos without a license or
any other form of authorization.  The music company seeks a court order barring further
unauthorized use of its content, together with seizure and
destruction of all allegedly infringing copies of its sound
recordings and music videos, together with awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  United spokeswoman Christen David said in an e-mail that
her company declined to comment on pending litigation.  The case is Arista Music v.  United Airlines  Inc., 1:13-cv-07451-AT, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Danish Business Group Backs Down on NSA Monitoring Claims  Dansk Industri ,  Denmark ’s largest business advocacy group,
issued a statement saying it had no information that the
National Security Agency had spied on Danish businesses and
passed the information on to U.S. companies, the Copenhagen Post
 reported .  The statement came after Tom Tosgverd, head of the
organization’s telecom monitoring branch told the Politiken
newspaper that following Edward Snowden’s revelations of alleged
targeting of various European countries, it would be “naive”
to think that the NSA hadn’t been monitoring Danish companies,
according to the newspaper.  Morten Bodskov , Denmark’s justice minister, then told
Politiken that he had no reason to believe there had been
unlawful monitoring of Denmark or Danish business interests, the
Post reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  