-- Tunisia Panel Vets 21 Candidates for Premier Job as Talks Start
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-10-28T13:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/tunisia-panel-vets-21-candidates-for-premier-job-as-talks-start.html
The panel responsible for choosing
candidates for the job of  Tunisia ’s prime minister is vetting 21
names as politicians push ahead with a plan to end a political
standoff delaying the transition to democracy.  The five-member committee is set to present a shortlist to
the heads of political parties “by the end of the day,”  Maya
Jribi, one of the members, said by phone. She declined to
identify any of the candidates.  Tunisian parties started national talks on Oct. 25 to form
a non-partisan government after militant attacks and political
assassinations of secular-leaning opposition leaders increased
pressure on the Islamist-led Cabinet to step down. The turmoil
has deterred investors and hampered the country’s economic
recovery more than two years after a popular uprising ended Zine El Abidine Ben Ali’s autocratic rule.  “The democratic transition is taking too long,” Lotfi
Zitoun, a senior official in the Islamist Ennahda party, which
leads the current government, said in an interview in the
capital Tunis. “It has shaken investors’ confidence.”  The coming Cabinet will oversee parliamentary elections,
according to a road map brokered by Tunisia’s main labor union.
Talks would run in parallel to complete a new constitution.
Elyes Fakhfakh, the outgoing finance minister, said in an
interview on Oct. 12 that steps allowing the government led by
Prime Minister Ali Larayedh to resign may be concluded by mid-November.  Rating Cut  Tunisia’s transition turned from the envy of neighbors such
as  Egypt , where a similar revolt sparked bouts of violence and
unrest, to a crisis after the assassination of opposition
politicians Chocri Belaid and Mohamed Brahmi in February and
July. The killings prompted opposition parties to withdraw from
the interim constituent assembly and challenge Ennahda’s
leadership.  The turmoil also triggered a two-level downgrade in
Tunisia’s credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  in August to B,
five levels below investment grade. The ratings company warned
that international financial support could wane. The government
lowered its target for economic growth this year to 3.6 percent
from 4 percent, Fakhfakh said in  Washington .  “It is certain that a continuation of the political
deadlock and the weakening of the state on the security and
economic level could trigger clashes in the areas where the
central authority is absent,” Mourad Hattab, risk manager at
 Societe Tunisienne de Banque , said in an interview in Tunis.  Clashes between security forces and unidentified gunmen
killed nine people on Oct. 23 in Sidi Bouzid, where the self-immolation of a fruit vendor to protest poverty and government
neglect triggered the first uprising of the so-called Arab
Spring.  Larayedh’s government has blamed the Ansar Al Shariah
extremists for the assassination of opposition leaders and for a
string of attacks on police forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  