-- Murray to Buy Coal Assets From Consol for $850 Million
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-10-28T21:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/murray-to-buy-coal-assets-from-consol-for-850-million.html
Consol Energy Inc. (CNX)  agreed to sell
assets including five West  Virginia  thermal-coal mines to  Murray
Energy Corp.  for about $850 million to help fund the expansion
of natural gas production from shale deposits.  The deal will also give Consol about $184 million in future
royalties and other payments, the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement. Closely held Murray will take
on $2.4 billion of liabilities as part of the deal, which is
expected to close by year-end.  Consol first said in July it was looking at its corporate
structure to increase the company’s share price. It considered
splitting off the entire coal business, which accounts for most
of its revenue, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brett Harvey said today in a conference call. Instead it decided to
keep low-cost mines in  Pennsylvania  and Virginia and its
Baltimore terminal to take advantage of rising export demand for
thermal and metallurgical coal.  The mines being sold “do not support our growth strategy
going forward,” Harvey said on the call. “I doesn’t fit with
where we’re headed.”  Consol, which has operations in the Utica and Marcellus
shale deposits in the U.S., said today it’s working to boost its
gas output by 30 percent in 2015 and 2016. Shares of North
American oil and gas producers have risen along with a surge in
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to extract gas trapped in
shale formations, while U.S. coal producers have suffered in the
past two years from lower demand from power utilities.  ‘Multiple Bids’  Consol fell 0.5 percent to $37.95 at the close in New York.  “The announced transaction should address most of the
concerns of investors who might have avoided Consol due to the
negative aspects of its coal business, and may encourage a re-evaluation of the firm by investors seeking exposure to the
Marcellus and Utica shales,” Paul Forward, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. Inc. in Baltimore, said in a note.  The sale process started about six months ago and Consol
made contact with about 28 potential buyers, including private-equity firms, Chief Financial Officer  David Khani  said on the
call. It received “multiple” bids, he said.  Consol is selling the McElroy, Shoemaker, Robinson Run,
Loveridge and Blacksville No. 2 mines, which produced 28.5
million tons of thermal coal in 2012. The transaction also
includes Consol’s river and dock operations, which transported
19.3 million tons of coal and other commodities along the upper
Ohio River system last year.  Dividend Cut  Consol is cutting its quarterly dividend by half to 6.25
cents a share and will record a pretax gain of about $1.3
billion in the fourth quarter because of the transaction. The
deal will reduce the company’s 2014 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization by about $213 million.  With an enterprise value of about $3.25 billion, the
transaction is the U.S. largest coal-industry acquisition since
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. bought Massey Energy Co. for $6.66
billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Murray Energy , the largest closely held U.S. coal producer,
was founded by Chief Executive Officer Robert E. Murray in 1988
and currently operates eight mines that produce about 30 million
tons of coal a year, according to its website. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG will help Murray to finance the
acquisition of the Consol assets, Khani said, without giving
details.  Stifel Nicolaus and Bank of America Merrill Lynch were
Consol’s financial advisers on the deal. Greenberg Traurig LLP,
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Steptoe & Johnson PLLC and
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC acted as legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  