-- LVMH’s DFS Group Plans To Open First Europe Shop in 2016
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-28T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/lvmh-s-dfs-group-plans-to-open-first-europe-shop-in-2016.html
DFS Group, an operator of duty-free
shops controlled by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , said it
plans to open its first stores in  Europe  to cater to Chinese
consumers who travel more frequently to the region.  The company plans to add “a few” outlets in Europe in
2016 and is looking at prime destinations for Chinese tourists,
such as France, Italy and  Switzerland , Chief Operating Officer
Michael Schriver said. DFS, which gets more than half of its
global sales from Chinese shoppers, currently has no outlets in
Europe.  “We invest a lot in building awareness among mainland
Chinese at our shops here in Hong Kong and in other parts of the
world,” Schriver said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.
“Chinese customers will continue to account for more than half
of our revenue in several years to come.” He didn’t disclose
the number of stores planned for Europe.  By turning their holidays into lengthy shopping excursions,
the Chinese are propping up European sales and aiding the
outlook for brands from  Prada SpA (1913)  to Kering SA’s Gucci. Chinese
consumers overtook U.S. shoppers last year to become the world’s
biggest buyers of  luxury goods , accounting for 25 percent of
global sales through purchases at home and overseas, according
to consultant Bain & Co.  The Hong Kong-based company expects its sales to continue
to grow in “double-digits” next year, Schriver said. Tax-free
shopping by Chinese residents on overseas trips grew by about 20
percent on average in the first quarter of 2013, according to
Global Blue, which runs a transaction service for international
shopping.  Floor Space  DFS plans to increase floor space by 40 percent at its 
existing stores in Macau to cope with the increasing number of 
Chinese tourists, Schriver said.  Founded in the 1960s in  Hong Kong , DFS sells more than 700
brands from Dior to Absolut vodka, at airports and in downtown
stores in  11 countries . Travelers can buy goods and claim back
value-added tax when they leave the country.  French luxury conglomerate LVMH bought a majority stake in
DFS Group in 1997. DFS Group, Paris department store Le Bon
Marche and cosmetics chain store Sephora are among shops that
form LVMH’s Selective Retailing division, which accounted for 28
percent of its sales in 2012.  The Selective Retailing unit will overtake fashion and
leather goods as LVMH’s biggest business by 2018, analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  