-- Western U.S. States, British Columbia Agree on Carbon
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/western-u-s-states-british-columbia-sign-climate-change-pact.html
The governors of  Oregon  and
Washington agreed to put a price on emissions and adopt fuel
standards, bringing their efforts to cut greenhouse-gas
pollution closer to those of  California  and British Columbia.  Under an accord signed yesterday by leaders of the three
western U.S. states and the Canadian province, Oregon will build
on existing programs to set a price for carbon and Washington
will impose emissions limits and establish a market to meet
those caps. British Columbia and California will maintain their
current efforts, and all four will link up “where possible” to
offer consistency.  The agreement falls short of creating a regional carbon
market sought by California. The state began a cap-and-trade
program when the U.S. government couldn’t come up with a
national system in 2010. A movement to create a market across
the western U.S. and parts of  Canada  collapsed two years ago
after some states sought other ways to cut emissions.  “This is not a revolution,” California Governor Jerry Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, said at a news briefing in San
Francisco where the state and provincial leaders signed the
agreement. “You are witnessing an historic, small, but powerful
step. It’s only the beginning. You watch. Next year and the year
after that and the year after that, this will spread until
finally we get a real handle and grasp on what is the world’s
greatest existential challenge.”  China Entrants  Brown said the group will “soon be joined by provinces on
the coast of  China ,” noting that a meeting has been scheduled
with leaders from that country in January.  Washington  and Oregon agreed to adopt low-carbon fuel
standards, and the four governments said they’ll “harmonize”
greenhouse-gas reduction targets for 2050. They’ll also support
the integration of regional electricity grids to connect power
markets and expand access to renewable resources, according to
the plan.  California’s carbon market was “designed with an eye
toward potential inclusion within a larger regional trading
program,” the state Air Resources Board said in a May 2012
 proposal  to permit links with other governments. The state and
Canada’s Quebec province have already aligned programs and plan
to tie in emissions markets beginning next year so polluters can
trade carbon allowances across their jurisdictions.  Trading Programs  Under their programs, a set number of allowances, each
permitting the release of a metric ton of carbon, are issued
through a combination of free allocations and auctions. That
pool of permits shrinks over time to reduce emissions, and
polluters with more allowances than they need can sell them.  British Columbia is working with California and  Quebec  to
develop a complementary cap-and-trade system. The province
already has a carbon tax.  Washington, Oregon, California and British Columbia were
part of a group of western states and Canadian provinces that
formed in 2007 to create a regional market for greenhouse-gas
emissions. The group effort, known as the Western Climate
Initiative, ended in 2011 when California, British Columbia and
Quebec agreed to move forward with emissions-trading systems and
the other states decided to pursue non-market-based approaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  