-- Corn Drops to Three-Year Low on Beneficial U.S. Weather
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-10-28T19:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/wheat-drops-as-drier-former-soviet-union-boosts-supply-outlook.html
Corn futures fell to the lowest in
more than three years as dry weather improved harvest prospects
for a U.S. crop that the government estimates will be the
world’s biggest ever.  Farmers probably have completed 50 percent of the harvest
as of yesterday, up from 39 percent a week earlier, according
Prime Agricultural Consultants Inc. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  will issue its update on crop conditions later
today. The agency has forecast that output will increase 28
percent this season from last year, when drought damaged fields
across the Midwest.  Prices in  Chicago  have plunged 49 percent from last year’s
record. Global supplies have surged on gains in  Brazil ,
 Argentina  and Urkraine, while the U.S. crop rebounded from the
2012 drought, the most-severe since the 1930s. Cheaper corn is
boosting profit for Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., which makes
ethanol from the grain, and Sanderson Farms Inc., the third-largest U.S. poultry producer.  “Farmers are generally very happy with the yields this
year, and some are selling a few more bushels,” Chad Henderson,
the president of Prime Agricultural Consultants in Brookfield,
 Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 2.1 percent to
close at $4.3075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the biggest drop since Sept. 30. Earlier, the price
touched $4.3025, the lowest for a most-active contract since
Aug. 26, 2010. Trading was 51 percent above the 100-day average
for this time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Decline  This year, corn has tumbled 38 percent, heading for a
record decline. The slump was the most among the 24  raw
materials  in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index.  The U.S. harvest accelerated in the past three days amid
dry conditions, while widespread rains of as much as 2 inches
(5.1 centimeters) beginning late tomorrow may slow fieldwork,
Henderson said.  U.S. corn  reserves  on Aug. 31 will total 1.855 billion
bushels, up from 1.837 billion forecast in August, the USDA said
on Sept. 12. Global inventories will jump 24 percent to a 12-year high.  “Big production is coming at us, and we are going to build
global inventories,” Bryce Stremming, a commodity risk
consultant at Mid-Co Commodities Inc. in Bloomington,  Illinois ,
said in a telephone interview.  In the U.S., corn is the biggest crop, followed by
soybeans, hay and wheat, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  