-- Twitter Costs Before IPO Surge With Go-It-Alone Apps
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-10-28T13:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/twitter-go-it-alone-app-strategy-boosts-costs-before-ipo.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR) ’s operating costs are
growing faster than its revenue. To understand why, consider how
the microblogging service deals with would-be partners.  More than four years after Twitter touted the importance of
opening its doors for programmers to build businesses to
complement its short-messaging site, startups are finding
themselves shut out. The San Francisco-based company has
restricted outside applications in its drive to shore up control
of advertising sales on the site.  On the eve of the biggest U.S. technology initial public
offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Twitter must instead rely on its
own talent for a continuous stream of innovative products,
contributing to surging expenses. Even as its business booms
with brands seeking to reach its 230 million users, Twitter has
to spend faster than its revenue growth to keep up.  “They will probably never let a business become huge on
their platform,” said Nihal Mehta, a venture capitalist and co-founder of LocalResponse Inc., a New York-based online-ad
company that buys Twitter data. “If someone is generating a ton
of revenue on their platform, they’re going to want to do it
themselves.”  Twitter plunged $87.3 million -- more than half its revenue
-- into research and development in the third quarter, mostly
tied to hiring. R&D costs soared 170 percent from a year
earlier, while sales jumped 105 percent to $168.6 million. In
the meantime, the net loss widened to $64.6 million from a loss
of $21.6 million.  Similar to how developers build programs that run on
Windows or Mac computers, an app would tap into Twitter’s data
and network of users to provide complementary services -- say, a
compilation of messages from a selected group. The app provider
could make money off of Twitter’s platform by selling ads that
accompany its services.  Thorny Relationship  Unlike Facebook,  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  before it,
Twitter faces a trickier conundrum in its relationship with
developers. All profess to be platforms. The word shows up 260
times in Twitter’s IPO prospectus. Even so, the other companies
have success stories, be it Facebook spawning  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  or the
thousands of games and apps on Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android,
from “Angry Birds” and “Candy Crush Saga” to Flipboard Inc.  Attracting outside developers is one way Facebook, Google
and Apple have kept R&D costs down. Facebook spent 19 percent of
sales on R&D in the latest quarter and 14 percent in the last
period before its May 2012 IPO. Google spends about 14 percent
and Apple 3.3 percent.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment.  2009 Event  Twitter, which embarks on its road show to investors today,
hasn’t always had a platform that is more or less shut. In July
2009, Twitter co-founder Biz Stone posted, “We very much
believe in nourishing and supporting” an ecosystem. And  New
York  startups hosted an event in January 2009 called “Built on
Twitter” for companies aspiring to create businesses on the
service.  Joe Fernandez, chief executive officer of Klout Inc., was
one of the presenters. In front of about 700 techies, Fernandez
tried to stoke excitement for his product, which was designed to
measure influence on the social Web by analyzing a person’s
Twitter network.  Sharing the stage that night were founders of TwiTerra,
CoTweet, StockTwits and Botanicalls, an application that lets
plants publish tweets when they need water.  “There was this hyper-intense interest in Twitter as a
platform,” said Fernandez, who the next year moved Klout into
the same building as Twitter in San Francisco. “I was obsessed
with it.”  Others Flop  Klout, which went on to raise $40 million from well-known
investors like Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and
Institutional Venture Partners, has had some success because
Twitter decided not to build a competing service. Klout makes
money by helping advertisers find influential people who can
promote their brands across social networks.  Of the other presenters, CoTweet was acquired a year later,
and TwiTerra was an art project that wasn’t intended to be a
business. StockTwits is still independent with about 10
employees, and  Botanicalls  has a small team and a plant-feeding
kit still on the market.  Companies like Klout and LocalResponse pay for Twitter’s
data by going through Gnip Inc. and DataSift Inc., which are
among the few companies with access to the site’s so-called
firehose, or the entire bulk of postings. DataSift and Gnip pay
Twitter for licenses, a business that accounted for 9 percent of
the short-messaging service’s third-quarter revenue.  That’s one area where outsiders can make money on Twitter.
The company is also investing in a feature called Twitter cards,
designed to let publishers and developers customize how their
content shows up on the site.  Controlling Sales  As far as ad dollars flowing through its system, Twitter
isn’t sharing. In mid-2010, it turned off the ability for other
companies to put ads within tweet streams on their sites.
Startups that had emerged to broker paid tweets like Adly Inc.
and 140 Proof Inc. have had to find new ways to make money,
while others like Magpie got acquired.  In 2011, Twitter also cracked down on services that allowed
users to access Twitter in different ways, like an online
dashboard or a separate mobile site. The move helped shut down a
popular service called UberTwitter. TweetDeck, one of the
biggest Twitter client programs, which lets people use the
microblogging service via another program, was bought by Twitter
in May 2011 for about $20 million.  Twitter CEO Dick Costolo told the Wall Street Journal last
year that the platform wants to go from from a place where
companies “build off of Twitter to a world where people build
into Twitter.” Co-founder Stone left the company in 2011.  Surviving Twitter  HootSuite Media Inc., which competed with UberTwitter and
TweetDeck, survived the changes and has grown by expanding into
all of the major social networks and developing software for
businesses to create and monitor ad campaigns across them. In
August, Vancouver-based HootSuite raised $165 million from
venture capital firms including Accel Partners and Insight
Venture Partners.  HootSuite’s customers include  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and Sony Music,
and the company is helping Twitter by getting more brands to
spend ad dollars there, said Gregory Gunn, vice president of
business development.  “You have to make sure you’re putting money in their
pocket and understand what’s of value to them,” Gunn said.  Unlike Facebook  Twitter isn’t the only platform to decide who can stay and
who must go. Facebook irked developers over the years by
altering its terms of service, changing how payments were made
and clamping down on the ability for apps to spam users.  Yet Facebook has allowed some partners to flourish by
taking 30 percent of in-app sales in games and giving the rest
to the developers and has let others take advantage of the
billion-plus Facebook users for job-recruiting and online dating
services. Apple and Google similarly act as portals, where
developers can sell their products and share the revenue.  Twitter doesn’t have that attribute. And unlike Facebook,
Twitter’s ability to help brands target customers is limited
because users aren’t providing extensive profiles on their likes
and preferences, said Charlene Li, an analyst at Altimeter Group
in San Mateo,  California .  “Twitter doesn’t know that much about its users,” said
Li, whose firm focuses on social media. “They need to keep
everything flowing through their system because of that lack of
information.”  Some features Twitter has decided to do itself include mini
videos, through the purchase last year of Vine, and shortening
lengthy tweets with a product rolled out in 2010.  Bitly Inc. had been the Web-address shortener of choice
until Twitter came out with its own product. Hilary Mason spent
over three years at Bitly as chief scientist before joining
Accel Partners in July. She said the hurdles companies like
Bitly have faced come with the territory of building on another
application that’s still trying to figure out its business.  “When Twitter began it was incredibly open,” Mason said
“Any company that built on Twitter over the last few years has
the same story to tell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  