-- Worst Cash Crunch Since June Signal of Economic Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T08:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/worst-cash-crunch-since-june-shows-robust-economy-china-credit.html
China ’s brokerages are betting the
biggest jump in money-market rates since June’s record cash
crunch is a sign of strength in the nation’s economy rather than
finance-industry weakness.  The central bank has refrained from injecting funds into
the banking system since Oct. 17, driving the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  138 basis points higher to 4.88 percent last
week, the most in four months. Yet the one-year swap contract,
the fixed payment needed to lock in the repo rate for 12 months,
rose just 11 basis points to 4.08 percent, reflecting
expectations for a gradual rise in borrowing costs. That’s well
short of a 5.06 percent peak in June, when investors were
concerned overstretched banks would default on payments.  This time round, the cash crunch is reflecting economic
strength after  gross domestic product  expanded 7.8 percent in
the three months through September, ending a two-quarter
slowdown. The odds of a credit crisis are decreasing on
expectations a Communist Party summit in November will take
steps to scale back local-government debt and shadow banking, a
Bloomberg survey indicated.  “Now that policy makers believe this year’s growth target
can be met, the central bank thinks it may be time to make
efforts to achieve its credit-growth target,” said Guo Caomin,
a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . If the PBOC
doesn’t tighten as capital inflows return, then it’s actually
loosening, he said.  Expansion Pressure  A steepening of the yield curve, which inverted for the
first time on record in June, shows investors don’t expect the
People’s Bank of China to risk slowing growth in the world’s
second-largest economy with a repeat of June’s cash crunch. The
government’s 10-year notes yielded 58 basis points more than
one-year debt on Oct. 23, the biggest gap since May 15,
ChinaBond data show.  The  yuan  has risen 2.4 percent this year and touched a 20-year high of 6.0802 per dollar in Shanghai last week. It closed
down 0.02 percent at 6.0855 today. Credit-default swaps insuring
China’s debt against non-payment were at 83 in  New York  on Oct.
25, down from this year’s high of 147 in June, according to CMA
prices.  The pressure for monetary and credit expansion is high
because of the nation’s wide trade surplus and as capital
inflows increase, the PBOC said in an Oct. 16 statement posted
on its website.  FX Reserves  Foreign-exchange  reserves  gained the most since 2011 in the
third quarter, rising 4.67 percent to $3.66 trillion, a sign the
government’s efforts to protect growth attracted money even as
developing nations from  India  to  Indonesia  saw the exit of
capital.  Yuan positions  at China’s financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases climbed 0.5 percent,
the most since April, to 27.5 trillion yuan ($4.5 trillion).  The PBOC has used open-market operations as the main tools
to adjust money supply in the  interbank market  since July 2012.
It halted bill sales in June after the seven-day repo rate
surged to a record 10.77 percent. It started weekly auctions of
reverse-repo contracts in late July to add short-term funds to
the financial system, while locking up long-term liquidity by
rolling over some maturing three-year notes. The average rate
was 4.01 percent in the second half of this year, up from 3.85
percent in the first half.  “The increase in foreign-exchange inflows means there’s no
longer a need to use reverse repos to release liquidity,” Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS Securities Co., said on
Oct. 24. “The PBOC’s displeasure with credit growth in recent
months is obvious from its announcement last week. They’re fine-tuning their liquidity management now.”  Money Supply  The broadest measure of  money supply , or M2, has exceeded
the official goal of 13 percent every month this year, rising
14.2 percent in September. New yuan loans at 787 billion yuan
topped the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The average seven-day repo rate based on daily fixings from
the National Interbank Funding Center dropped to a five-month
low of 3.32 percent on Oct. 16. The PBOC suspended selling
reverse-repurchase contracts the next day and on Oct. 22 and
Oct. 24, driving the rate to 4.88 percent on Oct. 25, the
highest since July 31.  Quarterly corporate tax payments contributed to the spike,
and the repo rate will come down to about 4 percent after the
end of this month, said UBS’s Chan. That level is the “new
normal” and is considered reasonable by the PBOC, she added.  Seasonal Factors  The government is well aware of such seasonal factors and
could have adjusted its liquidity management to avoid the surge,
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Hong Kong , said in an Oct. 24 report. That it allowed the rate
to climb is a clear policy-tightening signal, he added.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg from Oct. 11 to Oct. 18 said
the chances of a severe slowdown will decrease after the
Communist Party meeting in November. Leaders will study reforms
proposed by the State Council’s research arm, including changes
to rural land ownership rules and adding “outside” investors
to boost competition, China News Service reported Oct. 26.  “The depth and strength of the reforms will be
unprecedented and will promote profound changes in every area of
the economy and society,” said Yu Zhengsheng, a Politburo
member, in the southern city of Nanning, according to a report
by the official Xinhua News Agency.  ‘Clear Framework’  Credit Suisse Group AG said the proposals by the
Development Research Center are ambitious and exceed its
expectations, while Nomura Holdings Inc. said the government’s
effectiveness in implementing reforms remains to be seen.  “This report is particularly important, given its
authoritativeness and a clear framework of reforms,” Yang Weixiao, a Beijing-based economist at Lianxun Securities Co.,
said. While the plan covers important aspects, it may send
negative cues to the market if the policies announced after the
meeting don’t live up to expectations, he added.  Authorities have signaled also that a deposit-insurance
system and an easing of savings-rate limits are on the way.
China started publishing a “loan prime rate” last week
calculated from nine banks, adding a market-based benchmark as
part of interest-rate liberalization.  “Liquidity will eventually ease even without targeted
action from the PBOC,” said Siddharth Mathur, Singapore-based
head of Asia currencies and rates strategy at Citigroup Inc.
“This is merely another instance where seasonal liquidity
tightness is not being preemptively offset by the PBOC’s open-market operations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  