-- WTI Crude Fluctuates Before U.S. Industrial Output Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-28T12:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-28/wti-drops-first-time-in-three-days-as-discount-to-brent-widens.html
Brent crude  rebounded from its
lowest settlement in more than two months before the U.S.
Federal Reserve meets to review the pace of its stimulus
measures for the world’s largest economy.  The North Sea grade advanced as much as 1 percent after
closing on Oct. 25 at its lowest since Aug. 8. The  Federal Open
Market Committee , starting a two-day meeting tomorrow, is likely
to delay reducing, or “tapering,” monthly bond purchases until
March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Crude
production in  Libya , holder of Africa’s largest reserves,
dropped to about 250,000 barrels a day after labor protests,
according to the state-run National Oil Corp.  “The delayed tapering is supporting  oil prices ” by
boosting investor appetite for riskier assets, said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
 Denmark . The prospect of continued bond purchases is weakening
the dollar, making assets such as crude that are priced in the
U.S. currency more attractive, Poulsen said.  Brent for December settlement gained as much as $1.05 to
$107.98 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $9.72
to West Texas Intermediate futures, up from $9.08 on Oct. 25.
The volume of all Brent futures traded was within 1 percent of
the 100-day average.  WTI for December delivery was at $97.74 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 11
cents at 11:53 a.m. London time. Last week it lost 2.9 percent,
the most in five weeks.  Factory Output  A series of U.S. government data is due this week,
including figures that will show manufacturing output rose in
September, according to a Bloomberg survey. U.S. industrial
production advanced 0.4 percent in September, the same as in the
prior month, according to the median of 78 estimates.
Manufacturing probably gained by 0.3 percent, compared with 0.7
percent in August, economists estimated.  Production at Libya’s Sharara oil field fell almost 50
percent from approximately 300,000 barrels a day because of a
stoppage yesterday, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for the state-run National Oil Corp., said by telephone from Tripoli.  OPEC Policy  OPEC, which provides about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
is focused on keeping supplies adequate, Suhail Mohammed Al Mazrouei, energy minister for the  United Arab Emirates , said
today in  Singapore . Comments about the group’s likely decision
when it meets to review output would be “premature,” he said.
The U.A.E. is the fourth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which meets in Vienna on Dec. 4.  “The decision is always going to be to ensure that the
market is well-supplied,” Al Mazrouei said during Singapore
International Energy Week. “We have no benefit in over-supplying or under-supplying the market.”  Iraq’s crude exports last month dropped to 62.1 million
barrels amid maintenance work, according to an oil ministry
spokesman. Shipments from the southern terminal of Basra were
54.6 million barrels in September, while exports from Kirkuk in
the north reached 7.5 million barrels,  Asim Jihad , a spokesman
for the oil ministry, said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net 
NI CRMKTS
NI EUROPE
NI MAR
NI OPN
NI US
NI AME 