-- Malaysia Plans Crackdown After Wave of Killings, Memo Shows
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-08-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/malaysian-police-to-crack-down-on-violent-crime-memo-shows.html
Malaysia  will use a section of its
Crime Prevention Act for the first time to hold suspects without
filing charges in a crackdown on violence following a wave of
killings, according to a copy of an internal police memo seen by
 Bloomberg News .  The police will use Section 105 of the act to detain
suspects for as long as 24 hours without charging them,
according to the memo. While it says the operation is likely to
start tomorrow, it will probably begin sooner, according to a
police spokesman yesterday, who asked that he not be named
because he wasn’t authorized to comment.  The rise in violence is partly due to the abolition of the
Emergency Ordinance in 2011, which led to 2,600 people being
released from detention, the malaymailonline reported July 9,
citing Home Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi. Prime Minister Najib Razak repealed the law in a bid to boost civil liberties.  “Gangsterism” must be addressed, the memo reads. The
first phase of the operation will start in the Klang Valley,
which includes Malaysia’s capital of Kuala Lumpur. Inquiry
officers have been appointed by the Attorney-General’s Chambers,
the memo states.  The police action comes after Najib vowed to introduce
legislation to tackle a surge in crime that included the July 29
slaying of  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM)  founder Hussain Ahmad Najadi. The
prime minister’s coalition was returned to power in May
elections by its narrowest margin since independence from
Britain in 1957. Najib promised during his campaign to make
fighting crime and corruption a policy priority.  Crime Concern  Voters cited crime and social problems as their biggest
concern after the economy, according to a survey of 1,018 people
conducted in December by the  Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research .  Calls made to Hamidi’s mobile phone yesterday went
unanswered.  A 26-year-old man in the town of Kapar was killed Aug. 15
by a gunman riding the back of a motorcycle, a shooting police
suspect is related to a gang rivalry, the Star newspaper
 reported , citing North Klang deputy police chief superintendent
Jani Ahmad. In Dungan, a restaurateur was shot to death outside
his eatery Aug. 13 during what police said was an attempt to
steal his Toyota Hilux, according to the  New Straits Times ,
citing Terengganu Criminal Investigation Department Chief
Assistant Commissioner K. Manoharan.  This month there have been three shootings in the northern
city of Penang, including one man killed at point-blank range at
a traffic light, according to an incidents list compiled by the
Star newspaper and confirmed by police. An unemployed man was
killed and a woman injured in Kelantan state. There was also a
shooting at the Thai border, the list showed.  A primary school clerk was killed when a package he took
from the top of a relative’s car exploded in Kelantan yesterday,
the Star reported, citing local criminal investigations chief
Lai Yong Heng.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  