-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Gain as Chinese Shares Rally
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-17T00:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/asian-stocks-post-weekly-gain-as-chinese-shares-rally.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week after
Chinese shares rallied amid signs the world’s second-largest
economy is stabilizing, and as companies from Lenovo Group Ltd.
to Tata Steel Ltd. posted profit that exceeded estimates.  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) , the nation’s No. 1 coal producer,
advanced 6.4 percent in Hong Kong after the nation’s industrial
electricity demand increased last month. Lenovo, the world’s
biggest maker of personal computers, gained 4.4 percent. Tata
Steel,  India ’s biggest producer of the metal, jumped 7.6
percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent this week.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.8 percent and the Hang
Seng Index led developed-market gains after reports on
industrial production and exports this month added to signs
China’s economy is improving.  “The rest of the year will be better for the Chinese
market because expectations got so low,”  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro Private
Bank, which oversees about $207 billion, said by telephone this
week. “That’s why we’re still overweight on Chinese equities
and valuations are among the cheapest. With expectations so low,
it’s quite easy for the market to outperform.”  China Everbright Securities Co. said yesterday it was
investigating a trading error after the Shanghai Composite Index
posted its biggest intraday surge since March 2009, briefly
swinging from a loss to a gain of as much as 5.6 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index was valued at 9.1 times
estimated earnings as of yesterday, compared with multiples of
13.04 for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and 15.02 times for the
Standard Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Cheap and Attractive’  “ China ’s overall market is stabilizing, relieving concerns
regarding the hard landing scenario for the rest of this year,”
said Agnes Deng, head of Hong Kong and China equities at Baring
Asset Management Ltd., which manages about $57 billion globally,
in a Aug. 12 interview. “China stocks’ valuation is quite cheap
and attractive.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 4 percent. The trading
week in the city was shortened as the market was shut on Aug. 14
due to a typhoon. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies traded in the city jumped 6.5 percent.  Japan ’s Topix index gained 0.2 percent, while the Nikkei
225 Stock Average rose 0.3 percent. The nation’s economy
expanded an annualized 2.6 percent in the second quarter,
slowing from a revised 3.8 percent in the previous three months.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for 3.6 percent growth.  ‘Peaking Now’  “I’m relatively cautious on the stock market,”  Takuji Okubo , chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in  Tokyo , said on
Bloomberg television. “Next year there is a chance that Japan
goes into a recession, and the financial markets usually see
that half a year in advance. I would expect the stock market to
be peaking now.”  The Topix has gained 33 percent this year, the world’s
best-performing developed equity market.  South Korea’s Kospi index gained 2.1 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex index added 0.9 percent.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) 
increased 1.2 percent.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.4 percent. Trading was
temporarily halted yesterday after a magnitude 6.2 earthquake
struck central New Zealand, shaking the capital city Wellington
and sending the nation’s currency lower.  Energy Producers  Energy companies posted the biggest advance among the 10
industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this week.
Chinese coal producers advanced as a government report on Aug.
14 showed industrial electricity use in July climbed to the
highest monthly total in a year.  China Shenhua rose 6.4 percent to HK$24.85 in Hong Kong
this week. China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s second-biggest
producer of the fuel, added 5.9 percent to HK$4.88. Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. jumped 9.1 percent to HK$6.50. The three companies
are reporting their quarterly results next week.  Lenovo rose 4.4 percent to HK$7.88. Net income climbed 23
percent from a year earlier to $173.9 million in the three
months ended June after the Chinese company increased its global
market share for tablet computers, smartphones and PCs.  Tata Steel gained 7.6 percent to 235.35 rupees in Mumbai
after reporting first-quarter profit almost doubled to 11.4
billion rupees ($184 million), aided by a one-time deferred tax
gain at its European unit.  Earnings Performance  About 50 percent of the companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index that reported quarterly earnings since July 1 and for
which estimates are available have exceeded expectations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. (011200) , South Korea’s biggest shipping
line, surged 31 percent since Aug. 9 to 24,650 won. The company
this week posted second-quarter net income of 31.7 billion won
($28.5 million), compared with a net loss of 158.2 billion won a
year earlier.  Shares also advanced after North Korea and South Korea
agreed to reopen the jointly operated Gaeseong industrial
complex. Hyundai Merchant is the biggest shareholder of Hyundai
Asan Corp., which manages a resort in communist North Korea.  Among stocks that declined,  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , a brewer
controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, sank 4.5
percent to 53 Singapore cents after posting lower sales and
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  