-- China to Boost Foreign Investment in Industries Serving Elderly
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-17T06:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/china-to-boost-foreign-investment-in-industries-serving-elderly.html
China will simplify procedures and
cut administrative fees for industries related to the elderly as
the nation seeks to manage its aging population, Premier  Li Keqiang  said in a State Council statement yesterday.  The government wants to make it easier for foreign and
private investment in sectors for aged-care services and
facilities, the Council, the country’s cabinet, said in the
 statement  online, citing Li.  Policy makers are seeking ways to manage the cost of caring
for the elderly, with the number of people 60 years or older set
to double by 2053. The nation’s one-child policy limited births,
increasing the burden on the sole offspring, while migration
from farms to cities as the economy expands have separated many
parents from their children. Traditionally, children lived with
their parents and cared for them in accordance with Confucian
teachings.  The number of old-age citizens are fast approaching the 200
million mark in  China , the State Council said yesterday.
Authorities will cut fees for the elderly in need and set up
day-care centers for them, according to yesterday’s statement.  In new residential areas, buildings will need to have
facilities catering to elderly residents and the country is
seeking to build a comprehensive support network for old-age
residents by 2020, the State Council said.  China will also lower barriers of entry to provide nursing,
insurance and health care services for older citizens, it said.  The nation, which revised an elderly-care law allowing
parents to sue their children for failing to visit on Dec. 28,
has pledged to improve the long-term care and benefits for
senior citizens.  Authorities have created an Elderly Day that will be
celebrated each year in the fall and have said they’ll boost the
number of beds in care facilities to 30 per 1,000 elderly people
by 2015, from 20 now.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  