-- Dollar Rallies as Economic Data Boosts Outlook for Fed Taper
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/dollar-rallies-as-economic-data-boosts-outlook-for-fed-taper.html
The dollar rallied against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers as economic data exceeding
forecasts spurred speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will trim
the pace of its bond purchases as early as September.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rebounded from a decline
last week as  jobless claims  decreased to their lowest level
since 2007. The euro gained versus the yen as a report showed
the 17-nation region pulled out of recession. Britain’s pound
rose versus all its major peers after unemployment requests
dropped more in July than economists forecast. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  may offer clues to its thoughts on tapering
next week when it release minutes for its last policy meeting.  “All the U.S. data that’s been coming out recently, it all
leads back to Fed tapering expectations, and that’s really
what’s driving the markets,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said
yesterday. “That’s why markets are so sensitive to economic
data. It’s still on track because we’re still seeing
improvement.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, gained 0.5 percent to
1,022.06 this week in New York.  The U.S. tender gained 0.1 percent to $1.3329 per euro and
climbed 1.4 percent to 97.53 yen, the biggest gain since July
19.  Japan ’s currency dropped 1.3 percent to 130.00 per euro.  Winners, Losers  New Zealand ’s dollar was the biggest winner after the pound
this week among the greenback’s major counterparts, with a 0.8
percent gain. The Brazilian real was the biggest loser, sliding
5 percent, while  Mexico ’s peso dropped 2.7 percent.  The euro has rallied 5.1 percent this year, the most among
10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the dollar rose 3.9, the second-most.
The Australian dollar dropped 9.4 and the yen slipped 8.8
percent to lead decliners.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index  increased to
9.26 percent after touching 9.04 percent on Aug. 12, the lowest
intraday level since May 9.  The number of U.S.  applications  for unemployment insurance
payments declined by 15,000 to 320,000 in the week ended Aug.
10, the fewest since October 2007, from a revised 335,000, a
Labor Department report showed Aug. 15 in  Washington . The  median 
forecast of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for
applications totaling 335,000.  Retail Sales  U.S.  retail sales  increased for a fourth month in July,
rising 0.2 percent following a 0.6 percent gain in June that was
larger than previously reported, according to Commerce
Department figures issued in Washington. The median  forecast  of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent
advance. The measure of demand that feeds into gross domestic
product also climbed by the most this year.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will reduce the central bank’s
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases next month, according to
65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The FOMC’s first
step may be small, with monthly purchases tapered by $10 billion
to a $75 billion pace, according to the survey conducted Aug.
9-13.  All of this positive data “is clearly having a positive
impact on the dollar,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
Washington at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in an Aug. 15 telephone interview. “It’s
the type of data that cumulatively supports the idea of a
September taper by the Fed.”  European Expansion  GDP in the 17-nation  euro area  expanded 0.3 percent in the
second quarter after a 0.3 percent contraction in the previous
three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said. The report showed that the region successfully
emerged from its longest recession in history.  German GDP increased 0.7 percent, more than the 0.6 percent
gain forecast by economists, while  France ’s expanded 0.5 percent
following two quarters of contraction.  “The upside surprise shows an underlying improvement in
the  euro zone  as strong exports weakened the contraction in
Spain and  Italy  and spurred growth in core countries, especially
France,”  Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London , said in an Aug. 14 interview. “We’ll have to wait more
to see any improvement in the labor market, but this shows the
worst part of the recession is probably over.”  Franc Drops  The Swiss franc slid to its weakest level in a month
against the euro after the report showed the 17-nation region
pulled out of recession last quarter. The currency decreased 0.4
percent to 1.2349 per euro and fell 0.4 percent to 92.65
centimes per dollar.  Futures traders reversed their bets that the franc will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of  wagers  by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on
an advance in the franc compared with those on an decline -- so-called net longs -- was 2,136 on Aug. 13, compared with net
shorts of 325 a week earlier.  Britain’s pound strengthened 3.1 percent in the past month
versus the dollar as reports showed purchasing managers indexes
of manufacturing, services and construction all improved in July
while  house prices  increased and jobless claims fell twice as
fast as predicted. The economy expanded by 0.6 percent in the
second quarter.  “The pound has been doing better,” Peter Kinsella, senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in London, said in
an Aug. 15 interview. “The main factors have been a decent
improvement on the yield side and positive PMI and unemployment
data. The economy is slightly better but that’s coming from a
low base.”  The U.K. currency rose 0.9 percent to $1.5629 after
touching $1.5657 yesterday, the strongest level since June 19.
Sterling appreciated 0.9 percent to 85.28 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  