-- Gold Seen Climbing From Two-Month High on Asian Physical Demand
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-17T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/gold-seen-climbing-from-two-month-high-on-asian-physical-demand.html
Gold may extend a rally from a two-month high as an increase in demand from jewelry buyers in China
and  India  helps counter a drop in assets under exchange-traded
funds backed by bullion.  Prices may rally to as much as $1,550 an ounce by the end
of the year, said Jeffrey Rhodes, managing director of the
financial institutions division of the Kaloti Jewellery Group, a
Dubai-based gold trader and refiner. There are no signs of
demand abating from India and China, which account for about 60
percent of global gold consumption, he said at the India Gold
Convention in Jaipur yesterday.  A rally may help trim gold’s first loss in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value amid
expectations that the U.S. economy was recovering. The metal has
rebounded 17 percent since reaching a 34-month low of $1,180.50
an ounce on June 28 as demand for jewelry, bars and coins soared
from India to  China  and  Turkey . The surge in physical demand may
help counter a selloff in bullion-backed exchange-traded  funds 
by investors including billionaire John Paulson.  “Underlying strength in physical demand will underpin gold
prices and there have been signs of western investors coming
back to gold,” Rhodes said. “The economies are doing much
better but we are still in a world of negative real interest
rates, so till then gold will flourish. There is much more
upside potential than downside.”  Coins, Bars  Consumer demand in India, the biggest buyer, jumped 71
percent in the second quarter and in China, the second-largest,
it gained 87 percent, helping to push global bar and coin
purchases to a record and jewelry usage to the most since 2008,
producer-funded World Gold Council said Aug. 15.  The metal rallied to $1,376.87 an ounce in London Aug. 16,
the highest price at close since June 17, paring losses to 18
percent this year. Prices could rally to $1,430 by the year end
because of physical demand from China, India and the Middle
East, Cameron Alexander, an analyst at Thomson Reuters GFMS
Ltd., said in an interview. Bullion may climb to as high as
$1,475 in the first quarter of 2014 before declining because of
improving economies worldwide, he said.  Holdings in gold exchange-traded products are down 26
percent this year, wiping $55.5 billion from the value of the
assets. Paulson, the biggest investor in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) ,
the largest gold ETP, cut his stake by 53 percent in the second
quarter, an Aug. 14 government filing showed.  Silver Rally  Silver may rally to $30 an ounce by the end of 2013, Kaloti
Jewellery’s Rhodes said. The metal rallied 13 percent last week
to $23.2575, the most since September 2008, as holdings in
exchange-traded products backed by silver reached an all-time
high.  Gold imports by India may tumble to about 150 tons in the
six months through December from 478 tons a year earlier because
of an increase in taxes and central bank curbs,  Prithviraj Kothari , a director of the Bombay Bullion Association, told the
Jaipur conference.  A surge in shipments in the second quarter prompted the
government to increase a tax on imports for a third time this
year to 10 percent to contain a record current-account deficit
that’s weakened the rupee to an all-time low. Higher tariffs and
central-bank rules linking overseas purchases to re-exports have
fueled premiums in the domestic market to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  