-- Manchester United Beats Swansea in Moyes’s Premier League Debut
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-17T19:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/liverpool-beats-stoke-1-0-in-premier-league-season-opening-game.html
Manchester United defeated Swansea
4-1 to give manager David Moyes a victory in his first Premier
League match with the English soccer champion.  Robin van Persie and  Danny Welbeck  scored two goals each as
United began its title defense with the victory in Wales.  “When you’re the manager of Manchester United, your job is
to win games,” Moyes, who replaced the retired Alex Ferguson,
told Sky Sports. “I’m more than happy with winning here 4-1.”  In other games on the opening day of the season, Christian Benteke scored twice as Aston Villa won 3-1 at Arsenal and Simon Mignolet saved a penalty kick to help Liverpool beat Stoke 1-0.
West Ham defeated promoted Cardiff 2-0, Norwich and Everton drew
2-2 and Southampton won 1-0 at West Brom.  Van Persie and Welbeck both scored in each half as
Manchester United made a winning start to the Moyes era in the
league. Moyes won his first trophy six days ago with a 2-0 win
over Wigan in the Community Shield game, the curtain-raiser to
the Premier League season.  Van Persie, who led the league with 26 goals last season,
opened the scoring by controlling a ball off his chest and
firing a shot past Michel Vorm in the 34th minute.  Welbeck doubled the lead two minutes later when he scored
from close range. Van Persie then made it 3-0 in the 72nd minute
with a shot into the top corner from outside the penalty area.  Wilfried Bony scored for Swansea with eight minutes left
and Welbeck added his second goal in added time.  Benteke scored in each half as Villa rallied at the
Emirates Stadium in  London . Arsenal finished with 10 men after
Laurent Koscielny received his second yellow card in the 67th
minute.  Arsenal took the lead in the sixth minute on Oliver
Giroud’s goal. Villa pulled even in the 22nd minute when Benteke
headed in the rebound after his penalty kick was stopped by
Wojciech Szczesny.  Second Penalty  Villa went in front in the 61st minute when Benteke scored
with another penalty as referee Anthony Taylor ruled Koscielny
took down Gabriel Agbonlahor. Koscielny was shown a yellow card
and would be sent off six minutes later after picking up a
second for a foul on Andreas Weimann.  Goalkeeper Brad Guzan preserved Villa’s lead when he
knocked Santi Cazorla’s shot into the post in the 78th minute.
Luna then clinched the victory with four minutes remaining on a
counter-attack as Arsenal pressed for the tying goal.  Liverpool won its opening game for the first time since the
2008-09 season and spoiled Mark Hughes’s debut as Stoke manager
after replacing Tony Pulis.  Sturridge scored from 20 yards out in the 37th minute at
Anfield in Liverpool. Mignolet then dived to his right to stop
Walters’s penalty and blocked Kenwyne Jones’s close-range shot
off the rebound.  Joe Cole and Kevin Nolan scored as West Ham spoiled
Cardiff’s first game in  England ’s top flight since 1962. The
Bluebirds earned promotion last season by winning the second-tier Championship.  Pajtim Kasami’s goal early in the second half gave Fulham
the win at Sunderland, while Rickie Lambert scored with a 90th-minute penalty as Southampton won at West Brom.  Ricky van Wolfswinkel’s goal in the 71st minute earned
Norwich the home draw with Everton. Steven Whittaker also scored
for Norwich, while Ross Barkley and Seamus Coleman had the
Everton goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 