-- Perrigo Widens Discount on Sales Miss: Israel Overnight
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-17T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/perrigo-widens-discount-on-sales-miss-israel-overnight.html
Perrigo Co. plunged the most since
November in New York to trade at the widest discount to its  Tel
Aviv  shares among dually-listed companies after reporting
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates.  Shares of Allegan, Michigan-based Perrigo tumbled 6.5
percent to $120 last week, the most since  November 2012 (PRGO) , to
trade 3.2 percent below its stock in Tel Aviv. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli stocks in New
York dropped a second week, led by  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , which
plunged 8 percent.  Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR) , an Israeli maker of wireless
communication equipment, soared 173 percent for the week after
Globes said a private-equity firm may acquire the company.  Perrigo, which entered Tel Aviv’s TA-25 Index after buying
B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis Industries Ltd. in 2005, reported
sales that missed estimates by 3.2 percent. Last week’s selloff
sent the stock’s  valuation  to 18 times estimated earnings, the
cheapest since June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The consumer health revenue has been an ongoing
challenge,” Randal Stanicky, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Inc., who rates the shares buy, said by phone from  New York  Aug.
16. “We think there’s upside, but given some investor
skepticism, you could see the stock take a pause here.”  Perrigo slumped for six consecutive days in New York,
trimming this year’s rally to 15 percent. While  analysts  see the
stock climbing by an average 15 percent in the next 12 months,
earnings  estimates  for the current quarter were cut by about 6
percent since Aug. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Health Care  While “we still don’t feel great” about the results,
specifically consumer health revenue, lowered expectations
should help the stock, Stanicky wrote in an Aug. 16 note to
clients. The division made up  57 percent  of its revenue in 2012.  The maker of over-the-counter medicines said July 29 it
agreed to buy Irish drug company Elan Corp. for $8.6 billion.
The purchase allows Perrigo to move its domicile to Ireland,
gaining a low-tax base for international expansion.  The deal “puts the company in a very interesting position
to expand its presence internationally,” Ami Fadia, an analyst
at UBS AG, who rates Perrigo buy, said by phone from New York on
Aug. 16. “I do see it as a buying opportunity.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US measure was little changed for the
week at 97.33. The TA-25 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,204.89,
snapping a two-week decline.  Syneron, the maker of skin treatment devices, plunged to a
one-month low of $8.45 in New York. The Yokneam Illit, Israel-based company reported  sales  that missed analysts’ estimates for
the first time in three quarters.  Given Imaging  Given Imaging surged 8.1 percent to $17.95, capping a
three-week rally. Chief Executive Officer Homi Shamir told
 Bloomberg News  that he expects U.S. regulators to approve the
capsule-sized camera to examine the colon by end of year
following the Aug. 13 ruling on the small bowel.  Alvarion soared to 51 cents. Daily Globes reported Aug. 14
that private-equity firm Sigma Wave Ltd. is interested in buying
the company. Alon Fishman, an adviser at Sigma, said the firm is
in negotiations to acquire Alvarion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  