-- Reynolds Hits Two-Run Homer in First At-Bat in Yankees’ 10-3 Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/reynolds-hits-two-run-homer-in-first-at-bat-in-yankees-10-3-win.html
Mark Reynolds  hit a two-run homer in
his first plate appearance for the  New York Yankees  in their
10-3 victory against the Boston Red Sox.  Reynolds, who was released earlier this week by the
Cleveland Indians, was picked up by the Yankees as part of their
search for another right-handed power hitter.  Reynolds, batting eighth, blasted the ball out of Fenway
Park in Boston with one out and  Vernon Wells  on base in the
second inning. The first baseman also drove in  Alex Rodriguez 
with a single in the ninth inning to become the first player
with at least two hits and three runs batted in in his first
game with the Yankees since Todd Zeile in 2003.  Reynolds, 30, became the first player to hit a home run in
his first at-bat with the Yankees since Andruw Jones in 2011,
according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The last batter to hit a
home run with men on base in his first at-bat with the Yankees
was Cody Ransom in 2008.  Alfonso Soriano continued his hot hitting with a run-scoring infield single in the first inning and a three-run homer
in the third. He has driven in 18 runs in the past four games.
Soriano became the fourth player with at least three hits and an
RBI in four straight games in Yankees history. The last to do it
was  Johnny Damon  in 2006.  Robinson Cano’s single in the fourth gave the Yankees a 7-0
lead. Ichiro Suzuki and Chris Stewart each drove in a run in the
ninth inning.  Jonny Gomes,  David Ortiz  and Jarrod Saltalamacchia each had
run-scoring singles for the Red Sox.  Andy Pettitte  (8-9) struck out five while allowing three
unearned runs on six hits in 6 2/3 innings. Loser Felix Doubront
(8-6) gave up seven runs on eight hits in four innings.  The Yankees (63-58) are fourth in the American League East,
7 1/2 games behind the division-leading Red Sox (72-52).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible or this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  