-- Royals’ Tejada Suspended 105 Games by MLB for Amphetamine Use
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-18T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/royals-tejada-given-105-game-suspension-by-mlb-for-amphetamines.html
Kansas City Royals infielder  Miguel Tejada  was suspended for 105 games by  Major League Baseball 
after testing positive for an amphetamine.  The office of MLB Commissioner Bud Selig yesterday
announced the suspension, which was to begin immediately.  Tejada, who is currently on the 60-day disabled list with a
strained calf, said in a statement released through the  Major
League Baseball Players Association  that he took a banned
substance while re-applying to MLB for a Therapeutic Use
Exemption.  “I apologize to my teammates, the Royals organization and
to the Kansas City fans,” Tejada, 39, said. “I have a medical
condition that requires medication to treat. I took that
medication while re-applying for a Therapeutic Use Exemption.
Under the requirements of the Joint Drug Program, I made a
mistake in doing so.”  Yahoo Sports  reported Tejada tested positive for Adderall,
a stimulant used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity
disorder, or ADHD, and also used by athletes as an energy
booster. He had previously tested positive for amphetamines and
the 105-game ban is the result of two failed tests again this
season,  Yahoo Sports  said.  USA Today  said on its website, citing a person familiar
with Tejada’s test results, the six-time All-Star’s exemption
expired April 15 and baseball refused to grant him an extension.  Tejada was the American League’s Most Valuable Player while
playing for Oakland in 2002. He has a .285 batting average with
307 home runs and 1,302 runs batted in over 16 major-league
seasons and signed a one-year contract with the Royals last
offseason.  Tejada’s name was mentioned in the 2007 report by former
U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  on the use of performance-enhancing
drugs in baseball. Two years later he was fined and was given
probation for lying to a congressional investigation into drugs
in the sport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 