-- Rudd on Brink of Defeat as Poll Shows Key Seat Struggle
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-17T03:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/rudd-on-brink-of-defeat-as-poll-shows-key-seat-struggle.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  is on the
brink of defeat in next month’s Australian election with a poll
indicating the ruling  Labor party  would lose seven of the
nation’s eight most marginal electorates.  An analysis of the seats, four of which are held by Labor
while the others by the opposition coalition, show Rudd’s party
would only win only one if the election were held now, according
to a JWS Research poll in the Australian Financial Review today.
Adding three seats is almost enough to make  Tony Abbott  the
Prime Minister, it said.  Labor, with 71 of the 150 seats in the lower house of
parliament, has relied on support from independent lawmakers and
the Greens party since forming a minority government after the
2010 election. Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, which had 72
lawmakers in the chamber where government is formed, needs to
add four at the Sept. 7 election to rule in its own right.  The JWS Research poll sampled the Labor-held seats of
Lindsay, Greenway and Banks in Western Sydney and Corangamite in
Victoria state. It canvassed the coalition seats of Brisbane and
Forde and Queensland, Aston in Victoria and Macquarie in New
South Wales.  Of the eight seats, Labor’s best chance of victory was in
Greenway although the newspaper said a result was “too close to
call.” Coalition candidate Jaymes Diaz is leading incumbent
Michelle Rowland by 46 percent to 44 percent on the primary
vote, the survey shows.  Beattie’s Struggle  Both leaders have put management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of their campaigns amid slowing
growth as a China-led mining-investment  boom  wanes. While Rudd
has narrowed the margin in opinion polls since defeating  Julia Gillard  in a June 26 Labor party ballot, Abbott remains on track
to win government.  Former Queensland Premier Peter Beattie, who announced he
would contest Forde in the state’s south-east last week, is
trailing incumbent member Bert van Manen by 33 percent to 54
percent on the primary vote, a 9.9 percent swing since the 2010
election, the poll shows according to the Financial Review.  JWS Research sampled 568 people in Forde, held by a 1.6
percent margin by van Manen. The poll canvassed a total of 4,739
people and has a margin of error of 4.2 percent, according to
the newspaper.  A  separate poll  in the Sydney Morning Herald today shows
Labor trailing in the seat of McMahon, held by Treasurer  Chris Bowen , and Kingsford Smith, which is being vacated by former
minister Peter Garrett. The survey by ReachTel indicates the
coalition would retain the seat of Bennelong while Labor may
keep Blaxland.  Federal support for Labor trails the opposition at 35
percent on the primary vote, down 2 percent since the start of
the election campaign on Aug. 4, according to a Newspoll survey
published Aug. 12 in the Australian newspaper. The coalition
primary support rose 2 percent to 46 percent, a three-month
high.  Newspoll puts coalition support at 52 percent and Labor on
48 percent on a two party preferred basis, under which votes
from smaller parties are distributed to the two major parties
under the nation’s preferential voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  