-- Russia’s Worst Flooding Prompts Emergency in Far East
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-08-17T10:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/russian-regions-declare-emergency-amid-flood-seen-nation-s-worst.html
Five regions in Russia’s  Far East 
declared a state of emergency amid flooding assessed by the
national weather center as the worst in the country’s history.  Floods were heaviest in the Amur region, Emergencies
Minister Vladimir Puchkov said today on a videoconference.
Conditions are set to worsen as Typhoon Utor moves closer to
Russia from  China , dumping more rain on inundated areas and
potentially lifting the Amur River’s water level to the highest
in more than a century, the center said on its  website .  “We should not relax,” President  Vladimir Putin , who
participated in the videoconference along with regional
governors and defense, health and emergency officials, said from
the Black Sea city of Sochi. “There’s a lot of work ahead.”  More than 300 millimeters (11.8 inches) of rain fell on the
Amur, Khabarovsk and Primorye regions from July 1 through Aug.
12, causing floods there and in the neighboring Jewish
Autonomous Region, according to data from the weather center.
Some areas in the Far East received a year’s rain in the period,
the center said yesterday.  “We have never seen such a large-scale flood in our
country’s history,”  Alexander Frolov , chief forecaster at the
center, said today on state television channel Rossiya 24. “The
flood covers territory from Lake Baikal to the  Pacific Ocean .”  The Emergencies Ministry evacuated more than 17,500 people
from the Amur, Khabarovsk and Jewish Autonomous regions as of 7
a.m. Moscow time today, according to its data. The water level
in the city of Khabarovsk topped 6.2 meters (20 feet) by 8 p.m.
local time today, exceeding the historic record, Frolov said.  Utor affected more than 2.5 million people in China,
causing at least four deaths in  Guangdong Province  and
destroying almost 4,000 houses, the official Xinhua news service
reported yesterday, citing the local flood control and drought
relief headquarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  