-- Sweden’s Reinfeldt Calls for Tax Cuts to Boost Demand
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-08-17T12:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/sweden-s-reinfeldt-calls-for-tax-reductions-to-boost-demand.html
Sweden should cut taxes for wage
earners and pensioners to stimulate demand in the  export -reliant
Nordic nation as economies slow abroad, Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said.  A reduction would cost 16 billion kronor ($2.5 billion) and
mark the fifth cut to taxes for wage earners since the
government came to power in 2006, Reinfeldt told reporters at a
press conference today on a boat heading for his annual summer
speech in the Stockholm archipelago.  “It’s the necessary thing to do,” he said. “We should
use the strength of the Swedish economy to inject energy, to
make sure that we protect the Swedish economy in a situation
where demand for Swedish goods is weak.”  The government was re-elected in 2010 on a pledge to make
more cuts to income taxes for workers in a bid to encourage
people to come off benefits, enter employment and work longer.
 Sweden ’s  economy  contracted for the first time in more than a
year last quarter as accelerating domestic demand failed to make
up for falling exports to debt-laden European countries.  Reinfeldt’s Moderate party wants to cut income taxes by 15
billion kronor and taxes on pensioners by 1 billion kronor next
year. He needs the backing of the three smaller parties that are
partners in the coalition government to pass the proposal.  Europe’s Economy  Tax cuts are good for jobs, target the average person and
strengthen Sweden at a time when the European economy remains
weak, Reinfeldt said.  The economy shrank 0.1 percent in the three months through
June from the prior period as exports fell an  annual  3.2
percent, while private consumption rose 1.8 percent.
Unemployment climbed to 8 percent as companies struggled to find
workers with the right skills and spending cuts in  Europe  forced
employers to pare workforces.  The government is trailing the three-party opposition, led
by the  Social Democrats , in polls ahead of Sweden’s next
parliamentary elections, slated for September next year. Sweden
sells about half its output abroad, of which about 70 percent
goes to Europe. The  euro zone  emerged from a record-long
recession last quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011.  Uncertainty in Europe has bolstered Sweden’s currency,
viewed as a haven by some investors. The krona traded at 8.6815
to the euro as of 1:13 p.m. today in Stockholm, up 35 percent
since May 3, 2011.  Reliance on Exports  “It has been a reflection of a strong Swedish economy, but
it’s also a trial for very many export-reliant companies around
Sweden,” Reinfeldt said of the currency’s advance. “We’ve
shown that we understand that, because we have implemented other
reforms that strengthen their competitiveness when it comes to
the corporate tax, when it comes to lots of resources, to
infrastructure and research.”  The government this year lowered the corporate tax for a
second time to 22 percent to aid companies’ competitiveness. It
has cut income taxes by about 70 billion kronor, or about 2
percent of gross domestic product, lowered unemployment and sick
benefits, and abolished a levy on wealth.  The budget will be in deficit by 1.3 percent of GDP this
year and 0.8 percent next year as the $540 billion economy
expands at respective rates of 1.3 percent and 2.1 percent,
according to state forecasts last month. The government is
obliged under national law to post an average 1 percent surplus
over an economic cycle.  The tax cuts proposed today don’t violate the surplus
target, according to Reinfeldt.  “Once the Swedish economy picks up more pace, we will
return to balance and surpluses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  