-- Yahoo Names Webb as Chairman in Mayer’s Turnaround Push
-- B y   H a r r i s o n   W e s t w a t e r ,   W e n d y   B r u n d i g e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-17/yahoo-names-webb-as-chairman-in-mayer-s-turnaround-push.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said it’s appointing
 Maynard Webb  as chairman, as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  continues a turnaround effort of the Internet company.  Webb, who joined Yahoo’s board in February 2012, was
serving on an interim basis after Fred Amoroso resigned as
chairman in April.  Yahoo’s board has undergone several changes since Mayer
became CEO in July 2012. Last month, director and activist
investor Daniel Loeb left Yahoo’s board and sold $1.16 billion
of his stake back to the Sunnyvale, California-based company,
capping an almost two-year effort to revamp the Web portal.
Loeb’s board allies,  Harry Wilson  and  Michael Wolf , also stepped
down at the time. Those departures leave Yahoo with seven
directors.  “Maynard Webb’s leadership and guidance have been an
invaluable part of our board since he joined it in 2012,” said
Anne Espiritu, a spokeswoman for Yahoo. “We are honored that
Maynard will continue to serve as chairman of the board.”  Webb is a longtime Silicon Valley executive. He was CEO of
LiveOps Inc., a provider of cloud contact center services, from
2006 to 2011, and remains chairman. Prior to his time there,
Webb served as the chief operating officer of online marketplace
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)   Yahoo, which has weathered a series of management and board
changes in the past two years, is adding tools and services to
help woo users and advertising dollars under Mayer.  As part of the CEO’s push, she has spent more than $1.2
billion to buy at least 20 startups in a shopping spree focused
on bringing top engineering talent back to Yahoo.  Earlier this month, Yahoo bought Rockmelt Inc., a developer
of Web-browsing software. The company in May also said it agreed
to acquire blogging platform Tumblr Inc. for $1.1 billion.  Yahoo rose less than 1 percent yesterday to close at
$27.32. The stock is up 37 percent so far this year, compared
with a 16 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Harrison Westwater in San Francisco at 
 hwestwater@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Brundige in New York at 
 wbrundige@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  