-- 
Thailand Renews Call for Talks With Cambodia After 11 Die in Border Clash

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-25T05:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/thai-army-denies-using-toxic-gas-in-border-battle-with-cambodian-soldiers.html
Thailand  renewed a call for one-on-
one talks with Cambodia after three days of fighting along a
disputed border killed at least 11 soldiers in some of the
deadliest battles since tensions flared up in 2008.  “We need to end the border issue and we want Thailand and
Cambodia to sit down and talk together,” Thai Deputy Prime
Minister Suthep Thaugsuban told reporters in Bangkok today. “If
they don’t respond, we will try to control the situation,
protect our sovereignty and find ways to talk.”  Battles that began April 22 have killed five Thais and six
Cambodians, according to government officials and press reports,
ending two months of peace since the  United Nations Security
Council   urged  a permanent cease-fire on Feb. 14. The hostilities
occurred several hundred kilometers west of clashes earlier this
year near the Preah Vihear temple on the Thai-Cambodian border.  The fighting has reignited tensions along the border that
escalated in 2008 after Thailand opposed Cambodia’s efforts to
list Preah Vihear as a  World Heritage site . Fighting in February
claimed at least 10 lives and displaced 30,000 people.  Thailand has refused to accept border observers from
 Indonesia , which holds the rotating chairmanship of the 10-
member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations . Indonesian
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa canceled planned trips today
to Bangkok and Phnom Penh, the Bangkok Post reported, citing
Thai government spokesman  Panitan Wattanayagorn .  ‘Tell the World’  “It is the Thai government that has refused to accept the
presence of neutral military observers, who could tell the world
the truth about any military clashes,” Cambodia’s Cabinet said
in a  statement  yesterday. Thailand’s call for bilateral talks
“have produced nothing but a screen for repeated acts of Thai
military aggression” since 2008, it said.  The renewed fighting comes as Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  prepares to call an election in early May. Cambodian
government spokesman Phay Siphan accused Thailand’s military of
provoking the clashes to boost its popularity in the event it
stages another coup.  “The Thai military is moving against us so they can say
they are protecting Thai land and earn credibility from their
people,” he said by phone from  Phnom Penh , the capital.
Cambodia has accused Thailand of using cluster munitions and
poisonous gas in the fighting.  ‘Incredible’ Stories  “The Cambodians are really incredible to make up a story
like that,” Veerachon Sukondhadhpatipak, the Thai army’s deputy
spokesman, said by phone from Bangkok. “They are always making
up stories to make us look bad.”  The three days of fighting has killed five Thai soldiers
and injured 28, Thai Health Minister Jurin Laksanawisit told
reporters today. The battles have also killed six Cambodian
troops,  China ’s Xinhua news agency reported, citing Suos Sothea,
a commander with an artillery unit on the border.  The Southeast Asian neighbors have blamed each other for
firing first in battles. Cambodia’s  Defense Ministry  said Thai
troops were aiming to take over disputed temples, while Abhisit
said Thailand wouldn’t invade its neighbors and was retaliating
against Cambodian aggression.  “Our movements are in line with international rules,”
Abhisit said yesterday in a weekly televised address. “In our
retaliation, we attack only military points. Our retaliation
will be appropriate with Cambodian attacks.”  Cluster Munitions  Cambodia accused Thailand of using cluster munitions during
fighting in February, a charge verified by U.K.-based  Cluster
Munition Coalition , which is pushing for an international ban on
the weapons that scatter ammunition over a large area upon
detonation. Thailand and Cambodia aren’t among the 108 countries
that have signed the Convention on Cluster Munitions.  In 1962, the  International Court of Justice  ruled in a 9-3
vote that  Cambodia  had sovereignty over Preah Vihear. It didn’t
rule on the land surrounding the temple, and the two countries
have also yet to reconcile 10,422 square miles (26,993 square
kilometers) of disputed waters in the Gulf of Thailand that may
contain oil and gas reserves.  Thailand’s $264 billion economy is more than 26 times the
size of Cambodia’s. The Cambodian army spent $191 million in
2009, compared with $4.9 billion for the military in Thailand,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  