-- 
American to Resume Flights as St. Louis Airport Opens Back Up

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-04-24T21:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/american-airlines-plans-to-resume-service-at-st-louis-airport-tomorrow.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  said
it will resume service tomorrow at  Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport  as other airlines restarted operations
today after a tornado forced the airport to close.  About 100 flights had departed from St. Louis as of 2:30
p.m. local time, according to airport spokesman Jeff Lea, who
estimated that traffic today would be 60 percent of normal
activity.  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI) ’s AirTran Airways has resumed most
service and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  had some planes leave by
midafternoon.  “We were able to relocate to Concourse B from Concourse C
overnight,” said AirTran spokeswoman Judy Graham-Weaver in a
telephone interview. The  Orlando , Florida-based carrier operates
11 flights to and from St. Louis daily, she said.  Southwest plans to operate its complete schedule after
bringing in some aircraft, said spokeswoman Marilee McInnis.  American Airlines, which will depart from Concourse D,
plans to operate its full schedule tomorrow, the company said in
a statement today. It had suspended its flights, 60 arrivals and
departures, into and out of  St. Louis , said Ed Martelle, a
spokesman for American.  Southwest, the biggest low-fare carrier and largest tenant
at Lambert, operates 85 flights daily from St. Louis, McInnis
said. At least 11 Southwest flights had departed as of 3:30 p.m.
local time today, according to the airport’s website.  Full Capacity by Midweek  Terminal 2 and the airport’s airfield are “fully
functional,” said Rhonda Hamm-Niebruegge, the airport director.
Most damage was done at Terminal 1, Concourse C, where American
and AirTran run their operations, she said.  The airport may be operating at full capacity by midweek,
St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay said during a televised press
conference yesterday carried on  CNN .  The storm hit on the evening of April 22. It broke most of
the glass windows and doors and tore off sections of the roof at
Concourse C of Terminal 1, according to Jeff Lea, a spokesman
for the airport. Light poles, signs, trees and fences were
damaged and “some vehicles were turned over,” Lea said in an
interview.  44 Years  It was the strongest tornado to strike the area in 44
years, according to the  National Weather Service .  No one in St. Louis was killed during the storm, Charlie Dooley, county executive for St. Louis County, said at the
conference. Five people suffered minor injuries.  Four American aircraft, two  Boeing 757s  and two MD-80s,
were damaged during the storm, Martelle said. Two of the
aircraft experienced minor damage, while the other two will
require more extensive repairs, such as replacing a radome and a
rudder, he said.  A Southwest plane on the ground was damaged when a belt
loader hit the aircraft. Southwest’s McInnis said the airline is
going to look at making the necessary repairs to the aircraft
before ferrying it to one of the carrier’s maintenance depots.  Lambert isn’t a hub for any of the major U.S. carriers,
which tempers the blow to the nation’s air-traffic system.  As many as 12.3 million passengers passed through Lambert
last year, said Lea. About 256 departures daily and almost the
same number of arrivals move through the airport, served by 13
carriers flying to 61 destinations, according to the airport’s
website.  The top destination for flights from Lambert are  Chicago , a
hub for American and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ; Atlanta,
the home base for Delta; and Dallas-Fort Worth, where American
has its headquarters, according to BTS data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  