-- 
Wenger Says Arsenal's Title Chances Are Slim After 2-1 Defeat to Bolton

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-04-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/arsenal-s-title-hopes-fade-after-2-1-defeat-at-bolton-in-premier-league.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said
his team’s chances of ending a seven-year wait for a Premier
League title are “slim” after a 2-1 loss at Bolton yesterday.  Arsenal, which remains on 64 points in third spot, trails
first-place Manchester United by nine points with only four
games remaining. Chelsea is second on 67 points.  “We’ll have to fight as hard as we can but the chances are
now very slim,” Wenger told Sky Sports. “We had the chances to
win the game.”  Tamir Cohen headed Bolton’s winning goal in the 90th minute
at the Reebok Stadium, ending Arsenal’s 16-match unbeaten run in
English soccer’s top league.  Daniel Sturridge  gave the hosts a
39th-minute lead,  Robin van Persie  tying the game three minutes
after halftime.  The Gunners had the first chance yesterday, Theo Walcott
denied by goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen, with Bolton’s
centerbacks then combining to stop Samir Nasri from the follow-
up. Jaaskelainen also stopped a 25-yard shot from Cesc Fabregas.  Bolton, beaten 5-0 by Stoke in the F.A. Cup semifinals last
weekend, had two opportunities after 25 minutes. Lee Chung-Yong
wasted the first as he opted to find  Kevin Davies  rather than
shoot, and Matt Taylor hit a shot straight at Wojciech Szczesny.  Lee was denied by Szczesny on 37 minutes as the goalkeeper
came out quickly to block. Bolton’s opener arrived from the
resulting corner, Sturridge heading in from close range as Nasri
tried to clear off the line. Fabregas hit the bottom of a post
just before the break but Bolton went in with a one-goal lead.  Van Persie  Scores  Straight after halftime, Bolton was awarded a penalty kick
as Johan Djourou felled Sturridge. Szczesny blocked Kevin
Davies’s effort and the Gunners capitalized moments later when
Van Persie scored.  Arsenal pressed for a second goal with the best
opportunities falling for Nasri. He should have scored after 70
minutes but hit the ball straight at the onrushing Jaaskelainen
and then was unable to turn in a follow-up after being pushed
wide.  Bolton was providing a threat on the break and Szczesny
tipped a Johan Elmander effort wide on 89 minutes. Again Bolton
prospered at a corner, Cohen rising to score and virtually end
Arsenal’s title chances. He then took off his jersey to show a
picture of his father Avi -- a former Liverpool player who died
in December after a motorcycle accident -- and broke down in
tears.  “It’s hard to swallow, our attitude was fantastic,” said
Wenger, whose team’s last trophy was the F.A. Cup in 2005.
Bolton stays in eighth place with 46 points.  Two days ago, United defeated Everton 1-0, Chelsea won 3-0
against West Ham, fifth-place Tottenham was held to a 2-2 draw
by West Bromwich Albion, and Liverpool beat Birmingham 5-0.  The matches between  Aston Villa  and Stoke, Blackpool and
Newcastle, and Wolverhampton Wanderers and Fulham were all 1-1
ties, while Sunderland beat Wigan 4-2.  Manchester City  is at
Blackburn today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 