-- 
That $4 Trillion Isn’t Enough to Build Future: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-24T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/that-4-trillion-isn-t-enough-to-build-future-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Conference call, anyone?  Several times a year, the lords of the global economy
descend on the city of the moment. Their massive entourages fly
business class, zoom around in motorcades and sleep at 5-star
hotels. What do taxpayers funding all this summitry get in
return? Ambiguous communiqués, hollow pledges and a nagging
sense that world leaders should discover videoconferencing.  The latest summit of emerging-market stars is a case in
point. As if the alphabet soup of G-7, G-8, G-20, APEC and OPEC
weren’t enough, we now must follow BRICS events. In 2009 and
2010, they were just BRIC affairs:  Brazil , Russia,  India  and
China. This year, an “S” was awkwardly added for  South Africa .
Even  Jim O’Neill , the Goldman Sachs economist who 10 years ago
coined the acronym BRIC, doesn’t get why it’s there.  Far more deserving additions exist in Asia --  South Korea 
and  Indonesia . Yet the more I see what the BRICS are becoming,
the more I think Seoul and Jakarta should decline any invite.
BRICS confabs reinforce how artificial the whole enterprise is.  Take the bluster about a new world order. No one in their
right mind would argue we don’t need one, yet the Group of 20
nations is a far more productive framework for any redesign of
global markets and institutions. And each of the BRICS has a
seat at the G-20 table.  Staging Sideshows  The trick is for emerging economies to demand a bigger
voice there -- not stage sideshows. That’s not to say economic
groupings are pointless. In  Asia , for example, the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations is the only forum where
the world can engage Myanmar’s repressive regime. Still, Asean
is more about photo opportunities than substance.  The  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  group is a circus.
The only real thing its 21 members have in common is beachfront
property. An APEC-wide free-trade zone would be a wonderful
thing. On its watch, bilateral agreements, not sweeping
international ones, became the norm. APEC gatherings are now
Davos-like affairs. Like the  World Economic Forum , they’re an
excuse for corporate bigwigs to jet in and do deals. Rather than
meeting in  Hawaii  in November, APEC leaders should call it in
and reduce their carbon footprint.  Important topics were broached at the April 14 BRICS summit
at the Chinese city of Sanya, including regulating derivatives
and volatility in commodity prices. What it really highlighted
is what really matters: the “C” in BRICS.  The group hasn’t moved beyond being about  China ’s voracious
appetite for the commodities of the other four members, with a
bit of America-bashing tossed in.  China’s Money  Brazil, Russia,  India  and South Africa are key economies in
their own right, yet BRICS gatherings have evolved into the
geopolitical equivalent of investment roadshows. China has piles
of money, and the real action is on the sidelines of formal
discussions. There, officials angle for more Chinese investment
and access to the nation’s 1.3 billion consumers.  This dynamic offers some useful reality checks. For India,
it’s realizing a trade deficit with China exceeding $20 billion
annually will grow no matter how close Prime Minister Manmohan Singh sits to Chinese President Hu Jintao at the BRICS table.
For  Russia , it’s a one-time superpower being part of an
emerging-nation group it doesn’t even lead. For Brazil, it’s how
Latin America’s biggest economy weakened its trade defenses for
a Chinese government unwilling to do the same. For South Africa,
it’s that more will be expected of it on the progress front.  BRICS Brotherhood  As much as these economies must harness China’s 9.7 percent
growth, they also need to protect domestic economies. Their
currencies are rising while China works 24/7 to maintain an
undervalued yuan. The trouble is, membership in the BRICS
brotherhood makes it hard politically for officials in Brasilia,
Moscow,  New Delhi  or  Pretoria  to criticize Beijing.  That’s why anger is being projected elsewhere. The U.S.
deserves some for its hypocritical policies since the 2008
crisis. Back in 1997, when  Asia  blew up, America told the region
to raise  interest rates  to support currencies, reduce debt,
avoid blaming speculators for market swings and follow free-
market policies. Today, the U.S. is doing exactly the opposite.  Yet big changes like replacing the dollar are better
handled by the broader G-20. With over $4 trillion of combined
currency reserves, any BRICS move to dump the dollar will shake
markets. If you think the real, ruble, rupee, yuan or rand will
replace the dollar anytime soon you’re dreaming. Even if the
yuan emerged as a viable reserve currency, it first must be
fully convertible. That’s a ways off.  Eclipsing U.S.  BRICS don’t want to live in a world run by  Washington  --not
when their combined gross domestic product could eclipse the U.S.
by the end of 2014. And it’s ridiculous that the governance of
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  still rotates
between the U.S. and  Europe  to the exclusion of the rest of the
world.  The future clearly belongs to emerging nations. It’s just
not clear that the BRICS as a political entity is evolving into
something that can play a credible role in creating it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  