-- 
Australia Shouldn't Expect ‘Rivers of Gold’ from Resources Boom, Swan Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-25T00:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/australia-needs-to-make-difficult-budget-decisions-swan-says.html
Australia needs to curb spending
and make “difficult budget decisions” because  tax revenue 
won’t grow as quickly as it did between 2004 and 2007 during the
mining industry’s previous boom, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “We shouldn’t expect to see a repeat of the rivers of gold
that flowed into the government coffers” when an additional
A$334 billion ($359 billion) in tax revenue was generated, Swan
said yesterday in his weekly economic notes. “The revenues will
still be there, but we shouldn’t expect” a similar surge.  A rising Australian dollar and consumer caution after the
global financial crisis are hurting parts of the economy, Swan
said. The Australian dollar today advanced to $1.0776, the
highest since it was freely floated in 1983. The currency’s
gains, spurred by revenue from shipments of coal and iron ore to
 China , have hit Australian tourism, manufacturing and education.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami disaster in  Japan  is
forecast to cut commodity export revenue by about A$2 billion,
while floods and a cyclone in Queensland state earlier this year
will likely cost the economy A$9 billion, Swan said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to return the budget
to surplus in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. Swan in
November forecast a A$41.5 billion deficit in the current fiscal
year, followed by a A$12.3 billion shortfall the next year. The
government projects a A$3.1 billion surplus in 2012-13.  The budget is scheduled to be presented to parliament on
May 10. Gillard’s  Labor Party  lost its majority at the August
2010 general election and needs the support of four non-party
lawmakers to pass legislation in the lower house.  Rapid Expansion  Australia  benefited from a “massive, A$334 billion upward
revision to tax revenue” in the last mining boom, Swan said.  “These near-term challenges are only part of the story,”
the treasurer said in his report yesterday. “The outlook for
our economy over the years ahead is much more positive, and this
brings a different set of challenges.”  The “unprecedented” pipeline of mining and energy
projects being undertaken in Australia now is expected to boost
prices and wages, he said. Australia has about A$133 billion of
minerals and energy projects planned by companies including BHP
Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group, Santos Ltd. and Chevron Corp.,
Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said in November.  “The right thing to do in these circumstances is to
restrain spending and budget for surpluses in the years ahead so
we don’t compound these pressures on our economy,” Swan said.
“This means taking difficult budget decisions now to keep ahead
of the challenges, rather than playing catch up down the track
when the consequences of inaction could be much more severe.”  ‘Cry Poor’  The Australian government wants to use revenue from taxing
profits at mining companies such as BHP and Rio partly to lower
the corporate  tax rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent.  The Greens, which will hold the balance of power in the
Senate from July, oppose the proposed tax cuts “for big
business,”  Bob Brown , the party’s leader, said March 29.  Lowering the corporate tax rate to 29 percent would cost
the government A$3.1 billion, Greens lawmaker  Adam Bandt  said
yesterday on Channel Ten’s “Meet the Press” program.  “The government cannot cry poor while at the same time
cutting off a significant income stream,” Bandt said in e-
mailed statement following the television interview.  Gillard also announced a one-time tax to fund at least
A$5.6 billion in  government spending  on flood reconstruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  