-- 
Australia Needs Spending Cuts as Mining Boom Limited, Swan Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-24T05:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/australia-shouldn-t-expect-rivers-of-gold-from-resources-boom-swan-says.html
Australia needs to cut spending
because there won’t be any repeat of the windfall  tax revenue 
generated between 2004 and 2007 by the mining industry’s
previous expansion, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “We shouldn’t expect to see a repeat of the rivers of gold
that flowed into the government coffers” when an additional
A$334 billion ($359 billion) in tax revenue was generated, Swan
said today in his weekly economic notes. “The revenues will
still be there, but we shouldn’t expect to see” a similar surge.  The strong Australian dollar and consumer caution after the
global financial crisis are hurting parts of the economy, Swan
said. The Australian dollar on April 21 reached $1.0775, the
strongest since it was freely floated in 1983. The currency’s
gains, spurred by revenue from shipments of coal and iron ore to
 China , have hurt Australian tourism, manufacturing and education.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami disaster in  Japan  is
forecast to cut commodity export revenue by A$2 billion, while
floods and a cyclone in Queensland state earlier this year will
likely cost the economy A$9 billion, Swan said.  The government will make unpopular budget cuts to deliver a
surplus as natural disasters crimp tax revenue and a strong
currency puts pressure on tourism and manufacturing, Swan said
April 20. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to return the
budget to surplus by the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013.  The budget is due to be presented to Parliament on May 10.
Gillard’s  Labor Party  lost its majority at the August 2010
general election and needs the support of four non-party
lawmakers to pass legislation in the lower house.  Rapid Expansion  Australia  benefited from a “massive, A$334 billion upward
revision to tax revenue” during the mining industry’s previous
period of rapid expansion last decade, Swan said.  “These near-term challenges are only part of the story,”
the nation’s treasurer said in his report today. “The outlook
for our economy over the years ahead is much more positive, and
this brings a different set of challenges.”  The “unprecedented” pipeline of mining and energy
projects being undertaken in Australia now is expected to boost
prices and wages, he said.  Australia has about A$133 billion of minerals and energy
projects planned by companies including BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio
Tinto Group and Chevron Corp., Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said in November.  “The right thing to do in these circumstances is to
restrain spending and budget for surpluses in the years ahead so
we don’t compound these pressures on our economy,” Swan said.
“This means taking difficult budget decisions now to keep ahead
of the challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  