-- 
Bahrain Opposition Accuses Government of Demolishing 30 Mosques

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-24T12:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/bahrain-opposition-accuses-government-of-demolishing-30-mosques.html
Bahrain’s main Shiite opposition
group said the Sunni-led government has demolished 30 mosques
since quelling political unrest in the Persian Gulf nation last
month.  The government “can’t justify the demolition,”  al-Wefaq 
said in an e-mailed statement received today. “Any attempt to
showcase the measure as a legal action will neither be
convincing nor objective,” the opposition bloc said.  Bahrain’s security forces have been arresting activists and
others including doctors since riot police drove protesters from
their rallying point at the Pearl Roundabout in the capital
Manama on March 16. The government declared a three-month state
of emergency after Saudi Arabian-led troops arrived to help
quell mainly Shiite demands for democracy and civil right
inspired by the toppling of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  The Ministry of Justice  said the buildings were “illegal”
and “unlicensed” and demolished “to protect houses of worship
and maintain their sanctity,”  Bahrain News Agency  said April
22. Justice Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ali al-Khalifa said
describing the situation “otherwise” was an attempt to
“undermine the nation’s image and instigate sedition,”
according to the news service.  Bahrain, an island nation, hosts the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet. Shiites make up about 70 percent of the population of
less than 1 million and many retain cultural and family ties
with  Iran  as well as with Muslims of the same sect in Saudi
Arabia.  Bloggers, Activists  Other Gulf nations have arrested activists and bloggers in
an effort to put down unrest in a region that holds the world’s
largest proven oil reserves.  Saudi Arabia , a member of the Group
of 20 leading economies, has detained more than 160 dissidents
since February as part of the government’s crackdown on
protests,  Human Rights Watch  said April 20.  “The government’s policies over the mid-term and long-term
will be very dangerous for Bahrain’s stability,” Nabeel Rajab,
the head of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, said in a
telephone interview from Manama today. “The government has made
the crisis more complicated and the gap has grown between the
people and the regime.”  More than 30 Bahraini medical workers have disappeared
since security forces quelled Shiite-led protests,  Physicians
for Human Rights  said on April 22. The crackdown killed at least
21 people, the Bahrain Human Rights Society said March 22.
Activists and opposition leaders, including Ebrahim Sharif, a
secular Sunni and head of the National Democratic Action
Society, have also been arrested.  The government denies that security forces have attacked
hospitals and doctors, the official  Bahrain News Agency  said
yesterday, citing a statement from Huda Nunu, the country’s
ambassador in  Washington . Medical facilities are “operating
normally,” Nunu was cited as saying by the news service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  