-- 
Snedeker Beats Donald in Playoff to Win the Heritage; Westwood Is No. 1

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/brandt-snedeker-beats-donald-in-playoff-to-win-golf-s-heritage-tournament.html
Lee Westwood  will replace  Martin Kaymer  as world No. 1 after Brandt Snedeker won his second
career title on golf’s U.S.  PGA Tour  by beating  Luke Donald  in a
playoff at the Heritage tournament.  Donald, 33, would have topped the  Official World Golf
Ranking  for the first time with a victory yesterday at Harbour
Town Golf Links at Hilton Head Island, South Carolina.  “It was going to be some big rewards if I won,” Donald
told reporters. “To be No. 1 would be great, but it’s not
everything. It certainly would be a tick in the box and it would
be something great to talk to the grandkids about in 30 years.”  Instead, Westwood, who like Donald is English, regains the
top spot from  Germany ’s Kaymer, the U.S. PGA champion. Westwood,
on his 38th birthday, won the Indonesian Masters by three
strokes yesterday.  “This will definitely be the most memorable birthday for
me,” Westwood told reporters.  Westwood ended Tiger Woods’s record five-year reign atop
the world rankings on Nov. 1 and was replaced by Kaymer in
February. Westwood is the only golfer to reach No. 1 without
having won one of the sport’s four major championships. He’s the
second Englishman after six-time major winner  Nick Faldo  to top
the rankings and the 14th person to hold the honor.  Six-Shot Deficit  Snedeker, whose only prior win on the PGA Tour came at the
2007 Wyndham Championship, began the final round six shots
behind third-round leader Donald.  Snedeker shot a 7-under-par 64 yesterday to move into a tie
for the lead at 12-under par alongside Donald, who shot 70.
Tommy Gainey, from Bishopville,  South Carolina , had a 68 to
finish third at 11-under par.  The win was worth $1.03 million to the 30-year-old
Snedeker, who responded to Donald’s birdie at the first extra
hole with one of his own.  The two made par at the second playoff hole, then Donald
missed a par putt on the next hole to hand Snedeker the win.  “It was a lot of fun,” Snedeker told reporters. “I’ve
been playing well the last month. When you’re doing that, it
feels pretty easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Dex McLuskey in Dallas
  at  dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 