-- 
Californians Back Brown Plan for Vote on Extending Higher Taxes, Poll Says

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-04-24T01:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/californians-back-brown-plan-for-vote-on-extending-higher-taxes-poll-says.html
A majority of  California  voters
support Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to close a budget gap with
spending cuts and increased levies and want to vote on the tax
proposal in a special election, a poll shows.  Voters support Brown’s proposal 52 percent to 38 percent,
according to a poll released today by the University of  Southern
California  and the Los Angeles Times. The survey said 60 percent
back a special election on the plan, while 35 percent oppose it.  “Not only do they support a mix of tax increases and
spending cuts to balance the budget, but they are adamant about
having the opportunity to vote on it themselves,” Dan Schnur,
the poll director, said in a  statement .  Republican lawmakers have resisted Brown’s proposal to let
voters decide in June whether to extend $11.3 billion of
expiring tax and fee increases to avert cuts in school and
public-safety funds. The governor has said it’s too late for a
June referendum on the package, a linchpin of his plan to erase
what was a projected $26.6 billion deficit through June 2012.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
pledge to repair financial strains that have left California
with the lowest state credit rating, A-, from  Standard & Poor’s .
He and the Democratic legislative majority already have approved
some bills that cut spending by $8.2 billion and borrow $3
billion from internal accounts.  Among those surveyed, 63 percent said they support
extending tax increases to protect local school aid, according
to the poll results. However, voters opposed prolonging the
higher levies through action by the Legislature, with 53 percent
against that approach and 42 percent in favor.  More than 40 percent of respondents said they were
unfamiliar with Brown’s budget plan.  The survey of 1,503 California voters was conducted April
7-17 and has a margin for error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 