-- 
Capitals, Lightning, Bruins, Kings Win in NHL Stanley Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-24T06:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/capitals-lightning-bruins-kings-win-in-nhl-stanley-cup-quarterfinals.html
The top-seeded  Washington Capitals 
eliminated the  New York Rangers  in five games from the National
Hockey League Stanley Cup playoffs with a 3-1 win.  The Tampa Bay Lightning defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 8-
2, the Boston Bruins topped the Montreal Canadiens 2-1 in double
overtime and the Los Angeles Kings beat the San Jose Sharks 3-1.  The Capitals, who have allowed the fewest goals of any team
in the postseason at eight, won the best-of-seven series with a
record of four games to one over the Rangers. Earlier, the
 Detroit Red Wings  swept the  Phoenix Coyotes  to advance to the
second round of the playoffs.  “I liked the way we suffocated them,” Brooks Laich told
reporters. “We were systematic, we didn’t give them any room to
breathe or any reason to hope that they might be able to come
back.”  Mike Green,  Alex Ovechkin  and Alexander Semin scored goals
for the Capitals on their home ice at Verizon Center.  Wojtek Wolski got a goal for the Rangers with 32 seconds
left in the game. New York is 198-216-8 all-time in 422 playoff
contests and 15-19 all-time in 34 postseason contests against
 Washington .  “We’re still in the process, so we just keep on going,
trying to get better,” said John Tortorella, who became the
Rangers’ coach during the 2008-09 season. “I don’t think our
team has been built yet.”  Avoid Elimination  At Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, the Lightning beat
the Penguins to avoid elimination from the first round.  Simon Gagne, Steven Stamkos and Pavel Kubina scored two
goals each as the Lightning pulled within 3-2 in their Eastern
Conference series. Vincent Lecavalier and Dominic Moore also
scored for Tampa Bay, which needs to win Game 6 on home ice
tomorrow to stay in the playoffs.  At TD Garden in  Boston , the Bruins took a 3-2 lead in their
series when Nathan Horton’s goal at nine minutes, three seconds
into the second overtime gave them the win.  The game was scoreless through the first two periods, with
Brad Marchand scoring for Boston at 4:33 of the third period and
Jeff Halpern getting a goal nine minutes later for the Canadiens
who will be eliminated if they lose Game 6 on home ice April 26.  At HP Pavilion in San Jose,  California , Wayne Simmonds,
Kyle Clifford and Dustin Penner scored in the first nine minutes
for the Kings, who avoided elimination with their win. Patrick Marleau got a goal in the second period for the Sharks, who hold
a 3-2 lead in the series and travel to  Los Angeles  for Game 6
tomorrow.  In today’s sixth game for each team, the Buffalo Sabres can
eliminate the  Philadelphia Flyers  with a win on home ice; the
Nashville Predators can advance to round two with a victory over
the Anaheim Ducks; and the top-seeded Vancouver Canucks travel
to Chicago where they can knock out the Blackhawks with a win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  