-- 
McCain Says Libyan Rebels ‘Badly Outgunned’ Against Qaddafi

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-24T14:34:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/mccain-says-libyan-rebels-badly-outgunned-against-qaddafi.html
Senator  John McCain  said the U.S.
should increase its role in North Atlantic Treaty Organization
air attacks against  Libya  and rebels there need more direct
assistance in the fight against  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces.  “I really fear a stalemate,” McCain said of the conflict,
speaking on CNN television’s “State of the Union” program
after he traveled Libya. Rebel fighters are “badly outgunned in
armor, equipment and training” against Qaddafi loyalists, the
Arizona Republican said.  McCain said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program that the
U.S. should increase air attacks “but troops on the ground is
out of the question” and would be counterproductive.  Removing Qaddafi’s television broadcast capabilities would
be helpful because “when the Libyan people see Qaddafi on
television it scares them,” McCain said.  McCain told  CNN  he was supportive of reports of the first
missile attack from a drone aircraft in Libya as fighting
continued in the rebel-held city of Misrata. A Predator drone
fired its missile yesterday, the U.S. Defense Department said in
an e-mailed statement, without elaborating.  “I’m glad the Predator is now in the fight,” McCain said.
“We need the American air assets back in a heavier way.”  McCain was hesitant about supporting direct attacks on
Qaddafi himself. “My emphasis is winning the battle on the
ground,” he said, not relying on a “lucky airstrike.”  Air Support  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who
also advocated more air support for the rebels, told CNN that
NATO forces should begin bombing Qaddafi’s “inner circle.”  “I think the focus should now be to cut the head of the
snake off,” he said.  McCain visited Benghazi, the center of the Libyan uprising,
on April 22, in a show of support for insurgents trying to
overthrow Qaddafi. McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee and the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, urged the U.S. to recognize the rebel Transitional
National Council as the country’s government and provide
financial assistance.  Rebels in Libya have been fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule since mid-February. NATO war planes operating over the
capital, Tripoli, struck near Qaddafi’s Bab al-Azizia compound,
AP reported yesterday. Automatic weapons fire and rocket
explosions could be heard in the city of Misrata, the  BBC 
reported today, citing its correspondents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  