-- 
Coburn Says Medicare, Medicaid Spending Must Be Included in Budget Talks

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-24T15:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/coburn-says-medicare-medicaid-spending-must-be-included-in-budget-talks.html
Medicare and Medicaid programs must
be part of the U.S. effort to reduce the  budget deficit , Senator
 Tom Coburn  said.  “You can’t have Medicare out of the equation,” Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican and member of the Senate Budget Committee,
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program broadcast today. “You
can’t have Medicaid out of the equation. To lead on this issue
and create a false predicate that says we can solve our problems
without addressing our entitlements hurts the country.”  As part of the debate on  government spending , which
includes completing a 2012 budget, President Barack Obama has
offered the outlines of a plan to reduce the debt by $4 trillion
over 12 years through a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, has proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a
decade in part by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid
spending. Republicans reject Obama’s push for tax increases on
the wealthiest Americans to help reduce debt.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and chairman
of the budget committee, said on “Meet the Press” that the
U.S. is “headed for a fiscal cliff” if it doesn’t address the
deficit. Conrad and Coburn are part of the bipartisan “Gang of
Six” seeking a budget compromise.  Debt Limit  Conrad said he wouldn’t support raising the government’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit for more than a year “without a plan
or a proposal or process in place to deal with the debt.” He
said he would vote for a short-term extension.  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the debt ceiling. The Treasury Department projects that it will
hit the cap on May 16, though it could use emergency measures to
avoid default until about July 8.  Obama and members of his economic team have said that
failure to approve an increase could have catastrophic
consequences for the  U.S. economy  and financial markets.  Senators  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat, and Mark Kirk, a
Republican, presented opposing views on the debt ceiling while
appearing today on the CBS program “Face the Nation.”  Blumenthal, from Connecticut, said “unequivocally yes” the
limit should be raised. Failure to do so “would be catastrophic
for our economy.”  Kirk, from Illinois, said he wouldn’t vote for it “unless
we have comprehensive, dramatic, effective and broad-based
cuts” to spending, including on entitlements. “Without that,
we should not send a blank check to the administration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  