-- 
Cold War Over U.S. Budget Priorities Turns Hot: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-04-24T15:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/cold-war-over-u-s-budget-priorities-turns-hot-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
For more than three decades, each
U.S. political party has possessed a rhetorical nuclear weapon:
for Democrats, it’s the opposition’s threat to dismantle popular
health-care or social-safety net benefits; for Republicans, it’s
the other camp’s desire to boost taxes.  It usually works. Many Republican politicians owe their job
to the specter of higher taxes, while Democrats have flourished
when the focus is on cutting entitlements or spending for
education and health care. This has produced a fiscal mutually
assured destruction, where both sides eagerly use their weapons;
kept national U.S. politics closely divided, and generated a lot
of budgetary red ink.  Rarely are the two issues joined, offering a clear choice
in national elections. When Medicare or Social Security seems
threatened by Republican initiatives, that’s the dominant issue;
in other cycles, higher taxes and big government are the focus.  Next year, initiatives put forth by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  and his Republican colleagues,
and those presented by President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats,
may offer the opportunity for a much needed debate and a choice
of priorities.  Ryan and Obama, with their deficit-reduction road maps, end
up in about the same place, though they travel dramatically
different avenues to get there.  Debt-Ceiling Fight  The current venue for a fight over spending and tax
priorities is the necessary lifting of the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling sometime over the next two months. Both sides are
carefully positioning themselves, realizing it would be
calamitous not to raise the cap on the government’s ability to
borrow; this is an archaic practice that began in 1917, when
Congress set a statutory ceiling on U.S. debt obligations and
only temporarily allowed it to be increased so politicians can
use it as leverage.  Nevertheless, the most likely outcome of the current battle
is either a cosmetic or procedural agreement to address longer-
term fiscal issues; no one argues there’s a near-term crisis.
Alternatively, lawmakers could settle on a serious but limited
down payment, which could be a predicate for thrashing it out in
2012.  The contours of the debate include whether the problem
comes down to spending or deficits, will require shared
sacrifice, and, more broadly, the appropriate size and shape of
government.  Taxes and Entitlements  The lines are clearly drawn by Ryan and Obama. The
Republican’s budget plan, adopted April 15 on a partisan vote in
the House, would dramatically reduce discretionary spending,
almost certainly forcing cutbacks in areas such as education,
scientific and medical research, and  law enforcement . It also
ultimately would turn Medicare into a government-assisted
private system, cut spending for Medicaid and lower taxes for
corporations and wealthier Americans.  Obama would trim Medicare and Medicaid costs and
discretionary domestic spending considerably less than Ryan,
while making targeted spending increases in areas such as
education, infrastructure and alternative energy. The
president’s plan also would cut back on defense spending more
than Republicans and increase taxes on wealthier Americans and
their estates.  That’s the stuff of big trade-offs: Medicare cutbacks or
the end of the Bush-era tax cuts? Curb Medicaid or increase
estate taxes, or as Republicans say, the death tax? Scientific
and health research or more security and arms?  Having It Both Ways  If the debate is real, it will make it easier to dismiss
political prescriptions like those of  Donald Trump , a would-be
contender for the Republican presidential nomination, who says
the debt ceiling shouldn’t be raised, Medicare and defense
spending shouldn’t be cut, while taxes should be. This isn’t a
new phenomenon; in the 1970s, an old-style Democratic
congressman, James Burke of  Massachusetts , used to brag to a
young reporter that the secret to his political success was to
vote for every spending bill and  tax cut  and oppose every
increase in the debt ceiling. When asked to explain the logic,
his response was: “You think this place is on the level?”  Politicians who do think the place and the problem are on
the level believe that these days such evasion may be harder to
get away with.  “The stage has been set for a more literate and informed
debate,” says Tom Daschle, the former Senate Democratic leader.
“We haven’t had such a stark and clear-cut choice in a long
time.”  ‘Substantive Action’  Former New Hampshire Republican Senator  Judd Gregg  agrees
and says he is reasonably optimistic there will be “substantive
action” this year. The Bowles-Simpson National Commission on
Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, of which he was a member, has
provided a template, and if Congress doesn’t act in 2011, Gregg
says the markets are likely to force the issue in the 2012
elections.  Each side has its challenges. As details of Ryan’s budget
become clear, there may be more party defections; already
Montana Representative Denny Rehberg, who’s running for the
Senate next year, voted against it, and former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty , a front-runner for his party’s
presidential nomination, expressed reservations. Democrats such
as Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  and Congressman Heath Shuler of  North Carolina  are likely to break with Obama on tax
increases.  Deep Cuts  Substantively, Ryan’s cuts in domestic programs are so deep
that the subsequent specifics could be lethal. Much of the focus
has been on his Medicare proposals; far deeper cuts would be
made in the Medicaid program for the poor, creating a block-
grant to the states with less funding. More than 43 percent of
Medicaid’s spending goes to people with disabilities, most of
whom have little leverage with private insurance companies or at
the ballot box.  On taxes, Obama has put himself in a bind with his campaign
pledge not to take aim at anyone making less than $250,000 a
year. To meet his budget priorities, and to address the long-
term deficit gap, there simply aren’t enough rich people to pay
more taxes.  Still, Obama and Ryan offer compelling contrasts: Two
articulate politicians, equally versed in fiscal policy, with
decidedly different approaches, whose initial forays have a
partisan coloration and who are convinced the other has offered
a prescription for economic suicide. Ultimately, any big-time
fiscal fix, given the U.S. system, will have to be bipartisan. A
partisan national debate could help pave the way.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 