-- 
Dudley Seeing Interest on Reserves as Tool of Choice Sparks New Fed Debate

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-24T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/dudley-seeing-interest-on-reserves-as-tool-of-choice-sparks-new-fed-debate.html
Federal Reserve officials are
staking their inflation-fighting credibility on an untested
tool: the power to pay interest on bank reserves.  Congress granted the Fed this ability in 2008, and Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New York Fed
President  William Dudley  have all cited it as a main reason why
they’ll be able to keep the  U.S. economy  from overheating after
pumping record amounts of cash into the financial system.
Raising the rate, currently at 0.25 percent, is intended to
entice banks to keep their money on deposit at the Fed instead
of loaning it out and stoking inflation.  With the benchmark overnight lending rate trading at 0.1
percent, less than half the deposit rate, it isn’t clear how
much control the central bank can exert over borrowing costs by
raising the interest on reserves, said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at  Barclays Capital . Internal critics also have cast
doubt on the tool’s effectiveness. Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  said last month it isn’t a cure-all because it
doesn’t address the need to shrink the central bank’s balance
sheet and reduce the amount of reserves in the system.  “There is some concern in markets about whether the Fed
will keep inflation under wraps as it goes through this exit
strategy,” Maki said in a telephone interview from his New York
office. “It’s unknown exactly what interest on reserves does to
the economy.”  Cash in the banking system has ballooned since the credit
crisis began in 2007, when the Fed embarked on its unprecedented
monetary accommodation, which includes two bond-purchase
programs that have swelled the  central bank ’s balance sheet to a
record $2.69 trillion.  Excess Reserves  The amount of excess reserves climbed to $1.47 trillion
this month from $991 billion at year-end and $2.2 billion at the
start of 2007, Fed data show.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  begins a two-day meeting
tomorrow and will decide whether to continue with its planned
$600 billion of bond purchases through June.  The effectiveness of using interest on reserves, or IOR, as
a main policy tool may depend on how closely the federal funds
rate, or overnight inter-bank lending rate, follows its
movements. The Fed has kept its target for the fed funds rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “The big unknown is how tight the spread between the IOR
and effective fed funds rate will be,” said Dino Kos, a
managing director at economic-research firm Hamiltonian
Associates Ltd. in  New York . “If the fed funds rate trades at a
stable, and preferably narrow, discount to the IOR, then
tightening policy through the IOR is doable. But a wide and
unstable spread undermines the strategy.”  Withdrawing Cash  Kos is a former executive vice president and markets-group
head at the New York Fed. The central bank has historically
moved the federal funds rate by buying or selling  Treasury
securities , adding or withdrawing cash from the system.  The Fed probably would like to mimic the so-called corridor
system in Europe, where the deposit rate acts as a floor to the
overnight lending rate, according to  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut.
The U.K. central bank’s benchmark, now at 0.5 percent, is the
rate it pays on the reserves it holds for commercial banks.
That’s below the overnight sterling London interbank offered
rate of 0.57 percent.  The Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  pays a rate on
the deposits banks park with it overnight. The ECB raised this
rate a quarter point to 0.5 percent on April 7, the same day it
increased its benchmark refinancing rate by the same margin to
1.25 percent.  Reverse Repurchase Agreements  Before the Fed boosts the deposit rate, it likely will use
reverse repurchase agreements and its new Term-Deposit Facility
to gain more control over the federal funds rate, Stanley said.
He predicts the Fed will raise rates as soon as November, which
he said is an “aggressive” time frame that reflects his
concern inflation will accelerate.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, draining bank reserves from the financial system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
goes back to the primary dealers.  Stanley said he’s skeptical these transactions can operate
at a scale big enough to suck sufficient cash from the system to
control the federal funds rate. The rate fell as low as 0.08
percent on April 13 after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
began adjusting calculations of U.S. banks’ deposit-insurance
fees this month to cover all liabilities instead of just
domestic deposits.  ‘Significant Sellers’  The overnight lending rate has traded below the interest
rate on reserves for almost two years, partly because  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies under government
control, became “significant sellers” of funds in the
overnight market and aren’t eligible to place cash on deposit at
the Fed, according to a December 2009 research paper by the New
York regional reserve bank.  The “theory” of interest on reserves is “proved wrong
every day: Why would a bank ever lend at less than what they’re
earning at the Fed?” Maki said. “There are more issues here
than it sometimes is made to sound.  Chairman Bernanke  mentioned
the Fed could raise rates in 15 minutes if they decided to, but
it’s not clear they have that kind of control on the funds
rate.”  While Stanley says Bernanke, Dudley and Yellen’s premise --
that raising interest on reserves should dissuade banks from
extending credit -- is valid, policy makers may have to increase
rates faster than they’d like because a 25 basis-point jump in
the deposit rate won’t deter a bank from making a loan on which
it would earn 6 percent interest, Stanley said.  ‘Academic Question’  “I will grant the point that Bernanke and others at the
Fed have made over and over again, that ‘We have the tools,’ but
really what they’re getting at is, in some ways, an academic
question,” Stanley said. “The problem is in thinking through
the implications.”  Bernanke called interest on reserves “perhaps the most
important” tool for tightening credit in July 2009
congressional testimony, and he and his top lieutenants have
expressed confidence in the deposit rate’s ability to quash
inflation.  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the FOMC, said in
response to audience questions after a Feb. 28 speech that he is
“absolutely convinced” raising interest on reserves will
prevent a rapid acceleration in prices.  “It’s very important that we at the Fed can convince
people that this new tool is a viable means of preventing the
economy from overheating,” Dudley said. “People should be
very, very comfortable that we’re not going to let inflation get
out of hand.”  Harsh Political Backlash  Yellen also emphasized the deposit rate in a Jan. 8 speech
defending the central bank’s second round of asset purchases.
The Nov. 3 decision to embark on the $600 billion program
sparked the harshest political backlash against the Fed in three
decades, with Republican lawmakers saying the policy risked
causing a surge in inflation.  “I disagree with the notion that the large quantity of
reserves resulting from our asset purchases poses some special
barrier to removing policy stimulus when the right time comes,”
Yellen said. The ability to raise the deposit rate “will allow
us to manage short-term interest rates effectively and thus to
tighten policy when needed, even if bank reserves remain high.”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said he expects interest on excess reserves to be the Fed’s
new benchmark rate, and it will be “effective enough.”  Mortgage Holdings  “Maybe you won’t be able to precisely get the funds rate
to where you want it to be every day, but I think when” the
deposit rate “goes up, interest rates in general will go up,”
said Feroli, who predicts the Fed will stop reinvesting interest
payments from its mortgage holdings in the second half of this
year and won’t raise the deposit rate until 2013.  Feroli said he’s confident the Fed will be able to control
inflation as the economy improves.  “If anything, they’ve got more ways to whack the economy
now than they did before,” he said. “If you really do have an
inflation problem, not only can you raise overnight rates, you
can sell a trillion dollars in mortgages or Treasuries.”  While Bernanke, Dudley and Yellen have advocated interest
on excess reserves to stop inflation, other members of the FOMC
have proposed taking different approaches to withdraw stimulus.
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said March 30 that a
“logical” order for an exit plan would be for the Fed to sell
assets before raising rates. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher 
said Feb. 15 that he may prefer selling Treasuries as a first
step.  ‘Policy Instrument’  Plosser said March 25 that the federal funds rate should be
the main policy instrument, not the deposit rate, because it’s
more “familiar” to the market and central bankers. He outlined
a strategy for the exit, saying the Fed should set a pace for
selling its mortgage and Treasury holdings in conjunction with
boosting rates.  “The center of the committee is looking for asset sales
after the rate increase” and is likely to get its way, even
though the so-called hawks like Plosser and Fisher can
“certainly make a lot of noise,” Feroli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  