-- 
Egyptian Islamist Leader Says He May Run for President

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-24T08:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/egyptian-islamist-leader-says-he-may-run-for-president.html
Egyptian Islamic leader Abdel
Moneim Aboul-Fotouh said he is “seriously” considering running
for president in this year’s elections, the first after the
overthrow of former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Aboul-Fotouh, a former member of the Muslim Brotherhood’s
top executive bureau, will conduct a survey on his  website  to
gauge the support of his candidacy, he wrote in an editorial
published in the Cairo-based daily  El-Shorouk  newspaper.  “As for presidential candidacy and stepping forward to
shoulder the responsibility to govern, I have decided to think
seriously about running,” he wrote. “We can’t deny that we
need strong leadership.”  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after 18 days of rallies that
brought an end to a three-decade rule. He ceded interim power to
the military which dissolved the constitution and said it plans
to hold parliamentary and presidential elections this year.  Amre Moussa,  Egypt ’s former foreign minister and the
current Arab League secretary-general, and  Mohamed ElBaradei ,
the former director of the  International Atomic Energy Agency ,
are among those who have announced plans to run for president.  The Muslim Brotherhood, which was Egypt’s biggest
opposition group under Mubarak, doesn’t plan to field a
presidential candidate, senior leader Essam El-Erian said in an
interview with state-run television on March 14.  Islamists in Egypt are the only political force with strong
popular support, Aboul-Fotouh wrote in the editorial, published
yesterday.  Aboul-Fotouh, 59, was a member of the Brotherhood’s
Guidance Council between 1987 and 2009. He is the secretary-
general of the Arab Doctors Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  