-- 
Emaar Profit Falls 45%, Missing Estimates, on Burj Khalifa Handover Drop

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-04-24T13:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/emaar-first-quarter-profit-drops-45-missing-estimates-1-.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, reported a 45 percent
decline in first-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates, as
it delivered fewer units in Burj Khalifa.  Net income fell to 421 million dirhams ($115 million), or 7
fils a share, from 761 million dirhams, or 12 fils share in the
year-earlier period, the company said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. The average estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for a profit of 567 million dirhams.  Emaar, the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest developer, said
profit was driven by its hotels and malls as well as the
handover of about 270 apartments in  Burj Khalifa  and Boulevard
Plaza. That compares with 1,300 in the corresponding quarter in
2010. The developer, which generates most of its revenue from
Dubai, was hurt by a slump in property prices in its home market
of more than 60 percent as speculative demand waned and banks
tightened lending since mid-2008.  “Deliveries in Dubai are now winding down and Emaar is
relying on foreign operations to plug the gap,” Alembic HC
Securities analyst Majed Azzam said today. “However, prices
there are lower and margins are tighter.”  Higher Margin  The company said it delivered commercial space in  Syria ’s
Eighth Gate development. Emaar’s hotels had an 87 percent
average occupancy rate during the first quarter, according to
the statement. The developer’s revenue in the quarter amounted
to 1.98 billion dirhams and the operating profit margin improved
to 28.5 percent in the quarter from 26 percent a year ago.  “Emaar will continue to explore growth opportunities in
key emerging markets where our emphasis will be to create
dynamic socio-economic growth engines like Downtown Dubai that
create jobs, supports ancillary industries and meet lifestyle
aspirations,” Chairman Mohammed Alabbar said in the statement.  The company’s international projects in  Saudi Arabia ,
Egypt, Jordan,  Pakistan ,  India  and  Turkey  will contribute this
year to its revenue, it said. Projects such as Jeddah Gate, Al
Khobar Lakes and  Egypt ’s Uptown Cairo and Marassi are “fast
progressing” and will be delivered in the coming months,
according to the statement.  Units Weigh  Emaar said loss from associated companies widened to 127
million dirhams from 57 million in the year-ago period without
naming the units. Emaar owns a 45 percent stake in Islamic
mortgage lender Amlak Finance PJSC, which was barred from
trading in November 2008 after the global financial crisis cut
their access to funding.  Emaar shares declined 1.4 percent to 3.44 dirhams today on
Dubai’s stock market, which closed before earnings were
released. The developer’s shares dropped 13 percent in the past
year, compared with a 5 percent drop in the benchmark DFM
General Index. That gives the company a market value of 21
billion dirhams.  “Despite the fact revenue is coming down, the company
continues to have high overhead,” Azzam said today. Emaar’s
expenses rose almost 2 percent to 458 million dirhams from 450
million dirhams a year earlier, the statement shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  