-- 
Exxon Said to Shut Thailand Refinery for Works to Reduce Sulfur Emissions

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-04-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/exxon-said-to-shut-thai-refinery-to-modify-units-to-cut-sulphur-in-fuels.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest publicly traded oil company, plans to halt its Sriracha
refinery in  Thailand  as it modifies units to reduce sulfur in
fuels, according to two people with knowledge of the work.  The shutdown will start in September and last about five
weeks, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information hasn’t been made public. Kevin Allexon, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based Exxon spokesman, declined to comment.  The shutdown will enable work to be completed and enable
Exxon to produce low-sulfur fuels before Thailand’s switch to
Euro-4 standards next year, which will limit allowable sulfur
content in gasoline and diesel to 50 parts per million or less.  Exxon said on July 29 that it began work on a clean-fuels
project at the plant, with commissioning expected by the end of
2011. The company said on July 16 it would modify existing
hydrotreating units to cut sulfur levels in gasoline and diesel
to 50 parts per million and build a facility to reduce benzene
in gasoline to 1 percent to meet stricter fuel specifications
that will take effect on Jan. 1, 2012.  The project, which the company estimates will cost $394
million, is progressing as planned, Kitiyavadee Nilavan, an
Exxon communications manager in Bangkok, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Exxon’s Sriracha refinery has the capacity to process
170,000 barrels of oil a day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It uses crude oil from the Middle East, Far East Asia
and West Africa, according to the company’s  website .  Removing Sulfur  Exxon is building a diesel hydrotreater at its Singapore
refining complex, which will boost production of ultra-low-
sulfur diesel, according to a  statement  in November. The company
also has inaugurated a hydrotreater at its refinery in Antwerp,
 Belgium , with annual output equivalent to the yearly consumption
of 2 million diesel-powered cars. The unit has been operating
since the end of January, Johan Scharpe, a company spokesman in
Antwerp, said on April 8.  Hydrotreaters remove sulfur from fuels allowing them to
burn more cleanly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  