-- 
Global Profits Top Forecasts From Apple to Novartis on Productivity Gains

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-24T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/global-profits-top-forecasts-from-apple-to-novartis-on-productivity-gains.html
First-quarter earnings have beaten
forecasts so far, as companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
and  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  wring more profit from operations worldwide and
an economic pickup buoys sales.  Since April 11, 71 percent of MCSI World Index members
reporting results have topped analysts’ estimates for earnings
per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profits of
the 188 companies have beaten forecasts by 8.8 percent.  Companies are exceeding estimates by using productivity
measures to get more out of workers and factories. Novartis is
cutting purchasing costs by as much as 8 percent a year, helping
the Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker top analysts’ first-
quarter estimates last week. Seoul-based LG Chem is boosting
petrochemical profit margins as demand rises after the March 11
earthquake in  Japan  disrupted rivals’ operations.  “Productivity has been terrific -- it really has been an
unsung story,” said Jeffrey Schappe, chief investment officer
of Sterling Capital Management LLC, which oversees about $32
billion in investments. “Higher input costs, such as
commodities, have been offset.”  U.S. productivity, measured as employee output per hour,
rose 3.9 percent last year, the most since 2002, according to
Labor Department statistics released in March. Labor costs fell
1.5 percent following a 1.6 percent decrease in 2009, the first
back-to-back drop since 1962 and 1963.  In the U.K., productivity increased 0.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the Office for National
Statistics said this month. European productivity increased in
March at the strongest pace since July, Markit Economics said
this month.  More Investments, Jobs  Facing rising demand, companies will need to spend more on
capital investments and hire new employees, Schappe said in an
interview from Raleigh,  North Carolina .  “Companies have pretty much gotten all they can out of
productivity, and they’re going to have to keep up with sales,”
he said. “The surprise this year is going to be employment.”  The U.S. has added jobs every month since October, and the
 unemployment rate  dropped in March to a two-year low of 8.8
percent. The MCSI World Index is up 6.3 percent this year
through April 21, matching the performance of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  A recovering economy is stimulating demand for goods and
services, pushing factories closer to their maximum capacity and
helping companies get more results from their marketing and
sales expenses.  Record Productivity  U.S. automakers will hire about 36,000 hourly and salaried
workers by 2015 because they already have reached record
productivity levels and will need more people to keep up with
demand,  Sean McAlinden , chief economist for the Center for
Automotive Research, said this month.  Fiat SpA (F) , the Turin, Italy, carmaker that runs Chrysler
Group LLC, said last week that its first-quarter profit before
some costs rose 9.1 percent to 251 million euros ($365 million),
thanks in part to a boost in demand in Brazil. The profit topped
the 241 million euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Apple’s earnings almost doubled last quarter to $6.40 a
share, beating the $5.39 average estimate of analysts, as
customers snapped up more profitable products than the
Cupertino, California-based company expected, such as the top-
selling iPhone.  Novartis’s first-quarter net income dropped 6 percent to
$2.77 billion, beating the analysts’ forecast of $2.57 billion.
Sales increased 16 percent to $14 billion, also topping
estimates, on higher revenue from a generic blood thinner and
the Gleevec cancer medicine.  Asian Customers  LG Chem posted a 27 percent gain in first-quarter profit.
Its net income of 656.6 billion won ($608 million) compared with
an average estimate of 585 billion won, according to a survey of
11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Orders from Asian customers
boosted South Korean exports of materials used to make plastics
and synthetic rubber by 24 percent last month.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest
computer-services provider, boosted its full-year profit
forecast last week as companies buy more software and equipment.
Operating earnings at the Armonk, New York-based company will be
at least $13.15 a share this year, higher than a previous
projection of at least $13 and the $13.08 average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New Models  PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s second-biggest automaker,
posted a 10 percent revenue gain in the first quarter because of
new models such as the Citroen DS3 minicar and Peugeot Hoggar
pickup. The Paris-based company stuck to a forecast for higher
operating profit in its automotive division this year, saying
spending cuts would outpace raw-material price increases.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals producer, beat analysts’ estimates with a 42
percent surge in first-quarter profit to 7.69 billion riyals
($2.05 billion). The company, based in  Riyadh ,  Saudi Arabia ,
said sales of fertilizers and plastics increased on higher
demand for automotive, construction and consumer goods.  Some investors are skeptical that the growth in
profitability will lead to more employment. Companies will find
it difficult to hire new workers and keep profits expanding
because the unemployed talent pool may not fit their needs, said
 David James , senior vice president at James Investment Research
Inc. in Alpha, Ohio. The average duration of unemployment in the
U.S. rose to a record 39 weeks in March.  Eroding Skills  “You think about that kind of time you’re out of work, a
lot of times you’re going to have your job skills erode,” said
James, whose firm oversees $2.7 billion. “That’s another big
problem that still faces us. If you want to hire people, getting
someone who’s qualified and can help will take a lot more on-
the-job training.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s operating costs rose 54 percent in the first
quarter after increasing its employee ranks by about 7.9 percent
from the previous period and spending more on research and
marketing. The Mountain View, California-based Internet search
company was punished for missing estimates, with the shares
dropping 8.3 percent on April 15, the day following its earnings
announcement. It was their biggest decline since December 2008.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-biggest software
exporter, also trailed analysts’ estimates for last quarter’s
profit as customers shortened the length of orders. The
Bangalore-based company is seeking to hire as many as 2,000
people outside of its home country for higher-productivity
services jobs that will not reduce its profit margins, Chief
Executive Officer Kris Gopalakrishnan said last week.  Pricing Power  “What’s really important here is pricing power or the
ability for companies to pass on price in the face of higher
commodity costs, maybe higher labor costs,” said  Mark Bronzo ,
who helps manage $25.5 billion at Security Global Investors in
Irvington,  New York .  Oil has advanced to $112 a barrel this year after a wave of
political unrest swept across the Middle East and North Africa.
Copper rose to a record $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15 and is up 24
percent in the past year on optimism about an economic recovery
and a slump in the dollar that has boosted demand for metals as
an alternative investment.  A reduction in commodities prices would help companies
expand margins further and give them more confidence to begin
hiring, said  Michael Nasto , senior trader at U.S. Global
Investors Inc., which manages about $3 billion in San Antonio.  “Maybe costs start to come in a little bit, they get a
little profit margin, people think things are going to be better
next quarter, then they start hiring,” Nasto said. “The bottom
line is we’ve got to put people back to work. That’s the one
thing we need to get the market to take off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  