-- 
Economy in U.S. Probably Slowed as Fuel Costs Caused Consumers to Cut Back

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-24T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/growth-probably-slowed-as-fuel-costs-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a
slower pace in the first quarter as a jump in gasoline prices
caused consumers to cut back, economists said a report this week
will show.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.9 percent annual pace
after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 66 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an April 28 Commerce
Department report. Other data may show business investment
remained a pillar of the economic rebound, while home prices
fell.  Federal Reserve policy makers, when they meet this week,
will likely say they’ll complete the second round of stimulus
worth $600 billion, as scheduled, through the end of June to
help sustain the recovery. While companies like  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are among those benefiting from gains in
spending on equipment and software, households are feeling the
pinch of higher food and fuel prices.  “The economy has hit a bit of a soft patch,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “If we continue to get these sharp jumps
at the pump, that will be a major hit to consumer sentiment.
There is a tipping point for consumers.”  The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled for May and June when more
information becomes available.  Spending Cools  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy, rose at a 2.1 percent annual pace
following a 4 percent gain in the last three months of 2010, the
best performance in four years, according to the survey median.  Higher prices for necessities like food and energy may have
hurt spending on less essential items. The cost of a gallon of
regular gasoline rose 18 percent in the first three months of
the year, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization. The price has increased another 6 percent so far
this month, reaching $3.85 a gallon on April 21, the highest
since September 2008.  Prices for all goods and services rose last quarter at a
2.4 percent annual pace, the biggest gain in more than two
years, economists forecast the GDP will also show.  American manufacturers are faring better than consumers as
increasing demand from emerging economies like China supplements
gains in business spending.  ‘Good Shape’  “We’re in really good shape for accelerating industrial
earnings growth,”  Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, said on a conference call last
week. “All the precursors are in place: good equipment orders,
good backlog growth, good service orders, international growing
double digits, and we’re investing to build competitive
advantage.”  Orders for durable goods increased 2 percent in March after
a 0.6 percent decline the prior month, economists forecast
Commerce Department figures will show on April 27.  Shares of machinery makers have outpaced the broader market
since the beginning of the year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has climbed 9.8 percent compared
with a 6.3 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Fed policy makers, in two days of meetings beginning April
26, are likely to affirm they’ll finish a $600 billion Treasury-
purchase program on schedule at the end of June, according to
economists such as Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse
in  New York . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold his first press
conference following the central bank’s statement on April 27,
giving him an opportunity to discuss his next steps.  Home Prices  Housing continues to struggle as foreclosures mount. Home
prices in 20 cities for the 12 months through February fell 3.3
percent, the biggest decline since November 2009, according to
the Bloomberg survey. The S&P/Case-Shiller index is due April
26.  Sales of new homes, due tomorrow from the Commerce
Department, rose 12 percent to a 280,000 annual pace in March,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. February’s
250,000 purchase pace was the lowest in data going back to 1963.  Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, rose 1.7 percent in March after a 2.1 percent increase
the prior month, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report on April 28.  Gains in employment, along with higher stock values, are
outweighing the rise in gas prices and declining home values
when it comes to measuring consumer attitudes.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final
sentiment index for April, due April 29, is projected to climb
to 70 from 67.5 at the end of March, according to economists
surveyed. The New York-based Conference Board on April 26 may
show its confidence gauge rose to 64.5 from 63.4 last month, the
survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  