-- 
Kuwait Is Giving $181 Million to Fight Muammar Qaddafi, Libyan Rebels Say

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/libya-s-rebels-pledged-181-million-from-kuwait-syria-rounds-up-hundreds.html
Libya’s Transitional National
Council, the group representing rebels fighting  Muammar Qaddafi ,
is getting 50 million dinars ($181 million) from Kuwait,
according to council chief Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Al-Sabah, speaking
at a news conference yesterday with Abdel Jalil, didn’t
immediately confirm the contribution. “Actions speak louder
than words,” he said when asked if Kuwait had officially
recognized the transition council.  Qaddafi’s forces fired shells and rockets at Misrata
yesterday, countering Libyan government claims that the army was
holding its fire into the western city, the  Associated Press 
reported. Doctors said 32 people were killed and dozens wounded
over two days, according to AP.  In  Syria , security forces have detained at least 200 people
in widespread sweeps as some officials announced their
resignations following the killing of dozens of anti-government
protesters, activists said.  The U.S. carried out its first  missile attack  from a drone
aircraft in  Libya . The Predator drone fired its missile April
23, the U.S. Defense Department said in an e-mailed statement,
without elaborating. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said
a Predator strike destroyed a multiple-rocket launcher that had
been used against civilians in Misrata.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , after traveling to Libya,
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program yesterday that the U.S.
should increase its role in NATO air attacks even though putting
“troops on the ground is out of the question” and would be
counterproductive.  Libyan Uprising  McCain visited Benghazi, the center of the Libyan uprising,
on April 22, in a show of support for insurgents trying to end
Qaddafi’s 42-year rule. McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee and the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, urged the U.S. to recognize the rebel council as the
country’s government and provide financial assistance.  “We need to take Qaddafi out,” McCain said. “I think you
can do it with air power and a sufficiently trained and equipped
liberation forces.”  Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent and
chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, said on CNN
television’s “State of the Union” that it’s “possible” to
target Qaddafi directly and doing so would be the “surest way”
to end the violence.  About 200 to 300 people have been detained in Syria since
April 22, Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said in an interview from Damascus yesterday. Many
of those arrested were taken from their homes at night,
according to Haitham al-Maleh, a member of the Syrian Human
Rights Committee who estimated that “hundreds” were arrested.  Syrian Activists  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has failed to quell
protests after pledging steps to meet activists’ demands and end
a 48-year state of emergency. Khalil al-Rifai and Nasser al-
Hariri, lawmakers from the southern town of Daraa, the scene of
the deadliest clashes, resigned April 23. The city’s top
government-appointed religious leader, Mufti Rizq Abdel Dayem
Abazid, also said he quit.  Protests in Yemen showed no signs of ending after President
Ali Abdullah Saleh and the opposition agreed to a Gulf
Cooperation Council-brokered peace plan.  Demonstrators rallied yesterday in Sana’a, the country’s
capital, chanting “Down, down with the regime” and demanding
the president’s unconditional departure. In al-Turbah, a
district of Taiz province, six people were wounded when police
fired on thousands of protesters, Bushra al-Maktari, a protest
leader, said in a phone interview.  Military Divide  Gulf council officials want to avert an escalation of
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
Libya. Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest exporter of crude oil.  Non-violent protests were held yesterday in the Moroccan
cities of Casablanca, Fes, Rabat and Marrakech. Some
demonstrators demanded the dissolution of the government and
greater involvement in rewriting the constitution. King Mohammed
VI pledged last month to introduce more liberties.  In  Egypt , former President  Hosni Mubarak  was being
transferred to a military hospital near Cairo from a hospital in
the Red Sea resort of  Sharm el-Sheikh ,  Al Arabiya  television
said yesterday, quoting the country’s attorney general.  Mubarak will be held at the military hospital until
authorities prepare a medical facility for him in the Torah
prison outside the Egyptian capital, according to Al Arabiya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  