-- 
Japan Bonds Drop, Snapping Five-Day Advance, as Weaker Yen Helps Exporters

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-04-25T06:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/japan-s-bonds-may-advance-for-a-sixth-day-before-march-retail-sales-report.html
Japan ’s bonds declined, snapping a
five-day gain, as the yen fell against the dollar, easing
concern a stronger currency will hurt exporters’ earnings.  Bonds also dropped on speculation yields at a one-month low
deterred investors from buying them. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said today the administration’s next stimulus plan to rebuild
from last month’s earthquake and tsunami will likely require
issuing  government bonds . The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.6
trillion yen ($31.7 billion) of two-year debt tomorrow.  “Ten-year yields won’t likely dip below 1.2 percent unless
we see new factors,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a strategist in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of
Japan’s largest bank. “The market is thin before several events
toward the weekend.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.225
percent as of 3:05 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 decreased 0.134 yen to 100.661 yen.  The yield touched 1.210 percent on April 22, the lowest
since March 25. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery slid 0.12 to 139.63
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The yen weakened to as low as 82.43 per dollar, after
reaching 81.62 on April 21, the strongest since March 29.  Local Elections  The ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  lost a parliamentary
seat in a by-election, the latest blow to Kan as pressure mounts
over his handling of last month’s disaster.  Kan’s party also lost five seats and won three in 10 head-
to-head contests with the Liberal  Democratic Party  in municipal
mayoral races yesterday,  Kyodo News  reported. A third party won
one race and another result wasn’t yet known, Kyodo said.  The prime minister, who this week will submit a 4 trillion
yen rebuilding package to the Diet, lacks a two-thirds majority
in the lower house needed to override any veto from the
opposition-controlled upper chamber. The LDP hasn’t said whether
it will support the plan.  Japan’s prior two-year sale on March 24 drew bids worth 4.8
times the amount on offer, compared with a so-called bid-to-
cover ratio of 3.7 at the February offering.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds in case prices
decline before they can pass on the new securities to investors.  Retail Sales  Losses in bonds were limited before a report on April 27
forecast to show retail sales dropped last month, adding to the
case for the  Bank of Japan  to maintain monetary stimulus this
week to help quake rebuilding efforts.  Retail sales dropped 6.1 percent in March from a year
earlier after rising 0.1 percent in February, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the government data.  The Bank of Japan may cut its forecast for real growth for
fiscal 2011 to 0.8 percent from 1.6 percent as a result of the
March 11 earthquake, the Nikkei newspaper reported today.  The central bank will keep its benchmark interest rate at a
range between zero and 0.1 percent at its next meeting on April
28, according to all of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market will continue to expect the BOJ to consider
further easing as the bank lowers its economic outlook over the
next several months,”  Akito Fukunaga , the chief rates
strategist at the brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
wrote in a report today. “The yield curve should flatten
gradually, given strong demand for long-term debt.”  Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 0.2
percent return this month, compared with a loss of 0.4 percent
this year, according to an index compiled by Merrill Lynch & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  