-- 
Netanyahu Urges Palestinian Steps After Israeli West Bank Death

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-04-24T17:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/netanyahu-calls-easter-shooting-of-israeli-criminal-seeks-investigation.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu demanded the  Palestinian Authority  take “harsh
steps” against those responsible for today’s West Bank shooting
death of the nephew of a minister of his Likud party.  Palestinian authorities told the Israeli military earlier
in the day that a policeman opened fire at “suspicious
movement” in the area of the Jewish shrine called Joseph’s Tomb
in the West Bank city of Nablus, an army spokesman said.  Netanyahu called the shooting a “criminal act against
Jewish worshippers on their way to prayer.” The army said in an
e-mail the Israelis had failed to inform soldiers of their
intention to enter Palestinian-controlled territory as required
by law. Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said that “a slip-up in
security coordination can’t justify an incident like this.”  Tensions have been rising in the  West Bank  since the
stabbing to death in March of an Israeli family in their Jewish
settlement home. Two Palestinians were arrested in connection
with that attack.  After the funeral, Jewish settlers and Palestinians threw
stones at one another near the West Bank town of Hawara and a
Palestinian car was torched, an army spokeswoman said, speaking
anonymously according to regulations.  The casualty of today’s shooting was the nephew of Israeli
Minister of Culture and Sport Limor Livnat, said Or Doron, a
ministry spokeswoman.  Livnat said a Palestinian gunman masquerading as a
policeman killed her nephew, according to the daily  Haaretz . An
army spokeswoman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a
preliminary investigation found that the Israelis had refused to
stop at a Palestinian checkpoint at an entrance to Joseph’s
Tomb.  Investigation Begun  Barak called for the Palestinian Authority to conduct a
thorough investigation into the incident.  Ghassan Khatib , a
spokesman for the Palestinian Authority, said by telephone they
are investigating.  The West Bank is controlled by Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas , and the  Gaza Strip  is ruled by Hamas.
 Israel  has conducted peace talks with Abbas, while Hamas,
considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S., and the
European Union, refuses to recognize Israel or any agreements
signed with it.  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
fell apart several weeks after they started in Sept. 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  