-- 
Crude Oil Climbs a Fourth Day as Middle East Violence Escalates

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-25T11:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-after-saudi-arabia-denies-capacity-increase.html
Crude oil gained for a fourth day
in  New York , the longest rising streak since December, as
escalating violence in the Middle East and Africa threatened to
prolong supply disruptions.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent after Syrian
security forces stormed the city of Daraa, killing at least five
people, while unrest in Yemen showed no sign of ending. U.S.
Senator John McCain said rebels in Libya need more assistance in
the fight against  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Saudi Arabia, holder
of the world’s largest crude reserves, has no plans to raise
production capacity, a Saudi oil official said.  “The main support is coming from geopolitical developments
in the Middle East and North Africa,” analysts at Vienna-based
JBC Energy said in a report today. “The market remains fraught
with uncertainty,” including worries about inflation and its
possible impact on oil demand.  Oil for June delivery rose as much as 78 cents to $113.07 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . That’s the highest
intraday price since April 11, when futures reached $113.46, the
most since September 2008. The contract was at $112.77 at 12:13
p.m. in  London .  Brent crude  oil for June settlement increased 32 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $124.31 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Most European countries have a public holiday
today for Easter Monday.  Reports that Saudi Arabia may boost its output capacity to
15 million barrels a day from 12.5 million barrels a day aren’t
true, the official said by telephone yesterday, declining to be
identified by name because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Political Changes  Oil has advanced 23 percent this year, stoked by turmoil in
the Middle East and North  Africa  that has toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain, Iran,
Oman,  Syria  and Yemen. Libyan crude output, which averaged 1.6
million barrels a day last year, fell to 390,000 barrels a day
in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Political strife in Nigeria, Africa’s largest producer and
the fourth-biggest crude seller to the U.S., is also supporting
prices above $100 a barrel, according to  Ken Hasegawa , an energy
trading manager at Newedge, a broker in  Tokyo .  At least 500 people died in religious rioting that followed
Nigeria’s presidential election, the  Associated Press  reported
today. The country is scheduled to hold state governorship
elections tomorrow.  Libya  Violence  NATO is fighting a “losing battle” in Libya, Muammar
Qaddafi’s son edsaid, state-run Jana news agency reported today.
In Syria, 200 to 300 people have been detained since April 22,
Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said in an interview from Damascus.  “The ongoing coordinated actions in Libya to remove
Qaddafi, if that is the actual purpose, is adding to the
nervousness, prompting new buying in crude oil,” John Caiazzo,
president of Acuvest Commodity Brokers Inc. in Temecula,
 California , said in a report today. “Other producing areas
experiencing turmoil include Yemen and Syria, where protesters
are being killed as well.”  Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh defied calls for him to
resign immediately, saying he won’t hand power to
“insurrectionists” as protesters clashed with security forces
in the city of Taiz. Yemen shares a border with  Saudi Arabia  and
ranks as the ninth-biggest crude producer in the Middle East,
according to BP Plc.  Bullish Bets  Brent crude for June was at a premium of $11.49 a barrel to
New York futures settling in the same month, Bloomberg data
showed. The premium has shrunk $2.25 from a week earlier on
signs that supplies are falling at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for West Texas Intermediate grade.  Bullish bets on crude climbed in the past week, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments
of Traders report. Net-long positions in oil increased 8,337
futures and options combined, or 3 percent, to 289,916,
according to the CFTC report.  U.S. crude inventories fell 2.32 million barrels to 357
million, the first drop since February, the Energy Department
said April 21. Cushing stockpiles declined 770,000 barrels to 41
million barrels, the biggest drop since April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Ann Koh} in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  