-- 
Protests in Yemen Continue Unabated by Saleh's Agreement to Yield Power

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-24T17:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/protests-in-yemen-continue-unabated-by-saleh-s-agreement-to-yield-power.html
Protests in Yemen showed no signs
of ending after President Ali Abdullah Saleh and the opposition
agreed to a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered peace plan.  Demonstrators today rallied in Sana’a, the country’s
capital, chanting “Down, down with the regime” and demanding
the president’s unconditional departure. In al-Turbah, a
district of Taiz province, six people were wounded when police
fired on thousands of protesters, Bushra al-Maktari, a protest
leader, said in a phone interview.  GCC officials want to avert an escalation of violence in
Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in  Libya . Rising
social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda as it seeks
to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a base from which to
destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil.  Saleh agreed to a GCC plan that would give him immunity in
exchange for ceding power, Tarik al-Shami, spokesman at the
ruling General People’s Congress, said in a phone interview
yesterday. Saleh would transfer power to a deputy within 30 days
and hold elections 60 days after that, he said. The opposition
must end protests, accept immunity for Saleh and his aides, al-
Shami said.  The ruling party said today that it still supported the GCC
plan based on the terms of the agreement and within the
framework of the constitution, the official  Saba news agency 
reported, citing an unidentified government official.  Youth Protests  Yemeni youth protest groups rejected  the GCC  initiative and
called for continued rallies against Saleh, the Revolution
Coalition of Peaceful Change said today in a press conference in
Sana’a. The government “doesn’t keep its word and its existence
has become dangerous not only to Yemen but to the entire
region,” the group said.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, have agreed to the GCC plan. They wouldn’t participate
in a national unity government under Saleh during the 30 days
he’d remain in power, Mohammed al-Sabri, a leader in the
opposition, said. They also support the right to protest.  The ruling party has already informed GCC Secretary-General
Abdel Latif al-Zayyani that it endorses the plan, according to
spokesman al-Shami. Saleh met with him on April 21, al-Shami
said. The GCC, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab
Emirates , Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait , has also had talks
with representatives of Yemen’s opposition this month.  Third Leader  Saleh would be the third leader forced from office since
popular unrest spread through the Middle East, resulting in the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia . In March, Saleh, 68, agreed to an opposition proposal
to hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  “It is possible that Saleh is maneuvering,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said today in a phone
interview. “The more time he gets the better it is for himself
and his supporters. Thirty days is a long time in Yemeni
politics and there is likely to be more squabbling.”  Police and snipers killed 46 demonstrators in the Yemeni
capital Sana’a last month, prompting several military and
government officials to abandon Saleh’s regime. A total of 109
protesters have been killed since Feb. 11, according to Majed
al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human
Rights in the city.  Obama Comment  A weak central government in Yemen also risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia across the  Gulf of Aden , where there hasn’t
been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become
a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan urged all parties in Yemen to agree to the GCC
plan in a meeting yesterday with his Yemeni counterpart, Abu Bakr Al-Qirbi, Emirates News Agency said. The GCC “is keen on
the stability and unity of Yemen,” the  news service  cited
Abdullah as saying.  The GCC’s plan for the transfer of power in Yemen could
“resolve the political crisis in a peaceful and orderly
manner,” the Obama administration said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We encourage all parties to move swiftly to
implement the terms of the agreement,” the White House said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  