-- 
Dubai Stocks Snap 10-Day Streak of Gains, Paced by Emaar; Qatar Declines

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-24T12:51:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/qatar-s-shares-drop-most-in-a-month-on-bets-gains-overdone-syrian-unrest.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
dropped the most in more than a month, snapping a 10-day
advance, on investor speculation recent gains are overdone given
prospects for earnings growth.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, fell 1.4 percent before releasing first-quarter
profit that declined 45 percent after markets closed.  Dubai
Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC, the only Gulf Arab stock market to sell
shares to the public, decreased the most since March 15. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 1 percent, the biggest drop since March
15, to 1,665.17 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The gauge has
gained 7 percent this month. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  lost 1.7 percent.  The decline is an “interim technical correction” after
this month’s rally, said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-
based Al Fajer Securities. Investors are waiting for first-
quarter earnings, he said.  Emaar, the company with the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s
index, said first-quarter net income slumped to 421 million
dirhams ($115 million) from 761 million dirhams a year earlier
as it delivered less units in Burj Khalifa. That missed the 567
million-dirham mean estimate of six analysts on Bloomberg. Emaar
fell the most since March 30 to 3.44 dirhams.  MSCI Upgrade  The 30 companies listed on Dubai’s benchmark index trade at
about 26 times reported earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with about 13 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. Stocks in the  United Arab Emirates  have
rallied on investor optimism its markets will be raised to
emerging market status at index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   U.A.E. and Qatar’s equity markets would be “too small to
matter” if upgraded at MSCI, Credit Suisse Group AG said today.
The combined weighting of the two markets would be 0.35 percent,
Credit Suisse said.  Dubai Financial Market lost 2.7 percent to 1.42 dirhams.
Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose less than 0.1 percent  “If banking results are good, that will support an uptrend
in stock prices,” Al Fajer’s Farhat said.  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC (DIB) , a Shariah-compliant lender with the second-biggest
weighting on Dubai’s index, may report that first-quarter profit
rose 44 percent to 289 million dirhams, according to the mean
estimate of two analysts on Bloomberg. The shares declined 1.3
percent to 2.25 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and Oman’s benchmark stock
index fell 0.1 percent, while  Kuwait  and Bahrain’s gauges were
little changed.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased
0.4 percent. Markets in Egypt and  Israel  are closed for a
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  