-- 
Rangers, Celtic Tie 0-0 in ‘Old Firm’ Soccer Game Amid Security Clampdown

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-04-24T14:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/rangers-celtic-tie-0-0-in-old-firm-soccer-game-amid-security-clampdown.html
Rangers and Celtic tied 0-0 in
today’s “Old Firm” derby in Scottish soccer’s Premier League,
leaving the teams separated by one point atop the standings.  Rangers goalkeeper Allan McGregor maintained his team’s
narrow advantage with a penalty save from Georgios Samaras at
Ibrox. His team has 81 points from 34 of 38 matches, with Celtic
on 80 from 33.  The build-up to the match was overshadowed by the sending
of explosive devices to Celtic coach Neil Lennon and two
prominent fans of the team. The parcel bombs were designed to
cause “real harm” to Lennon, lawyer Paul McBride and former
Scottish parliamentarian Trish Godman, the British Broadcasting
Corp. reported April 20, citing Strathclyde Police. An extra
1,000 police officers were on duty in Glasgow today, the  BBC 
said.  The attempted attacks are the latest in an escalation of
tension within Scottish soccer centering on the two Glasgow
clubs. As well as representing different parts of the city,
Celtic and Rangers are traditionally divided between Catholics
and Protestants. Lennon, a Catholic, played for  Northern Ireland 
and has been the target of sectarianism previously.  Strathclyde Police ordered a “summit” on March 8 after a
game between the rivals saw the referee show three red cards.
There were also several confrontations between coaching staff
that day, including between Lennon and Rangers assistant manager
Ally McCoist, and 34 arrests inside Celtic Park stadium.  McCoist will take over as Rangers manager next season, with
Walter Smith in charge for an Old Firm match for a final time
today.  Missed Chances  Both teams had several chances at Ibrox, the home ground of
Rangers, and Celtic wasted the best opportunity when Samaras
failed to score from the spot after 82 minutes. McGregor dived
to his left to turn the ball around the post.  Rangers last season claimed a record-extending 53rd
Scottish league title. Celtic, the only other team to take the
title since Aberdeen won in 1985, has claimed the trophy 42
times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 