-- 
Reliance Industries' Profit Growth May Slow as Refining Margins to Narrow

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-25T10:40:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/reliance-profit-growth-may-slow-as-refining-margins-set-to-drop.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, may see profit growth slow as
earnings from processing crude oil drop from a two-year high,
investors said.  The shares fell the most in five weeks as earnings missed
estimates following a drop in natural gas output. The company’s
14 percent increase in net income in the three months ended
March 31 to 53.8 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) was the least in
six quarters. The average estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was 54.3 billion rupees.  Refining margins at Reliance, controlled by billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani , rose 23 percent in the quarter and helped counter
an 8 percent decline in earnings from exploration. That may
change as refineries in Japan and  China  ramp up output, adding
supply and reducing profitability of turning crude into fuels.
Reliance runs the world’s largest refining complex and got 87
percent of its revenue last year from processing oil.  “Profit will be flattish from quarter to quarter as
refining margins may be near a peak and gas production is not
increasing,” said Peter Varga, who helps manage about $300
million of emerging market corporate debt in Vienna at Erste
Sparinvest KAG and owns Reliance bonds. “As capacity will come
live in  Asia , margins will slowly fall.”  Reliance sold 30 percent in 23 oil and gas areas to BP Plc
to boost output from its biggest gas area and increase earnings.  Reliance has declined 4.7 percent this year in Mumbai
compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive
Index. The shares fell 3 percent to 1,009.35 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. Reliance, with a market value of about $74 billion,
has the highest weighting in the benchmark index  Singapore Margins  Margins of complex refiners in Singapore processing Dubai
crude rose to a record of $7.47 a barrel on March 4, the highest
level since Dec. 2. They fell to $3.60 a barrel on April 20, the
lowest since March 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude oil in New York trading has gained 23 percent this
year. The June contract was at $112.70 at 10:06 a.m. in  London .
It rose as much as 78 cents to $113.07 a barrel, the highest
intraday price since April 11, when futures reached $113.46, the
most since September 2008.  Reliance’s pretax profit from refining rose 26 percent to
25.1 billion rupees in the quarter, according to the earnings
statement. The company’s two adjacent refineries in the western
state of Gujarat earned $9.20 on every barrel of crude oil
turned into fuels compared with $7.50 barrel a year earlier.  Diesel Cracks  “We probably are going to see refining margins in Asia
moderate from the highs of the first quarter as diesel cracks
begin to ease in the region,” said Vivek Mathur, a Boston-based
oil market analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. “ Japan ’s
refineries are also coming back up after the earthquake and we
see a fuel surplus.”  Refiners in Japan, including Cosmo Oil Co., are ramping up
production after the nation’s biggest earthquake idled about 29
percent of processing capacity.  Lower than estimated gas production is also weighing down
on Reliance’s profit growth. Pretax profit from selling crude
oil and gas declined 8 percent to 15.7 billion rupees in the
quarter, Reliance said in an e-mailed statement.  “The cost of energy makes this gas like gold in the
ground,” said Chokkalingam G., chief investment officer at
Centrum Wealth Managers Ltd. in Mumbai. “Even if there’s a
moderation in refining margins, at some point of time gas output
will rise again and profit growth will pick up.”  Complex Reservoirs  Reliance produced 161.9 billion cubic feet of gas from the
KG-D6 block in the three months ended March 31 compared with
190.1 billion cubic feet a year earlier, according to a
 presentation  on its website.  “Based on over two years of production data, the
reservoirs appear to be more complex than earlier envisaged,”
Reliance said in the presentation. The company hasn’t said when
output will rise.  The government isn’t satisfied with Reliance’s explanation
for the decline, S.K. Srivastava, director general at India’s
oil regulator, told reporters in New Delhi April 21, without
elaborating.  BP agreed in February to pay $7.2 billion for a 30 percent
interest in 23 blocks in India from Reliance and to form a
venture to market gas.  Reliance had outstanding debt of 674 billion rupees as of
March 31 and cash and equivalents of 423.9 billion rupees, the
company said in its earnings statement of April 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  