-- 
Rich Chicks Offer Their 77 Cents on Upscale TV: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-04-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/rich-chicks-give-their-77-cents-on-upscale-tv-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
The year 2011 has already racked up
some noteworthy “firsts.” Gold set a record of $1,500 an
ounce.  Hedge funds  reached $2 trillion in assets. And the
 Federal Reserve  released documents showing who borrowed from its
discount window during the financial crisis.  Important developments, perhaps, but not even close to the
groundbreaker announced earlier this month. Armed with a plan
for “high-octane” television shows about fast cars, high-
stakes gambling and thrill-seeking travel,  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  said it was creating “the first network
devoted to the upscale men’s market.”  “ Velocity ,” as the television network will be called when
it begins on Sept. 25, will be available in 40 million homes,
and will target guys with incomes of $150,000 and up who are
“men, not boys,” as an announcer on a promotional video put it
amid the background din of revving engines.  Now I don’t have anything against upscale men, whose
prodigious spending can’t help but benefit the less-fortunate
little people who wax and buff all those limited-edition cars,
or so the trickle-down theorizing supply-siders assure me. What
I’m wondering, though, is why nobody has come up with a
television network that caters to the wealthy women out there.  Chris Finnegan , a Discovery spokesman, said the company
targeted the upscale male audience because it “currently is not
being catered to.” I have to agree that an uncatered-to rich
guy is a guy just aching for his own TV network.  Finnegan wasn’t able to direct me to anyone at Discovery
who could address my query about why there was no network for
all those uncatered-to rich women. A rich-chicks network is
begging to be launched, though, preferably with the following
key shows:  -- “The Healthy Attitude-Readjustment Show”:  Left-wing-
columnists got you down about your prospects for success? No
worries, ladies. Tune in to the new reality for women who have
tried education, hard work and maybe even a few employment-
discrimination lawyers, but still can’t match the salaries of
guys doing the same job. There are women’s groups who can help
you see it all in a new light.  I’m proposing a prime-time show that draws from the wise
counsel of groups like the Independent Women’s Forum, which
describes itself on its  website  as pushing for free markets and
“individual responsibility.” Don’t get put off that its
emeritae board includes Midge Decter, the author of “The New
Chastity and Other Arguments Against Women’s Liberation.” We’re
talking TV with potential: Can’t you just see an inaugural
episode where the gals rescue their bras from the inferno, cash
their paychecks of 77 cents for each dollar a man makes, and
thank their lucky stars for the wonders of the free market?  -- “The What’s Your Problem? Show” will make it easy for
women to move on with their lives. You will never tune in here
to learn about the Bureau of Labor Statistics survey that
examined 28 job categories and couldn’t find one where full-time
working women were making what men made. Leave it to the nuts at
the  National Organization for Women  to whine about that data,
which revealed that women in finance and insurance pocket 62
cents for every 100 cents a man makes.  The chipper “What’s Your Problem?” will focus on the
truth as exposed in an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal by
Independent Women’s Forum Managing Director  Carrie Lukas  on
April 12. The economic downturn “has exposed as ridiculous”
claims by feminists that our economy is ruled by a sexist
patriarchy, she wrote, citing unemployment figures a percentage
point higher for men than for women. As for any wage gap, it’s
shrinking -- even reversing -- she writes: Helped by their
educational achievements, women among “single, childless urban
workers” aged 22 to 30 earn 8 percent more than men.  “What’s Your Problem?” has no place for the likes of
 Mariko Chang , the author of “Shortchanged: Why Women Have Less
Wealth and What Can Be Done About It.” Chang says the young
women pursuing those degrees have fewer government grants to
assist them, and are thus taking on unusually high debt that
they will find hard to repay. But who asked her, anyway?  -- “The No Wealth, No Worries! Show”: Chang says women
fail to turn income into wealth because they tend to land in
jobs that are skimpy on the fringe benefits men are more likely
to get, such as retirement contributions, paid sick days as well
as life and health insurance. So, “No Wealth, No Problem!”
will help viewers address key lifestyle questions. Check your
local listings for winning episodes including “Thrift-Store
Shopping Strategies” and “What to Watch When You Have Only
Basic Cable.”  With the demographics and the programming thus mapped out,
it can only be a matter of time before Discovery will see the
light and gear up for a winner of a network for rich women. I
can even offer some guidance to get the idea on the fast track.  Throw together a pilot and call it “How to Find Women (Not
Girls) to Appoint to Your Company’s Board.” Set up a private
screening for the 11 guys, 0 women, who serve as Discovery’s
directors. See if anything happens. Don’t hold your breath.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  