-- 
Sai Baba, Hard Rock Cafe Founder’s Spiritual Guru, Dies at 84

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-04-24T07:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/sai-baba-hard-rock-cafe-founder-s-spiritual-guru-dies-at-84.html
Sathya Sai Baba, an Indian
spiritual guru for whom Hard Rock Café founder Isaac Tigrett
sold his stake in the  restaurant chain , has died. He was 84.  The saffron-robed preacher who sported afro-style hair
reminiscent of rock musician  Jimi Hendrix , died in the southern
Indian town of Puttaparthi, in the state of  Andhra Pradesh ,
after his heart and respiratory organs failed, A.N. Safaya,
director at the Sri Sathya Sai Baba Institute of Higher Medical
Sciences, said in a  statement  on the hospital’s website.  Sai Baba’s trust has set up schools, universities and
hospitals, with various Indian political leaders providing
support for his charities. Former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and ex-president Shankar Dayal Sharma were present during
the opening of a water project in 1995 in Andhra Pradesh state,
while former premier Atal Bihari Vajpayee inaugurated a hospital
in Bangalore.  He was born Sathyanarayana Raju in the town and made it his
hermitage, naming it Prasanthi Nilayam, the “abode of divine
peace.” He died at 7:40 a.m. local time today, Safaya said.  Tigrett,  according  to his official website, sold his stake
in Hard Rock Café to co-founder Peter Norton, and The Open
 magazine  reported in April that Tigrett donated the entire
proceeds of $108 million to Sai Baba for starting a specialty
hospital in Puttaparthi aimed at providing free healthcare to
the rural poor.  ‘Miracle-Makers’  Sai Baba “endeared himself to the people through various
institutions,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a
statement today. “He believed that it is the duty of every
person to ensure that all people have access to the basic
requirements for sustenance of life.”  At the age of 14, the guru told his family that he would be
known as “Sai Baba,” the title of a past  Indian  ascetic of
whom he claimed to be a reincarnation, according to a  statement 
on his website. In 1960, he told his followers he would “leave
his body” in 2019.  While devotees believe in his miracles, including acts of
producing holy ash, rings and necklaces, fruits, sugar candy and
watches out of thin air, critics have dismissed them as mere
sleight of hand tricks.  They “remained controversial to others and he shied away
from scientific tests that would have settled forever the issue
of their genuineness,” said  Erlendur Haraldsso , professor
emeritus, faculty of social sciences at the  University of
Iceland , who did research on Indian “miracle-makers.”  His followers remained convinced about his powers.  “I am a disciple of his for more than 35 years,” said L.
Saiguru, 43, a software consultant. “Sometimes I feel he is
right in front of me to provide guidance in life. I believe he
can perform miracles.”  Devotees  Allegations by some former devotees that Sathya Sai Baba
had sexually abused them tarnished his image. K. Chakravarty,
secretary of the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust didn’t answer
calls made to his office.  “We don’t regard him as a genuine miracle worker,” said
David C. Lane, a professor of sociology and philosophy at San
Antonio College in  Texas . “I have a number of reports from
former disciples that they were molested under the guise of
spiritual unfoldment.”  Police in Puttaparthi have imposed prohibitory orders
against crowding and meetings as thousands of devotees gathered
in the town, the  Press Trust of India  reported on April 21. More
than 2,000 police officers have been deployed as the health of
Sai Baba deteriorated.  “No one can comprehend my glory, whoever he is, whatever
his method of enquiry, however long his attempt,” Sai Baba
wrote in a May 25, 1947, letter to his brother, according to a
statement on Baba’s  website.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  