-- 
Unexpected Fun Animates the Met’s Dreary New ‘Walkure’: Review

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-04-24T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/sick-diva-tripping-brunnhilde-enliven-met-walkure-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Sieglinde got sick and Brunnhilde
tripped as the  Metropolitan Opera  unveiled its new production of
Richard Wagner’s “Die Walkure” (The Valkyrie) on Friday.  This was the second installment of the four-opera “Ring”
cycle as envisioned by Canadian director Robert Lepage and a
team as large as the populations of Nibelheim and Valhalla.  Central to all is a gigantic machine with movable slats,
weighing in at around 45 tons and requiring special support.  Last fall, a promising “Rheingold” showed off a
mesmerizing, stage-filling image of the Rhine with swimming
maidens. Even though the fabled rainbow bridge that takes the
gods into Valhalla failed to materialize on opening night, we
looked forward to seeing them in their new home.  It seems those giants didn’t build Wotan much of a mansion.
Unlike in most productions, there’s no sign of the place, though
there is a creaky chair elevator for wife Fricka.  The Wotans bicker atop a flattened volcano. Meanwhile,
those mere mortals, Sieglinde and Hunding, forage in a ditch in
front of a huge wall of trees. From row S, they looked cut off
at the knees.  Striking stage pictures are few.  Ach Du Lieber  Where’s all the wizardry we surely could expect from Lepage
and his many millions? The pervasive gray suggests Berlin
bunkers or Dresden after the war. For that wrenching moment at
the end of Act I, when Sieglinde and her beloved brother
Siegmund sing of spring and a new life, the set just took on a
nasty green glow.  At least the Valkyries offered a few laughs as they rode
those planks like horses.  Lepage, a lauded man of avant-garde theater and Cirque du
Soleil, seems puzzled by opera. What to do with all those
singers! As little as possible, apparently. Vicious Hunding, for
example, is sung by rotund Hans-Peter Koenig who stood around
amiably like jolly old Falstaff hoping for a pint.  We might as well be seeing a concert staging. There’s no
space for singers to interact without tumbling off an incline.  Deborah Voigt, singing her first Brunnhilde, tripped
running up the set to greet Wotan. Ever the trouper, she waved
cheerfully to the audience, and carried on with a fine
“Hojotoho.”  In a role that reduces even great divas to shrieks, she
sang with confidence and musicality. It would be nice if her
voice were larger, but after her amazing  weight loss , she looked
sensational in her shiny tiny breastplate and since Brunnhilde
doesn’t do much in this production, we were often happy just to
look at her.  Wotan’s Farewell  Key scenes went unexplored. Teetering close to a perilous
drop, Stephanie Blythe, the Fricka, boomed from the safety of
her chair, leaving the more athletic Bryn Terfel to climb around
her. He’s found a better barber since “Rheingold,” and sang
with emotional range and magnificent tone, especially in Wotan’s
heartbreaking farewell to his beloved daughter.  By then some five hours had passed and it was time to say
Aufwiedersehen to Brunnhilde as Wotan surrounds her with a ring
of fire that only the greatest warrior will breach.  That scene, of course, points to the next opera,
“Siegfried,” wherein the tenor must do just that.  I hope he is a fabulous Abseiler. Only a rapelling superman
could reach the poor thing who is hanging upside down from a
cliff.  Dangling Double  As the fire music rose from the orchestra, Lepage offered
his feeblest idea of the evening: Wotan awkwardly pulled
Brunnhilde offstage, so that stagehands could dangle a double
from up high.  Otherwise, I had a good time.  Musically, this was a great evening, with  James Levine 
conducting a performance that flowed along with lovely details
and grand sonorities. That a man who has been in poor health can
wave his arms for so many hours without flagging was nothing
short of miraculous and also poignant.  Which brings us to Siegmund and his Sieglindes. Unlike all
too many Wagnerian tenors -- dry and hefty -- the lithe Jonas Kaufmann sings with radiance and poetry. But Eva-Maria
Westbroek, in her  Met  debut, sounded a bit cloudy and looked
frumpy for someone who had just had a huge success as sex bomb
Anna Nicole Smith at  London ’s  Royal Opera .  Before the second act began, general manager Peter Gelb
came out to announce the soprano was feeling sick but singing
even so. As the act ground on, she sounded astonishingly better.
She also looked curiously different.  In fact, she was different. She was the marvelous Margaret
Jane Wray, who got shoved out at the last minute when poor
Westbroek realized she really wasn’t up for another few hours of
torment.  At the Metropolitan Opera,  Lincoln Center , Broadway at West
65th Street. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metopera.org . The May 14 performance will be telecast
to movie theaters around the world.  Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  