-- 
St. Louis Flights Resume as Airport Opens After Storm

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-25T14:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/southwest-airtran-resume-flights-at-st-louis-full-service-from-midweek.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph of story published April 24 to
specify that Charlie Dooley is county executive for St. Louis
County and to attribute comment to the airport director
regarding storm-related injuries.)  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  plans full
operations today and  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI) ’s AirTran Airways has
resumed some service at  Lambert-St. Louis International Airport 
in St. Louis after a tornado forced the airport to close.  The airport opened for as many as nine arriving flights
last night, Lambert-St. Louis said in a statement on its
website.  AirTran’s first flight, Flt. 795 is set to arrive in St.
Louis from Atlanta at 9:27 a.m. local time, spokeswoman Judy Graham-Weaver said.  “We were able to relocate to Concourse B from Concourse C
overnight,” Graham-Weaver said in a telephone interview. The
Orlando-based carrier operates 11 flights to and from St. Louis
daily, she said. Four of those flights are canceled today.  Southwest plans to operate its full schedule today after
bringing in some aircraft, the carrier said in an e-mail
yesterday.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines, Southwest and AirTran
had canceled flights after the facility was damaged.  Terminal 2 and the airport’s airfield are “fully
functional,” said Rhonda Hamm-Niebruegge, the airport director.
Most damage was done at Terminal 1, Concourse C, where American
and AirTran run their operations, she said.  The airport may be operating at full capacity by midweek,
St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay said during a televised press
conference carried on  CNN .  Storm Damage  The storm hit on the evening of April 22. It broke most of
the glass windows and doors and tore off sections of the roof at
Concourse C of Lambert’s Terminal 1, according to Jeff Lea, a
spokesman for the airport. Light poles, signs, trees and fences
were damaged and “some vehicles were turned over,” Lea said in
an interview.  No one in  St. Louis  was killed during the storm, Charlie Dooley, County Executive for the county of St. Louis said at the
conference. Five people were taken to a local emergency room
with minor injuries and all were released, said Hamm-Niebruegge.  One American airliner experienced a crosswind of 70 miles
per hour (113 kilometers per hour) while landing during the
storm, said Ed Martell, a spokesman for American. A Southwest
plane on the ground was damaged when a belt loader hit the
aircraft.  Air-Traffic System  Lambert isn’t a hub for any of the major U.S. carriers,
which tempers the blow to the nation’s air-traffic system.
Southwest accounted for 44 percent of St. Louis passengers for
the 12 months ended in January, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Transportation Statistics.  American follows with 20 percent, and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  has nine percent.  As many as 12.3 million passengers passed through Lambert
last year, said Lea. About 256 departures daily and almost the
same number of arrivals move through the airport, served by 13
carriers flying to 61 destinations, according to the airport’s
website.  The top destination for flights from Lambert are  Chicago , a
hub for American and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ; Atlanta,
the home base for Delta; and Dallas-Fort Worth, where American
has its headquarters, according to BTS data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  