-- 
Tsunami Quickens ‘Terminal Decline’ of Northern Japan’s Fishing Industry

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s ,   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-04-25T10:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/tsunami-speeds-terminal-decline-of-japan-s-fishing-industry.html
The wreckage of a 379-metric ton
tuna boat blocks the road to the deserted fish market in
Kesennuma, once  Japan ’s largest port for bonito and swordfish.
Even after the debris from last month’s tsunami has been cleared
away, the industry may never recover.  “Thirty years ago we used to think Japan was the number
one fishing country in the world, with the best catching and
processing methods, but that’s really no longer the case,”
Ryosuke Sato, chairman of the Kesennuma Fisheries Cooperative
Association, said in an interview in the town, 400 kilometers
(250 miles) north of Tokyo. “We’ve been in terminal decline.”  Traffic at the port had dropped by 90 percent over the last
20 years as seafood imports rose, even before the country’s
northeastern coast was devastated on March 11. Destruction of
boats, harbors and processing plants, coupled with fears of
radioactive contamination in marine life, threatens to hasten
Japan’s turn to overseas for its most important food staple
after rice.  Japanese eat more fish per capita than any other developed
country, consuming 56.7 kilograms (128 pounds) annually,
compared with a global average of 17.1 kilograms, according to
the United Nation’s  Food and Agriculture Organization . Fish
accounts for 23 percent of protein in the daily Japanese diet,
compared with four percent in the U.S.  Fish Broth  Consumption begins with breakfast in Japan, an archipelago
of nearly 7,000 islands, where a traditional morning meal
consists of rice and grilled fish. In addition to sushi, staples
including miso soup also contain fish broth. To feed the habit,
Japan is the world’s largest importer of fish, buying $14.4
billion worth in 2008, according to data from the United Nations
Food and Agricultural Organization.  “We’re the biggest fish lovers among the major industrial
nations and the number one consumer,” said Masayuki Komatsu, a
professor at  Tokyo ’s National Graduate Institute for Policy
Studies specializing in ocean and marine resources. “It’s like
water and air to us.”  Auctions at Tokyo’s Tsukiji, the world’s largest fish
market that stretches over an area the size of 43 football
fields, influences prices all over the world, according to Sasha Issenberg, author of ‘The Sushi Economy.’  “It’s like a combination of  Wall Street  and Sotheby’s in
the art market and a commodities trading floor,” he said.  Five Years  Last month’s earthquake and tsunami, which left almost
28,000 dead or missing, disproportionately affected Japan’s
northeastern fishing ports and towns. In Iwate prefecture, the
tsunami caused about 106.6 billion yen ($1.3 billion) of damage
to the fishing industry, according to data from the government.
That’s about ten times the combined total for the prefecture’s
agriculture and forestry industries.  Fishermen in Kesennuma, which has a population of 73,000,
expect it to take as long as five years to rebuild the port and
market, central to a fishing industry that provides 85 percent
of the town’s jobs.  The  city government  says 837 townspeople died and 1,196
were listed as missing as of April 22. A further 5,838 people,
or 7.8 percent of the population, are in evacuation centers. In
addition to the destruction of maintenance and refueling
facilities, about 40 fishing vessels were lost, the
cooperative’s Sato said.  ‘Not Alone’  “There’s so much damage, this is a crisis for the town and
the fishing industry,” said the 69-year old Sato, whose  Kanedai
Co.  fish company has sales of 9.4 billion yen in Japan and China,
with 230 employees. A poster on the wall signed by wholesalers
and customers reads: “You’re not alone, everyone is with you.
Thank you always for the delicious fish.”  South Kesennuma, where most of the fish processing plants
were located, was the first area to be hit by the tsunami after
it passed the island of Oshima that creates the entrance to
Kesennuma’s harbor about two kilometers off shore. In the harbor,
trawlers and a refueling tank were slammed together, spewing
fuel. Fire spread across the fuel-water mix, creating an inferno.  The 50-meter-long  Myojin Maru No.3 , licensed to catch
yellowfin and albacore tuna in the  Indian Ocean , is one of at
least 10 giant vessels dumped around the town. It towers over
gutted two-storey buildings owned by fishing companies about 500
meters from the fish market.  “Companies may have the money to rebuild but people are
saying they don’t want to come back,” Yaeko Komatsu, 53, said
as she gazed at the rubble of her seafood company employer she
didn’t identify. “They say it’s dangerous.”  Planned Reopening  The fish market is planning to partially re-open in June to
provide a sales floor for the expected arrival of bonito boats.
Longer-term plans depend on the amount of central government
assistance, the cooperative’s Sato said.  Reconstruction needs to happen fast to prevent workers from
leaving the town for good, Itsunori Onodera, a Diet Member
representing Kesennuma, said in an interview at the city hall.  Like many ports in Japan, Kesennuma developed a reputation
for handling specific kinds of fish. Ships from all over Japan
came to the town to sell saury, sharks and tuna. By adding
maintenance and refueling facilities, Kesennuma became one of
Japan’s 10 largest fishing ports, Sato said.  The importance of fishing and towns like Kesennuma in
Japanese culture belies the fishing industry’s declining status
in the economy. Fishing contributes about 0.2 percent of Japan’s
GDP, and the number of fishermen has dropped to about 200,000
from about a million after World War II, according to the
National Graduate Institute’s Komatsu, also a former official at
Japan’s  Fisheries Agency .  Indonesian Workers  For fishermen like Tokio Takatsuka, who returned to
Shiogama Port, 315 kilometers north of Tokyo and 80 kilometers
south of Kesennuma, earlier this month to sell yellowfin tuna
from the Pacific, that means hiring more crew members from the
 Philippines  and  Indonesia  to make up for the shortage of
Japanese applicants. They come as part of a government plan to
ease labor shortages, and signs at the port are now written in
Bahasa as well as Japanese.  “My generation never considered doing anything besides
fishing,” Takatsuka, 62, said in an interview last week next to
his boat. “It’s different for young people now.”  Even as the government hurries to rebuild facilities,
fishermen and consumers are worried about radiation from Tokyo
Electric Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, Akira
Sato, mayor of Shiogama, said in an interview after the town’s
first fresh tuna auction since the March 11 earthquake. The
fisherman Takatsuka sailed more than 60 kilometers wide of the
plant on the way to the port, rather than hugging the coast, in
order to reassure buyers.  About 520,000 liters of water with a level of radioactivity
that was 20,000 times the legal limit leaked into the ocean
between April 1 and 6, Junichi Matsumoto , a Tepco general
manager, said last week.  ‘People Are Spooked’  “It puts a cloud over the entire fishing industry and
Japan’s food culture is suffering as a result,”  Jeff Kingston ,
director of the Department of Asian Studies at  Temple
University ’s Japan campus said. “People are spooked.”  The level of radioactivity in water leaked from the No. 2
reactor of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was 20,000 times
the regulatory limit, Tepco said on April 21. A total of 520
tons of contaminated water leaked between April 1 and April 6,
said Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the utility.  At Tokyo’s  Tsukiji fish market , sales of fresh fish fell to
an average 583 metric tons per day in the week ended March 17,
down 28 percent from a year earlier. The following week they
dropped by 44 percent.  “If this continues for two or three years we don’t know
what will happen to our bodies from consuming contaminated
fish,” Yasuo Kawada, a 59-year-old manufacturing employee said
in an interview. “I do worry.”  Fish Bans  Radiation from fish and lobsters near the U.K.’s biggest
nuclear polluter suggest radioactive material dumped into the
sea from Tepco’s Fukushima power plant isn’t a long-term health
threat, according to  Richard Wakeford , a professor of
epidemiology at the University of Manchester’s Dalton Nuclear
Institute.  The Sellafield nuclear-processing plant in northwest
 England  has discharged at least 320,000 times more radioactive
material into the  Irish Sea  since 1952 than what Tepco released
from Fukushima this month, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data from both sites. Still, average radiation doses by
seafood-consumers near Sellafield over 15 years have been half
the recommended limit, studies show.  That hasn’t stopped  China ,  Korea ,  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong  from
banning fish imports from parts of Japan. The countries
accounted for about 70 percent of Japan’s fish exports in 2009,
according to  Japan External Trade Organization figures .  “Radiation is a grim reaper, you can’t see it and you
can’t smell it,” said Ken Banwell who has worked as a fish
importer in Tokyo for 22 years. “I would say it would have a
profound effect on sales from those areas.”  Still, overall sales at Tsukiji recovered to pre-quake
levels last week, indicating Japanese consumers are returning to
fish. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  proposed a 4-trillion yen ($49
billion) extra budget that is likely to be the first of several
packages to rebuild areas devastated by last month’s record
earthquake and tsunami, which will include assistance for the
industry, the government said in an April 22 statement.  “It’ll take three years, at most five years to rebuild the
fish market,” said Sato, in his ninth year as head of the
Kesennuma Fisheries Association. “In the meantime we need to
know how we can continue to live here today, tomorrow, without
jobs at plants which don’t exist anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  