-- 
Syrian Forces Storm Daraa as Activists Detained in Sweeps Over Three Days

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-04-25T14:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/syrian-forces-move-to-detain-activists-after-deadliest-protest.html
Syrian security forces stormed the
city of Daraa in the south, the site of the most sustained
protests against President Bashar al-Assad, killing several
people.  Tanks entered Daraa at dawn from four fronts, Abdullah, one
of the witnesses, said in an interview by satellite phone
punctuated by the sound of gunfire. Abdullah, who would only
provide his first name because of concerns for his safety, said
he saw 20 bodies strewn across the streets of the town. Three
that he helped pull from one street belonged to the al-Shafran
family, according to their  identity cards , he said.  Mohsen, another witness, said in an interview from Daraa
that the tanks opened fire against people gathered in groups and
at least five were killed. Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s
National Organization for Human Rights, put today’s death toll
at 10. Al Arabiya television, citing an unidentified activist,
said 25 people died.  Syria has intensified a violent crackdown on protesters in
the past week, leaving more than 100 dead. Assad’s decision to
end an emergency rule in place for half a century, and his
pledges of future political and economic measures, have failed
to halt the spread of demonstrations against his regime echoing
those that toppled rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  this year.  Syria is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring
Lebanon, where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim
group. Assad and other officials say foreign-backed conspirators
are seeking to exploit the expression of legitimate popular
demands as a pretext for violence.  ‘State in Danger’  Syria closed its border with Jordan, the Jordanian state-
run  news agency  Petra reported, citing State Minister for Media
Affairs Taher al-Adwan. The official Syrian news agency, Sana,
said all borders including the one with Jordan are open.  The storming of Daraa was a bid by the government to stamp
out an “armed insurrection” by groups using advanced weapons
against security forces, said Imad Fawzi Shueibi, who heads the
Data and Strategic Studies Center, in a telephone interview from
Damascus today.  “The issue at this moment is to suppress the
insurrection,” after the use of violence by protesters
“superseded models for civil demands,” he said. “The state is
in a dangerous situation.”  Security forces set up six checkpoints in Douma, a suburb
of Damascus, activist Qurabi said by phone from Cairo.  “Daraa and Douma are isolated,” he said. “Telephone
lines and power have been cut and they are surrounded by
tanks.”  U.S. Considers Sanctions  Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said in an interview today that nine people were killed
in the coastal town of Jableh yesterday after security forces
opened fire to prevent movement on the streets. That brings the
number of people killed nationwide in the past four days to 135,
while as many as 300 people have been detained, he said.  Violence in Syria has led the U.S. to consider measures
including sanctions against officials from Assad’s regime who
have led the crackdown, an administration official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity. President  Barack Obama  on
April 23 condemned the “outrageous use of violence.”  Abdullah, the witness in Daraa, also said telephones and
power in the region have been cut and government forces opened
fire as a scare tactic to prevent demonstrations. As he spoke,
the sound of gunfire followed by a shell landing nearby could be
heard. Abdullah said he had to hang up because he wanted to take
shelter.  ‘No Return’  Faisal al-Haymad, deputy president of the Daraa chamber of
commerce, told al-Jazeera yesterday he is resigning to protest
the repression and has now joined the opposition.  Sheikh Ahmad al-Sayasneh, the imam of the Omari mosque in
Daraa and a member of a delegation that held talks with Assad
after the first wave of violence last month, said yesterday that
he has joined the protesters. In an interview with al-Jazeera,
the imam said he is in hiding as security forces were looking
for him because he had denounced them as “killers.”  “We have reached a point of no return with them after they
killed our sons,” he said. “There is no room for discussions
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  