-- 
Vietnam Inflation Rate Rises to Highest Since 2008, Adding Rate Pressure

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-24T03:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/vietnam-inflation-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-since-2008-government-says.html
Vietnam ’s inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace since 2008, putting pressure on the government
to tighten policy further after almost doubling a key interest
rate in less than six months.  Consumer prices climbed 17.51 percent in April from a year
earlier, according to figures released by the General Statistics
Office in Hanoi today. The rate is the highest since December
2008 and compares with the 13.89 percent pace last month. Prices
rose 3.32 percent in April from March.  Policy makers have boosted the repurchase rate to 13
percent from 7 percent in November and cut the target for 2011
credit growth to tame inflation and regain investor confidence
in the government’s ability to prevent the economy from
overheating. Still, food and commodities make up a large share
of household spending and increases in gasoline and power costs
will fuel inflation,  Standard & Poor’s  said this month.  “Inflation shows little signs of responding to monetary
and fiscal austerity just yet,” said Bill Stoops, chief
investment officer at Ho Chi Minh City-based fund manager Dragon
Capital. “Government policies to slow inflation operate with a
lag effect.”  The inflation rate may peak at almost 20 percent before
easing to about 13 percent by year-end, according to U.K.-listed
 Vietnam Property Fund Ltd. (VPF) , which is managed by Dragon Capital.  Vietnam’s central bank raised borrowing costs for the
second time in less than a month on April 1, when the
refinancing rate was increased to 13 percent from 12 percent.
The repurchase rate was raised to the same level.  Policy Rate  The repurchase rate at which the central bank performs open
market operations is Vietnam’s key policy rate, according to
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which expects an increase to 14 percent by the
end of the year.  Further rate increases may boost debt burdens, Sathirathai
said in a research note. Market lending rates are as high as 21
percent, according to Vietnam Property Fund.  “This concern will put a cap on how high the  State Bank  of
Vietnam is willing to raise  interest rates , forcing them to use
other tools to tighten monetary policy,” he said, citing
quantitative controls on credit and money growth.  Vietnamese inflation isn’t solely a result of global
influences, with strong domestic demand, expanded monetary
supply and a weaker dong all contributing, Sathirathai said.  A government decision to allow power prices to be adjusted
as often as every three months depending on market conditions
may signal a further increase in electricity prices of as much
as 40 percent in June, according to Viet Capital Securities.
Electricity prices were increased by about 15 percent in March.  “According to the Ministry of Finance, the most recent
adjustment was insufficient to fully adjust to market rates,”
Marc Djandji, head of research for Viet Capital, said in an
April 18 note.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Stephanie Phang,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  