-- 
Yemen’s Saleh May Quit in Swap for Immunity

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-24T12:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-24/yemen-s-saleh-agrees-to-step-down-in-exchange-for-immunity-official-says.html
Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh
agreed to a plan brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council that
would give him immunity in exchange for ceding power, a
government official said.  Saleh would transfer power to a deputy within 30 days and
hold elections 60 days after that, Tarik al-Shami, spokesman at
the ruling General People’s Congress, said in a phone interview
yesterday. The opposition must end its protests, accept immunity
for Saleh and his aides and agree to all other terms of the GCC
plan, al-Shami said.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  Saleh would be the third leader forced from office since
popular unrest spread through the Middle East, resulting in the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia . In March, Saleh, 68, agreed to an opposition proposal
to hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  ‘Maneuvering’  “It is possible that Saleh is maneuvering,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said today in a phone
interview. “The more time he gets the better it is for himself
and his supporters. Thirty days is a long time in Yemeni
politics and there is likely to be more squabbling.”  Police and snipers killed 46 demonstrators in the Yemeni
capital Sana’a last month, prompting several military and
government officials to abandon Saleh’s regime. A total of 109
protesters have been killed since Feb. 11, according to Majed
al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human
Rights in the city.  United Arab Emirates  Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan urged all parties in Yemen to agree to the GCC
plan in a meeting yesterday with his Yemeni counterpart, Abu Bakr Al-Qirbi, Emirates News Agency said. The GCC “is keen on
the stability and unity of Yemen,” the  news service  cited
Abdullah as saying.  Obama Comment  The GCC’s plan for the transfer of power in Yemen could
“resolve the political crisis in a peaceful and orderly
manner,” the Obama administration said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We encourage all parties to move swiftly to
implement the terms of the agreement,” the White House said.  Demonstrations against Saleh continued today in Sana’a,
where protesters chanted “Down, down with the regime,” and
demanded the president’s unconditional departure. In al-Turbah,
a district of Taiz province, six people were wounded when police
fired on protesters, Bushra al-Maktari, a protest leader, said
in a phone interview.  A weak central government in Yemen also risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia across the  Gulf of Aden , where there hasn’t
been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become
a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  Youth Groups  Yemeni youth protest groups rejected the GCC initiative and
called for continued protests against Saleh, the Revolution
Coalition of Peaceful Change said today in a press conference in
Sana’a. The government “doesn’t keep its word and its existence
has become dangerous not only to Yemen but to the entire
region,” the group said.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, have agreed to the GCC plan. They wouldn’t participate
in a national unity government under Saleh during the 30 days
he’d remain in power, said Mohammed al-Sabri, a leader in the
opposition. They also support the right to protest.  The ruling party has already informed GCC Secretary-General
Abdel Latif al-Zayyani that it endorses the plan, according to
spokesman al-Shami. Saleh met with him on April 21, al-Shami
said. The GCC, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait , has also had talks
with representatives of Yemen’s opposition this month.  Saleh said yesterday that the opposition was pushing the
Arabian Peninsula country toward a civil war.  “They want to drag the area to civil war and we refuse to
be dragged to civil war,” Saleh said in a speech to the
military and students, according to the official  Saba news
service . The president said power should change “through the
ballot box and not through a coup,” and those who want power
“should be brave and call for early elections, whether
presidential or parliamentary elections,” according to Saba.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  