-- ‘Bake Sale Ban’ Rhetoric Swells Over Obama School Snacks Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/-bake-sale-ban-rhetoric-swells-over-obama-school-snacks-rules.html
Special-education students at  Tooele
High School  in northwest  Utah  who rely on weekly bake sales to
pay for field trips and supplies may have to go without.  Federal regulators, fresh off a contentious nutritional
overhaul of U.S. school meals that replaced fried chicken
patties with chef salads, are now preparing the first standards
for snacks, sodas and other foods sold outside of regularly
scheduled lunch and breakfast. That means vending machines,
concession stands and some types of PTA fundraisers during
school hours may be forced to cut back the calories.  “We have Washington deciding if you can hold a bake
sale,” Utah state Representative Ken Ivory, a Republican, said
in an interview. “They’ve overstepped their bounds.”  The American Frozen Food Institute, a McLean, Virginia-
based trade group that represents 90 percent of U.S. frozen-food
production, said the fight for candy bars and snack cakes may be
more fierce than President Barack Obama’s two-year battle over
school entrees, which led to congressional intervention, rule
rewrites and a compromise on categorizing pizza as a vegetable.  Danny Fisher, an author and 42-year-old mother raising five
boys in Zanesville,  Ohio , said too much emphasis is being put on
limiting foods when the focus should be on increasing exercise.  “The idea of banning unhealthy food choices is paramount
to Prohibition,” Fisher said in an interview by e-mail. “We
all know how well that worked.”  Domino’s, Doritos  The  Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act  of 2010, which led to
regulations last month for lunches and breakfasts, also outlines
requirements for the Agriculture Department to reset nutrition
standards for items sold during the school day, known as
“competitive foods.” The agency has jurisdiction as it
oversees the federal school-lunch program, which provides low-
cost and free lunches in public and non-profit private schools.  “We hope to publish the proposed rule this spring,” said
Aaron Lavallee, a USDA spokesman, who wouldn’t elaborate on the
department’s plans.  Based on guidelines in the law, changes to the competitive
foods rules may affect schools’ activities clubs or sports teams
that resell purchased goods, such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  candy bars and
other sweets to help pay for supplies. The proposal also would
have to set nutritional limits for food and beverages in vending
machines such as PepsiCo Inc.’s Doritos and fast-food items sold
in the cafeteria, such as Domino’s Pizza slices that students
buy with pocket money.  These foods may have to meet fat, calorie, sodium or other
requirements, possibly replacing French fries and chips with
granola bars and corn nuts. Exemptions will be allowed for
infrequent, school-sponsored fundraisers. The threshold for such
exceptions is still to be decided by regulators.  Seeking Balance  James Martinez, who has 11-year-old stepson, said he is in
favor of the new nutrition standards.  “You don’t want to be Draconian, but you do want to lead
by example,” said Martinez, who is also a spokesman for the
National Parent Teacher Association in Alexandria,  Virginia , in
an interview. “There needs to be a balance.”  Industry lobbying over the lunch standards led Congress to
block an earlier USDA proposal that would have set limits on
French fries and starchy vegetables, and increased the amount of
tomato sauce required in pizza. The new rules for competitive
foods will create controversy as well because schools rely on
such products for fundraisers, said Margo Wootan, nutrition
policy director at the Center for Science in the Public
Interest, a  Washington  consumer advocacy group.  New rules for competitive foods, which would be the first
since 1979, are necessary to ensure schools don’t undermine
parents’ efforts to provide better nutrition at home, she said.  ‘Misplaced Overregulation’  “It’s a shame that schools have to raise money, but
there’s no reason to turn to fundraisers that undermine
health,” Wootan said. “There’s no need to sell a candy bar
when you could sell calendars or light bulbs or fruit baskets.”  The proposal would be intended to curb child obesity -- a
priority of First Lady  Michelle Obama , who campaigned to get the
Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act passed. Some lawmakers and
educators said they are concerned that schools will lose revenue
as students may be less apt to buy healthier fare or pay the
higher prices likely to be charged.  Some schools generated as much as $125,000 a year from
selling competitive foods, according to an August 2005 report by
the Government Accountability Office.  The “misplaced overregulation” may squelch income used by
schools already facing the $3.2 billion cost of adopting the
lunch and breakfast requirements, according to Anne Bryant,
executive director of the National School Boards Association.  Higher-Priced Foods  The proposal may also create financial burdens for schools
to implement and for parents alike, House Agriculture Committee
Chairman Frank D. Lucas, a Republican from  Oklahoma , said in a
Feb. 3 letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.  “The current economic climate is one in which it is of the
utmost importance to protect schools and working families from
dramatically increased costs in the form of higher food costs
and logistical demands on schools,” Lucas said in the letter,
which was also signed by the top Democrat on the committee,
Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota . “The department
should carefully consider the cost versus benefit of mandating
schools to sell higher priced products or different products for
the reimbursable and a la carte lines.”  U.S. law currently restricts few competitive foods, such as
gum, from being offered in cafeterias during breakfast and
lunch. Educators have been free to sell  Domino’s Pizza (DPZ)  or Taco
Bell products on the side as an alternative to the day’s lunch,
or have gym room vending machines stocked with Doritos. Almost
half of elementary school students were able to buy unhealthy
snacks in the 2009-2010 year, according to a study published
Feb. 6 in the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine.  ‘Smart Slice Pizza’  At  Lincoln Public Schools  in  Nebraska , high school students
can buy hamburgers, oven-baked fries, dessert and other items a
la carte. Mandating healthier fare may drive students to buy it
off-site, Edith Zumwalt, nutrition services director for the
school system, said in an interview.  “If they don’t get food they want, they just leave,” said
Zumwalt. “That’s more trouble.”  Some changes already have been made.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , PepsiCo
and Cadbury Schweppes Plc in 2006 agreed to halt almost all soft
drink sales in elementary and middle schools, and also to limit
soda sales in high schools to diet drinks, under a deal brokered
by former President  Bill Clinton  and the  American Heart
Association .  Domino’s Pizza Inc., which sells its Smart Slice to about 2
percent of the school lunch pizza market, already meets or
exceeds the anticipated USDA standards, Tim McIntyre, a
spokesman for the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based company, said in an
e-mail. The sauce and pepperoni have less sodium, he said.  Sweets Sell  By 2007, more than 30 states had adopted standards for
foods sold outside of the federal lunch program, according to a
2009 study by Samuels & Associates, a consulting company in
Oakland,  California . When changes were made,  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s Pop-
Tarts and PepsiCo’s Funyuns were replaced by reduced-fat chips
and granola bars.  “Schools that have made these changes have been able to
maintain revenue, by alternate methods or by changing out
items,” said Jessica Donze Black, director of the Washington-
based Kids’ Safe and Healthful Foods Project at the Pew Health
Group, which advocates policies that reduce consumer risks.  Rebecca Ford, a senior special education teacher at Tooele
High School in Tooele, Utah, said she hopes the bake sales her
students help prepare each week won’t be considered too frequent
to be allowed. Her students have autism, Down syndrome and other
disabilities. The money is used for educational trips as well as
to help students out, such as buying tennis shoes their parents
can’t afford, she said.  “It teaches them money skills,” Ford said in an
interview. “We tried different healthy items, but it wasn’t the
same at all. They just sat around and got old. I’m not quite
sure what we’ll do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  