-- T-Mobile Asks FCC to Stop Verizon Buying Cable Airwaves
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-22T21:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/t-mobile-asks-fcc-to-block-verizon-s-purchase-of-cable-airwaves.html
Verizon Wireless (VZW) , the largest U.S.
mobile provider, should be prevented by federal regulators from
buying airwaves from cable companies to avoid “excessive
concentration” of spectrum,  T-Mobile USA Inc. (166783Q)  said.  Two airwaves purchases totaling more than $3 billion
proposed by Verizon “pose a clear threat to competition,” T-
Mobile, the fourth-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, said in a
filing yesterday to the Federal Communications Commission.  The purchases would keep smaller competitors from using the
airwaves for advanced services, according to Bellevue,
Washington-based T-Mobile, which  AT&T Inc. (T)  unsuccessfully tried
to buy last year.  Verizon proposed in December acquiring airwaves for $3.6
billion from top U.S. cable operator  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , No. 2 Time
Warner and Bright House Networks LLC, and announced a separate
$315 million spectrum purchase from Cox Communications Inc.
Under the transactions, Verizon and the cable companies are to
market and sell each other’s services.  Ed McFadden, a Verizon spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today that “the spectrum purchase is in the public
interest, and will address the needs of all consumers, putting
spectrum to work to meet growing demand.”  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. mobile phone
provider, and leading U.S. satellite TV company  DirecTV (DTV)  asked
the FCC to examine the marketing arrangements. The agreements
create “strong incentives for what had been fierce rivals to
collaborate rather than compete,” El Segundo, California-based
DirecTV said in a filing.  Unused Airwaves  Regulators will probably approve the transaction, partly
because it promises to bring unused airwaves into service, Paul Gallant, a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim Partners,
said in a note today.  “We still give the edge to Verizon,” he said in the note.  The deals face a March 21 hearing before the Senate’s
antitrust subcommittee, the panel said in an e-mail today. The
Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights committee said the session will be
entitled, “The Verizon/Cable Deals: Harmless Collaboration or a
Threat to Competition and Consumers?” The subcommittee’s
chairman, Wisconsin Democratic Senator Herb Kohl, will preside.  Verizon, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, wants to add
airwaves as customers increasingly adopt smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to watch video and browse the Web. Verizon
Wireless is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Newbury,
England-based  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   FCC, Justice Opposition  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, abandoned
its proposed acquisition of T-Mobile in December amid opposition
from the FCC and Justice Department.  The FCC should block the deals because they would give more
airwaves to the largest carrier, and raise “serious concern”
that the companies will collude, nine public policy groups led
by Public Knowledge said in a filing, according to an e-mail
from the Washington-based organization.  MetroPCS Communications Inc., which provides wireless
service in areas where Verizon proposes to add spectrum, asked
the FCC in a filing to deny the application because it lacks
“certain critical information.”  Verizon needs to provide detailed information for each
market where it wants to add airwaves, and the cable companies
must demonstrate they had intended to provide service on the
spectrum, MetroPCS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  