-- ADB in Talks for at Least $12 Billion Development-Fund Needs
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-02-22T03:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/adb-estimates-development-fund-needs-13-billion-as-asia-contributes-more.html
The  Asian Development Bank  said it
is in talks with donor countries to fund at least $12 billion
required for loans and grants to projects in poor countries from
2013 to 2016.  The Asian Development Fund will need an estimated $12
billion to $13 billion for the period, and negotiations with
donors to restock the fund will conclude by May, Kazu Sakai,
director general of the ADB’s strategy and policy department,
said in an e-mailed response to questions late yesterday. The
last replenishment was $11.3 billion.  The ADB, formed in 1966 to improve the welfare of people in
 Asia  and the Pacific, has boosted spending on infrastructure and
poverty projects from  Laos  to Mongolia in the past decade as
rising food and commodity prices hurt the region’s poorest.
Asian nations are expected to contribute more to those efforts
as a sovereign-debt crisis restricts European nations’ ability
to provide funds, Sakai said.  “It is going to be more challenging to get money out of the
Western  Europe  region,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
Singapore-based director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “Fortunately, Asian countries are in a better position
to bear a greater burden of the cost. It’s an interesting
reversal of fortune.”  Asian Growth  Asia has led global growth in recent years as developed
economies in the U.S. and Europe faltered, even as two-thirds of
the world’s poor reside in the region. Developing Asian
economies expanded 7.9 percent in 2011, compared with 1.6
percent for advanced countries, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Countries outside the Asia-Pacific region accounted for
more than 40 percent of member contributions to the current
Asian Development Fund, according to the  2008 donor’s report .
The U.S. accounted for about 10 percent, and the U.K. and
 Germany  about 4.8 percent each. Other European donors included
France, Italy and  Spain . Member contributions totaled $4.2
billion for the $11.3 billion fund.  The ADB has 67 member economies, both from within and
outside of the region. The bank will hold its annual meeting in
Manila in May.  At the last replenishment in May 2008, donor countries
pledged a 60 percent increase in the Asian Development Fund from
$7 billion in the previous period ending 2008.  The size of the next replenishment to the development fund
is still under discussion with donor countries, Sakai said.
Funding for the next period will come from new donor
contributions as well as internal resources, he said.  “The difficult fiscal situation of a number of European
countries may indeed have an impact on the contributions of some
of these donors,” Sakai said. “In view of the strong economic
performance of Asian countries, there is indeed an expectation
that these countries will make a stronger contribution to the
ADF this time as compared to earlier replenishments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  