-- UniCredit Wins Order Dismisses Claims From Picard Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-22T01:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/madoff-judge-drops-claims-from-trustee-picard-s-lawsuit-against-unicredit.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  won a ruling
dismissing racketeering and other claims filed by the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s shuttered firm, narrowing the
trustee’s suit against the bank.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan today threw out
claims by the trustee,  Irving Picard , against UniCredit, Pioneer
Global Asset Management SpA,  UniCredit Bank Austria AG (BACA)  and
Alessandro Profumo, Milan-based UniCredit’s former chief
executive officer. The ruling, which wasn’t released publicly,
was faxed to attorneys in the case.  Picard’s claims under the racketeering statute, which
allows for triple damages, accounted for most of the $59 billion
he demanded in the suit. Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims
including unjust enrichment and conversion. He directed that the
remaining claims be returned to  bankruptcy court .  Picard’s racketeering claims that the defendants “fed,
perpetuated and profited from” Madoff’s Ponzi scheme is a
“casual assertion” that fails to establish a direct enough
relationship between the alleged criminal acts and resulting
injuries, Rakoff wrote in today’s opinion.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina for running a Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors of billions of dollars.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-CV-1181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  