-- Maersk Drops as China Manufacturing Slumps: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-22T12:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/maersk-drops-as-china-manufacturing-slumps-copenhagen-mover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , whose
container line transports the most  consumer goods  from  Asia  to
 Europe , fell in Copenhagen trading after data showed Chinese
manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month.  Maersk  fell as much as  5.2 percent, the most in 10 weeks,
making it today’s biggest loser in the Copenhagen 20 Index. The
stock retreated 2,080 kroner, or 4.4 percent, to 45,320 kroner
at 12:59 p.m. in the Danish capital.  Maersk’s container line, which has a market share of about
26 percent of the Asia-to-Europe route, is struggling to stay
profitable as it deals with overcapacity and flagging consumer
demand for imports in Europe. China’s February preliminary
manufacturing index was 49.7, suggesting a fourth consecutive
month of contraction, according to data published by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics today.  “We expect a marginally negative result in 2012,” for
Maersk’s container Line,  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Sydbank
A/S, said today in a preview note on the Copenhagen-based
company’s earnings report due Feb. 27. “Container freight rates
collapsed in the fourth quarter and have reached new record-low
levels.”  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., the owner of Asia’s third-
largest container line, today reported its biggest quarterly
loss in at least 10 years. The Singapore-based company lost
$320.4 million in the three months to Dec. 30, wider than the
$123.6 million average loss estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
eight analysts.  To help restore profits, Maersk said Jan. 31 it may double
freight rates on Asia-Europe trade. The company followed up with
a Feb. 17 announcement that it will cut 9 percent of its
capacity on the route.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about earnings in the
container unit after the proposed rate increases and capacity
reduction,” Pedersen said. Still, he repeated an “overweight”
 recommendation  on Maersk shares, and said freight rates may
recover faster than the market expects this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  