-- Thailand Proving Best After China Among Emerging Markets
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/thailand-proving-best-after-china-among-global-emerging-markets.html
During 10 turbulent years in
Thailand, Kittiratt Na-Ranong tackled jobs ranging from
president of the  stock exchange  to manager of the national
soccer team, an underperforming outfit nicknamed the War
Elephants.  Now, Kittiratt, 54, has taken on a task with significant
implications for fund managers such as Templeton Emerging
Markets Group Executive Chairman  Mark Mobius , for market-leading
companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and for
consumers of the world’s most important staple food, rice,
Bloomberg Markets reports in its March issue.  As deputy prime minister and finance minister, Kittiratt
says, his task is to convince investors that the government can
build defenses to prevent the recurrence of floods that last
year inundated thousands of factories critical to global supply
chains as well as a swath of the paddies that supply 29 percent
of  international rice shipments .  “We have learned from the pain and will not let this happen
again,” he says.  As the waters slowly receded, they laid bare this Southeast
Asian nation’s extraordinary economic importance to the rest of
the world.  In a Bloomberg Markets ranking,  Thailand  is second only to
 China  among the world’s best emerging markets for investors. The
ranking looks at a series of measures such as market
transparency and prospects for growth over the next four years.  Successful Industries  Thailand’s tiny, $303 billion stock market as of Feb. 22
accounts for just 0.6 percent of the market value of world
equities. As of 2011, its gross domestic product per capita was
a mere $5,281, less than half that of Mexico’s. The country is
prone to disruptions ranging from coups d’etat and civil strife
to tsunamis and floods.  And yet Thailand has developed such successful electronics
and auto industries that it now produces from 35 to 40 percent
of all computer hard disk drives and, in 2010, built more  light
trucks  than  Japan .  In agriculture, besides being the world’s biggest rice
exporter, Thailand ranks No. 1 in rubber and No. 2 in sugar. The
country that brands itself the Land of Smiles has consistently
remained one of the world’s top 20 tourism destinations,
attracting more visitors in 2010 than Greece.  ‘No Idea’  “Until these floods, people had no idea how important
Thailand is in the global marketplace,” says Thiraphong
Chansiri, 45, president of  Thai Union Frozen Products Pcl. (TUF)   Thiraphong’s Bangkok-based company, which owns the Chicken
of the Sea brand in the U.S. and John West in  Europe , is the
world’s No. 1 producer of canned tuna.  Even as the government of Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra begins spending a promised 480 billion baht ($15.7
billion) on dykes and post-flood reconstruction, it’s working on
a longer-term goal: the transformation of an economy heavily
dependent on cheap-labor exports into a more consumption-driven
model.  Its populist strategy is to give 67 million Thais more
spending power by raising urban wages by 40 percent to about $10
a day and guaranteeing farmers they will receive a price for
their rice that’s as much as 44 percent above the market rate.  Such government initiatives, on top of the chaos caused by
the deluge, could inflict a big extra cost on Thai-based
manufacturers, rice exporters and their customers worldwide.  Hit by Floods  “The issue is the timing, coming when companies have
already been hit by the floods and the global slowdown,” says
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG.  While Kittiratt predicts that Thailand’s economy will grow
as much as 7 percent this year, Santitarn says the rate may be
only 3 or 4 percent.  The Thai  rice price  surged 28 percent from July to mid-
November, when it reached a three-year high of $663 a metric
ton.  Asked if government policies would push up the price of
Thai rice on global markets, Kittiratt says over a breakfast of
chili-laced rice soup, called khao tom, in a Bangkok hotel:  “I hope they do. Why should a bowl of rice in a restaurant
cost only one-third the price of a bottle of mineral water?”  Templeton’s Mobius, who oversees more than $40 billion, is
making a big bet on the government strategy’s paying off -- and
on the Thai economy.  Thai stocks comprised 21 percent of the $16.9 billion
 Templeton Asian Growth Fund  as of Jan. 31 -- second only to
Chinese stocks.  Surviving Downturns  Mobius’s calculation that the floods wouldn’t sink the Thai
economy is borne out by the numbers.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, despite the floods, the SET
Index jumped 12 percent to become the world’s fourth-best
performer. It has risen a further 11 percent this year as of Feb
22.  “Many investors have questioned our investments in the
country,” Mobius says. “However, we have found good companies
that could survive downturns and rise even stronger afterwards.
Those companies have now proven their resilience.”  Mobius isn’t alone is his optimism.  As Kittiratt and Yingluck, Thailand’s first female prime
minister, implement their reconstruction program, Thai companies
such as cement makers and banks will cash in on a construction-
led boom this year, according to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
Scotland’s biggest fund manager.  King Bhumibol  “The building-materials sector is bursting at the seams,”
says Adithep Vanabriksha, who helps manage $4.5 billion from
Aberdeen’s office in Bangkok, the Thai capital.  Among his picks:  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC)  and  Siam Commercial Bank
Pcl (SCB) , two blue chips controlled by the  Crown Property Bureau ,
which manages the assets of Thai  King Bhumibol  Adulyadej.  Thailand, the only Southeast Asian country never to be
colonized, has come a long way in recent decades.  A feudal absolute monarchy until 1932, it had a per capita
income of just $200 as recently as the late 1950s, according to
United Nations figures.  As the Vietnam War raged in the 1960s, the U.S., an ally of
Thailand, built military bases, roads and ports.  Successive Thai governments offered incentives, including
tax breaks, to foreign investors who were also lured by a
combination of cheap labor and, more recently, Thailand’s
strategic location in a region of  575 million  consumers.  Toyota opened its first factory in 1962, and other Japanese
titans, such as  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , followed.  U.S. Automakers  In 1983, Cupertino, California-based  Seagate Technology
Plc (STX) , the world’s biggest maker of hard disk drives, began
production in Bangkok.  Western Digital Corp., its Irvine, California-based rival,
followed suit, as did U.S. automakers  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and General
Motors Co.  Hundreds of Thai companies sprang up to supply parts. From
1971 through 2010, Thailand’s annual  GDP growth  averaged 6
percent despite being buffeted by coups and financial crises.  As buoyant as the Thai economy is, the human and economic
cost of last year’s floods has been immense.  Some 800 people died, economic growth in 2011 probably
plunged to 0.1 percent from a forecast 4 percent and total
damage to the $346 billion economy could reach $46 billion,
according to government estimates.  Thailand has a history of pulling itself back from the
brink.  Spectacular Comebacks  In 1998, in the wake of the Asian financial crisis, its
economy contracted 10.5 percent before rebounding to grow 4.4
percent the following year.  Since then, the country has staged spectacular comebacks
from a 2004 tsunami and a 2006 coup -- and the debilitating
political protests that followed.  While Kittiratt says the recent flood-related damage will
be short-term, Thailand will always be threatened by inundation:
After all, much of the Thai economic miracle takes place on
flood plains that are just 2 meters (6-1⁄2 feet) above sea
level.  Bangkok is at the best of times a watery place.  The broad, brimming Chao Phraya River laps against many of
the capital’s luxury hotels, sacred Buddhist temples, the gold-
spired Grand Palace and even Siriraj Hospital, where King
Bhumibol, 84, has spent the past two years receiving treatment
for spinal and other ailments.  Man-Made Canals  The city and surrounding areas are also crisscrossed by a
network of man-made canals.  In July, torrential rains started falling in northern
Thailand. By October, reservoirs north of Bangkok became so full
that authorities decided to release 9 billion cubic meters (318
billion cubic feet) of water into the Chao Phraya basin, the
Thai heartland.  An area larger than Greece became a world of water.
Factories operated by companies such as Honda Motor Co. and
Canon were swamped. Even those companies that stayed dry, such
as Toyota, couldn’t escape the impact as their parts makers went
under.  Although many companies predict that 2012 production will
bounce back, the effect on their bottom lines was not easily
erased.  On Dec. 12, Santa Clara, California-based Intel, the
world’s biggest chipmaker, reduced its fourth-quarter revenue
forecast by $1 billion, saying a shortage of hard disk drives as
a result of the floods had cut production of personal computers.  In January, Intel reported sales of $13.9 billion for the
fourth quarter after earlier predicting revenue of as much as
$15.2 billion for the period.  On Jan. 10, Ford said its Asia-Pacific and Africa
operations would post a loss for the same reason.  Biggest Investor  Japanese companies fared even worse. Japan is the biggest
foreign investor in Thailand; it pumped $3.15 billion into the
country in 2010.  In December, Toyota said the Thai floods would cost it
$1.53 billion as the automaker slashed its profit forecast for
the year ending in March by 54 percent.  Nonetheless, Toyota Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda 
said in November the company wasn’t considering reducing
investment in Thailand.  Other major Japanese companies are unlikely to leave
either, says Setsuo Iuchi, president of the Japan External Trade
Organization (Jetro) in Thailand.  What they may do, though, is spread the risk by also
looking at neighboring countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam
for future expansion.  Selling the Plan  “Many companies are now reviewing the location of
resources,” Iuchi says. “They want to see a proper water-
management plan from the Thai government.”  In January, the government announced its plan. It approved
350 billion baht for flood defenses.  Kittiratt, the man selling the plan, worked as a banker,
stockbroker and asset manager, overseeing $500 million, before
founding his own company, zinc oxide maker Univentures Pcl.  From 2001 to 2006, he served as president of the Stock
Exchange of Thailand during a period when the market
capitalization tripled, though he quit after failing to secure
what might have been the country’s biggest-ever listing: Thai
Beverage Pcl, a beer and whiskey maker that sold $865 million of
shares in Singapore.  Kittiratt then spent a year managing the national soccer
team. On his watch, the War Elephants’ global  ranking  improved
to 98th from 122nd. Kittiratt left after Thailand failed to
qualify for the 2010 World Cup.  In dealing with the floods, he says, there’s no room for
failure.  “Any administration that lets this happen again cannot
survive,” he says.  Historical Challenge  Survival is a historical challenge for Thai governments.
Since 1946, Thailand has been rocked by 15 successful or
attempted coups and 28 changes of prime minister.  The last coup, in 2006, overthrew the elected government of
 Thaksin Shinawatra , Yingluck’s brother, for what the military
claimed was corruption. He fled the country in 2008 and is
living in exile in Dubai.  Since then, Thai society has split, pitting the minority
urban elite against the pro-Thaksin rural poor. Tensions
culminated in 2010 in violent street protests in which 92 people
died.  Yingluck, a 44-year-old rookie politician, assumed office
in August. Her victory, which drew on support for her brother,
made her the sixth prime minister in as many years.  A Bigger Risk  Any new bout of revolving-door leadership could threaten
flood-prevention efforts, Aberdeen’s Adithep says.  “Such large projects require a lot of will and continuity,
and there’s a risk that government instability could be a
constraint,” he says.  A bigger risk to Thailand’s stability could be the royal
succession.  King Bhumibol is the world’s longest-reigning monarch,
having ascended the lotus throne in 1946. As military and
civilian strongmen came and went, Bhumibol remained Thailand’s
sole stabilizing presence.  Though his powers are limited by the constitution, he
wields much influence, and many Thais regard him as semidivine.  By comparison, his heir, twice-divorced Crown Prince Maha
Vajiralongkorn, 59, has had to fight off unwelcome publicity
about his personal life.  A more immediate concern is the performance of the present
government.  Baptism of Fire  For Yingluck, who has a master’s degree in public
administration from Kentucky State University, the floods were a
baptism of fire. Seventeen years younger than Thaksin, she
entered politics only last year after a career as an executive
in the family’s property and telecommunications companies.  Abhisit Vejjajiva, opposition Democrat party leader and a
former prime minister, questions Yingluck’s qualifications as a
head of government.  “It’s not a job you should learn on the job,” says Abhisit,
47, who’s a career politician.  Jetro’s Iuchi says his meetings with Yingluck gave him some
confidence in her abilities.  “She doesn’t have much experience politically, but I think
she’s smart,” he says. Yingluck declined to be interviewed for
this article.  Along the Chao Phraya River, hulking black barges wait to
have their holds filled with Thai rice.  In 2010, Thailand was by far the biggest rice  exporter ,
shipping 9 million tons. During the same period, its nearest
rival, Vietnam, shipped 6.7 million tons.  Overtaken by Vietnam  At a waterfront warehouse, veteran rice exporter Chookiat
Ophaswongse says he’s worried. He predicts that in 2012,
Thailand’s rice exports will plunge by 30 percent and may be
overtaken by Vietnam.  The reason: Apart from the disruption caused by the floods,
the government’s willingness to pay above-market rates to
farmers is making Thai rice noncompetitive, says Chookiat, 57,
whose family-owned Huay Chuan Rice Co. has been trading the
grain for 50 years.  “Thailand will be in a very bad position,” he says.  As of Feb. 22, the price of Thai rice, an Asian benchmark,
had fallen about 15 percent from its November peak.  Investor  Marc Faber  is more optimistic. He says he doesn’t
expect the floods to have any impact on Thailand’s long-term
prospects.  In 2000, Swiss-born Faber, who oversees $300 million at
Hong Kong-based Marc Faber Ltd., moved his family home to  Chiang
Mai , a 1,000-year-old walled city 700 kilometers (435 miles)
north of Bangkok.  ‘Second Thoughts’  In October, floods seeped into the teak house he built on
the banks of the Ping River. Faber, 66, publisher of the
 Gloom, Boom & Doom Report , says he’ll continue to invest in
Thailand.  “Some companies will have second thoughts about expanding
their Thailand operations, but the majority will continue to
operate here,” he says.  Similarly, U.S.-born Bill Heinecke, who owns hotels managed
by Four Seasons Hotels Inc. and Marriott International Inc. in
Thailand as well as his own Anantara-brand resorts, has made a
bigger bet on the country than most.  The son of a Voice of America correspondent, Heinecke, 62,
gave up his U.S. citizenship in 1992 to take Thai nationality.  Since then, his  Minor International Pcl (MINT)  has been rattled by
the Asian financial crisis, the tsunami and a political protest
in 2007 that closed Bangkok’s two airports for a week, stranding
400,000 travelers.  ‘Bouncing Back’  During the worst times, Heinecke’s hotel occupancy rates
plunged to less than 20 percent, he says. And yet his business
has grown from a single hotel to 70 resorts; 1,200 restaurants,
including a Burger King franchise; and 200 retail stores,
including Gap Inc. outlets.  Shares of Minor International, in which King Bhumibol owns
a 2.2 percent stake, rose more than 12-fold in the 10 years
ended on Feb. 22 -- five times the increase in the benchmark
index.  In November, Heinecke went ahead with the opening of his
latest, riverside Anantara hotel. This was at the height of the
floods, with the swollen Chao Phraya reaching the edge of the
hotel’s lawns.  “We weren’t going to change the plan,” Heinecke says.
“Thailand has a habit of bouncing back.”  -- With assistance from Daniel Ten Kate and Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok. Editors: Stryker McGuire, Jonathan Neumann  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net ; Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
   ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 