-- Alibaba Said to Consider More Arrangers for $3 Billion Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-22T10:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/alibaba-said-to-consider-more-arrangers-for-3-billion-loan-1-.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . may seek
more banks to underwrite a $3 billion loan signed yesterday with
six lenders, according to two people familiar with the matter.  China ’s biggest e-commerce company may expand the lead
group of banks to include additional arrangers and underwriters
before marketing the loan in general syndication, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the details are private.
Alibaba opted to work with a smaller group of banks initially
due to the sensitive nature of the transaction, the people said.  The $3 billion loan will be split into a $2 billion short-
term facility and a $1 billion three-year term facility, one of
the people said. Alibaba is considering repaying the short-term
loan using some of its existing cash reserves and is offering to
pay a margin of 400 basis points to 450 basis points more than
the London interbank offered rate on the three-year portion, the
person said.  Alibaba (1688)  signed the loan yesterday with Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank
Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, and Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd., according to a company regulatory filing to the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange.  Each bank agreed to underwrite $500 million, and the six
are targeting to sell 30 percent to 40 percent of the loan to
other lenders, the people familiar with the matter said today.  Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba, John Spelich,
declined to comment on the financing when contacted at his
office by telephone today.  Proceeds of the loan will be used for Alibaba Group’s
planned privatization of its Hong Kong-listed unit, Alibaba.com
Ltd. Alibaba Group offered HK$13.50 a share for the 27 percent
it doesn’t already own in Alibaba.com, according to yesterday’s
 Hong Kong  stock exchange statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  