-- Ambani Leads Tycoons Pushing India for Faster Coal Approvals
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-22T13:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/ambani-leads-tycoons-pushing-india-for-faster-coal-approvals-1-.html
Indian utility executives, including
 Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  Chairman  Anil Ambani , asked the government
for faster environmental approvals for coal mines to help
increase electricity generation and ease costs.  The companies led by  India ’s richest families told
officials of the Prime Minister’s Office they want natural gas
supplies and a waiver of import duty on thermal coal, Ashok
Khurana, director general of the Association of Power Producers,
said after a meeting in New Delhi today. The delegation included
Cyrus Mistry, deputy chairman of Tata Sons Ltd., Gautam Adani,
chairman of  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , and Naveen Jindal, chairman of
 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)   The government last week ordered state-run  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) 
to import the fuel if needed to increase supplies to power
companies after the industrialists urged Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to help ease shortages. Singh set up a panel headed by
Pulok Chatterjee, the principal secretary at his office, to find
solutions to problems faced by utilities, including the higher
costs of importing coal.  “A step in the right direction has been taken and the
government now needs to build better coordination within its
departments to fix these issues,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at Mumbai-based brokerage K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt. “In a matter of a few weeks, my confidence in
the power sector has increased.”  Adequate Reserves  Reliance Power fell 4.5 percent, the most since Nov. 17, to
122.65 rupees at close in Mumbai. Tata Power dropped 4 percent,
while  Adani Power  declined 9.9 percent, the most since July 29.
Coal India fell 1.2 percent to 322.15 rupees. The benchmark
Sensitive Index ended 1.5 percent lower.  “Fast-tracking of clearances for coal mines is the only
way,” Coal Secretary Alok Perti told reporters in New Delhi
after the meeting. “We have enough coal reserves to meet
demand.”  The utilities sought a rationalization of electricity
tariffs to reflect rising fuel costs, Perti said.  The power companies are seeking allocation of 25 million
cubic meters a day of gas needed to run plants with a generation
capacity of 6,500 megawatts, Khurana said. They also want banks
loans to power projects to be increased and permission to sell
tax-free bonds, he said.  Critical Issues  “It’s a follow-up meeting to reiterate the critical issues
of fuel supplies and environment and forest clearances as well
as our wish list for the budget,” Khurana said. The pricing of
imported coal and the potential of hydropower were also
discussed, he said.  Reliance Power, Adani Power and  JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW)  are among
companies that stalled plans to invest $36 billion to build 42
gigawatts of capacity, data from the Association of Power
Producers’ show. The shelved capacity is equal to 68 percent of
the government’s target for the five-year period that ends in
March.  Coal India, the world’s largest producer of the commodity,
cut its output target for the year ending March 31 by 2.6
percent to 440 million metric tons after heavy rains halted work
at mines and new projects were held up by delays in land
acquisitions and environment approvals. The company plans to
increase production by 5.6 percent next year to 464 million
tons, according to Coal Secretary Perti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  