-- Anadarko Picks Ex-Banker as CEO After Hackett’s Reign of Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-02-22T02:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/anadarko-picks-ex-banker-as-ceo-after-hackett-s-reign-of-growth.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  anointed a
former investment banker as its new chief executive officer as
the company’s growth in U.S. shale fields and deep-water
projects has secured its spot as the largest U.S. independent
oil and natural-gas producer.  Chief Operating Officer Al Walker, a former investment
banker at UBS AG who joined Anadarko six years ago, will succeed
Jim Hackett as CEO on May 15. Hackett will become executive
chairman and retire in 2013.  In the eight years since he took over in December 2003,
Hackett oversaw Anadarko’s transformation from a producer that
missed output targets three years in a row to one of the
industry’s  premier explorers  charting discoveries off the coast
of  Africa ,  Brazil  and in the Gulf of Mexico.  “Jim Hackett has done the major repositioning,” Jeb
Armstrong, an analyst at  Credit Agricole  in New York, who rates
the shares an “outperform” and owns none, said in an interview
yesterday. “He’s re-shaped and re-worked the company. Now it’s
about execution and blocking and tackling and making those
projects come to life.”  Walker will assume leadership of a  $42.7 billion  company
that’s more than tripled in market value as his predecessor
bought and sold assets in more than 53 transactions, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hackett’s biggest day of deals
came June 23, 2006, when Anadarko announced two separate
acquisitions, buying Kerr-McGee Corp. and Western Gas Resources
Inc. for a total of more than $21 billion.  ‘Influential Factor’  Walker was an influential factor in those transactions,
said  Stephen Trauber , global head of energy investment banking
at Citigroup Inc. in Houston. Trauber, who was then at UBS,
hired Walker from Houston-based oil and gas producer 3Tec Energy
Corp. to work as an investment banker before Walker left for
Anadarko in 2005.  “He drove them to those deals, which turned out to be
very, very successful for Anadarko,” Trauber said in an
interview yesterday. Trauber advised Anadarko on both the Kerr-
McGee and Western Gas acquisitions.  Hackett called Walker “integral to a lot of the big
decisions we’ve made, both strategically and tactically,”
during a conference call with reporters yesterday announcing the
CEO change.  Hackett also led Anadarko through the aftermath of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, in which Anadarko shared
responsibility through its 25 percent ownership of the ill-fated
Macondo well. Anadarko lost more than half its stock value after
the well explosion. Shares closed yesterday at $85.74 in New
York, 17 percent higher than the day before the spill.  BP Settlement  Anadarko agreed in October to pay BP $4 billion to settle a
dispute over its share of the oil spill costs.  “Macondo was a very unfortunate speed bump,” said Subash Chandra, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, who rates
the shares a “buy” and owns none. He called Anadarko, “pound
for pound one of the best exploration and production companies
in the world.”  Walker will take charge of a company now viewed as “the
most attractive takeover target in the industry” because of its
overseas assets and  Gulf of Mexico  holdings, said  Fadel Gheit , a
New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., who rates Anadarko
“outperform” and owns none.  Takeover Appeal  The CEO change increases the potential for Anadarko to be
viewed as a potential acquisition by one of the large,
integrated  oil companies , said Citigroup’s Trauber. Any sale
might be more likely during the transition period than after
Hackett leaves, he said.  “There’s been a little bit of change here, so that always
gets people to re-think, ‘Is this a time to do something?’”
Trauber said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  might be interested in looking at
Anadarko for its Gulf holdings, Gheit said in an interview
yesterday. Patrick McGinn, a spokesman for  Exxon Mobil , didn’t
respond to a phone call and e-mail requesting comment.  Anadarko may be more likely to merge with a like-sized
independent such as  Apache Corp. (APA)  or  ConocoPhillips (COP)  after that
company spins off its refining business this year, said Bruce
Bullock, director of the Maguire Energy Institute at  Southern
Methodist University  in  Dallas . Bill Mintz, a spokesman for
Apache, and Aftab Ahmed, a spokesman for ConocoPhillips,
declined to comment in telephone interviews.  Tripled Shares  Andarko shares  more than tripled to an all-time high on
Feb. 17 of $88.05 from $23.31 on Dec. 3, 2003, when Hackett’s
hiring was announced. The shares have 22 “buy” ratings from
analysts, 7 “hold” ratings and 1 “sell.”  “The assets continue to deliver great exploration results
and they continue to build up the pipeline of big projects,”
Andrew Coleman, a Houston-based analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., said in a interview yesterday.  That pipeline may also prove to be Walker’s biggest
challenge as the company plunges further into expensive deep-
water projects and costs rise, said Phil Weiss, an analyst at
Argus Research in  New York , who rates the shares a “hold” and
owns none.  “I just worry about spending getting out of control,”
Weiss said. “The more efficient you can be from a cost
perspective, the less sensitive you are to changes in  oil
prices .”  Walker will stand for election to Anadarko’s board at the
May 15 annual meeting, the company said.  “This is a good time for the transition to a long-planned
succession, given the company’s strong exploration and
operational success and robust portfolio for long-term growth,”
Hackett said in the statement.  Anadarko is the largest U.S. independent producer by market
value. Independent oil and gas producers don’t refine fuels or
sell them at retail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  