-- Apple, Google Join California to Boost Mobile App Privacy
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-22T23:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/apple-google-agree-to-mobile-app-privacy-rules-with-california.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are among
six technology companies offering platforms for mobile
applications that agreed to a privacy protocol to protect
consumers, California Attorney General Kamala Harris said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  also joined the accord with Harris, who
said today she’s trying to bring the industry in line with a
California law requiring mobile apps that collect personal
information to have a privacy policy.  “Smart phones are everywhere and are rich in data,”
Harris said at a press conference in San Francisco. “There are
apps that once downloaded by the consumer, will also download
the consumer’s contact book. I’d suggest most consumers don’t
know that’s happening and don’t want it happening.”  The attorney general said in a statement that the agreement
with the platform companies is designed to ensure that mobile
apps comply with the  California  Online Privacy Protection Act,
which requires operators of online services to “conspicuously
post a privacy policy.”  The agreement will allow users of smartphones, tablets and
other mobile devices to review an app’s privacy policy before
they download the app, according to Harris’s statement. If app
developers don’t comply, they can be prosecuted under consumer
protection laws, she said.  ‘More Transparency’  “By ensuring that mobile apps have privacy policies, we
create more transparency and give mobile users more informed
control over who accesses their personal information,” Harris
said in the statement.  The agreement allows customers to review privacy policies
for apps before they download it rather than after, and it
requires the companies to disclose to consumers what information
they collect, how they use it and who it is shared with,
according to the statement.  In six months, the companies will meet with Harris to
“assess privacy” in mobile networks, she said in the
statement. The $6.8 billion market for mobile applications is
expected to grow to $25 billion within four years, according to
the statement.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, said in a
statement that its Android software for mobile phones already
has “an industry-leading permissions system which informs
consumers what data an app can access and requires user approval
before installation.”  ‘Informed Decisions’  “Coupled with the principles announced by the attorney
general, which we expect to complete in the coming weeks,
consumers will have even more ways to make informed decisions
when it comes to their privacy,” the company said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said it supports
Harris’s work on privacy.  “Microsoft is committed to being a leader in consumer
privacy across all of our products and services, and our
approach is aligned with these principles,” Mary Murray, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, confirmed the company is part of the agreement without
commenting further.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, said in an e-mailed
statement that protecting customer privacy is a “key
priority,” and that it will work with Harris and software
developers to “bring greater user awareness of their privacy
policies and practices.”  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-
based H-P, didn’t have an immediate response to a request for
comment on today’s announcement. Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for
Seattle-based Amazon, didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  