-- Buenos Aires Commuter Train Crash Into Buffer Kills 49 People, Hurts 460
-- B y   R i c h a r d   J a r v i e
-- 2012-02-22T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/argentina-commuter-train-crash-injures-at-least-400-after-buffer-slammed.html
Forty-nine people were killed and
more than 460 injured when a packed commuter train slammed into
the buffers and safety barriers at one of Buenos Aires’ busiest
railway stations.  The crash, the second-worst in  Argentina ’s history, may
have been caused by brake failure, Transport Secretary Juan
Pablo Schiavi told local media shortly after the crash. The
train entered the station at 26 kilometers per hour (16 miles
per hour) and probably hit the barriers at 20 kilometers per
hour, he said.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
cancelled her plans for the day and issued a decree declaring
two days of mourning for the victims of the crash. The president
additionally cancelled the planned Carnival parades scheduled to
be held in Buenos Aires Feb. 24 and Feb. 25.  “Everyone was falling over, on top of each other,” a
woman who identified herself as Paula said in comments broadcast
by Radio 10. She said she almost got off at a previous station
after hearing something clattering against the floor of the
train.  The train is owned by closely held Trenes de  Buenos Aires 
SA, which said it is investigating the cause of the accident.  The crash caused 49 fatalities and 461 people were
hospitalized, Schiavi said at a news conference at the Economy
Ministry this afternoon.  ‘Overflowing with People’  Most of the dead and severely hurt were in the first two
carriages “which were overflowing with people,” said Schiavi,
adding that between 1,200 and 1,500 passengers were on the train
at the time of the crash, which occurred at the Once terminus in
central Buenos Aires.  Emergency workers rescued some of the victims after cutting
the roof off a carriage, while helicopters and ambulances
carried away others.  Workers also lifted the injured, tightly packed inside
carriages, from the wreckage through windows.  Thousands of people went to the station and city hospitals
in search of relatives who had traveled on the train, which
crashed at about 8:30 a.m. in the middle of rush hour.  Worst Crash  Argentina’s worst railway crash occurred in 1970, when two
trains collided near Benavidez, 48 kilometers from Buenos Aires,
killing more than 200 people.  In September, at least seven people died and 214 were
injured in another Buenos Aires neighborhood when a train
crashed into a bus and then veered off the tracks to collide
with another train.  That train, which also belonged to Trenes de Buenos Aires
SA, was on a commuter line that links the center of the capital
with its western suburbs. TBA, as the company is known, is owned
by a group of Argentine businessmen and took over the services
from the government in 1995.  The company, which modernized much of its rolling stock in
the four years following the takeover, hasn’t been able to
fulfill its investment plan because the government hasn’t paid
agreed subsidies since 1999, according to TBA’s website. The
totality of revenue from ticket sales goes to paying salaries
and other payroll costs, TBA says on the website.  Schiavi said at the news conference that he had been told
by a railwaymen’s union delegate the train was inspected
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Jarvie in Buenos Aires at 
 rjarvie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 