-- Asia Currencies Drop as Greek Concern Lingers and Oil Reaches 9-Month High
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-02-22T09:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/asia-currencies-drop-as-greek-concern-lingers-and-oil-reaches-9-month-high.html
Asian currencies fell for a second
day, led by  South Korea ’s won and Indonesia’s rupiah, after
fresh financial aid for  Greece  failed to allay concern Europe’s
debt crisis will slow global growth.  The won snapped a three-day advance after euro-area finance
ministers handed Greece a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
lifeline to avoid a March bankruptcy. Oil prices reached a nine-
month high yesterday, stoking speculation inflation will
accelerate and potentially limit the scope for monetary easing.
 China ’s manufacturing probably contracted for a fourth month in
February, an HSBC Holdings Plc preliminary gauge indicated.  “The market is relieved but still skeptical about the
implementation progress in Greece,” said Sim Moh Siong, a
currency strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “There is also
renewed worry about the high  oil prices , which are a threat to
growth.”  The won declined 0.3 percent to 1,126 per dollar at the
close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 9,059 in Jakarta. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, was little changed after
losing as much as 0.1 percent.  Bank of England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said yesterday
Greece’s second bailout may not be enough to end the debt
crisis. Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Commerzbank AG said the
debt-stricken nation may fail to deliver on promised austerity
cuts amid social unrest and looming elections.  Oil Supply  Oil for April delivery reached $106.10 per barrel, the
highest level since May 5, on concern supply will decline after
 Iran  cut exports to France and Britain on Feb. 20, preempting a
European Union ban. Policy makers in Indonesia, the Philippines
and Thailand have lowered benchmark  interest rates  this year to
revive economic growth, while China and India have cut banks’
reserve-requirement ratios in the past three months.  “One of the main concerns in 2012 is essentially imported
inflation rising in Asia, essentially from the increase in oil
prices,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore.  The  Thai baht  bucked the weakening trend, advancing for a
fourth day as local stocks rose to a 15-year high. Global
investors bought $1.2 billion more local stocks than they sold
this month and purchased a net $3.6 billion of  government bonds ,
stock exchange and Thai Bond Market Association data show. The
currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 30.59 per dollar, the
strongest level since Nov. 7.  “Funds are coming into Thailand a lot so far this year,
providing support for the baht,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a
currency trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.  Elsewhere, the  Singapore  dollar slipped 0.2 percent to
S$1.2584 versus the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar and China’s yuan
were little changed at NT$29.582 and 6.2960, respectively.
India’s rupee gained 0.1 percent to 49.233 and the Philippine
peso erased losses to trade little changed at 42.63.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  