-- Massmart Says Margins Curbed by Expansion, Wal-Mart Costs
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-02-22T15:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/massmart-margins-under-pressure-from-expansion-wal-mart-transaction-costs.html
Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , South
Africa’s biggest food and general goods wholesaler, said
profitability is under pressure because of the costs of
expansion and selling control to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Net income rose 21 percent from a year earlier to 893
million rand ($115 million) in the fiscal first half ended Dec.
25, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.
Sales increased 15 percent to 31.5 billion rand. Trading profit,
or earnings before interest, taxes and some financial items,
rose 4 percent to 1.34 billion rand.  Charges in the period included 41.7 million rand related to
the sale of a 51 percent stake to  Bentonville , Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said on a
conference call. Value from the Wal-Mart transaction should be
seen in the second half, he said. Integration costs for the full
year are expected to be 170 million rand, he said.  Massmart, which operates 330 stores in 12 African countries
south of the Sahara, spent 752.2 million rand, a 33 percent
increase, in replacement and expansion costs.  “The current trends of investment in growth and capacity,
including integration costs, will continue through to the end of
the year, with sales performing well, but with operating margin
under pressure,” Massmart said.  Massmart fell 0.6 percent to 181.51 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg. That pared the stock’s gain in the past
12 months to 27 percent, compared with a 34 percent gain for the 
FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index (JGENR)  (JGENR).  Dividend  Massmart declared a first-half  dividend  of 2.52 rand a
share, unchanged from a year earlier. Sales increased 15 percent
in the 34 weeks to Feb. 19, the company said.  The company has five Makro warehouse stores offering fresh
produce, including meat products and fruit and vegetables.
Massmart is expanding this line “because to be successful in
food retail, you have to be successful in fresh,” Pattison
said.  The company started its first online store in the period.
The brand, DionWired, operates in  South Africa ’s Gauteng
province, and has had a “really good response,” with Massmart
planning to expand the offering once the parent company’s
integration with Wal-Mart is completed, Pattison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  