-- Mattel Wins Dismissal of MGA Entertainment’s $1 Billion Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-22T22:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/mattel-wins-dismissal-of-mga-entertainment-s-1-billion-antitrust-lawsuit.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  won dismissal of an
antitrust lawsuit by MGA Entertainment Inc., the toymaker that
sought $1 billion in damages alleging Mattel violated antitrust
laws in a dispute over Bratz dolls.  U.S. District Court David Carter in Santa Ana,  California ,
yesterday dismissed MGA’s complaint. The judge had thrown out
the case in October, saying MGA’s allegations should have been
raised in previous litigation, and allowed the closely held
company to file an amended complaint. This time, he didn’t grant
leave to refile.  “MGA’s first amended complaint and opposition all but asks
this court to reconsider its prior order dismissing the original
complaint,” Carter said in his ruling.  A jury in April rejected Mattel’s claims that MGA had
stolen the idea for its Bratz dolls and agreed with MGA that El
Segundo, California-based Mattel stole MGA’s trade secrets when
its employees got into the company’s showrooms at toy fairs by
using phony business cards.  In August, Carter ordered Mattel to pay MGA $225 million in
punitive damages, attorney fees and costs. That ruling brought
the total award in the trial over the Bratz doll’s origins to
$310 million. MGA filed its antitrust lawsuit in February of
last year after the  jury trial  had already begun.  MGA Chief Executive Officer  Isaac Larian  said the  Van Nuys ,
California-based company will appeal.  “The judge dismissed on technicality and wants guidance
from the court of appeal,” Larian said in an e-mailed
statement. “Mattel’s illegal and anticompetitive activities
continue worldwide and we will pursue Mattel accordingly until
they stop their monopolistic behavior.”  Alan Hilowitz, a Mattel spokesman, said the company was
pleased with the decision.  The case is MGA Entertainment v. Mattel, 11-01063, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 