-- Australia’s Rudd to Consult With Labor Colleagues on Next Steps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-22T07:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/australia-s-rudd-to-consult-with-labor-colleagues-on-next-steps.html
Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  made the following remarks in a press briefing announcing
his resignation early this morning in  Washington .  Rudd made the decision after rising speculation that he
would challenge Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  for the leadership
job she ousted him from in 2010.  On resignation:  “While I am sad to leave this office, I am sadder still
that it has come to this. The last time I resigned from a
position of public office was when I resigned as prime minister
of Australia. Regrettably, there have been some similar factors
at play today.  “It’s time for some plain speaking on this. The truth is I
can only serve as foreign minister if I have the confidence of
Prime Minister Gillard and her senior ministers. In recent days,
Minister Crean and a number of other faceless men have publicly
attacked my integrity and therefore my fitness to serve as a
minister of the government. When challenged today on these
attacks, Prime Minister Gillard chose not to repudiate them. I
can only reluctantly conclude that she shares these views.”  “The simple truth is that I cannot continue to serve as
foreign minister if I do not have Prime Minister Gillard’s
support. I therefore believe the only honorable thing, and the
only honorable course of action, is for me to resign. And I do
so with a genuinely heavy heart and after much personal
reflection.  “There are other factors, too, that I have had to take
into consideration today. The truth is the Australian people
regard this whole affair as little better than a soap opera, and
they are right, and under current circumstances I won’t be part
of it.  “It is also, I believe, a distraction from the real
business of government. I also believe it’s affecting the
business community, and I agree with recent statements by peak
bodies to this effect. It is important that business confidence
is maintained in  Australia , the economy and jobs are core to
what any responsible government is about.”  On Queensland state election and Premier Anna Bligh:  “I also believe this ongoing saga is bad for my good
friend Anna Bligh as she fights the fight of her life in
Queensland. She’s a great premier, she’s a good friend, and I
believe the good people of Queensland deserve some clear space
over the coming month, as they make up their minds on a very
important decision on the future of Queensland, my home state, a
state I’m very proud to be from.” The state vote is scheduled
for March 24.  On Labor factions and future:  “I will return home to Brisbane tomorrow, arriving back
there on Friday morning. Over the days ahead I will be
consulting openly and honestly with my family, with my community,
and my parliamentary colleagues, taking their counsel on what I
should do next, on what my next steps should be. I’ll then make
a full statement to the Australian people on my future before
parliament resumes next Monday.  “I deeply believe that if the  Australian Labor Party , a
party of which I have been a proud member for more than 30 years,
is to have the best future for our nation, then it must change
fundamentally its culture and to end the power of faceless men.
Australia must be governed by the people, not by the factions,
but I can promise you this, there is no way, no way that I will
ever be party to a stealth attack on a sitting prime minister
elected by the people. We all know that what happened then was
wrong, and it must never happen again.”  On Labor’s choice  “There is one overriding question for my caucus colleagues,
and that is, who is best placed to defeat  Tony Abbott  at the
next election. Mr. Abbott, I believe, does not have the
temperament or the experience to ever be elected and hold the
office, the high office, of prime minister of Australia. But at
present, and for a long time now, he has been on track, to do
just that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  