-- Mazda Shares Decline After Carmaker Plans Record Share Sale: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-23T00:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/mazda-plans-record-2b-share-sale.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,  Japan ’s least
profitable major carmaker, fell to a two-week low in  Tokyo 
trading after the company said it may raise a record 162.8
billion yen ($2 billion) selling new stock.  Mazda dropped as much as 8.2 percent to 135 yen, the lowest
since Feb. 6, as of 9:07 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
company said yesterday it may sell as many as 1.22 billion new
shares, which would increase the number of Mazda’s outstanding
shares by almost 70 percent.  The nation’s most export-reliant carmaker is bracing for a
100 billion yen  annual loss  after the yen appreciated against
all major currencies during 2011, which has also driven down
earnings at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. The proceeds
may help the company avoid a debt-rating downgrade and allow
Mazda to fund overseas factories needed reduce its vulnerability
to the Japanese currency.  “The company needs to speed up overseas expansion, partly
because its reliance on exports drove the company into its
situation,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co., said yesterday. “It’s going to take some time
to evaluate whether the sale was the right decision.”  A sale of 1.22 billion shares to raise 162.8 billion yen
equates to a per-share price of about 133 yen, or almost 10
percent lower than the last close. The maximum value of the
sale, scheduled for pricing as early as March 5, is equivalent
to 62 percent of Mazda’s market capitalization yesterday.  Stock Dilution  Shimizu said the scale of the stock sale is bigger than
expected. The stock, the worst performer last year among major
Japanese carmakers, continues to underperform rivals in 2012.
Mazda on Feb. 21  dropped  9.9 percent, the most in almost a year,
after broadcaster NHK reported the company was preparing to
raise as much as 100 billion yen through a capital increase.  The sale may reduce the risk of a credit-rating downgrade
that would raise borrowing costs for a company already saddled
with about 60 percent more debt than equity, a level of
indebtedness second only to  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  among
Japan’s eight biggest automakers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan’s Rating & Investment Information Inc. on Feb. 2 said
it may cut Mazda’s rating of BBB, which is two levels above
junk, after five quarters of losses eroded the company’s equity
-- also known as book value -- to less than 20 percent of
assets. Mazda’s debt isn’t  rated  by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service.  Credit Rating  The proportion of stockholder’s equity relative to total
assets is among the most important measures determining
company’s credit rating, according to R&I’s website. While a
capital increase is positive for Mazda’s creditworthiness, it
isn’t the only measure to gauge the company’s ability to
generate cash, said  Jun Tanaka , chief analyst at R&I in Tokyo.  The share sale announcement came less than a month after
Mazda President Takashi Yamanouchi told reporters in Tokyo
during the company’s earnings presentation that repairing
Mazda’s capital “is a must” and that the company was weighing
its options to boost capital.  Mazda on Feb. 2 widened its full-year loss forecast,  citing 
the growing “financial instability” in  Europe  and shortfalls
from last year’s floods in  Thailand  among reasons for the
company to lower its projections. Mazda’s Yamanouchi said then
he’s confident the company would return to profitability next
fiscal year, an expectation not shared by CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, which expects Mazda to post losses through the year
ending March 2014.  Yen Risk  Mazda has posted  losses  partly because of its vulnerability
to the yen, which has appreciated against all major currencies
in the past two years. To reduce the  currency risk , Mazda plans
to increase its portion of overseas production to 50 percent by
March 2016 from about 30 percent now. The company is also
counting on its  Skyactiv technology  -- designed to improve  fuel
efficiency , driving performance and reducing production costs --
to help revive profits.  Mazda said yesterday it plans to use the proceeds from the
fundraising on projects such as a new factory in  Mexico  and in
its Skyactiv technology.  On Feb. 16, Yamanouchi said the company was in talks to
form an alliance, though he ruled out the discussions would lead
to the purchase of equity. He also ruled out forming another
partnership involving a capital tie-up because of Mazda’s
existing relations with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  The Dearborn, Michigan-
based carmaker still owns 3.5 percent of the Japanese company
after reducing its stake from more than 33 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  