-- BAA Slims Edinburgh Airport Bids, Nears Stansted Decision
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-22T11:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/baa-slims-down-edinburgh-airport-bids-nears-stansted-decision.html
BAA Ltd., the owner of  London ’s
Heathrow airport, said it has drawn up a shortlist of bids for
its Edinburgh terminal after an auction produced strong interest
in a base that serves  Scotland ’s chief administrative center.  “We have a smaller number of bidders going into a second
round and we’re pleased with the progress,” Chief Executive
Officer Colin Matthews said in a phone interview. “The success
of the capital city has been reflected in the success of its
airport, that’s what buyers are going to be valuing.”  BAA is auctioning Edinburgh, which is worth at least 500
million pounds ($786 million), according to analysts, after
antitrust regulators ruled that the company should be broken up.
The start of the sale process lured bidders including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s infrastructure fund, London Gatwick owner Global
Infrastructure Partners Ltd.,  3i Infrastructure Plc (3IN)  and  Carlyle
Group , people familiar with the sale process said last month.  Passenger numbers at Edinburgh rose 9.2 percent to a record
9.4 million last year. BAA, bought by Spanish construction group
 Ferrovial SA (FER)  for 10.1 billion pounds in 2006, predicts the
number will rise to 12.3 million by the decade’s end.  Incheon International Airport Corp.  of  Korea  and Arcus
Infrastructure Fund, which acquired Edinburgh-based Forth Ports
Plc last year, were also among early bidders, people have said.  Matthews said today he aims to reach a decision “relatively
quickly” on whether to continue opposing the forced sale of
London’s Stansted airport after losing its most recent appeal
against a U.K. Competition Commission ruling on Feb. 1.  While Stansted is “a valuable asset” that should grow
faster than capacity-constrained competitors in coming years, as
a leisure hub it’s “strongly dependent” on the state of a U.K.
economy that “has not yet really started to recover,” he said.  BAA (SP) Ltd., the part of the company that owns regulated
London airports, said today its loss shrank to 191.5 million
pounds in 2011 from 321.8 million pounds a year earlier.  Sales rose 9.9 percent to 2.28 billion pounds, spurred by
higher retail spending, milder winter weather and a record 69.4
million passengers at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  