-- Banking Crisis May Return for Encore, Santa Cruz’s Dooley Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-22T19:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/banking-crisis-may-return-for-encore-santa-cruz-s-dooley-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. banking crisis may repeat
itself as the turmoil of 2008 fades and partisanship divides
lawmakers, according to the  University of California  Santa
Cruz’s Michael Dooley.  While the Dodd-Frank  Wall Street  Reform and Consumer
Protection Act passed in 2010 is “far-reaching,” Dooley said
he has doubts about how well it will be put into effect. The
reforms for the financial industry are very complicated and
contradictory in some places, he said.  “The cynical view is that we will swing pretty hard toward
enforcing the regulations, but we will again forget over a five-
to 10-year time period, and this will happen again,” Dooley, an
economics professor and the head of research at Cabezon Capital
Management in  San Francisco , said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“That’s a reasonable bet.”  The reform law was spurred by the crisis that triggered the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and dragged down Wall
Street and the  U.S. economy . In response, Congress approved $700
billion in aid for banks. President  Barack Obama  signed the
Dodd-Frank measure in July 2010, vowing the new rules will end
taxpayer bailouts of financial companies.  Since then, the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  has risen more
than 20 percent. In comparison, the gauge’s financial  sector  has
advanced 1.4 percent.  The most effective way for financial institutions to
maximize profits is through leverage, which eventually leads to
trouble, Dooley said. The idea of eliminating leverage sounds
simple, but quickly becomes a question of “good accounting and
supervision,” he said. It isn’t a “cooperative game,” the
professor said.  ‘You Accept Limits’  “The general principle is quite clear: If you get
government protection, you accept limits on your behavior,”
Dooley said. “We just have to make sure we spend the money and
train the people to enforce the rules.”  Dooley said he understood public outrage at the government
rescue of financial companies after the crisis.  “The Congress, to be blunt, in return for financial
support, weakened the regulatory structure of the U.S. to the
extent they were able to do whatever they wanted to do,” Dooley
said of banks before the crisis. “They made some bad choices,
and it cost us a lot. It doesn’t surprise me at all that people
are angry with the lack of supervision of the financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  