-- Barclays, JPMorgan Complete $1 Billion Loan to Help California Pay Bills
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-22T18:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/barclays-jpmorgan-complete-1-billion-loan-to-help-california-pay-bills.html
California (STOCA1)  sold $1 billion of short-
term notes to Barclays Plc and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to pay bills
after tax collections in the biggest U.S. state by population
trailed budgeted amounts, according to the treasurer’s office.  The banks will earn 0.2 percent interest on the so-called
revenue-anticipation notes, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a
statement. The state will repay the notes by June 30, he said.  The loan was needed after Controller John Chiang said in
January that because tax collections trailed budget projections
and spending exceeded estimates, the state would face a $3.3
billion cash shortfall by mid-April. It’s the third such sale
this fiscal year, which began July 1.  “We’re pleased we’ve completed this part of the cash-
management solution,”  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer,
said in the statement. “We believe we obtained a good deal for
taxpayers.”  Lockyer in July secured a $5.4 billion interim loan from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and six other banks
and investors. The treasurer took the loan anticipating a
possible credit-market disruption as Congress debated raising
the nation’s debt ceiling.  Previous Sale  Two months later he borrowed another $5.4 billion through
revenue-anticipation notes that were supposed to carry the state
through June. State and local governments commonly sell such
notes to bolster  cash flow  until more tax receipts arrive later
in the fiscal year.  California  repaid the interim loan with
proceeds from that sale.  The latest loan would be repaid before June 30, though not
until after the September notes, which mature June 26.  Earlier this month, lawmakers passed and Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a bill that lets the state shift $865 million in
internal accounts to help avert the cash shortfall. Chiang also
has said he temporarily delayed making more than $1 billion in
scheduled payments to public colleges, counties and health
programs for the poor.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest public pension in the U.S., with $235.5 billion of
assets, agreed last month to let the state delay making a $527
million payment until April to cover worker benefits.  Lockyer also sold $860 million of taxable revenue bonds
today for the University of California. Called “century bonds”
because they mature in 100 years, the debt was priced to yield
4.86 percent, or about 165 basis points more than 30-year U.S.
 Treasuries (USGG30YR)  as of yesterday, Dresslar said in the statement. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Lockyer boosted the size of the sale by $500 million
because of demand, Dresslar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  