-- Belgian Business Confidence Rises More Than Estimated on Exports
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-02-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/belgian-business-confidence-rises-more-than-estimated-on-exports.html
Belgian business confidence
increased in February as manufacturers, boosted by export
orders, offset declines in trade, construction and business-
related services.  The  confidence index  for  Belgium  rose to minus 7.7 from
minus 9.5 in January, the Brussels-based  National Bank of
Belgium  said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists
projected an increase to minus 8.5, the median of 15 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The upturn in the business climate hinged entirely on the
manufacturing industry, where the improvement was particularly
strong,” the central bank said in the statement. “In this
branch of activity, entrepreneurs are expecting a sharp rise in
demand. Furthermore, finished-product stock levels were
considered to be significantly lower than last month.”  The gauge of manufacturers’ confidence improved to minus
8.4 from minus 13.6, the biggest jump since November 2009.
Demand expectations rose to minus 6.1, the highest level since
July, from minus 14.5, and an indicator of trends in export
orders rose to minus 5.9 from minus 13.1.  A measure of expectations among executives in the business-
related services industry dropped to minus 0.6 from 5.9, while
confidence fell in the trade and building sectors.  Consumer confidence  in the country dropped to the lowest in
almost three years this month amid growing pessimism on the
outlook for employment and the economy.  Solvay SA, the chemicals maker that bought Rhodia SA, said
last week that it’s seeing demand recovering in units where it
curbed output to clear inventory last quarter.  “We’re seeing signs that the first quarter will develop in
a bit more favorable environment than the last part of 2011,”
Solvay Deputy Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu told
reporters in Brussels on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  