-- Wager on Pound to Weaken Versus Norwegian Krone, Goldman Sachs Recommends
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-22T22:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/bet-on-pound-to-fall-versus-norwegian-krone-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should wager the British
pound will weaken further against  Norway ’s krone as the
Scandinavian country’s central bank finds itself unable to stem
the currency’s strength, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  The krone rose versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts today as crude oil climbed to a nine-month high and
stronger-than-estimated labor-market data fueled speculation
Norges Bank may refrain from cutting  interest rates  next month,
after reducing them a half-percentage point in December to 1.75
percent. Norway is the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter.  “The surprising 50 basis-point rate cut by Norges Bank in
December now looks too aggressive,” strategists headed by
 Thomas Stolper , London-based chief foreign-exchange strategist
at Goldman Sachs International, wrote today in a note to
clients. “With the currency already strong relative to recent
ranges, Norges Bank likely has little scope to use monetary
policy to prevent further Norwegian krone strength.”  In the U.K., the strategists noted, minutes from this
month’s Bank of England meeting released today showed two policy
makers wanted a larger increase in asset purchases than the
amount finally approved.  The krone gained 1.5 percent to 8.8532 to the pound today
and touched 8.8497, the strongest level since Oct. 31. It has
strengthened 4.9 percent this year against the U.K. currency.
The pound fell against all of its major peers.  Stolper recommended that investors bet against the pound
with an initial target of 8.6 kroner and a stop order at a one-
day close above 9 in case sterling gains.  Robin Brooks , a note author based in New York, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Sterling Slides  Sterling weakened today after the BOE minutes showed  Adam
Posen  and  David Miles  voted for a 75 billion-pound ($118
billion) boost in quantitative easing, versus the 50 billion
pounds supported by the other seven members of the bank.  Crude oil for April delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent to
$106.72 a barrel in New York, the highest level since May 5.
Norway’s  unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to 3.3 percent in
the December quarter, data showed. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicted no change from the previous period’s 3.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  