-- BP, Anadarko Petroleum Liable for Pollution Law Violations, Judge Rules
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/bp-anadarko-petroleum-liable-for-pollution-law-violations-judge-rules.html
BP Plc (BP\)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
are liable for Clean Water Act violations, a judge ruled,
allowing the U.S. to seek fines of as much as $1,100 per barrel
of oil spilled in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010.  BP and Anadarko, partners in the doomed Macondo Well
project, are responsible by law for polluting the water because
they owned the well, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans said yesterday. The ruling allows the government to seek
fines without having to prove the issue of liability at trial.  Transocean Ltd., the Switzerland-based owner and operator
of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded, can’t be
held liable for Clean Water Act violations yet, Barbier wrote in
yesterday’s ruling. The issue has to be determined at trial.  BP (BP/)  and Anadarko are liable for civil penalties under the
law “because they are both owners of the offshore facility from
which oil discharged,” Barbier said.  “There are disputed facts as to whether Transocean meets”
the definition of an operator of the offshore facility, Barbier
said. “Accordingly the court cannot resolve this issue on
summary judgment.”  The  Justice Department  asked Barbier to find the companies
violated the Clean Water Act on the basis of so-called strict
liability because they were operators of the doomed project.
Strict liability is a legal term for automatic responsibility.  Enhanced Fines  Barbier, who’s overseeing much of the  spill litigation , has
scheduled a nonjury trial for Feb. 27 to determine liability and
apportion fault for the disaster. He will also determine whether
any defendants were grossly negligent, which would leave the
companies subject to enhanced fines under the Clean Water Act.  “This decision states clearly that BP is the responsible
party and reaffirms the long-standing legal, regulatory and
economic framework that has been employed by parties in the
offshore oil and gas industry for decades,” Lou Colasuonno, a
Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mail. “It is a vital win for
Transocean.”  John Christiansen , Anadarko’s spokesman, said he hadn’t
seen the judge’s ruling and couldn’t immediately comment.  “Long before this motion and its resolution today, BP had
committed to paying all legitimate claims and helping economic
and environmental restoration efforts in the  Gulf Coast ,”  Daren Beaudo , a spokesman for London-based BP, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “BP continues to stand behind that commitment.”  $8 Billion Paid  “To date, BP has paid out more than $8 billion in claims
to individuals, businesses, and governments,” he said.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said
“We’re reviewing the ruling.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.
The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and Anadarko, which owned 25
percent of the well.  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and Anadarko in December 2010,
alleging violations of federal pollution laws. The Clean Water
Act allows the government to seek per-barrel spilled fines of as
much as $1,100 on a finding of strict liability to $4,300 for
gross negligence.  The government estimates that 4.1 million barrels were
spilled before the well was capped. BP set aside $3.5 billion
for Clean Water Act fines, assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own
estimate of 3.2 million barrels, according to an annual report
extract posted on the company website.  Anadarko’s Argument  BP, Anadarko and Transocean argued that they should be able
to defend themselves at trial against the federal claims.  “Anadarko cannot be held liable for penalties under the
 Clean Water Act ,” David Salmons, a lawyer for the company said
at a Jan. 19 hearing. Anadarko had no control over the
operation, he said. Salmons said the discharge of oil began from
the top of the rig.  Transocean isn’t liable for penalties under the Clean Water
Act, because the discharge was below the water’s surface, Kerry
Miller, the company’s attorney, said at the hearing.  “The source of this discharge was the Macondo well,”
Miller told Barbier.  For purposes of the Clean Water Act, “and with respect to
the subsurface discharge, oil discharged from the Macondo well,
an offshore facility,” Barbier said. “The subsurface discharge
was not from the vessel, the Deepwater Horizon.”  This leaves BP and Anadarko liable for penalties under the
law, Barbier said. Transocean “might” be liable, depending on
whether the company is determined to be an operator of the
facility, he said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  