-- Brazil Inflation Drop Shows Rate Cuts Are Right, Templeton Says
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-02-22T14:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/brazil-inflation-drop-shows-rate-cuts-are-right-templeton-says.html
Brazil ’s falling inflation and
slower economic activity since the start of the year show the
central bank is correct in its policy of lowering the benchmark
Selic interest rate, said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho,
senior economist at Franklin Templeton Investimentos Brasil.  “After consecutive interest-rate cuts, inflation is
falling, economic activity is falling,” Gomes Filho said in a
telephone interview from São Paulo. “This shows the central
bank has the correct strategy.”  Brazil’s central bank signaled that the Selic may reach a
single digit this year, compared with 10.5 percent currently,
according to the minutes of its last monetary policy meeting
published Jan. 26. Lower rates wouldn’t prevent inflation from
converging towards the center of its target of 4.5 percent in
2012, Central Bank Director Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva said
Feb. 4.  The Monetary Policy Committee has lowered the benchmark
rate by 2 percentage points since August, after policy makers
began a cycle of cuts to help shield Brazil from the effects of
the European debt crisis. Brazil’s  consumer prices  rose less
than expected through mid-February, with inflation of 0.53
percent, compared with 0.65 percent a month ago, according to
data released Feb. 17. Annual inflation slowed to below 6
percent for the first time since December 2010.  The Selic may fall to as low as 9 percent this year as a
result of lower inflation and expected economic growth of about
3 percent, according to Gomes Filho. Food prices will help bring
inflation to 0.33 percent at the end of February, he said. He
forecasts inflation of 5 percent for 2012.  “The central bank is more comfortable to continue cutting
rates,” he said. “A reduction to as low as 9 percent is
reasonable, but it could fall further if the situation outside
Brazil deteriorates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  