-- British Columbia Deficit to Narrow Before Swing to Surplus
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/british-columbia-deficit-to-narrow-before-swing-to-surplus.html
British Columbia will narrow its
 budget deficit  in the next fiscal year before swinging to
surplus amid asset sales and higher business taxes, Finance
Minister Kevin Falcon said.  Canada’s third-largest province by population will see a
C$968 million ($969 million) shortfall in the year that begins
April 1, down from a projected C$2.5 billion gap in the current
year,  budget documents  show. The plan projects a C$154 million
surplus in the 2013-14 fiscal year and a C$250 million surplus
the following year.  British Columbia will keep its small-business  tax rate  at
2.5 percent, rather than allowing it to drop to zero at the end
of March, Falcon said yesterday, and may increase the corporate
tax rate to 11 percent from 10 percent as of April 1, 2014.  The increase in the corporate rate will happen “only if
our fiscal situation worsens,”  Falcon said  in prepared remarks
in the provincial legislature in Victoria, the province’s
capital. “We do this with some reluctance, after seeing the
benefits of going from one of the highest-taxed jurisdictions in
the 1990s to one of the lowest-taxed today.”  The fiscal plan assumes inflation-adjusted economic growth
will ease to 1.8 percent in 2012, 0.4 percentage point less than
the 2.2 percent private-sector  consensus  given to the
government, following 2 percent growth last year. It also
contains a C$200 million “forecast allowance” and a C$300
million contingency spending fund.  “We are being extremely prudent and cautious in our growth
projections for the economy,” Falcon told reporters ahead of
his comments in the legislature.  Spending Increases  Falcon said the budget lays the foundation for a maximum 2
percent annual increase in  government spending  over the next
three years.  “We’re able to achieve this in part by maintaining our
disciplined approach to public-sector wages, which account for
over 50 percent of total government spending,” Falcon said
yesterday.  The government plans to sell C$8.5 billion of debt in the
2012-13 fiscal year, up from an estimated C$7.1 billion this
year, to help fund  capital spending  on projects such as the Port
Mann Bridge near Vancouver. The province, which sold two U.S.-
dollar global bonds during current fiscal year, expects to sell
C$7.7 billion of debt in 2013-14 and about C$7 billion the
following year.  The government also  plans  to raise C$700 million through
asset sales, including its liquor warehousing operations.  Debt Ratio  British Columbia’s debt will rise to 26.2 percent of gross
domestic product by April 2013 from 24.1 percent, the budget
projects. Excluding the debt of agencies such as B.C. Hydro,
which generate their own revenue, the taxpayer-supported debt-
to-GDP ratio will rise to 17.6 percent from a projected 16.4
percent.  By comparison, Ontario,  Canada ’s most-populous province,
has a C$16 billion deficit, a net debt-to-GDP ratio of about 37
percent and an unemployment rate of 8.1 percent. B.C.’s jobless
rate was 6.9 percent in January.  Falcon forecasts total government spending to decline to
C$43.9 billion next fiscal year from an estimated C$44.4
billion, while increasing outlays for health care and education.
The expected drop reflects money spent this year to reverse the
merger of the provincial sales tax and the federal goods-and-
services tax following a referendum in August.  “We’re in a new age of austerity for governments in
Canada,” Jock Finlayson, president of the Business Council of
British Columbia, told reporters. “Most provinces are looking
to ramp down spending numbers, so B.C.’s not alone.”  Last week Falcon announced that the so-called Harmonized
 Sales Tax , or HST, will be ended by March 31 next year.  Capital Spending  British Columbia plans C$3.8 billion in taxpayer-supported
capital spending next fiscal year after current-year spending of
C$3.4 billion.  Provincial government revenue in the province of about 4.4
million people will expand to C$43.1 billion, up from an
estimated C$41.9 billion in the current fiscal year, buoyed by
modest increases in royalties from the province’s forest sector
and the natural gas industry, budget documents show.  Total debt is projected to rise to as much as C$66.4
billion by April 2015, according to budget documents.  The province’s Canadian-dollar debt is rated AAA by
Standard & Poor’s and Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service.  Commodities make up about two-thirds of the province’s
exports, which represent about 37 percent of British Columbia’s
economy, according to Statistics Canada data, supporting
companies such as  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest-
diversified miner, and  West Fraser Timber Co. (WFT) ,  North America ’s
largest maker of lumber for homebuilding.  Also included in the budget are incentives for first-time
house buyers, home renovations for seniors as well as new
provincial tax credits to encourage children to get involved in
sports and the arts.  The Liberals hold a majority of seats in the provincial
legislature, with the pro-union New  Democratic Party  forming the
main opposition. The next provincial election is scheduled for
May 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Victoria at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  