-- BTA Bank’s Ex-Chairman Ablyazov Said to Flee U.K. After Getting Jail Term
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-22T14:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/bta-bank-ex-chairman-ablyazov-said-to-flee-u-k-jail-sentence.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the ex-chairman of
BTA Bank, hasn’t been found by authorities and may be on the run
after failing to attend a U.K. hearing where he was sentenced to
22 months in jail, a person familiar with the case said.  British law enforcement authorities are still looking for
Ablyazov after a warrant for his arrest for breaching an asset
freeze order was issued in  London  on Feb. 16 -- the day he
failed to appear at a sentencing hearing in the Kazakh bank’s
contempt-of-court case against him, said the person, who isn’t
permitted to speak publicly about the lawsuit.  Officers at the Royal Courts of Justice who search for and
arrest people facing warrants haven’t found Ablyazov and are
“actively working on it,” court spokeswoman Sally Land said
today in a phone interview.  BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009, filed
a series of civil suits against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive
Officer Roman Solodchenko claiming they stole from the Almaty-
based bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and offshore
companies. Both men have denied the claims.  Ablyazov’s lawyer, Duncan Matthews, didn’t return a call
for comment and Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan, of RLF
Partnership Ltd. in London, didn’t provide a comment when
reached by e-mail today.  At last week’s hearing, Matthews told Judge Nigel Teare
that Ablyazov had informed him by phone a few minutes before the
session began that he wouldn’t attend.  Deliberate, Brazen  Teare ruled that Ablyazov made “deliberate and brazen”
breaches of the asset freeze by lying about his property
holdings, moving his money around and lying under oath in a $5
billion fraud lawsuit filed by BTA, once the biggest bank in
 Kazakhstan .  Ablyazov, who fled to Britain to escape prosecution in his
home country, owns a mansion in London and a home in the British
countryside, each valued at about 20 million pounds, and two
apartments in the capital worth 1 million pounds each. Teare,
oversaw a two-week trial in December, ruled he lied by claiming
he didn’t own the properties.  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  