-- Christie: Buffett Should ‘Write a Check and Shut Up’
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-02-22T19:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/buffett-should-just-write-a-check-and-shut-up-governor-christie-says.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who called for the
nation’s wealthiest people to pay more taxes, should “just
write a check and shut up.”  “I’m tired of hearing about it,” Christie told  CNN ’s
Piers Morgan in an interview that aired last night. “If he
wants to give the government more money, he’s got the ability to
write a check. Go ahead and write it.”  Christie, a 49-year-old first-term Republican known for a
blunt and caustic style, has proposed a 10 percent income-tax
cut for every New Jersey resident. Democrats who control the
Legislature say his plan would favor the rich. A family with a
$50,000 annual income would pay $80 less under his plan, while
someone earning $1 million would save $7,200, Democrats say.  Democrats “want you to be angry because your neighbor
makes more than you do,” Christie said today at a town-hall
meeting in Palisades Park. “That’s not the New Jersey I know,
and it’s not the America that I know.”  Christie’s comments have brought him national attention. In
October, he spurned calls to run for president, and has endorsed
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  The New Jersey chief executive has called a lawmaker 
“numbnuts,” urged reporters to “take the bat out” on a 
76-year-old legislator and called union leaders “political
thugs.”  Buffett, the 81-year-old chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , has urged Congress to raise taxes on millionaires to cut
the U.S. deficit. In a New York Times op-ed last year, Buffett
wrote that his federal income-tax bill was $6.94 million, or
17.4 percent of his taxable income -- a lower rate than any of
the other 20 employees in his Omaha, Nebraska, office.  Buffett Rule  Buffett, a Democrat, endured scorn from Republicans last
year after he called the Tea Party approach to budget talks
“insane” and proposed raising $500 billion by taxing the
richest Americans. President  Barack Obama  has called for a
minimum rate of 30 percent for those with incomes of $1 million
or more a year and dubbed the idea “the Buffett Rule.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  dismissed Christie’s
comment when asked about it today at a briefing.  “That’s a quip that tries to draw attention away from what
is a very serious issue, which is the need to have a  tax code 
that’s fair,” Carney said. “Quips aside, we think the Buffett
Rule is absolutely an important principle to apply to
individual  tax reform .”  Pay More Taxes  Christie, during a press briefing in Palisades Park today,
repeated that Buffett should pay more taxes if he wants to.  “Cut a check and shut up -- that’s what I say,” Christie
said. “I’m tired of hearing it. If he wants to pay more taxes,
pay more. I know I’ve given up any chance for post-gubernatorial
employment at Berkshire Hathaway.”  Carrie Kizer, Buffett’s assistant, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail or telephone call seeking comment on Christie’s
statements.  The governor, who vetoed a bill to legalize gay marriage
and wants it put to a popular vote, told its supporters last
month that blacks would have been pleased to have their civil
rights decided that way.  “People would have been happy with a referendum on civil
rights rather than fighting and dying in the streets of the
South,” Christie told reporters Jan. 24 in Bridgewater.  He was accused of ignorance by leaders including Georgia
Representative  John Lewis , a civil-rights movement veteran who
was beaten by Alabama state troopers. Lewis came to Trenton to
denounce the governor, who later apologized.  Jon Stewart , a New Jersey native and host of the satirical
 Daily Show , lampooned Christie last night for his veto.  “I was very proud last Friday to say the state
Legislature, the state where I grew up, voted to legalize gay
marriage,” Stewart said. “Unfortunately, like most events in
New Jersey, it was immediately thrown off course by a loud
Italian guy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  