-- Bunge Buys Climate Change Capital After C02 Prices Plunge
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-22T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/bunge-buys-climate-change-capital-after-c02-prices-plunge-1-.html
Bunge Ltd. (BG) , the world’s second-
largest oilseed processor, won approval to acquire Climate
Change Capital, a London fund manager that manages the world’s
largest private-sector carbon fund, after C02 prices slumped to
a record.  The deal is expected to close in the coming weeks after
being cleared by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, the
 White Plains , New York-based company said today in a statement.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Climate Change Capital, which manages a 750 million-euro
($992 million) carbon fund, said it has “obviously been
impacted” by the 57 percent plunge in United Nations Certified
Emission Reduction credits in the past year. Bunge has been
active as both a buyer of carbon credits and as an adviser.  “It looks like a fire sale,” said Laurent Segalen, the
London-based managing director of the  Euro Carbon Macro  Fund.
The carbon funds managed by  Climate Change  Capital have lost
money and the manager probably needed capital, Segalen said
today by phone.  The Sunday Times reported in December that Bunge was
interested in buying Climate Change Capital for its expertise in
finding and developing emission-reduction projects in  emerging
markets  that generate carbon credits.  Climate Change Capital’s carbon finance team has committed
more than 850 million euros to companies and projects generating
emission reduction credits under the United Nations Clean
Developments Mechanism, the world’s largest greenhouse-gas
offsetting market.  Record Low  The UN credits slid to a record low of 3.28 euros a metric
ton on Jan. 16, according to data from ICE Futures  Europe  in
London, the biggest exchange for carbon trading.  They have fallen in value because the European Union carbon
market in which they are used is oversupplied by 9.1 percent in
the five years through this year, according to a model by
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . Banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and UBS Securities LLC have trimmed traders and
analysts in climate-related businesses, as permit prices as well
as shares in clean energy companies fall.  Climate Change Capital also manages a 200 million-euro
private equity fund that invests in clean technology. Its funds
won’t be merged with those belonging to Bunge, said Denise Cocker, a  spokeswoman for Climate Change.  The carbon fund is split between a private equity fund and
a managed account, according to Cocker.  “The fund is obviously impacted by the carbon price,” she
said.  Assets in Climate Change Capital’s underlying investment
vehicles are owned by investors. As such they are not subject to
consolidation in Bunge’s financial statements, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  