-- Businessman Who Sparked Pakistan Coup Memo Controversy Testifies
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-02-22T12:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/businessman-who-sparked-pakistan-coup-memo-controversy-testifies.html
The businessman who claimed that
Pakistan’s president sought U.S. help to avert a possible coup
last year testified before the commission probing his account,
which sparked a power struggle between elected and army leaders.  Pakistani-American  Mansoor Ijaz , who refused to travel to
Pakistan because of security concerns, gave his statement
through a video link from Pakistan’s high commission in  London .  Pakistan’s Supreme Court Dec. 30 ordered a judicial
commission to probe allegations by Ijaz that President Asif Ali
Zardari’s former envoy to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , sent a memo
to senior Pentagon officials seeking help to prevent any
military power grab after the U.S. raid that killed  Osama bin Laden  in May.  Ijaz today showed the commission’s members evidence to back
up his allegations, the Geo television channel reported,
including BlackBerry messages exchanged with Haqqani.  Haqqani’s lawyer said he would “object to the method being
used” to record Ijaz’s statement. “I want to cross examine
him. You can’t do that in a proper way in a videoconference,”
Zahid Bukhari told reporters today.  The dispute over the memo triggered the sharpest civil-
military confrontation since army rule ended in 2008. Zardari
opposed the judicial inquiry, while military chief General
Ashfaq Pervez Kayani supported it.  Tensions eased after Prime Minster Yousuf Raza Gilani
retracted remarks in which he accused generals of violating the
constitution by submitting their statements on Ijaz’s claims
directly to the  Supreme Court  rather than through his
government.  Haqqani, who was forced to resign over the memo, and the
government deny involvement in its drafting or delivery. Haqqani
served as an adviser to Zardari and in the 1990s was a spokesman
for Zardari’s late wife,  Benazir Bhutto , during her tenure as
prime minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  