-- Cable & Wireless Tempts Vodafone With Lowest Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-23T21:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cable-wireless-tempts-vodafone-with-lowest-valuation-real-m-a.html
With  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) 
languishing as the world’s cheapest telecommunications carrier,
Vodafone Group Plc and private equity firms may not be able to
resist making offers for the British fiber-network operator.  After losing 70 percent of its market value in less than
two years,  Cable & Wireless ’s equity and net debt is now valued
at 1.8 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the lowest of any telecommunications carrier in
the world greater than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone company,
said this month it’s in the early stages of evaluating a bid for
the London-based company.  While  earnings  are slumping at Cable & Wireless assets from
the largest U.K. core fiber network to an overseas enterprise
unit,  Vodafone (VOD)  needs to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K.
to relieve the strain of surging data traffic. The 722 million-
pound ($1.1 billion) company, trading at a  22 percent discount 
to its net assets after replacing two chief executive officers
since June, may also lure private equity firms, said Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. With Espirito Santo estimating a price
tag of 1.4 billion pounds, Cable & Wireless would still be the
industry’s least expensive acquisition since 2008, the data show.  “After two years of disappointment, profit warnings, and a
revolving door in the executive suite, on a valuation basis it
looked almost silly,” Evan Miller, a London-based managing
director at Gamco Investors Inc., which owns Cable & Wireless
shares, said in a telephone interview. “It was among the
unloved, at least until now.”  Slumping Valuation  Will Cameron, a spokesman for Cable & Wireless, and Simon Gordon of Newbury, England-based Vodafone declined to comment on
the probability or price of a potential offer.  Once worth 2.4 billion pounds after separating from its
parent company in March 2010, Cable & Wireless has since lost
1.7 billion pounds in market value. In November the company
suspended future dividend payments as sales fell in its
traditional voice network and announced that John Pluthero was
stepping down as CEO after less than six months at the helm. The
operator said Feb. 16 that profitability in its voice business
has declined as contracts are renegotiated.  Cable & Wireless is now valued at  1.8 times  its Ebitda of
466 million pounds in the most recently reported 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That makes it the cheapest of the
world’s 131 telecommunications carriers with market values
higher than $1 billion and for which Ebitda multiples are
available. The industry median is 5.5 times, the data show.  ‘It’s Cheap’  “If Vodafone is serious about making a bid and you believe
they will, it’s cheap,” Nick Brown, an analyst at Espirito
Santo in  London , said in a phone interview. “The value to
Vodafone is more than the current stock at this level.”  Cable & Wireless climbed as high as 29.39 pence on Feb. 14
after the Sunday Times of London first reported that Vodafone
and private equity firm Apax Partners LLP may bid for the
company. Vodafone then confirmed that it’s considering a cash
bid and said there’s no certainty an offer will be made.  Ben Harding , a spokesman for London-based Apax, declined to comment
on takeover speculation.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to 26.68 pence today after
earlier gaining as much as 6.4 percent.  Even after Cable & Wireless gained  62 percent  this year,
the shares are still valued at 0.78 times  book value , trailing
the industry median of 2.2 times, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Submarine Cable Roots  Cable & Wireless, which traces its roots to  1866  when the
first submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean was laid, has
holdings in more than 60 global cable systems. That legacy
international business as well as the British network, the
largest fiber system dedicated to businesses, may appeal to
Vodafone, Paul Marsch, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank,
said in a phone interview.  Vodafone lacks a fixed-line presence in the U.K., its only
major European market not to have such a network. The operator,
which said this month that data revenue climbed 13 percent in
the U.K. as more customers bought smartphones, is seeking to
shift the traffic onto fixed lines to reduce the strain on its
wireless network.  “As an operator you either own a network or you lease
capacity so you may as well just buy the factory, if the numbers
work,” said Miller, whose firm Gamco manages about $35 billion.  Reputational Risk  Gavin Darby, a former Vodafone executive who took over as
CEO of Cable & Wireless in November, said Feb. 16 that he will
rethink network investments in the U.K. and overseas. The
company plans to simplify its business and management structure
and cut more head office jobs. Cable & Wireless also said it
will provide further details on “more significant, strategic
decisions” in May.  That may be too late, as Vodafone only has until March 12
to announce whether it will make a formal offer.  “Vodafone really needs to understand what it is buying,”
said Marsch of Berenberg Bank. “The new CEO has made it very
clear it’s an overcomplicated business with too many networks
and too many costs associated. The question is why the last two
CEOs of Cable & Wireless haven’t managed” to simplify the
business, he said.  For Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao, who has never made a
takeover offer for a public British company before, there is
risk associated with a possible purchase, said Berenberg’s
Marsch.  Price Tag  “Many CEO reputations have foundered on the rocks of
trying to run Cable & Wireless properly and turn the business
around,” Marsch said. “If they misjudge what they’re buying,
or their ability to turn around what they’re buying, then the
reputational damage could be out of proportion to the actual
financial impact.”  Cable & Wireless is working to provide more transparency on
the contribution of its different units, Darby, the new CEO,
said last week. When Pacnet Ltd., an operator of undersea phone
and Internet cables in  Asia , bid for the international business
last year, its offer didn’t align with the way Cable & Wireless
defined its international revenue, former CEO Pluthero said on a
June conference call. The proposal was rejected.  Vodafone may not be willing to pay more than 50 pence a
share for all of Cable & Wireless, a 90 percent premium to
yesterday’s close, said Brown of Espirito Santo. At about 1.4
billion pounds including  net debt , that would value the company
at 3 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, the lowest multiple for a
takeover of a telecommunications company greater than $1 billion
since 2008 and the fourth-cheapest on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median for the group of 128 deals
with Ebitda multiples is 11 times, the data show.  ‘Smoke Out’ Bidders  Vodafone wouldn’t face “scorn and ridicule,” according to
Gamco’s Miller, if it pays 3.5 times his Ebitda estimate of
about 375 million pounds for fiscal 2012, which ends in March.
That would cost about 700 million pounds after subtracting an
estimated increase in net debt, pension contributions and other
factors, he said. The price could be higher depending on
Vodafone’s projection for so-called synergies, he said.  “At this price, lots of people are interested,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London,
said in a phone interview, referring to Cable & Wireless’s
current valuation.  While Vodafone can pay more than leveraged buyout firms
because of Cable & Wireless’s tax benefits and potential cost
savings, the March bidding deadline for Vodafone may “smoke
out” private equity bidders, Brown said.  “Vodafone has the potential to pay the highest premium,”
Brown said. “But clearly the private equity companies think
there’s a story there and would be buying into the potential
restructuring and turnaround of the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 