-- Cairo Trial of Mubarak Draws to Close Ahead of June Verdict
-- B y   T a r e k   E l t a b l a w y
-- 2012-02-22T17:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cairo-trial-of-mubarak-draws-to-close-ahead-of-june-verdict.html
An Egyptian court said it will
decide in June whether former President  Hosni Mubarak  is guilty
of complicity in the killing of hundreds of protesters, as a
seven-month trial that riveted and angered Egyptians drew to a
close.  Speaking from inside the defendant’s cage and lying on a
hospital gurney, Mubarak said he was satisfied with what his
lawyer had said previously in his defense, the official Middle
East News agency reported. He faces charges of complicity in the
killing of more than 800 protesters during the 18-day uprising
that led to his ouster last February. He and his two sons, heir-
apparent Gamal and businessman Alaa, also face charges of
corruption.  The Cairo criminal court trying Mubarak, his two sons,
former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli and several others set
June 2 as the date for a ruling in the case. Earlier, el-Adli
blamed “foreign elements” for the deaths of protesters, in a
speech to the court.  The slow pace of the trial and the antics of lawyers on
both sides of the court have come to symbolize for many
Egyptians the challenges of moving the country along the path of
democratic reform and accountability following nearly three
decades of Mubarak’s rule. The unrest of the past year has also
stifled economic growth as tourists and foreign investors shun
the Arab world’s most populous country.  Declining Reserves  Foreign reserves are down by more than a half, from $36
billion at the end of December 2010, and the country faces
currency devaluation pressures that may be temporarily averted
through an expected $3.2 billion International Monetary Fund
loan.  While Mubarak and his sons declined to address the court,
el-Adli spoke for over 90 minutes, extolling his accomplishments
since assuming the post as head of the country’s security forces
in November 1997. The former minister denied any orders had been
given to shoot at demonstrators. Instead, he blamed what he said
were “foreign elements and saboteurs” that sought to turn a
peaceful gathering into one that turned bloody, MENA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  