-- Cameron Hosts Talks on Racism, Homophobia in U.K. Soccer
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-22T19:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cameron-plans-to-hold-talks-on-tackling-racism-homophobia-in-u-k-soccer.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
met with representatives of soccer and equality organizations to
discuss ways to tackle discrimination in the sport.  The Premier League, which is sponsored by  Barclays Bank
Plc (BARC) , and the Football Association attended today’s meeting,
which was called after a series of racism accusations that led
to criticism from around the world and reversed work done by the
sport to improve its image.  “Football has done a huge amount in recent decades to
eradicate the types of racist attitudes and behavior that sadly
often blighted the game,” Cameron said after the meeting at his
central London residence. “But we cannot be complacent, we must
address problems which could, if left unchecked, threaten to
undo much of the hard work that has been done.”  Chelsea’s  John Terry  was stripped of the captaincy of the
national team by the F.A. on Feb. 3 while he awaits trial on
charges of racially abusing a black player in a match in
October. Liverpool’s Uruguayan striker,  Luis Suarez , was
suspended for eight games for abusing Patrice Evra of Manchester
United the same month.  The F.A. today fined West Ham midfielder Ravel Morrison
7,000 pounds ($11,000) for “using abusive and/or insulting
words including a reference to a person’s sexual orientation,”
the ruling body said on its website.  The government is seeking to build on the success of
soccer’s “Kick it out” anti-racism campaign, Cameron’s office
said in an e-mailed statement. It will provide 3 million pounds
($4.7 million) to train new coaches, with an emphasis on those
from minority communities, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said.  England’s 92 league soccer clubs had combined revenue of
2.7 billion pounds in the year to April 2010 and were projected
to pay more than 1 billion pounds in taxes the following year,
according to  research  by Deloitte LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  