-- Canadian Currency Drops Below Parity with U.S. Dollar First Time in 4 Days
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-22T22:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/canadian-currency-drops-below-parity-with-u-s-dollar-first-time-in-4-days.html
Canada ’s dollar slackened through
parity with its U.S. counterpart for the first time in four days
as risk appetite ebbed and stocks dropped on bets global
economic growth may stall.  The currency weakened for a second day on speculation
technical indicators are pointing to a stronger U.S. dollar
versus its major peers, according to  Camilla Sutton  at  Scotia
Capital  in Toronto. Global and U.S. stocks fell.  “Risk-seeking sentiment has been pared back in recent
days, which is likely holding back some of the higher-beta
currencies like the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar,”
said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Such
currencies tend to rise and fall with equities and commodities.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.3 percent to
99.98 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0020, the weakest level since Feb. 16, the last time the
loonie fell below parity. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0002.  The Australian and Canadian currencies both fell against
the majority of their most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg.  “The Canadian dollar failed to break 99 cents, so we did
some profit-taking this morning on long positions,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto, referring to bets the Canadian dollar would rise
against the greenback. “The view seems to be that fundamentally
the Canadian dollar should not be much stronger. We still think
the Canadian dollar remains extremely range-bound between 99
cents and C$1.0050.”  Kim at RBS predicted Canada’s dollar will appreciate to 98
cents versus the U.S. currency by the end of this quarter.  Bonds Gain  Government bonds  rose. Yields on five-year Canadian
securities dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 1.48 percent, after climbing yesterday to 1.51 percent, the
highest level since Oct. 31. The price of the 1.5 percent notes
due in March 2017 gained 14 cents to C$100.12.  The five-year debt yielded 62 basis points more than
equivalent-maturity  U.S. debt , the most since September, from 33
on Dec. 27.  Canada auctioned C$400 million ($400 million) of inflation-
linked securities due in 2044, according to a statement on the
central bank’s website. Known as real-return bonds, they fetched
a median yield of 0.554 percent, compared with 0.620 percent at
the previous auction in November. The bid-to-cover ratio, or the
amount bid divided by the amount offered, was 2.58 times,  Bank
of Canada  data showed.  Market Shift  The loonie will depreciate to C$1.01 against the greenback
by the end of March before rebounding to parity by year-end,
according to the median of 38 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have a whole bunch of technical indicators telling us
there’s a shift in the market,” said Scotia Capital’s Sutton,
head of currency strategy at the Bank of Nova Scotia unit in
Toronto. She cited shorter-term moving averages crossing over
longer-term moving averages in the Australian dollar, British
pound and euro versus the U.S. dollar, bullish signals for the
greenback. “It gives us more indications that there is a turn
here in markets for a stronger U.S. dollar,” she said.  Sutton forecast a depreciation in the Canadian currency to
about C$1.03 in the next “several weeks.”  The MSCI World  Index (MXWO)  of stocks in developed nations was
down 0.4 percent after declining yesterday by 0.1 percent, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent.  The Canadian dollar rose 2 percent over the past three
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
weakened 2.2 percent, and the euro dropped 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  