-- Crazy Caracas Has Dudamel, Concrete, Tots: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/caracas-has-dudamel-motormouth-chaos-tuneful-tots-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Caracas has lots of musicians, but
now and again as you stew in agonizingly slow traffic staring
out at heaps of refuse lining many avenidas, you might wish for
a few traffic cops and energetic garbage men.  Yet the abundance of musicians, especially teens hoisting
tubas and hugging cellos, makes the capital and country weirdly
special.  A nationwide program called El Sistema teaches some 400,000
children about music at a cost of around $80 million a year.  Listening to urchins play Handel and Tchaikovsky makes you
gape with wonder and amusement, even if you prefer
octogenarians.  I (briefly) forgot about the whimsical three-tiered
 exchange rate , the ailing socialist blabbermouth who runs the
country -- and just announced price controls on toilet paper --
never mind the nightly pile-up at the morgue.  Caracas is the unofficial murder capital of  South America .
Homicides nationwide hit 19,336 last year.  Teresa Carreno  Visiting Caracas last week to hear the  Los Angeles
Philharmonic  play Mahler symphonies -- the first foreign
orchestra appearing here in 30 years -- I moved around with
bodyguards and police escorts.  Early one evening, Deborah Borda’s chauffeur drove us ever
so slowly to the city’s immense theater complex, which is named
after Teresa Carreno, a glittery Venezuelan pianist of the late
19th century (who somehow ended her days around the corner from
me on the Upper West Side of New York).  Borda is the fearless president of the LA Phil, whose music
director,  Gustavo Dudamel , is Venezuelan and still lives here
part-time as the comandante of the  Simon Bolivar Orchestra . When
Borda signed the dimpled unknown in 2007, she secured herself a
place in music history.  Now 31, Dudamel gets a rock-star reception wherever he
goes. Venezuelans lined up at 3 a.m. to buy tickets to hear him
conduct the LA Phil during their 10-day tour. By 11 a.m., all
tickets were gone.  Borda was still recovering from her luncheon outing when a
car in front of her hit a motorcyclist. Within minutes, other
bikers sped into view, circled the corpse and began beating cars
with their helmets.  Spooky  As twilight soaks the concrete skyline, the city becomes
even harder to navigate. In the sepulchral lighting, elevated
roadways and immense tropical trees take on a creepy grandeur.  Finally, having swerved around desperate wretches selling
balloons in the middle of the roadway, we entered the Carreno.  My jaw dropped. The capital’s obsession with concrete
reaches an apotheosis in the Carreno’s spectacular open-sided
lobby, which evokes the brooding prisons by the 18th-century
etcher Piranesi.  Two steeply vertiginous, glistening escalators move
visitors up to the orchestra level past shadowy jabillos, palms
and mangoes. Another escalator glides still higher into the
night-time sky.  The interior is typically modern with suspended acoustic
panels, wood walls, cantilevered balconies and comfortable seats
soon filled with 2,100 extremely quiet listeners who sustained
themselves with weird little Venezuelan chocolate tablets
bearing Mahler’s face.  A frail wizard approached, dressed in a winter coat (the
air conditioning works really well here).  “Maestro!” smiled Borda, embracing Jose Antonio Abreu,
the founder of  El Sistema . Now in his early 70s, he has saint
status in the country.  El Sistema’s Prince  Dudamel is his most famous disciple. The conductor spent
his youth in the program, absorbing the European repertoire he
now plays without a score -- Mahler’s Symphony No. 6, for
instance, which dominates tonight’s program and requires about 1
hour and 20 minutes to present a dark vision of life.  Abreu, a shrewd political operator, slowly built El Sistema
into a network of 288 youth orchestras, 250 child orchestras, 30
professional orchestras and 377 choirs all over  Venezuela .  “He gave me good advice. Start small, think big, don’t be
afraid,” says Borda.  Pounds of Meat  The LA Phil now has its own youth program, which captures
the Latino community. And this  Mahler Project  defines big. It’s
an unprecedented collaboration featuring two orchestras, two
countries, one depressed Austrian composer and one conductor.  In January, the Simon Bolivar Orchestra flew to  Los
Angeles , where the players consumed 200 pounds of meat per meal
and ended their sojourn in a joint presentation with the LA Phil
of Mahler’s No. 8, whose nickname -- “The Symphony of a 1,000”
-- suggests how big the man was thinking.  Add in choruses and the number on stage at the Shrine was
closer to 1,400.  Tickets were listed on eBay for $800.  Had it not been for the  Super Bowl , Borda would have
telecast the unusual concert live from L.A.  Never thwarted by logistics, she dispatched a satellite
dish, two generators, cameras and recording equipment to
accompany the orchestra of 102 and 20 members of her board to
Caracas.  Lurking  El Sistema, meanwhile, supplied an inescapable parade of
entertainers.  One afternoon, a phalanx of choristers lined up at the
entrance of the Carreno, exhorting us to “March for God.”
Inside, thousands of teenagers lurked under the concrete
cantilevers, including very small beings sawing away at Handel.  Older comrades, divided into four orchestras, awaited at
the Center for Social Action, a new teaching school with a
colorful hall and an organ which tested the concrete walls
thundering through the Saint-Saens Symphony No. 3.  As you may sense by now, Venezuela has an endless supply
of performing kids and impressive planning capacities. Everyone
arrived on time, played their often long pieces, and returned to
their buses without shooting one other.  That’s quite an achievement in a chaotic, impoverished
country. A program that starts out like a babysitting service
with rattles and triangles seems successful at teaching social
skills, pride and peaceful interaction.  Fainting Kids  It’s a new model, says Borda as we sit down for a rehearsal
of Mahler’s 8th. “We can’t keep going the way we have. We need
to move from the artistic imperative to a social imperative.”  Assistants hover with questions and suggestions. Don’t wear
red for the telecast. It’s a Chavista color.  Can  John Lithgow  sit in the audience? He wants to hear the
music. The actor is the host for the telecast. No, he can’t. He
must be backstage in case something goes wrong and he has to ad-
lib. Also he gets mobbed by fans of “3rd Rock From the Sun.”  On stage in front of us, the bleachers behind the orchestra
were filling up with what at this point seemed like billions of
singing children.  It’s getting a little sultry in the hall and that worries
Borda.  Mahler’s hour-plus symphony requires the chorus to stand
from beginning to end. At the last rehearsal, a few children
fell over.  Minders pulled them down through the scaffold and into the
wings.  “The tiny ones up front are the first to drop,” says
Borda.  Dudamel arrives in sneakers and jeans. Confronting the
huge, packed bleachers, he has decided to use a score.
Charmingly approachable offstage, he’s all unsmiling authority
as he gives the downbeat for “Veni, Creator Spiritus.”  Hasta la Vista  Boom. The first kid drops early, crashing through the
scaffold, followed by another and another. I counted six before
the break, plus one adult. Rehydrated and ventilated, a few
sneak back.  Borda agrees to a few cooling units for the telecast.
Ambulances are prepared for serious cases.  As I headed home the next day, one event stood out in the
sea of tootling, bowing, singing underage enthusiasts: a
performance by a special-needs choir from Dudamel’s home state
of Lara, where he was born in the town of Barquisimeto.  Many kids were blind, autistic, mentally impaired.  One girl had Down Syndrome; a boy lolled in his wheelchair,
but managed well-timed oompahs, eyes glued on the conductor.  Music was the lifeline that pulled them into a bigger
world. Music defined them, not the ailments of a cruel fate.  Half the kids sang; the others gestured with white-gloved
hands in time to the music.  Special Girl  This “White Gloves” group included a girl with a lopsided
face, who was so transported by the singing of her mates that
she took on a special beauty.  Borda, not the most sentimental of humans, choked up.  “That girl did something remarkable when I visited
Barquisimeto about a year and a half ago with  Frank Gehry . She
suddenly ran out and embraced Frank.”  Dudamel had petitioned Gehry to design a smaller Disney
Hall for his hometown.  The super-busy architect had flown down without much
enthusiasm. Meeting the girl changed his mind.  In Barquisimeto, a bumpy six-hour ride from Caracas, the
sun will someday shine on a Gehry theater and its greatest son.  Saturday’s concert will be repeated on Feb. 29.
Information:  http://www.laphil.com  or +1-323-850-2000.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 