-- Tevez Apologizes for Conduct, Abandons Appeal Against Manchester City Fine
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-22T00:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/carlos-tevez-apologizes-for-recent-conduct-withdraws-appeal-against-fine.html
Manchester City striker Carlos Tevez
apologized for his conduct following a touchline disagreement
with manager  Roberto Mancini  last year that led to him leaving
the team for three months without permission.  Tevez also withdrew his appeal against City’s fine of six
weeks wages for gross misconduct, which was to be heard by a
Premier League panel in the next few days, according to a
statement last night on the club’s website.  “I wish to apologize sincerely and unreservedly to
everybody I have let down and to whom my actions over the last
few months have caused offense,” Tevez said in the statement.
“My wish is to concentrate on playing football for Manchester
City Football Club.”  Tevez, 28, reported back to the club last week after
failing to secure a move during the January trade period. He was
suspended with full pay on Sept. 28 pending a probe after
Mancini said the striker refused to go on as a substitute during
the second half of a Champions League game at  Bayern Munich  the
previous day. He then went back to his native  Argentina  without
permission for three months and was fined six weeks wages for
gross misconduct in December.  Tevez, City’s leading goal scorer the past two seasons, was
linked with moves to AC Milan, Inter Milan, Paris Saint-Germain
and  Brazil ’s Corinthians while he was away, though City was
unable to secure a deal. He was given a specially designed
training program last week to help him get back into shape to
earn a first-team place.  City leads the Premier League by two points ahead of
 Manchester United . The club is also in the round of 32 in the
Europa League, where it takes a 2-1 lead over Porto into
tonight’s home leg, after exiting the elite  Champions League  at
the group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  