-- Chavez Cancer Surgery Spurs Investors to Buy Venezuela Debt: Caracas Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-22T18:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/chavez-cancer-surgery-spurs-investors-to-buy-venezuela-debt-caracas-mover.html
Venezuela ’s bonds rose, sending
yields relative to Treasuries to the lowest in 21 months, after
President  Hugo Chavez  said he’ll travel to Cuba for another
cancer operation, spurring speculation he may not be able to run
in October elections.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 30 basis
points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 988 at 12:38 p.m. in  New
York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
That compares to an average four basis-point decline in Latin
America.  “Over the last month Chavez had been out and about and the
cancer fears had faded and were less material to prices,”
Alfredo Viegas, managing director of  emerging markets  at  Knight
Capital  in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.
“The recent news refocused the idea that he might not be around
and the market’s conventional wisdom is that a Venezuela post-
Chavez could be a much better credit.”  Chavez, 57, said yesterday that a medical test in Cuba on
Feb. 18 showed a lesion in the same place where a cancerous
tumor was removed from his pelvis in June and that he’ll undergo
a third operation in coming days. Chavez had increased his
public appearances since undergoing chemotherapy treatment as he
prepares to seek re-election in October.  Bonds from Venezuela’s government and state oil company
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA  rallied today on an increased
probability of a change in government that may reverse socialist
policies that have fueled the region’s highest inflation rate
and dried up investment amid nationalizations.  Henrique Capriles Radonski, a 39-year-old governor of
Miranda state, won a primary election to challenge Chavez in
October.  Yields Fall  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 22 fell 18 basis points,
or 0.22 percentage point, to 11.44 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 1.35 cents to 84.44
cents on the dollar. That’s the highest price since September
2008.  “The probability that President Chavez could not be a
candidate has increased after this announcement,” Barclays
Capital analysts Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. The election could also be
postponed, though no later than the end of the year, they said.  The bond rally, which is pushing down borrowing costs for
 South America ’s largest oil producer, is bringing in money
managers who were underweight on the credit as they lag behind
peers on a return basis, Viegas said.  ‘Performance Chasing’  “Funds that were underweight Venezuela can’t afford to be
underweight if Venezuela prices continue to accelerate,” he
said. “You have rank and file performance chasing and fears of
being left behind, especially given the underperformance in the
higher investment grade tiering in emerging markets.”  Chavez hasn’t disclosed what type of cancer he has or
provided any prognosis since being diagnosed in June.  He said yesterday in a phone call to state television that
it’s “highly probable” that the growth is malignant, in which
case it will need radiation therapy.  Doctors treating cancer patients routinely re-examine the
area of the original tumor for a sign of recurrence, said Dr.
Kevin Staveley-O’Carroll, division chief for surgical oncology
at  Pennsylvania State University ’s Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center in Hershey.  “Whenever we remove cancers, we follow patients to see if
the cancer would come back,” Staveley-O’Carroll, who is not
involved in treating Chavez, said in a telephone interview.
“When we follow them we look specifically in the area where the
cancer was removed for a local recurrence. And then we’ll look
throughout their body for signs of metastatic disease.”  New Lesion  He said a new lesion “could be scarring” from the
previous surgery “or it could be recurrent cancer.” If tests
after removal show the lesion is cancerous, “it’s considered a
local recurrence and not distant metastatic disease.”  In contrast to details on Chavez’s illness, investors were
provided with a lot of information on health issues of leaders
from  Argentina ,  Brazil  and  Paraguay  recently, said Bret Rosen, a
 Latin America  strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York.  “There’s a lack of transparency, and this will continue to
drive rumors and keep confusion in the markets,” Rosen said in
a phone interview. “It leads to questions on whether he’ll be
able to run a seven- to eight-month campaign and be capable of
managing Venezuela for another six-year term. That’s the source
of the rally in a relatively weak market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  