-- Chavez Facing More Cancer Surgery as Venezuelan Vote Looms
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-02-22T12:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/chavez-facing-more-cancer-surgery-as-venezuelan-vote-approaches.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
set to undergo a third operation in his battle with cancer as he
prepares to face the younger candidate of a newly unified
opposition in October’s election.  Chavez said yesterday that a previously unannounced trip to
Cuba on Feb. 18 to undergo medical tests showed a lesion of
about 2 centimeters in diameter in the same area where a tumor
was removed in June. It is “highly” probable that the growth
is malignant, in which case it would require radiation therapy,
he said.  Chavez had been preparing to begin campaigning for the Oct.
7 election as he looks to extend his 13-year hold on power in
 South America ’s largest oil producer until 2019. While he may
initially enjoy an increase in popularity from voter sympathy
over his illness, the uncertainty over his true health condition
will hinder his re-election plans, said  Michael Shifter ,
president of the Washington-based  Inter-American Dialogue .  “Compassion could quickly turn into concern about the
instability of having someone who is clearly not well in
charge,” Shifter said in a phone interview. “His claim that he
had cured the cancer is obviously not the case.”  The president spoke in public yesterday for the first time
since Feb. 17 and after a columnist for El Universal, Nelson
Bocaranda,  said Feb.  20 that Chavez was flown to Cuba for
medical tests to review the need for another operation.  Venezuelan bonds rallied yesterday on the prospect of a
change in government and a reversal of policies that have fueled
the region’s highest inflation rate and led to the seizure of
hundreds of companies by the state.  ‘Negative News’  “I totally deny that I have metastasis in the liver or
that the cancer has spread throughout my body and that I’m
dying,” Chavez said on state television alongside his brother
and daughter. “There will be another surgery. I regret having
to give this negative news during Carnival but I’ve been forced
to due to the rumors.”  Chavez said that he’ll travel to Cuba again in the coming
days for the operation and that he’ll be away from public view
for some time while he recovers from the surgery.  Doctors treating cancer patients routinely re-examine the
area of the original tumor for a sign of recurrence, said Dr.
Kevin Staveley-O’Carroll, division chief for surgical oncology
at  Pennsylvania State University ’s Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center in Hershey.  Scarring  “Whenever we remove cancers, we follow patients to see if
the cancer would come back,” Staveley-O’Carroll, who is not
involved in treating Chavez, said in a telephone interview.
“When we follow them we look specifically in the area where the
cancer was removed for a local recurrence. And then we’ll look
throughout their body for signs of metastatic disease.”  He said a new lesion “could be scarring” from the
previous surgery “or it could be recurrent cancer.” If tests
after removal show the lesion is cancerous, “it’s considered a
local recurrence and not distant metastatic disease.”  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
to 11.66 percent yesterday in  New York , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 1.38 cents to 82.88
cents on the dollar.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Venezuelan
debt rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell 31 basis points to 10.22
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
While that’s the lowest since May 2010, it is still the highest
among emerging markets after Belize and  Pakistan .  Difficult Transition  The market may be unprepared for the volatility and
potentially disorderly transition should Chavez’s illness force
him from office,  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Securities
International in New York said.  “Markets move on expectations and it’s likely to overshoot
and overlook potential problems in  Venezuela  in the absence of
Chavez,” Segura said in a phone interview. “It could be a very
noisy, difficult transition.”  Chavez had two operations last year in Cuba after an
undisclosed form of cancer was discovered in his pelvis in June.
Since then, he has received chemotherapy and said that he is
“free of illness.”  The opposition chose Henrique Capriles Radonski, the 39-
year-old governor of Miranda state, to challenge Chavez in
October after holding a primary election on Feb. 19. Capriles,
who plans to maintain popular social programs while gradually
unwinding state control over the economy, says that he wishes
Chavez a long life to see the changes coming to Venezuela.  Public Appearances  Chavez had increased his public appearances since returning
from medical tests in Cuba in October, while his hair grew back
after halting chemotherapy treatment. In January he spoke for
9.5 hours during an address to the National Assembly, his
longest speech ever.  During the time that he was recovering from surgery in Cuba
in June, Chavez signed laws from  Havana  and appeared in taped
videos broadcast on state television.  The columnist Bocaranda, citing unidentified sources in
Cuba, said that doctors have recommended that Chavez stop using
steroids that may have made him appear healthier.  “The probability that President Chavez could not be a
candidate has increased after this announcement,” Barclays
Capital analysts Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote
in a note to clients. The election could also be postponed,
though no later than the end of the year, they said.  Possible Successors  Luis Vicente Leon, president of polling group Datanalisis,
said that Chavez will have to take a step back from the campaign
and if his illness makes him unable to run for re-election, hand
pick a successor from a field that includes his brother Adan,
Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro and head of the National
Assembly Diosdado Cabello.  “If the disease is critical and he can’t return to the
campaign, he’ll have to pick a substitute and we also run the
risk of elections not taking place in October,” Leon said by
telephone from Caracas. “This brings up a slew of uncertainties
that we can’t resolve until we know the magnitude of the disease
and if he can return to the campaign.”  Chavez said yesterday that he’s not immortal and that
regardless of his destiny, his socialist revolution would
prevail.  “I’m human, I’m not immortal,” Chavez said. “No one
should be alarmed or happy about this news, because regardless
of my final destiny, this revolution has momentum and no one can
stop it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 Jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 