-- Chelsea Wants to Swap Striker Sturridge for Arsenal’s Walcott: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-22T10:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/chelsea-wants-to-swap-striker-sturridge-for-arsenal-s-walcott-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea’s Swap  Chelsea wants to swap its striker  Daniel Sturridge  for
Arsenal and England player  Theo Walcott , the  Sun  reported.  Walcott, who has been valued at 10 million pounds ($15.7
million), only has one year left on his contract. Sturridge’s
agreement with Chelsea expires in 2014.  Nani’s Big Pay Day  Manchester United winger Nani has been offered a four-year
contract worth 130,000 pounds a week, the  Sun  reported.  Portugal’s Nani, who has two years left on his contract,
currently makes 90,000 pounds a week at Old Trafford.  Arsenal Chasing Opare  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is keen on signing Standard
Liege defender Daniel Opare, the  Sun  reported.  The Ghana international, who was part of the team that
played the African Nations Cup but did not play in a match,
first came to  Europe  at Real Madrid before moving to Belgium.  City Move for Higuain?  Manchester City  may put a bid in for Real Madrid’s Gonzalo Higuain this summer, the  Daily Mail  reported. The Argentina
player, 24, is also wanted by Chelsea.  Ramires Commits to Chelsea  Chelsea and Brazil midfielder Ramires is close to signing a
new contract that will keep him at the west London club until
2017, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Although the Brazilian has more than two years left on his
current deal, Chelsea sees the 24-year-old as an important
player in its future line-up. Ramires has scored eight goals so
far this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  