-- Chile Traders See Rates on Hold in March on Increased Inflation Forecasts
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-22T11:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/chile-traders-see-rates-on-hold-in-march-on-increased-inflation-forecasts.html
Chilean traders and investors
forecast the central bank will keep its  key interest rate  on
hold in March for the second straight month as inflation
estimates increase, according to a central bank survey.  Policy makers last week kept the rate unchanged at 5
percent after unexpectedly reducing borrowing costs in January.
Traders raised their 12-month annual inflation forecast in the
survey to 3.2 percent from 3.09 percent on Feb. 7, according to
the poll published on the central bank website today.  There may still be room for a rate cut later in the year as
 inflation  eases from 4.2 percent in January, according to the
poll. That slowdown will be accompanied by a moderation in
economic growth, even though the world’s top copper producer has
shown little sign of suffering from global financial turmoil to
date, Tomas Izquierdo, chief executive officer of research group
Gemines Consultores, wrote.  “Contagion in  Chile  is showing less intensity,” he wrote
in a monthly economic report e-mailed on Feb. 16. “Although
there still is no clarity about the rate of deceleration in our
economy, the mix of expansive fiscal and monetary policies,
together with major inertia in private sector growth, will allow
for growth this year of about 4 percent.”  The central bank will reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to
4.75 percent in 12 months, according to today’s poll. Traders in
the Feb. 7 poll forecasted a 4.5 percent rate in 12 months.
Policy makers estimate gross domestic product will expand as
much as 4.75 percent this year from 2011, when it grew an
estimated 6.3 percent.  The peso, which was trading at 481.85 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:36 a.m. in Santiago, will go for 480 in seven days, according
to the survey. Chile’s currency has gained 7.8 percent against
the dollar so far this year.  Alejandro Fernandez, Guido Romo, Sergio Arancibia and Jose
Yanez also are named as authors on the report published by
Santiago-based Gemines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 