-- China Developers Rise on Report of Curb Easing: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T08:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/china-developers-rise-on-report-of-curb-easing-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developers traded on
mainland and  Hong Kong  exchanges rose after Shanghai Securities
News said that the nation’s financial center eased restrictions
to allow a broader pool of buyers to purchase second homes.  Shanghai loosened its definition of locals to let residence
permit holders who have lived in the city for at least three
years buy a second home, the official newspaper affiliated with
the state-run Xinhua news agency reported today, citing an
unidentified city housing regulator. It previously limited the
option to locals, or those born in the city or who worked for an
extended period of time and were officially recognized as locals,
without specifying guidelines for non-locals.  The  gauge  tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index surged 2.8 percent, the highest since Nov. 2,
and the  biggest gain  among five industry groups on the benchmark
measure.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer on the
mainland, climbed 3.4 percent to 8.19 yuan in Shenzhen, the
highest since Aug. 26.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second
biggest, increased 2.7 percent to 11.28 yuan.  “This is certainly a measure of easing,” said Jack Gong,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. “But the
easing by the local government doesn’t mean the central
government will loosen its property controls.”  Officials from Shanghai and Beijing said earlier this year
they plan to keep their home purchase restrictions in 2012.
 China  won’t waver on its real estate controls and efforts to
bring prices down to a reasonable level to ensure fairness and
stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Feb. 12.  The latest easing may boost the city’s home sales by 20
percent to 30 percent, according to Jefferies.  Agile, Shimao  Developers accounted for six out of the 10 best performers
on  MSCI China Index (MXCN) , which tracks Chinese companies trading in
Hong Kong.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  jumped 7.2 percent to
HK$10.60 in Hong Kong, the highest since Aug. 19, while  Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  surged 7.6 percent to HK$10.20.  The report today came a week after the eastern Chinese city
of Wuhu reversed a decision to relax property curbs. The mid-
sized city in Anhui province had planned to waive a deed tax and
subsidize some purchases on Feb. 9, becoming the first Chinese
city this year to signal its intention to ease property measures.  It is not clear if the Shanghai easing will hold because
the restriction on home purchases “is the most critical”
tightening policy for the central government, Johnson Hu, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research, said in a
note to clients today.  About 671,000 residents in the city of 20 million were
issued residence permits as of March 2009, China Business News
reported today, citing the local statistics bureau. Residents
with at least a year of tax records in the city are allowed to
buy one home.  China’s January new home prices recorded their worst
performance in at least a year, with none of the 70 cities
monitored by the government posting gains.  Shanghai ’s housing
values fell 0.1 percent in January from December, the fourth
month of declines, the statistics bureau said Feb. 18.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  