-- China Manufacturing Data Show Risk of Deeper Slowdown on Exports: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T11:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/china-pmi-may-shrink-for-4th-month-survey.html
China’s manufacturing may shrink for
a fourth month in February, indicating the world’s second-
biggest economy remains vulnerable to a deeper slowdown as
 Europe ’s crisis caps exports and the housing market cools.  The preliminary 49.7 reading of an index from  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics today compared with a final 48.8 in
January. A number below 50 points to a contraction. January and
February economic data are distorted by a weeklong holiday.  China is cutting banks’ reserve requirements from Feb. 24
to support an economic expansion that Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates may be 7.5 percent this quarter, the least since the
global financial crisis. In today’s report, a measure of export
orders fell to an eight-month low, underscoring Commerce
Minister Chen Deming’s Feb. 9 caution that the government is not
optimistic about the outlook for trade after a decline in
shipments in January.  “With a meaningful rebound of domestic demand not in
sight, external weakness is starting to bite, adding more
downside risks to growth,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based
economist for HSBC. The central bank “should step up policy
easing as inflation pressures continue to ease,” he added.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.9 percent, on
speculation that Shanghai will relax property curbs, and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed before U.S. home sales data.  ‘Soft Landing’  “Although the rate of GDP growth in China is starting to
slow, we predict a soft landing with growth around 8 percent
this year,”  Sam Walsh , the Australia chief executive officer
for iron-ore exporter  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  told reporters in Perth
yesterday.  In the euro area, where  Greece  yesterday secured a second
bailout package, an index for manufacturing and services
unexpectedly indicated a contraction.  In the U.S., meanwhile, home sales may have climbed in
January to the highest level since May 2010, adding to signs
that the property market is starting to recover, a separate
survey indicates.  Today’s report from China “suggests activities remained
weak despite the expected recovery post the Chinese New Year,”
said Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Hong Kong 
who formerly worked for the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the
 World Bank . “We expect export growth to halve in 2012 from last
year’s pace.”  Australia, Japan  Elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region, Australian wage
growth quickened on the nation’s mining boom. The wage price
index advanced 1 percent in the final three months of 2011 from
the prior quarter, when it rose 0.7 percent, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney today.  In  Japan , a finance ministry official said last night that
the nation bought 100 million euros ($132 million) of 1.99
billion euros of European Financial Stability Facility bonds
sold yesterday. He spoke on condition of anonymity because of
the ministry’s policy.  China ’s preliminary manufacturing data, called the Flash
PMI, is from 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey
of more than 400 companies. A separate  PMI (CPMINDX)  from the logistics
federation and the National Bureau of Statistics, which has a
different sample and methodology, showed an expansion in
January.  China’s exports and imports fell for the first time in more
than two years in January, while home prices failed to rise in
any of 70 cities monitored by the statistics bureau. Economic
data in the first two months of each year is distorted by a
weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, which was in January this year
and February in 2011. Qu cited “quickened production” after
the festival as a reason for the gain in the manufacturing gauge
from last month.  The central bank announced a half-point reduction in
 reserve requirements  on Feb. 18 to spur lending while leaving
 interest rates  unchanged amid concern over inflation pressures.
 Gross domestic product  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  