-- China Will Participate in Europe Rescue Plan, IMF’s Syed Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T07:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/china-will-participate-in-europe-rescue-plan-imf-s-syed-says.html
Murtaza Syed, the International
Monetary Fund’s resident representative in Beijing, comments on
 China ’s participation in solving Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
the value of the yuan and the increasing global use of the
Chinese currency. He spoke to reporters in Beijing today.  On China’s participation in solving Europe’s debt crisis:  “I think the Chinese have been very clear that they want
to help, but they want to help through the IMF and they want to
be seen to be helping if other countries also step up. They
don’t want to be the only ones. That’s a pretty sensible
approach.  “There is a lot going on behind the scenes, there’s a lot
of negotiations happening and I think the Chinese do share the
view that we have that a big shock in  Europe  would have
meaningful implications for China’s growth and they would have
to respond. And therefore they want to try to avoid that
scenario.  “Obviously if the IMF resources are to be bolstered, one
of the main sources of that financing could be China because
China has a lot of reserves, China has the kind of space that we
would need to make a meaningful contribution.  “There’s a lot happening and I think it’s just a matter
now of getting countries to agree, getting this core set of
countries to agree. I don’t think any country wants to take the
first step and to be the only one.  “You also have to put this against the domestic backdrop
in China. There’s still a lot of poor people in China and
explaining it to your domestic constituency is always difficult
in any environment for a politician to say we are helping others
while there are so many poor people in China. So the domestic
messaging also has to be thought about and I think that’s part
of what is causing this seeming delay or this long time in
agreeing what needs to be done.  “In terms of addressing the European debt problem, the
Chinese position has been quite clear from day one - which is
that they will do it through the IMF and they will do it as long
as other countries also contribute.  “China has been quite adamant that the bulk of the
resources that it could provide would have to come through the
IMF because it wants the IMF involved, it wants the IMF
conditionalities, it wants to be able to demonstrate to its
population that this is a good idea.”  On whether the yuan is undervalued:  “Taking the last six to eight months, appreciation has
been quite dramatic. The current account has come down very
sharply as a percent of GDP. If that continues, if that happens
for another two or three years, once the global economy recovers
and China’s current account is still in the region of 3 to 4
percent of GDP, it becomes much harder to argue that the
 exchange rate  is substantially undervalued.  “Our view at the IMF has always been that the exchange
rate is one part of China’s rebalancing but it’s not the only
part. There are a whole host of other issues China can deal with
that would help bring the current account down and rebalance its
economy. The international community also is increasingly coming
to that view. It’s an election year in the U.S., things could
happen, the discussion could become again very volatile, very
excitable, but I think cooler heads will prevail.”  On the yuan, also known as the renminbi, becoming a global
currency:  The government is “quite keen now on pushing the RMB as a
global currency. In order to do that you need domestic financial
reform, it can’t be done without it. If you don’t allow the RMB
that’s accumulating abroad to flow back into China, to be able
to invest in assets here, you will never fulfill the potential
of the RMB as a global currency. To do that with confidence, you
need to reform the domestic financial system, make it much more
market oriented.  “Unless you allow RMB that’s accumulating abroad to flow
back into China, the only reason why people would want to hold
it is if they think the RMB is going to appreciate. To the
extent that RMB appreciation is no longer the prime motivation
for holding the RMB at some point in the future, people will no
longer want to hold the RMB unless they can use it to invest in
assets on the mainland.  “To be able to do that you need to free up the capital
account a lot more, there are a lot of  capital controls 
particularly on inflows. They are now broadening out those
channels, they are trying to get more portfolio investment into
China through ETFs and things like that.  “Once you start playing this game, once you start punching
holes in your capital account to allow more RMB to come in, it’s
not hard to imagine that you would reach a situation where it’s
very hard for you to control it. You really need to make sure
your domestic financial system is able to absorb those kind of
flows without creating asset bubbles, a credit splurge.”  --Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editors: Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  