-- Chinese Steelmakers Face Threat of EU Anti-Subsidy Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-22T07:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/chinese-steelmakers-face-threat-of-eu-anti-subsidy-tariffs.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on steel from  China  to counter alleged subsidies
to Chinese exporters, bolstering a new front in the EU’s battle
to protect its producers.  The EU opened a probe into whether Chinese manufacturers of
organic coated steel receive trade-distorting  government aid , a
step that may lead the bloc to impose anti-subsidy duties
against China for the second time. This kind of steel is used in
domestic appliances, construction, heating and furniture, among
other things, according to  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest
steelmaker.  The investigation will determine if organic coated steel
from China “is being subsidized and whether these subsidized
imports have caused injury to the union industry,” the European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said
today in the  Official Journal . The commission has nine months to
decide whether to impose provisional anti-subsidy duties and EU 
governments have 13 months to decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  Europe  is stepping up scrutiny of alleged state aid to
Chinese manufacturers, raising the prospect of more European
 import duties  to protect higher-cost producers. Most of the EU’s
punitive tariffs against China punish exporters there for
selling goods in Europe below cost, a practice known as dumping.
China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any other country.  Last May, the EU imposed anti-subsidy tariffs against China
for the first time by targeting imports of paper with levies as
high as 12 percent. The  five-year duties  aimed to counter
subsidies to China’s exporters of coated fine paper, which is
used for books, brochures and magazines.  State Aid  The probe into alleged Chinese state aid to makers of
organic coated steel stems from a Jan. 9 complaint by European
steel industry association  Eurofer  on behalf of companies that
account for more than 70 percent of the EU’s output of the
product, according to the commission, which didn’t identify any
companies.  In December, the EU targeted the same product in a dumping
investigation against China that also stemmed from a Eurofer
complaint. Brussels-based Eurofer said in November that China’s
share of the EU market for organic coated steel had grown to 15
percent from 0.5 percent in 2004.  Under EU practices related to dumping investigations, the
commission has nine months to impose provisional anti-dumping
duties and EU governments have 15 months to apply definitive
levies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  