-- China Stocks Rise for 4th Day on Outlook Shanghai Is Easing Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T07:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/china-s-stocks-rise-on-property-speculation-as-investors-await-flash-pmi.html
China’s stocks  rose for a fourth day
on speculation  Shanghai , the nation’s financial center, will
relax property curbs to prevent slumping home prices from
undermining the world’s second-biggest economy.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  led a gauge
of property companies to its highest level in three months after
the Shanghai Securities News reported the city eased some home
purchase restrictions. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd. slid after the same paper said
lending by the four biggest banks may be down from January.
China’s manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month in February,
a survey of  purchasing managers  indicated.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 22.16 points, or 0.9
percent, to 2,403.59 at the end of trading, the highest close
since Nov. 29. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1.4 percent to 2,597.48.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 2 percent yesterday in
 New York .  “We will see policy easing and improvement in liquidity
throughout February,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central
China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “What we need to closely
watch out for is coming economic data to verify the market
expectations about an improvement in the economy.”  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 9.3 percent this year
on expectations the government will ease monetary policies to
bolster economic growth that cooled to the slowest pace in 2 1/2
years in the fourth quarter of 2011. The measure trades at 9.9
times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Property Easing  A gauge of property companies in the Shanghai Composite
surged 2.8 percent, the highest close since Nov. 2. Vanke, the
nation’s biggest listed property developer, gained 3.4 percent
to 8.19 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second biggest, advanced 2.7
percent to 11.28 yuan. Gemdale Corp. gained 3.9 percent to 5.65
yuan.  Non-local residents in Shanghai are now qualified to buy
second homes once they have held residence permits for 3 years,
the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing the city’s
housing regulator. Residence permit holders previously were not
allowed to buy second homes in Shanghai, the newspaper said,
citing a Feb. 1, 2011 announcement. The easing of curbs aims to
benefit the real estate market, it said, without citing anyone.
Securities News is operated by the Xinhua News Agency.  Falling Home Prices  “This is certainly a measure of easing,” said Jack Gong,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. “But the
easing by the local government doesn’t mean the central
government will loosen its property controls.”  None of the 70 cities monitored by the government posted
gains last month as Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated his
determination to maintain property curbs. New home prices in
Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou declined for a fourth
month, the National Statistics Bureau said in a statement on its
website on Feb. 18.  Falling home prices fueled an attempt by  China ’s smaller
cities to release tightening on property policies. The eastern
city of Wuhu was the first Chinese city this year to ease
measures ordered by the central government by waiving a deed tax
and subsidizing some home purchases. The move was suspended
three days later, following the outcome of a similar attempt in
October by Foshan in southern China.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month in
February as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis damps exports and the
housing market cools. The preliminary 49.7 reading of the PMI
index compares with a final 48.8 in January. January and
February economic data are distorted by a weeklong Chinese
holiday.  Banks Decline  “With a meaningful rebound of domestic demand not in
sight, external weakness is starting to bite, adding more
downside risks to growth,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based
economist for HSBC, said in today’s statement.  ICBC, the biggest lender, fell 0.5 percent to 4.44 yuan.
 Bank of China  dropped 0.7 percent to 3.06 yuan.  China’s four biggest banks lent a combined 70 billion yuan
($11.1 billion) in the first three weeks of February, Shanghai
Securities News reported, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the matter. February lending by the four banks may be lower
than January, the newspaper cited a China International Capital
Corp. report as saying. New lending was 738.1 billion yuan last
month.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zhang Shidong in
Shanghai at   szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  