-- Christie Says Best Revenue Gain Since 2007 to Finance New Jersey Tax Cuts
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/christie-bets-on-n-j-economic-rebound-to-fund-tax-cuts-pension.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
is betting on the sharpest revenue increase since 2007 to help
finance his personal and business income-tax cuts and the
biggest pension contribution in the state’s history.  Christie, a 49-year-old first-term Republican, proposed a
$32.1 billion spending plan which counts on tax revenue
increasing the most since the longest recession since World War
II began in 2007. The budget, which is $2.4 billion more than
the plan enacted last year, would cut income and business taxes
while more than doubling the pension payment to $1.1 billion.  Nationwide, combined state tax revenue rose 6.1 percent
from July to September, the seventh-straight quarter of growth,
and the streak may have extended into the three months ended in
December, according to a Jan. 26 report from the  Albany , New
York-based Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government. Yet
the gains appear to be weakening, the group said. New Jersey’s
revenue has missed forecasts in the six months through December.  “Everyone’s fanning any numbers that appear positive,”
said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1 billion in municipal
securities as chief executive officer at Belle Haven Investments
Inc. in White Plains, New York. “Cheering for a better economy
is an easy way to deal with the problem.”  Christie is calling for a 10 percent income-tax cut over 36
months. In his plan to spend the largest amount in five years,
he predicts revenue will rise 7.3 percent in fiscal 2013, which
begins July 1. He has said the levy reductions, which will cost
more than $500 million in the first year, will spur the economy.  Growth Era  “Today, we will both maintain our fiscal discipline, and
drive  New Jersey  into a new era of growth,” Christie said
yesterday in a speech to lawmakers. “It is time to put the New
Jersey comeback into high gear.”  Governments from New York City to  California (STOCA1)  have begun
crafting budgets based in part on anticipated revenue growth.
Two Republican governors,  Florida ’s  Rick Scott  and  Michigan ’s
 Rick Snyder , have proposed higher spending. Scott’s budget
relies on a $1.3 billion, or 5.7 percent, increase in general
revenue. Snyder anticipates his state will begin fiscal 2013
Oct. 1 with a $670 million surplus and would raise spending 1.4
percent, including more money for schools and public safety.  In New Jersey, Democrats, who control the Legislature say
Christie’s income-tax cut would favor the wealthy and that he
should focus on easing property levies. Christie has said
Democrats have ignored taxes and  job creation  while spending the
past month on a same-sex marriage bill that he vetoed Feb. 18.  Beating Mississippi  New Jersey is ranked 41st among U.S. states and the
 District of Columbia  in the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States, just ahead of  Mississippi . The index scores economic
health and growth across categories such as employment, income,
mortgage delinquencies and  tax revenue .  Christie’s budget calls for the largest jump in revenue
since collections increased 8.7 percent in fiscal 2007 from a
year earlier. Yet in the first six months of fiscal 2012,
revenue trailed forecasts by 3.2 percent, according to figures
from Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff.  Rising pension costs and a slow recovery prompted  Standard
& Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings to lower
New Jersey’s credit grade last year. While first-half revenue
rose 3.2 percent compared with the same period a year earlier,
it was $326 million less than targets.  Revenue Declines  New Jersey’s revenue dropped about 11 percent in fiscal
2009 as the economy slumped. It fell 3.5 percent the next year,
before rising 2.9 percent in 2011, and is projected to rise 3.5
percent this fiscal year. The governor stressed that spending
for 2013 remains below fiscal 2008 levels.  “We also have avoided overly optimistic assumptions about
revenue,” Christie said. “These will only get us in trouble in
the future.”  The $29.7 billion budget Christie signed last year has
increased to $31 billion as the administration supplemented
spending, in part because the Legislature underfunded some
areas, Sidamon-Eristoff told reporters. His proposed plan for
fiscal 2013 would be 3.7 percent more than the revised figure.  Michael Pietronico, who oversees $670 million in municipal
bonds as chief executive officer at Miller Tabak Asset
Management in  New York , said he would like to see more details
of Christie’s estimates on key signs such as foreclosures.  Standard & Poor’s rewarded  California ’s revenue assumptions
by giving its  credit rating  a positive outlook on Feb. 15,
Pietronico said. S&P rates the Golden State as A-, its fourth-
lowest investment grade and the lowest of any state. Perhaps
Christie hopes to receive the same treatment, he said. The
company rates the Garden State three steps higher at AA-.  Variables to Consider  “The assumptions are reasonable, but there are a lot of
variables at play,” Pietronico said.  The state’s estimated pension-funding deficit fell to $36.3
billion after Christie signed bills last year that raised
workers’ contributions to the plan and health-care expenses,
increased the minimum  retirement age  for new employees to 65
from 62 and froze cost-of-living increases. Yet the governor’s
budget didn’t include the $3 billion recommended pension payment
and the unfunded liability swelled to $41.8 billion for the 12
months through June.  A 2010 law required the state to phase in full payments
over seven years after a decade of lapsed funding. Christie
budgeted $484 million payment for the current fiscal year.
Actuaries recommended the state put in $3 billion. His plan
calls for more than $1 billion in payments in fiscal 2013.  Growing Deficit  The unfunded liability will continue to grow, however,
because of the failure to make full contributions until fiscal
2018, Fitch has said. The company rates New Jersey’s general-
obligation debt AA-, its fourth-highest grade.  The pension payment represents about 3.4 percent of the
total budget this year, Christie said in his speech.  “My proposal of $1.1 billion for pensioners in this state
reinforces my commitment to the security and financial future of
all public workers,” he said. “Stand with me on this
commitment. Let us live up to our word.”  Christie proposed school aid of $8.87 billion in his
budget, an amount of spending on kindergarten to 12th-grade
schools that he said is a “record level of investment.”  Even with the 10 percent  tax cut , rates in many income
brackets will be higher than those in New York,  Connecticut  and
 Pennsylvania , the governor said.  Reversing Course  “We need to reverse our competitive disadvantage,”
Christie said. “In the mid-Atlantic region, New Jersey needs to
be the best home for growth.”  Democrats say a family with a $50,000 annual income would
pay $80 less in taxes under Christie’s plan, while someone
earning $1 million would save $7,200.  Democrats led by Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , of West
Deptford, and Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, of East Orange,
said a central tenet of Christie’s spending plan may be in doubt
as their party formulates a proposal to lower property taxes.
Christie has “coddled” about 16,000 millionaires and Democrats
won’t support any tax cut that favors the wealthy, Sweeney said.  “It’s not hard to figure out: He controls the numbers all
the way around and he certifies the revenue,” Sweeney told
reporters. “They play a lot of games with those numbers.”  While 52 percent of registered voters support the income-
tax cut, 76 percent would prefer reducing property taxes first,
according to a Rutgers University Eagleton Institute of Politics
poll released yesterday. Property taxes, the highest in the
nation, rose 2.4 percent to average $7,759 in 2011, according to
state data.  Overestimate Gain  Voters overestimate how much money they would get from
Christie’s tax cut, the poll showed, with 35 percent of
respondents saying it would save them more than $500. A
household would have to earn more than $150,000 a year to reach
that level, the institute said. Only 14 percent said their
household income was more than $150,000 annually.  The telephone survey from Feb. 9-11 compiled responses from
914 registered voters and the results had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  Patrick Murray, who teaches politics and directs the
Monmouth University polling institute, said since January both
Republicans and Democrats have become “overly concerned with
Christie’s political future.” In the process, the government is
acting as if economic trouble Christie has warned of since
taking office in January 2010 is over, Murray said.  “There’s a bit of a rosy picture in this budget,” the
professor said. “It’s hard to see how any economy can rebound
that quickly.”  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who serves as his party’s budget officer, said he isn’t
concerned with Christie’s reliance on growth, considering the
governor’s past record of balancing spending plans.  “It’s really the budget we’ve all been hoping for over the
past few years,” he said in an interview. “We’re not now, once
again, facing massive cuts which everyone agrees was a tough
thing. Now of course we have to pay attention and be fiscally
responsible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 