-- Cioffi’s $2 Million Redemption Factored Into Lawsuit Settlement, SEC Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-22T13:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cioffi-s-2-million-redemption-factored-into-deal-sec-says.html
Ralph Cioffi ’s $2 million redemption
from a hedge fund and  Matthew Tannin ’s $750,000 retention bonus
were used to determine how much the ex-Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-
fund managers would pay to settle a securities-fraud lawsuit by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the agency said.  Cioffi’s disgorgement of $700,000 reflects losses he
avoided by redeeming $2 million from a Bear Stearns fund in 2007
without telling his investors, the SEC said in a letter
yesterday to U.S. District Judge Frederic Block in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , who must approve the settlement. Tannin agreed to give up
$200,000 in ill-gotten gains, reflecting part of a $750,000
bonus he received in 2007 for helping the company unwind the
portfolios of its failed funds, the SEC said.  “The proposed settlements here are fair, adequate and
reasonable,” SEC lawyers John D. Worland Jr. and Richard Hong
wrote.  Lawyers for Cioffi and Tannin also filed a letter
yesterday supporting the settlements, which include fines of
$100,000 for Cioffi and $50,000 for Tannin.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. The men managed two
hedge funds that filed for bankruptcy in July 2007.  Trial Averted  In addition to the criminal case, the SEC filed a related
civil suit. The parties told Block of their proposed settlement
on Feb. 13, the day the case was supposed to go to trial.  The SEC alleged the two men misled investors about the
funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own holdings in
the investment pools. Block, who requested that the lawyers’
submit the letters before he rules, had asked why the settlement
was relatively small compared to the $1.8 billion the SEC said
the funds’ investors lost.  The SEC can obtain only disgorgement of ill-gotten gains
and civil penalties, not typically damages, Worland and Hong
said. The disgorgement amounts were within the range of what
they probably would recover if they tried the case, they said.  “Proof of losses by victims of a defendant’s securities
fraud is not an element of an SEC enforcement action,” the SEC
lawyers wrote.  Cioffi and Tannin were indicted in June 2008, a year after
their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a
year later and was bought by New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cioffi,
08-cv-2457, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  