-- Citigroup ‘Defrauded’ Fannie, Freddie: Whistle-Blower
-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 2012-02-22T14:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/citigroup-defrauded-fannie-freddie-whistle-blower-claims.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , which last week
admitted breaking Federal Housing Administration rules and paid
a fine, also violated regulations for home loans sold to  Fannie
Mae (FNM)  and  Freddie Mac (FRE) , according to a whistle-blower’s complaint.  The bank “defrauded, falsified information or misled
federal government entities” by selling or securing insurance
for mortgages with defects such as improper appraisals and not
reporting them as required, Sherry Hunt, a Citigroup quality-
assurance vice president, said in her complaint, which was
unsealed yesterday. It was filed under the  False Claims Act  in
federal court in Manhattan in August.  Hunt’s charges formed the backbone of the U.S. Justice
Department’s case against Citigroup, which paid $158.3 million
in a Feb. 15 settlement and admitted that it certified loans for
FHA insurance that didn’t qualify. Her complaint provides
additional details into the bank’s broken mortgage-processing
system. In last week’s agreement, the government reserved the
right to pursue criminal and other charges related to mortgages
originated or underwritten by Citigroup and not insured by the
FHA.  “Everyone is a little bit guilty for not keeping an eye on
the processes and doing what we should have been doing,” Hunt
said in a telephone interview from her home in Silex,  Missouri .
“Managers have to take ownership of their area, know what’s
going on and make sure they’re doing the right thing.”  Loans Repurchased  As a whistle-blower, Hunt’s share of the settlement will be
$31 million before taxes and attorney’s fees, she said in a Feb.
15 interview.  For Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, the
high defect rates could be costly. It might be forced to buy
back substandard mortgages sold to government-controlled Fannie
and Freddie, who buy or guarantee most U.S. mortgages.  Last year, Citigroup repurchased 6,600 loans from
government buyers, an 89 percent increase from 2010, according
to a  presentation  on its website. The bank set aside $1.2
billion to buy back defective mortgages as of the end of 2011.
That’s the most ever, and up from $969 million in 2010.  “We take our quality-assurance processes seriously and
have pro-actively undertaken process improvements to ensure that
they are as strong as possible,”  Sean Kevelighan , a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
and Chad Wandler, a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, declined to comment.  Flawed Mortgages  Hunt said Citigroup knowingly vouched for the quality of
loans that were “deficient” in income documentation, had
incomplete borrower job histories, appraisal problems, errors in
closing paperwork, missing credit reports and miscalculated
maximum mortgage amounts, among other flaws.  Some managers’ compensation was tied in part to reducing
the defect rate, Hunt said.  CitiMortgage Inc., Citigroup’s home-loan unit, is run by
Sanjiv Das, who was hired by Chief Executive Officer Vikram S. Pandit, 55, in July 2008. Das reports to consumer-banking head
Manuel Medina-Mora and Eugene McQuade, head of Citibank N.A.,
the bank’s deposit-taking unit. Both Das and Pandit are former
Morgan Stanley executives.  During an April 7, 2010, meeting with  Freddie Mac 
executives at the main Citigroup mortgage-processing facility in
O’Fallon, Missouri, Mike Mazanec, head of CitiMortgage’s Fraud
Prevention and Investigation unit, said all loans flagged for
possible fraud were resolved within 15 to 30 days -- “a false
statement,” Hunt said in the complaint.  ‘Systemic Failure’  In fact, in a list of about 1,000 loans referred to the
fraud unit because they were suspected to be fraudulent, many
were more than a year old and some were eventually erased from
the Citigroup computer system, according to Hunt’s complaint.  Attempts to reach Mazanec for comment at a telephone number
listed under his name were unsuccessful.  Hunt cited an “overall systemic failure” in her complaint
that she said in a May 2011 letter to the Securities and
Exchange Commission “threatens the thin ice the entire market
is treading on.” The letter was also released yesterday.  For certain types of home loans, Citigroup’s “defect
rate” -- the rate at which the underwriting raised questions --
was 80 percent, said Hunt, 54.  Taxpayer Lifeline  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac have survived on taxpayer aid
since September 2008, when losses from failing home loans forced
them into government conservatorship.  Since then, the companies have drawn more than $180 billion
from a U.S. Treasury Department lifeline. Today, they guarantee
about $100 billion worth of new mortgages a month, about three-
fourths of all single-family home loans.  Hunt said she was hired by Citigroup in 2004. She said she
worked for Richard M. Bowen III, the former Citigroup
underwriter who testified in April 2010 to the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, the panel created by Congress to investigate
the causes of the 2008 financial meltdown.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Hunt v. Citigroup Inc., 11-cv-
005473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 