-- CNPC Said to Bid for Stake in Woodside’s Gas Venture
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-22T09:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cnpc-said-to-bid-for-stake-in-woodside-s-australian-gas-field.html
China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s biggest energy producer, offered to buy a stake in
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s Browse liquefied natural gas project
in  Australia , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  State-controlled CNPC made a binding bid for as much as 15
percent of the venture comprising two natural gas areas off
 Western Australia ’s coast, one of the people said, asking not to
be identified as the sale process is confidential. The stake may
be worth up to $1.5 billion, based on Citigroup Inc. estimates.  China is buying energy assets abroad and developing shale-
gas resources at home to fuel expansion in the fastest-growing
major economy. CNPC is the only Chinese company seeking a stake
in  Browse , estimated to cost $36 billion, and faces competition
from rivals from  Japan , Taiwan and  South Korea , the people said.  “Given the growth in China’s gas market and the view that
shale gas in China will probably take time before we see
material volumes, there’s a gap in terms of supply and demand
that needs to be filled,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone today.
“So, China is exploring its options.”  Woodside may reduce its ownership of Browse as the company
increases exploration spending and seeks opportunities to expand
in LNG and oil outside Australia, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said on a call with analysts today. The company’s
discussions to sell part of its Browse holding are “maturing,”
he said, when asked if CNPC had bid for a stake.  ‘Strong’ Interest  “The interest has been strong I can say, and we’ll know
over the next few months exactly what we’re doing in that
space,” Coleman said after the gas producer reported a 4
percent decline in full-year profit.  Liu Weijiang , a Beijing-based spokesman at CNPC, said he
was unaware of any deal with Woodside, declining to comment
further.  Woodside today increased the estimate for its natural gas
resources in the Browse Basin by 17 percent to 15.5 trillion
cubic feet (439 billion cubic meters), according to a
presentation by the Perth-based company. Australia’s second-
largest oil producer owns 46 percent of the Browse project.  Shares of Woodside rose to the highest in six months,
climbing 2.5 percent to close at A$36.86 in Sydney. The stock
recorded its biggest gain since Jan. 11, while the benchmark
index was little changed.  CPC, Mitsui  Coleman had said in August the company may sell stakes in
its Browse and Pluto LNG ventures to help fund the developments.
Browse may cost $36 billion to build, compared with an earlier
estimate of $30 billion, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
November.  CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-owned oil refiner, said Feb. 8
that it is in talks with Woodside to buy a stake of less than 10
percent in Browse and is negotiating details of an LNG supply
agreement. Mitsui & Co. is also interested in buying a stake in
the venture, according to a spokesman for the Japanese trading
company.  Osaka Gas Co. hasn’t bid for a stake in Browse, spokesman
Jun Kumagai said by telephone, when asked to comment on a
Reuters report that the Japanese gas distributor was among
companies that had submitted offers. The utility had indicated
an interest in acquiring a stake in the venture about a year ago
and is currently not in talks with Woodside, he said.  Woodside has said it’s received interest from potential
buyers of a minority stake in Browse, without identifying them.
The company said today it expects to reach a final  investment
decision  on the proposed venture in the first half of 2013.  Stake Valuation  The Australian company may fetch $1.6 billion selling 16
percent of Browse and lowering its holding to 30 percent,
Citigroup estimated on Jan. 27.  “Woodside’s 46 percent interest in the Browse resource is
valuable, despite ongoing challenges with the project,”  Mark Greenwood , a Sydney-based Citigroup analyst, wrote in the
report.  Woodside’s Coleman declined to say how much of the venture
the company may sell.  That’s “the question everybody would like to know,” he
said after the company reported its 2011 net income dropped to
$1.51 billion. “We have a firm view on it. We know what that
number is, but I don’t think it’s appropriate to share.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd. are the other partners in Browse.  As Woodside attracts Asian interest in Browse, the
Australian company is considering expansion overseas through new
partnerships and “casting a very broad net,” Coleman said.
While the energy producer is studying shale and coal-seam gas,
it intends to keep the focus on LNG and oil, he said.  Chinese Demand  CNPC aims to increase its overseas oil and gas production
to 200 million metric tons by the end of 2015 from more than 100
million tons last year. The company has operations in countries
including Venezuela, Peru and  Ecuador .  “CNPC would be interested in Australia because of its
political stability and because of its experience in exporting
LNG to  China ,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  China buys the bulk of its LNG under multi-year contracts
from  Indonesia ,  Malaysia ,  Qatar  and Australia. LNG is natural
gas chilled to liquid form, reducing its volume for shipping to
destinations not connected by pipeline.  PetroChina Co., its Hong Kong-listed unit, plans to spend
at least $60 billion this decade on global acquisitions to build
oil and gas reserves and meet domestic demand. China, the
world’s biggest energy user, is seeking to triple the use of gas
by 2020 to about 10 percent of total consumption to reduce
reliance on more polluting coal and oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  