-- Connecticut Coach Calhoun to Have Back Surgery, Will Miss Two More Games
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-22T19:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/connecticut-coach-calhoun-to-have-back-surgery-will-miss-two-more-games.html
University of Connecticut  men’s
basketball coach  Jim Calhoun  will have back surgery next week
and miss at least two more games, the school said today in a
news release.  The 69-year-old coach, who led the Huskies to last season’s
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  championship, is
expected to remain hospitalized for one or two nights following
surgery on Feb. 27 to alleviate spinal stenosis, according to
the Storrs, Connecticut-based university.  He won’t coach on Feb. 25 against  Syracuse University  or
Feb. 28 against Providence College, the seventh and eighth games
he has missed since taking a leave of absence on Feb. 3 because
of the lower-back condition.  “I’m glad we have finally determined the best course of
treatment to deal with the problem,” Calhoun said in the
statement. “I’m looking forward to having the procedure done,
hopefully recovering as quickly as possible, and putting it all
in the past.”  UConn has gone 3-3 since Calhoun began his medical leave,
including  Big East  conference losses to Louisville, Syracuse and
Marquette, all ranked in the Associated Press Top 25 at the
time. The Huskies’ victories have come against unranked  Seton
Hall , DePaul and Villanova.  Should Calhoun miss just two more games, he would return to
coach the team March 3 at home against Pittsburgh, the final
game of the regular season. Assistant  George Blaney , in his 11th
season with the team, has taken over head-coaching duties in
Calhoun’s absence.  Three Titles  The Huskies are 17-10 this season, with a 7-8 record in the
 Big East . The 2011 NCAA title was Calhoun’s third in 26 years at
the university, and he entered this season with 855 wins, sixth-
most all-time at college basketball’s top level.  A member of the  Basketball Hall of Fame , Calhoun was
suspended by the NCAA for the first three conference games this
season for failing to monitor recruiting violations that
included more than $6,000 in improper benefits to a former
player.  In January 2010, Calhoun took a seven-game leave for an
undisclosed illness. At that time, the school said the condition
was unrelated to his history of prostate cancer, which required
surgery in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  