-- Construction Jobs Rebound Amid U.S. Home Remodeling Pick-Up
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-02-22T15:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/construction-jobs-rebound-amid-pick-up-in-u-s-home-remodeling.html
Construction hiring is picking up as
Americans invest in renovating their homes amid signs that the
worst of the housing-market declines may be over.  The number of people working in residential remodeling grew
5.8 percent in December to 250,700 from a year earlier, based on
preliminary data released Feb. 3 by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. This was the highest growth for these jobs -- which
account for about 5 percent of construction employment -- since
December 2006, before the housing bubble burst.  Sales of existing homes, which rose 4.3 percent in January,
precede spending on improvement projects by about six months, as
new owners often do a lot of “fix-ups” soon after they move
in, said Kermit Baker, a senior fellow at Harvard University’s
Joint Center for Housing Studies. That means there’s now a
“strengthening market” for this work, buoyed by demand that’s
more discretionary in nature -- such as minor kitchen remodels -
- and mild winter weather in much of the U.S.  “More remodeling projects are going to create more jobs in
the  construction industry ,” said Baker, who also is the chief
economist for the  American Institute of Architects .  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, echoed the optimism yesterday when it reported fourth-
quarter net income that exceeded analysts’ estimates. An
increase in traffic and transactions among its professional
customers is encouraging as “they’re getting more jobs, more
work,”  Craig Menear , executive vice president of merchandising
at the Atlanta-based company, said on a conference call.  Remodeling Projects  Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc. and  Beacon Roofing
Supply Inc. (BECN)  also have seen a pick-up in sales related to
residential-remodeling projects, according to company reports.  Home improvement probably will bounce back the most this
year since 2006, after spending fell as much as 20 percent
during the three-year home-remodeling slump that ended in
mid-2010, Baker said. Growth in the “low-to-mid-single digits”
may follow an estimated 0.8 percent last year, with total
spending projected to be $112.4 billion in 2012, he said, citing
the Cambridge, Massachusetts, center’s leading indicator of
remodeling activity.  The index forecasts changes in the industry for the current
quarter and subsequent three periods, using data including sales
of existing homes, which rose to a 4.57 million annual rate in
January, the highest since May 2010, the National Association of
Realtors said today. December sales were revised down to a 4.38
million pace from 4.61 million.  Rising Construction Permits  Growth also is showing up in another index based on the
number of construction permits filed, which rose 23 percent in
December to 127.4 from a year earlier, according to Joe Emison,
co-founder and vice president of research and development at
BuildFax, an Austin, Texas-based real-estate data company.  Another driver for the rebound in contractor hiring comes
from “pent-up demand” by Americans who can’t afford to move,
said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura Securities
International LLC in  New York . She was among the top-ranked
forecasters of nonfarm payrolls as of Feb. 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you can’t sell your home, may as well make the box you
live in better,” she said.  The rebound “makes sense” because BuildFax’s data
captures all work that requires a hired contractor, which
accounts for about two-thirds of such projects, Emison said.
Amid a “glut of bad homes” on the market, and with homeowners
worrying their properties are undervalued, “people may be stuck
in their existing homes for a while.”  Vinyl-Siding Sales  Remodeling projects represent “almost all” Beacon Roofing
Supply’s current sales of vinyl siding, windows and doors, which
are more-discretionary purchases, Chief Financial Officer Dave Grace said on a Feb. 9 conference call. As the economy continues
to expand, owners will “start spending on their homes,” he
said.  Similarly, Fortune Brands is forecasting “slight
improvement” in its repair and remodel business this year,
Chief Executive Officer Christopher Klein said on a Feb. 1
conference call. The market for this segment and new housing
construction will grow 3 percent in 2012 from 2011, the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company forecast when it released
fourth-quarter earnings that day.  “Recent modest improvement in the  U.S. economy  and the
 unemployment rate , coupled with some pent-up demand in home
improvements, seems to be supporting modest growth in remodel
activity,” Klein said.  Falling Jobless Rate  The U.S. jobless rate fell to  8.3 percent  in January from
8.5 percent the prior month to the lowest level since February
2009, marking five consecutive months of declines. Meanwhile,
payrolls climbed 243,000, the most in nine months, exceeding the
most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer confidence  strengthened to  minus 39.8  in the week
ended Feb. 12 from minus 41.7 the previous week, as measured by
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. That’s the highest in a
year and more than 13 points above a nearly two-year low of
minus 53.2 in October 2011.  Still, there may be some slowing before remodeling activity
picks up, based on the Harvard indicator, which suggests
acceleration may occur later this year, and the BuildFax index,
which has fallen nearly 20 points since peaking in October.  Behind Prerecession Levels  Contractor-hired work also has a long way to go to reach
prerecession levels, as the number of residential remodelers
lags behind the September 2006 peak by more than 76,000, Labor
Department data show. Government figures may underestimate the
size of this industry because they track workers on payrolls,
and about two-thirds of home-improvement businesses consist of
self-employed people, Baker said.  Even so, the revival in residential remodeling seen last
year probably will continue, which is encouraging for people in
this industry, Zentner said.  “An increase in these jobs should precede a broader
recovery in housing,” she said. “We have a bit of
strengthening that does appear to be legitimately returning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  