-- Cooperman Shuns Treasuries; Favors Stocks (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-02-22T19:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cooperman-shuns-treasuries-favors-stocks-transcript-.html
Leon Cooperman , chief executive
officer of Omega Advisors Inc., talks about investment
strategy and President Barack Obama’s policies.  Cooperman  spoke with Bloomberg’s Erik Schatzker
yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  ERIC SCHATZKER, BLOOMBERG TV: Everybody knows by now that
you wrote to the President back in November. Your letter
was widely circulated and in it, I think it’s fair to say,
Lee, that you accused him of polarizing the nation by
fomenting what you described as “class warfare between the
haves and the have nots.” What I’d like to know, are you
any more encouraged today by the tone of debate in American
politics than you were back then?  LEON COOPERMAN, CEO, OMEGA ADVISORS: Not really. Not
really. Let me just say this. I’m probably the most
apolitical guy you know. I’ve not been involved in
politics. Most of my financial resources, that I give back
to the society, are given through non-profits - you know,
inner city programs, health programs, etcetera - and I was
motivated to write mainly because of the rhetoric - his
dialog. You know, if the President had simply said that
we’re in a very difficult economic environment and all of
us have to do more, particularly those that can afford to
do more, I never would have written that because I agree
with that. I’m prepared to pay more in taxes, but it’s the
class warfare that he’s invoked that really set me off -
the attacking of wealthy people, the attacking of the
 energy industry . Very interesting, after the debt ceiling
was raised he also threw in the private aviation industry
for a source of attack. Now, I’ll just tell you that the
manufacturers of aircraft, I think next to motion pictures,
are one of the largest exporters of goods in the country.
Their labor force is largely unionized, which is his
constituency. Warren Buffett, who he’s a big fan of, has an
airplane which he calls “The Indispensable,” so why would
you want to attack an industry that creates a lot of
employment for your constituency.  So, it really - I can understand the problems he’s facing.
I just don’t understand the dialog. He’s got to be
inclusive, bring people together. Maybe as we approach the
election he’ll soften his dialog, but I think he’s revealed
himself for what he is. He’s anti-business. He’s anti-
wealth, and it’s a different philosophical viewpoint. I
came across a quote that - with your permission - I’ve got
to put on my spectacles - I’m - I won’t say blind, but I
can’t see much without them, but basically - I’d like to
read you something which I think very much summarizes the
essence of my letter but in a much more articulate manner
and it says, “You cannot help the poor by destroying the
rich. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the
strong. You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging
thrift. You cannot lift a wage earner up by pulling the
wage payer down. You cannot further the brotherhood of man
by inciting class hatred. You cannot build character and
courage by taking away peoples’ initiative and
independence. You cannot help people permanently by doing
for them what they could and should do for themselves.”  And, this is the essence of my view, that I think the
President was heading down a non-productive path and this
class warfare never has a good end to it and so this is
what incited me to write. I’ve heard from so many people
around the world. I’ve gotten easily 500 emails and/or
letters - 99.9% supportive. I’ve not heard from anybody in
the administration or certainly the President. That doesn’t
bother me. He’s busy doing other things, but I think we’re
heading for a national referendum in this country and it’s
very complex because you know almost half the country is on
some form of public assistance and they probably are
supportive of the President’s programs and the other half
wants it the way it used to be. You know, reward for
individual initiative, a meritocracy, etcetera, and I’m not
a politician. I’m not politically oriented. I’m pretty sour
on the whole political system but it’s probably the best
one out there but, anyway, that’s kind of how I see things.
I haven’t changed my view and I don’t think the President
has changed his view.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Lee, when you say we’re headed for a
national referendum, a referendum on exactly what?  COOPERMAN: Well, we’re going to head - whether we’re
heading the way of  Europe , a socialist state, or whether
we’re going to be like America was where, like I said,
there’s a reward for initial initiative, exceptionalism - I
don’t want to sound like I’m waving a flag, but I am waving
a flag. You know, I’m a perfect example. I had a very,
very, very heavy dose of luck but I started in the
tenements in the South Bronx, had a public school
education. I went to public school. I went to public high
school. I went to public college. I started my career at
Goldman Sachs after getting an MBA at Columbia and I
started with virtually nothing in the bank, actually
negative net worth, and I became very wealthy, very
successful. I have this moral imperative of giving back to
the system, which I think most people who have achieved
great wealth have that view. I don’t think I’m exceptional
or different than anybody else and so I’m for the old way.
Work hard, the harder you work the luckier you get,
etcetera, etcetera. And, I think the President seems to be
of a different orientation.  ERIK SCHATZKER : But -  COOPERMAN: He creates this impression -  ERIK SCHATZKER: So, as a self -  COOPERMAN: He creates this impression.  ERIK SCHATZKER: I was just going to say, Lee, as a self-
made man - as the prototypical, if you will, self-made made
- you just described your career history, you couldn’t be
more self made. Do you agree, though, with some of the
people who side with the President that the conditions in
America today don’t allow for the same kind of social
mobility that you enjoyed as a young man?  COOPERMAN: We have to correct that, but do you correct that
by attacking the wealthy, or taxing the wealthy out of
existence. And he basically makes the point - I find
humorous. Nobody uses numbers. You know, I’m a numbers
person. Nobody uses numbers. He says that the wealthy have
to pay their fair share. What is their fair share? I have
no problem with that. I’m for progressive income tax
structure. What is the fair share? You know, right now the
max-end tax at the federal level is 35% - it’s heading to,
I think, 3.96%. You have a  payroll tax . You have a Social
Security tax. You have state income taxes, and then
whatever you hold onto at the end of the road, you have a
55% inheritance tax. So, the notion that wealthy don’t pay
their taxes is ridiculous.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Well, he’s -  COOPERMAN: Totally ridiculous. My guess is if -  ERIK SCHATZKER: He has - he had a number -  COOPERMAN: [CROSSTALK] he had one foot -  ERIK SCHATZKER: I’m sorry, he has put that number out
there. Most recently in his budget, he proposed that that
number be 30% - that anybody making over a million dollars
a year should pay at least 30% tax. Is that fair?  COOPERMAN: I - let me tell you something. I’d sign on for
that immediately. I checked with my accountant about a
month ago. My effective tax rate was 28.3% and the only
difference between the 30% and the 28.3% - or the 35%
statutory level - was because I have  capital gains . I’m an
investor. I invest for the long term, and let’s face it, a
lot of long-term capital gains are due to inflation. It has
nothing to do with investment merits. So, yes, would I sign
on for
30%? Absolutely. I have no problem with that. I believe,
like I said, in a progressive income tax structure but the
notion it creates is the wealthy don’t pay taxes. It’s just
crazy. It just makes no sense.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Well, but -  COOPERMAN: I’m not a political analyst. I’m a stock jockey.  ERIK SCHATZKER: I understand. I understand. We’re going to
move onto stocks in just one second but if you’re okay with
30%, do you believe that other people who are perhaps
similarly wealthy, or wealthy but not quite as fortunate as
you, should also pay 30%?  COOPERMAN: Yes, well, why should I and not them? Of course.
I don’t think the wealthy people would object at all. Let’s
face it, the super wealthy people, at the end of the road
they’re going to give away their money. There are a few
hedonists out there that are going to try and keep all
their money but when they’re lowering you into the ground,
where does your money go? It goes to Uncle Sam, to charity
or your children. Okay? I think you don’t want to take away
the incentive from your children to achieve on their own so
you want to leave them a rational sum of money and then
you’re left to decide between the government - again, we’re
talking about people of great wealth. Then you’re left to
decide between the government and charities. I would rather
give my money to the charities of my choice where perhaps I
could play some role or my descendants in that money being
intelligently spent.  And that’s what Buffett has done. Warren, whom I have an
enormous respect for. I know Warren reasonably well. I’m a
student of his accomplishments, but at the end of the day
Warren is leaving all his money to either his children in
the form of foundations, where I think he set up three $1
billion foundations for his three children, and he’s giving
the rest - almost $50 billion dollars - to the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation. So, he made that judgment that he
thinks Bill and Melinda Gates and their trustees can do a
better job in allocating his resources than the U.S.
government. Very rational. And, I think if you ask  Warren
Buffett  what could the maximum tax rate be on wealthy
people, I don’t think he would depart much from that 30% or
35% number, nor do I. So, what I’m most arguing for is now
what we have to do is size the government to the level of
revenue they’re likely to take in. This is the issue - we
cannot - as a nation, our fiscal house is totally out of
order and we’re heading down a very, very bad path. We’re
running budget deficits consistently over $1 trillion. The
federal debt now is roughly $15 trillion. Let me give you a
statistic which to me is mind boggling. The average
maturity of the  U.S. government debt  is less than 4 years.
What company would run its financial affairs and have all
its debt maturing in 4 years or less? Okay? And with piling
on debt at this enormous rate - it’s about 8.5% of GDP.
We’re all talking about  Greece  today. How many more years
is it before the  United States  is in the same headlines as
Greece? And so we have to pull together.  So, what I would do is I would start from the bottom line.
The bulk of the taxes paid in this country are paid by
wealthy people. Decide what the maximum marginal tax rate
should be on wealthy people, determine what your revenue
yield is, and size the government to that revenue yield
rather than having this constant program of kicking the can
down the road where you know you’re heading to an ultimate
crisis and that’s when you get leadership. We have a system
of government in the United States - and I don’t blame this
on President Obama, by the way. This is a problem for both
parties. We have a system of leadership in this country
that is leadership at a crisis and it’s just a damn shame.
My pet peeve is that in 1973 we had an energy crisis. What
is it? Almost 40 years have gone by. I can’t see an  energy
policy  articulated. We have this enormous blessing of a
huge supply of natural gas. Why don’t we have natural gas
cars, electric cars? We don’t have policies that are
intelligent and it’s not the fault of the Democrats. It’s
not the fault of the Republicans. The system is breaking
down because they basically dislike each other. The guy
that had it right - I don’t know. Maybe I’m dating myself
but 3 or 4 years ago - you can get the exact date - Evan
Bayh resigned from the Senate, and he resigned from the
Senate because he said he’s “never seen a more dysfunction
body. They genuinely dislike each other. They can’t
negotiate. They can’t compromise. I don’t want to be part
of a system like that,” and he moved on. And boy, he wrote
that 3 or 4 years ago. He was really ahead of his time. I
give him tremendous credit. And so we would all like to
come together and try to resolve our problems in an
intelligently, friendly-like manner and whether that’s
possible or not, I don’t know.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Lee, is there a candidate out there whom
you think can do that?  COOPERMAN: Well, I’ve publicly said I support Romney. I’m
disappointed that he can’t seem to traction. I was
listening to some comments that  Jack Welch  made, of GE
fame, but Jack made the observation that he was
extraordinarily impressed with Romney’s organization
abilities, and managerial abilities. You know, GE had put I
think something over $1 billion for the Olympics. It was
floundering. Romney came in on a volunteer basis and fixed
it. It was a big success, and Jack worked very closely with
him and I have a lot of respect for Jack Welch, and he made
these comments and everything I see about him is positive.
I think religion, in my view, doesn’t play a role. I worked
at Goldman Sachs with many members of the Mormon faith.
These are clean cut, hard working, accomplished, good
people so I don’t see the issue. So, yes, at this point in
time I support Romney and the only thing that disturbs me
is that he’s having so much difficulty getting his message
across but I’m supportive of Romney. And I have supported
Democrats in the past. I’m a registered independent. I just
want the best things for the country and I think, as I said
earlier in my remarks - and again, this is something
outside of my area of expertise - I’m getting to be a
political analyst - is I think we’re heading for a national
referendum. There is tremendous dissatisfaction on both
sides of the aisle and I think we have to come to some
common good. We have to work this out and I think the
people express themselves, whether they want a European
style government, more socialist in orientation, or they
want a government that adheres and advocates free markets
and we’ll have to wait and see. I don’t know what the
outcome is going to be. Right now [In Trade] says the
President’s probability of being re-elected is almost 60%.
So, and I would say that even where I’m coming from, that’s
not a good thing.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Let’s move onto investing. At the end of
2010, you wrote to your investors outlining the conditions
for an optimistic view of U.S. stocks in 2011, that the
U.S. wouldn’t have a Japan-loss decade, that the ECB would
fall in line and start to provide some monetary stimulus
along the lines of what the fed was doing, that the
President would become more pro business, and you later
added that oil couldn’t top $130 a barrel or else we’d head
into a recession. You might say that many of those
conditions have been met. The President may not be as pro
business as you would like but he is perhaps a little less
anti-business than he was at one point in time and a number
of those other things, especially the ECB, have been met,
so does that make 2012 -  COOPERMAN: Yes, well, actually -  ERIK SCHATZKER: A year to be optimistic when it comes to
the stock market?  COOPERMAN: We were in 2011 as you said - optimistic. You
said we pointed out one’s assumptions but the truth of the
matter that was our forecast and I don’t take any victory
laps because it’s a very humbling business, but things have
unfolded pretty much as we’ve anticipated. We did not have
a recession, number one, and the ECB is doing what they had
to do. In other words, what I said almost 9 months ago -
excuse me - was that when a problem - there were two groups
of thought on this whole EBC issue and one school of
thought said the problem is so complex, so difficult to
understand, it’s beyond my bandwidth. I’m not going to
invest. And the other school of thought - which I consider
myself part of - is historically when a problem is
perceived to have been so catastrophic in its impact if it
hits, the problem doesn’t hit. And so that was my
assumption, that the ECB, the IMF, the  World Bank  - the IMF
with a 70% funded by the United States basically -  China ,
 Japan  - they would all coalesce around the problem and do
what they have to do, which is what’s happening. In terms
of Obama, it would be nice if he’d move to the center. I
don’t think that’s happening in all honesty, and on the
price of oil that is an issue and the way I wrapped it
around at that time was about the events in the  Middle
East .  ERIK SCHATZKER: Right.  COOPERMAN: What I said was, is what’s going on in the
Middle East about democracy or something more sinister - I
don’t know the answer. I’m dubious. I’m questioning. I’m
not relaxed about it but the only way to monitor it is
through the price of oil and I’d say that more recently the
price of oil has become troublesome again. We’re
approaching $4.00 a gallon at the pump and that’s going to
be a depressing influence on the economy. I don’t remember
exactly all the numbers but I think we’re something like 18
million barrels of oil per day we’re consuming and a
certain number of gallons per barrel and you wind up that
this is a significant issue. So, I would say oil is back on
the table and I think, you know [Brent] $130/$135 is going
to be a problem. I think it’s currently around $122 and so
it has to be watched very, very carefully. But, I think
things are unfolding in the manner that we anticipated and
I would say that when I look at kind of the pluses and
minuses - and whenever I kind of try to come up with a
forecast I always pull out a yellow pad of paper and I
write down what I think the assets or pluses for the market
are, what the minuses are. On the plus side we have a very
friendly fed, and that really is a global phenomena. There
is easings all over the world, most recently by the
Japanese Central Bank. The economy is moving ahead, albeit
at a slow rate but it’s moving ahead, somewhere in the
2-3% zone. Corporate earnings are rising. Dividend payments
are rising. Investors have de-risked. People are so fearful
of what happened to them in 2008 that they’re coming back
into the market at a very slow pace and that’s a plus, and
valuation is quite reasonable.  Again, I don’t want to sound like a statistician but for
the last 50 years the S&P 500 multiple averaged around 15
times. In that 50-year period where the S&P multiple
averaged 15, the 10-year U.S. government bond rate averaged
6.67%, whereas we sit here today, the S&P is about 13.5
times earnings, which is roughly 10% below the historical
average but it is occurring at a time where the 10-year
government bond rate is hovering around 2%.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Right.  COOPERMAN: Okay? And short-term  interest rates  are zero.
Now, I have great confidence that the Fed is ultimately
going to get their way. The Fed is trying to elevate asset
prices.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Sure.  COOPERMAN: To help consumption, to help the economy, and I
think in 2 or 3 years time we’ll be worrying about
inflation and interest rates will be materially higher, and
an instrument that I have absolutely no interest in - and
it’s the most widely traded instrument in the world - are
U.S.  government bonds . I don’t think people understand how
risky a U.S. government bond is at 2% return. I understand
the arguments of those that are liking it, but a 2%
government bond - if we’re talking about marginal tax
rates, all-in, state and local, federal 40% - you’re
keeping 60% of your 2% - you’re keeping 1.2%. The rate of
inflation is somewhere in the range of 2-3% so your capital
is being confiscated. Makes no sense. If you look at the
history of the 10-year government bond normally - normally
- and we’re not in normal times now. We’re in a world of
financial repression because of weak economic conditions -
but in normal times, a 10-year U.S. government bond yields
in line with nominal GDP. Nominal GDP is the summation of
inflation plus real growth, so if inflation is raising 2-
3%, let’s say, and real growth is 2-3%, that would mean
nominal GDP would be growing normally between 4-6%. So, if
I told you the 10-year government bond was going to go to
4% or 5% over the next couple or three years, you wouldn’t
think that that’s a very bold or unusual forecast. Well,
that’s an enormous  capital loss  for the person that holds
that 2% government bond. So, amongst the panoply of
financial assets I think U.S. government bonds are the
least attractive and I think equities - and where I’ve been
saying this - and I’ve been a little premature in all
honesty.  The market didn’t do as well as I thought it would do last
year. It’s slightly ahead of schedule this year, but it’s
on schedule - but a little ahead of schedule I should say -
but, when I look at the alternatives in financial assets,
cash earned zero and Bernanke has promised us it’s going to
be zero for a couple more years. You got to keep some of
that for security and safety purposes. You’ve got U.S.
government bonds, about 2%, zero interest. I don’t own one
in my portfolio. The third alternative is high yield -
excuse me - that’s had an enormous rally. That’s down a
little over 7%. So selectively you could find individual
issues that make sense but collectively high yield has kind
of got itself fully priced, and then you’re left with the
S&P which is 13.5 times earnings - you have a bit over 2%
and that’s 10% below the historical multiple at a time when
interest rates are well below historical, and you can find
lots of cheap stocks out there that are yielding more than
bonds today that are good companies that will grow over
time. So, I think by default stocks went out and they’re
the best house in the financial asset neighborhood and it’s
not to say, we’re not without problems.  When I look at my yellow pad and I talk about the problems.
We have Iran, big issue - the price of oil, the uncertainty
about the political outcome this coming November. We have
the structural imbalances that we have to deal with, and we
don’t seem to have a - if we wind up with an election where
the President gets re-elected and Republicans control the
Senate and the House, which it seems to be what the pundits
are saying - we wind up with another 4 years of gridlock.
We don’t need gridlock, we need leadership. We all got to
come together and do a little bit more to resolve this
problem and subjugate our ideology for the common good to
move things ahead.  So, we have these structural imbalances that trouble me and
then lastly, we’ve set for an enormous amount of fiscal
drag in 2013. I read somewhere that higher taxes to the
order of magnitude of $500 billion are legislated to take
place in fiscal 2013, which is going to be a hit to economy
unless we start doing things about that. So, I think there
are issues out there but by and large we started the year
thinking somewhere in the 1,400-1,450 as a target in the
S&P. As we speak, I don’t know, we’re 1,375-1,380 - so
we’re up 8%. I wouldn’t be surprised if the market slowed
down but then again, nobody really knows. People have de-
risked. There’s a lot of liquidity inside. There’s
trillions of dollars sitting on the sidelines. People have
been busy buying bonds the last few years and it’s going to
turn out that bonds were the worst place to put your money
for the next 3 years. And I’m trying to forward look, not
backward look.  ERIK SCHATZKER: So, clearly you’ve made a very strong case
for equities, Lee. I look at your portfolio. I see that you
are - at least only the stuff that’s publicly disclosed. I
see that you like financials, broadly speaking. Obviously
you’ve got some picks within financials - energy,
technology, and a mix of say content, distribution and
creation. What does that say? Is there a unifying thesis in
those choices?  COOPERMAN: Yes, we’re saying basically we’re a value-
oriented operation. We’re very bottom up. We look at the
top down to try and set a framework for the market. What
we’ve told our investors for the 20 years I’ve been in
Omega, and my 25 years before that at Goldman Sachs, is we
try to make money in five different ways, and in any one
year each way plays a role, okay? The first way is, let’s
face it, stocks are high-risk financial assets. Short-term
bonds and cash are low-risk financial assets, so we at
Omega and my vice-chairman, Steve [Ian], who is a terrific
resource for the firm - we work in association basically.
We spend a lot of time studying the economy, the Fed,
market valuation and to try to determine whether the stock
market is undervalued going up, overvalued going down - or
it could be overvalued, getting more overvalued - and that
determines our exposure to risk assets so that’s the first
way we make money. And right now we’re about 80% net long,
which is probably higher than most hedge funds. We tend to
be more long oriented. The second way we make money is on
 asset allocation . We look at U.S. stocks versus U.S. bonds,
high-grade bonds, government bonds, high-yield bonds,
trying to - and we do this domestically and internationally
- and the way I phrase it is we’re looking for the straw
hat in the winter. Where’s the mispriced asset? People
don’t buy straw hats in the winter. They’re on sale, so
we’re looking for the mispriced asset and frankly I would
say the mispriced asset today is U.S. government bonds but
because of the weakness in the economy we don’t have a
short trade on at the present time but that is my
orientation.  The third way we make money - which is kind of - I’ll get
into it at the moment - is our bread and butter business
and that’s undervalued stocks on the long side, and it’s
very, very eclectic. We’re trying to find growth at a
reasonable price and oftentimes we find ourselves involved
in a lot of takeovers because one of our touchstones in our
approach is the belief that publicly traded companies -
most of them - have two values, the so-called auction
market value which is the price you and I pay for 100
shares or 1,000 shares - maybe you buy 100,000 shares - and
the so-called private market value, which is the price a
strategic or financial investor would pay for the entire
business. So, what we look for is companies in the public
market that are selling at a discount to their private
market value where we can identify catalyst for change. So,
that’s the third area we try to make money.  The fourth area, which has not been predictably productive
for us historically is overvalued stocks on the short side,
and then finally we take a few percent of our capital and
will make macro trades and macro to us is non-equity so it
could be long or short fixed income -  ERIK SCHATZKER: Gold, or something like that?  COOPERMAN: Sure, currency - exactly.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Now - and what’s the fifth one?  COOPERMAN: We do 3% of the fund in gold. Well, the fifth is
the macro. So, the first is market direction.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Okay.  COOPERMAN: Second is asset allocation. Third is undervalued
stocks, long. Fourth is overvalued stocks, short, and fifth
is the occasional macro trade.  ERIK SCHATZKER: And what you think is going to - I guess -  COOPERMAN: [CROSSTALK]  ERIK SCHATZKER: My question to you, Lee, is what is going
to work this year?  COOPERMAN: I would think gold will work. I think the S&P
will work. I think a whole bunch of stocks will work.
They’ve already worked somewhat this year. The S&P, I
think, is up about 8% and we find a lot of cheap stocks
around - in technology. I hate to buy things that are up a
lot so forgive me if I mention things that are up, but we
own them and we would not own them if we didn’t like them,
but I would like to put new money to things that have not
moved. But we like in technology Apple and Qualcomm.  ERIK SCHATZKER: You, Lee, actually -  COOPERMAN: In financial areas -  ERIK SCHATZKER: Since you mentioned it, I want to ask you a
question about Apple. Apple - north of $500 - is there
really that much value left in that stock?  COOPERMAN: Yes, we think it’s worth something north of
$600. It’s funny, by the way. I’m surprised. You’re being a
real gentleman. You’re being so nice to me. You didn’t ask
me about RIM.  ERIK SCHATZKER: I could ask you about RIM, too.  COOPERMAN: Funny - yes, well, you know, it’s funny. It was
really like a mass hysteria. We put about a half of 1% of
our assets into RIM late last year on a theory that they
had a revenue base that was being mispriced by the market,
which was 20% of what we had in Apple. We’ve owned Apple
now for a long time and we continue to own a big position.
So, I had five times more Apple investment than I had RIM
and I guess kept on getting calls from the press about RIM.
We’ve sold RIM because we have a discipline of taking stop
losses. Still think it might be intriguing. You know, they
have 75 million subscribers that are paying down on average
almost $5.00 a month for the email service but we’re out of
it, but yes, I wouldn’t say Apple would be the leading
candidate for new money. We’re not putting new money into
Apple but we’re riding the trend. We think they have a
unique position, have a couple more years of very good
runway ahead of them. Qualcomm - they have the dominant
chip in smart phones. In the financial area we own JP
Morgan. We own a little bit of Citicorp, Bank of America,
and we have a very unique company called [Auto Source
Portfolio Solutions] which basically helps manage the
foreclosure process for banks. In the healthcare area, we
liked the HMOs, United, WellPoint, Boston Scientific. In
the media area we like EcoStar, DISH. There’s just no
shortage of attractive stocks and we just control our
overall exposure by determining how much exposure we want
to have. Right now, as I said, we’re about 80% net long. We
like Sallie Mae in financials.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Yes.  COOPERMAN: In the energy area we have Halliburton, Kinder
Morgan.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Lee, I think we have to end it there but I
did want to say thank you very much for taking the time to
talk to me this morning.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<811611.1057402.2.1.99.7.25>#
 