-- Cordray Announces U.S. Inquiry Into Bank Overdraft Policies
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-02-22T19:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cordray-announces-u-s-inquiry-into-bank-overdraft-policies.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is starting an inquiry into bank checking
account overdraft policies and may initiate related enforcement
actions during the probe, director  Richard Cordray  said today.  “With today’s technologies, consumers have more
opportunities to access their checking accounts and cause
overdrafts,” Cordray said in an e-mailed statement. “But
overdraft practices have the capacity to inflict serious
economic harm on the people who can least afford it.”  Large banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  as well as smaller institutions rely on overdrafts for
revenue in retail banking. Banks and credit unions were set to
charge customers about $38 billion from overdraft fees in 2011,
according to a Sept. 15 estimate by Moebs Services, a Lake
Bluff, Illinois-based economic research firm.  While it is studying the issue, Cordray warned that the
bureau will use its enforcement powers against banks that trick
customers into to choosing potentially expensive overdraft
protection.  “The bureau plans to take action against financial
institutions that exploit consumers with deceptive marketing
about opting in to overdraft or other unlawful overdraft
practices,” Cordray said during a speech at  Hunter College ’s
 Roosevelt House  Public Policy Institute in  New York . “It is
wrong to confuse consumers deliberately for financial gain.”  In 2009, the  Federal Reserve  required that consumers opt-in
to overdraft programs rather than be enrolled by default.  Overdrafts as Loans  Overdrafts occur when consumers spend or withdraw more
money than is available in their checking accounts, whether
through the use of debit cards, checks, ATM withdrawals or
direct debits, known as ACH transactions. Banks typically charge
a fee when balances go below zero, and sometimes treat the
amount of the overdraft as an interest-bearing loan.  John P. Carey, managing director for global consumer
banking, governance and external affairs at Citibank, defended
overdraft policies.  “Our customers find overdraft protection services for
checks and ACH transactions to be of value,” Carey said during
a panel discussion after Cordray’s speech.  Citibank never authorizes a transaction at an ATM or point-
of-sale debit card if the money is not available, Carey said,
though it does so for checks and ACH transactions. Many
customers prefer that to, for example, the consequences of a
bounced check, such as damage to their credit scores or a fee
from a merchant.  Sequencing Transactions  The bureau will request data from banks, and input from the
public on how the ordering of transactions affects how much
consumers pay, the agency said in the statement. Banks have
sometimes debited customers’ accounts not in the order of the
transactions, but with the highest amount first, so as to
overdraw the account as quickly as possible and incur fees and
interest.  The agency will also examine the quality of information
consumers receive on overdraft programs, bank marketing
campaigns on overdrafts, and how young and low-income persons
are affected by overdrafts, the bureau said.  Finally, the bureau is seeking feedback on a sample
 “penalty fee box”  that could appear on checking account
statements and state what fees consumers pay.  The bureau is asking for  public comment  within about 60
days. It did not name the banks from which it is obtaining data.
Bureau spokeswoman Jen Howard said the inquiry on overdraft
would be completed this year.  Other Agencies’ Rules  Other regulators have imposed various rules that have
limited the application of overdraft programs or affected their
design. Cordray criticized the results while promising the
consumer bureau would take the initiative itself.  “We plan to examine current overdraft practices, hear from
consumers about their experiences, study the impact of prior
guidance, consult with our fellow regulatory agencies, and then
assess and determine the best policies for the future,” Cordray
said.  Joint guidance by federal regulators encouraged best
practices in the field, but they “have not been widely adopted
by banks,” Cordray said.  In 2010 the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  approved
guidance forcing banks it regulates to steer heavy users of
overdrafts into cheaper forms of credit, a move that drew strong
opposition from community banks. Cordray noted that “it applies
only to the subset of banks that are actually supervised by the
FDIC.”  Fees Up 17%  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed its
own guidance last year, which would cover big national banks
such as JPMorgan or Wells. That plan has not yet been finalized,
Cordray noted.  The average overdraft fee ranged from $30 to $35 in 2011
and has increased by 17 percent over the past five years,
according to the consumer bureau. A 2008 study by the FDIC found
that consumers who overdrew their accounts 20 or more times
annually paid an average of $1,610 in fees.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
 Washington  at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 