-- High Court Moves Up Clock on College Race Policies: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-02-22T18:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/court-moves-up-clock-on-college-race-policies-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
In 2003, U.S.  Supreme Court  Justice
 Sandra Day O’Connor , with one foot out the door to care for her
beloved husband, did the country a last favor by resolving the
affirmative action debate in college admissions once and for
all. Or so we thought.  Tuesday, the Supreme Court reopened the issue by agreeing
to hear an appeal challenging policies at the  University of
Texas  that were designed to comply with the case law as it
exists.  O’Connor’s resolution of the affirmative action issue came
in one of the strangest -- and most practical -- packages of any
Supreme Court decision in the modern era. The weirdness did not
lie in her rationale, which was a straightforward compromise. In
the twin cases of Grutter v. Bollinger and Gratz v. Bollinger,
the court held that affirmative action could not proceed
according to a strict point system that weighed race explicitly,
but that race could be used in a more inchoate way when
composing a diverse student body. The reason, O’Connor explained
in Grutter, was that diversity of experience and background was
itself an educational value for everybody.  Legal Time Limit  What made these judgments shocking was the time limit --or,
if you will, time fuse -- that she put on her opinion. In a
striking coda, O’Connor wrote, “We expect that 25 years from
now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary
to further the interest approved today.”  This time limit represented a new extreme in the use of
judicial pragmatism to interpret the Constitution. Whether the
guarantee of equal protection does or does not allow race-
conscience admissions would seem on its face to be a matter of
principle. And principles -- at least the ones in the
Constitution -- are supposed to be true for the centuries.
Needless to say, the Constitution does not specify that equal-
protection rights should ebb and flow with the generational
cycle.  Yet O’Connor was on to something, as she usually was in her
long judicial career. Even the form of her compromise, allowing
vague affirmative action but not the explicit kind, reflected
her reading of what the public could bear.  No one was better than O’Connor at intuiting the
constitutional values of the median voter. On issues such as
abortion rights and the separation of church and state, she had
an extraordinary knack for delivering opinions that resonated
with sensible, middle-of-the-road people. There is every reason
to believe that she was able to achieve this unconscious
tracking of the opinion polls simply by using her own prodigious
common sense.  When it comes to Supreme Court decisions, common sense is
not to be dismissed lightly. In the U.S., as Alexis de
Tocqueville first observed, controversial political issues
inevitably become constitutional questions. Because the court’s
job is to resolve constitutional problems, it will almost by
necessity find itself taking on difficult and divisive
questions. Pragmatic constitutional decision-making demands that
the court resolve such questions in a way that actually works.
Finding the median political ground is one route to such a
pragmatic outcome.  Perhaps Too Brilliant  Seen from this angle, putting a 25-year window on a
pragmatic resolution of affirmative action was logical, even
brilliant. On the one hand, it was meant to reassure advocates
of race-blind admissions that the decision was not meant to last
forever. On the other hand, it was intended to provide a safe
harbor for educational institutions to know that they would be
safe maintaining their policies for the medium term.  But perhaps the gambit of putting an explicit expiration
date on the constitutional opinion was just a little bit too
brilliant. Legal decisions, it is true, are meant to create
settled expectations so that the people governed by them can
plan their lives accordingly. Yet the law is about more than
creating a regularized climate for investments, whether
educational or material. Law is also about principle -- or at
least it’s supposed to be.  By openly acknowledging that the legality of using racial
diversity in admissions decisions was limited to a specific time
context, Justice O’Connor weakened the capacity of her decision
to stand for a principle. She was gambling that her specificity
would remind future justices of just how controversial the
affirmative action issue is and encourage them to avoid it until
absolutely necessary.  That gamble, it now appears, did not pay off. For the
current conservative justices, the lack of principle at the core
of O’Connor’s compromise provides vindication for revisiting it
less than a decade after the 25-year clock started ticking.  The conservatives have good reason to believe that they
could win this time. Justice  Anthony Kennedy , the new swing vote
since O’Connor’s retirement, did not join Justice O’Connor’s
opinion in 2003. He has generally sided with conservatives when
the question has arisen. No one doubts that Justice  Samuel Alito , who replaced O’Connor, would embrace the conservative
vision of the colorblind Constitution that Justice  Antonin Scalia  has eloquently and adamantly repeated over the years.  The Swing Vote  It is not inconceivable that Kennedy might take refuge in a
moderate opinion that upheld the O’Connor compromise, explaining
that although he did not agree with that opinion, it was
nevertheless settled doctrine. That was the position he took --
alongside O’Connor and Justice David Souter -- in the 1992
Planned Parenthood v. Casey decision that declined to overrule
Roe v. Wade. The three of them signed an opinion that included
the phrase, “liberty finds no refuge in a jurisprudence of
doubt” -- vintage Kennedy purple prose.  Even if Kennedy were to opt for restraint, the
conservatives would be no worse off than they are under the
O’Connor compromise as it stands. Unlike the same-sex marriage
issue, there seems to be no chance of Justice Kennedy taking a
more liberal position on affirmative action than he has
previously.  This is an election year. Putting affirmative action on the
agenda is an extraordinary gift to the Republican presidential
candidate, who will be a white man running against an African-
American incumbent. Pushing President  Barack Obama  to defend
affirmative action, as he will inevitably have to, can only cost
him swing voters. Justice O’Connor wanted affirmative action off
the political radar screen. Now the conservative justices want
it back on. Having left the high court, O’Connor will find there
is nothing she can do about it.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 