-- Crowd-Free Caucasus Draws Adventurous Hiker to Tusheti, Georgia
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/crowd-free-caucasus-ancient-towers-are-lure-of-georgia-s-tusheti-travel.html
Among  Europe ’s highest peaks lies a
region wedged between Chechnya and Dagestan that tourism has not
yet discovered.  Horses run wild through fields of irises in Tusheti,
Georgia. Stars have an intensity unknown to city eyes, and the
jingle of a sheep bell competes only with the rush of distant
streams. Damp stone homes and rounds of home-brewed brandy
welcome you at trail’s end.  The one treacherous dirt road here is lined with old Soviet
electric towers stripped of their copper wire decades ago. Yet
so desirable is this peaceful enclave of the Caucasus among the
cognoscenti that a U.S. diplomat has a helicopter landing pad
for his modest summer retreat.  Tusheti’s isolation makes it a wonder for the adventurous
traveler. My husband and I took a two-week trip through  Georgia 
last June that included a 700-year-old monastery, a vicious
sheepdog and some surprisingly good wine. After our plans to
hike the better-known Caucasus region of Svaneti were derailed,
we tried Tusheti on the advice of some Israeli travelers. It
turned out to be the highlight of the trip.  Bullet Pockets  We first spent a few days exploring Tbilisi, Europe’s most
eastern capital. Ornate wooden balconies of the old town are
steps away from sleek wine shops. Designer stores include
Ermenegildo Zegna. First Class Attire sells expensive remakes of
traditional Georgian greatcoats, bullet pockets included.
 Betsy’s , a boutique hotel with antique rugs, overlooks the city
and made a comfortable home base, for around $175 a night.  Georgian cuisine is a fusion of east and west refined for
several centuries. At Dzveli Sakhli, or “old house,” we had
chakapuli, a stew of lamb with tarragon and plums, and kinkali,
a juicy lamb dumpling that resembles the large doughy manti of
Central Asia and the momo of  Tibet . Our meal for two, including
a bottle of a great dry red, Mukuzani Teliani Valley 2006, was
$50.  On our second day, bad weather stopped a planned flight to
Svaneti, a mountainous region between Ossetia and Abkhazia whose
slate towers and pristine peaks are the pride of Georgia.
Luckily, two other travelers had also been thrown off plan, and
we negotiated a $100, three-hour taxi drive for the four of us
to Kazbegi’s 14th-century mountaintop monastery.  You’ll need at least one night’s stay to make the 9-hour
round-trip hike to the monastery and the glacier beyond. Our
welcoming but dingy homestay was a bargain at $15 a night. The
hostess, Nazi (pronounced “nassee”) Chkareuli, cooked incredible
kasha, meatballs and frothy scrambled eggs.  Be forewarned: Huge sheep dogs are common throughout
Georgia. We lost one of our new travel companions halfway to the
mountain when a dog bit his leg and he had to fly to  Frankfurt 
for rabies shots. Get immunized before you go.  Three-Day Trek  After a short return to Tbilisi, we arranged a three-day
trek through a local specialist, Wild Georgia. From the capital,
it takes at least eight hours to reach Tusheti, with a nerve-
jangling five-hour finale over a glacial mountain pass.  The road into the mountains had just become passable that
day, on June 15, and it’s not advisable to go before then. The
pass was still washed away in places, and as we wound through
six-foot-high corridors of glacier, twisted wire crosses marked
many roadside deaths along the hairpin switchbacks.  Tusheti’s Shenako village is a fairy-land cluster of 20
slate homes in a valley so dense with buttercups that the yellow
still stains my hiking boots. The air is thick with butterflies,
and there’s not a power line or Soviet relic in sight. The
homes, made with jigsaw slate stones and scale-like roofs, all
have hand-carved wooden balconies.  No Power  The downside is no electricity and sometimes no showers or
indoor toilets. Our homestay hosts provided a true Georgian
feast, including 10 rounds of toasts with homemade wine and
side-splitting anecdotes about Dagestanis and cows, translated
by our guide, Irma Tchvritidz.  Enjoying the Georgian way of life would have been
impossible without Irma, a 28-year old medical student who
speaks fluent English and grew up in Shenako. A local contact is
invaluable when encountering a mysterious jumble of stones that
women are forbidden to approach. It was a khati, or pre-
Christian shrine, Irma explained.  The next day we set out early on an all-day hike through
subalpine forests and tall, slim slate defensive towers said to
be about 600 years old. You could easily spend five days in
Tusheti, hiking or horseback riding among villages, and when we
reached Dartlo, we wished we had planned a longer trip.  Solar Shower  Our dinner included satsivi, a delicate chicken in walnut
sauce, chased with rounds of a local brandy called chacha. That,
a solar-powered hot shower, beautiful mountain views and a
comfortable bed would have made Dartlo the perfect base for
other day hikes.  The next morning we made the five-hour descent from Tusheti
and drove on to Tsinandali, in Georgia’s wine region where we
got our first earthy, mineral taste of the area’s wine aged in
kvevri, or clay vessels.  The nearby reconstructed Chavchavadze estate of Georgia’s
old royal family is a must-see. Its lavish drawing rooms and
ancient sumak rugs show the mix of western and eastern influence
in Georgia’s culture. A stylish wine bar and new luxury hotel by
the Silk Road Group are a sign of things to come.  Black Wine  An hour and a half away, Sighnaghi is a recently rebuilt
hub for the Kakheti region, which archeologists believe to be
the birthplace of wine, first cultivated 8,000 years ago. Its
comfortable Hotel Carpets House has rooms for only $57 a night,
and a tasting at  Pheasant’s Tears winery , around $8, included a
delicious smooth peppery Shavkapito. Red wines are often called
black here, from the dark saperavi grape, and Sighnaghi, with
its charming restaurants and handicrafts, may not be far behind
Tuscan towns like Montalcino.  U.S. and European Union citizens and many others can stay
in Georgia for as long as 360 days without a visa. Two disputed
territories, Abkhazia and  South Ossetia , are no-go zones, but
Georgia is otherwise safe and easy to navigate.  Flights to Tbilisi from the U.S. are available through LOT
Polish Airlines via a stopover in Warsaw. Flights via Moscow
through Aeroflot are also an option, but will require a Russian
visa.  Three-day tours in Tusheti including a guide and transport
through Wild Georgia are about $500 for two people; call Eka
Chvritidze at 995-99-94-13-20 or see www.wildgeorgia.ge. It’s
around $325 for two round-trip tickets to Svaneti, which can be
bought at Tbilisi’s main airport.  (Tiffany Kary is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 