-- Oil Rises to Nine-Month High as Iran Bars Nuclear Inspectors From Base
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-22T21:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/crude-oil-decreases-from-nine-month-high-as-manufacturing-slows-in-europe.html
Oil rose to a nine-month high as
International Atomic Energy Agency officials were denied access
to an Iranian military base and said negotiations over the
country’s nuclear program “couldn’t finalize a way forward.”  Futures climbed for a fifth day after the IAEA, the  United
Nations ’ nuclear body, said Iran, OPEC’s second-largest oil
producer, refused inspectors permission to visit the Parchin
base during two days of talks that ended yesterday. Crude fell
0.6 percent earlier on reports that manufacturing activity
slowed in Europe and China, signs fuel demand may decline.  “We’re just watching the Iranian story play out,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “What occurs in the market will depend on the
developments there.”  Crude for April delivery increased 3 cents to $106.28 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 4. Futures have gained 14 percent in the
past year.  Prices fell after the  American Petroleum Institute  reported
oil inventories rose 3.55 million barrels to a four-month high
of 341.4 million last week. The April contract dropped 23 cents
to $106.02 a barrel at 4:32 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for April settlement climbed $1.24, or 1 percent,
to end the session at $122.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest close since May 2.  The European benchmark settled at a $16.62-a-barrel premium
to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil. The spread was
$1.21 wider than yesterday.  All Options  Israel  and the U.S. have said all options are on the table
in ensuring the Persian Gulf nation doesn’t acquire atomic
weapons.  Iran  says its nuclear program is for energy.  An Iranian general, Mohammad Hejazi, said his nation would
consider pre-emptive action when threatened, Fars news agency
reported yesterday.  Speculation that oil supplies will be disrupted has
increased as tension between Iran and Western nations escalates,
 David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York, said in a report today. The bank maintained a
recommendation that investors buy Brent contracts for July 2012
to take advantage of rising prices.  Iran said earlier this week that it stopped selling crude
to  France  and Britain in a move designed to pre-empt European
sanctions. The European Union on Jan. 23 agreed to ban crude
imports from Iran starting July 1 to pressure the country over
its nuclear program.  Biggest Driver  “The biggest driver of the market recently has been fear
about Iran,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York. “There’s anxiety about what the
latest sanctions will mean and what retaliation will take place.
All of this keeps prices inflated.”  Iran pumped 3.55 million barrels a day of oil in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of  oil companies , producers
and analysts. Its output trailed only  Saudi Arabia  among members
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Oil prices in New York dipped in intraday trading after a
reports showed European services and manufacturing output
unexpectedly shrank in February and  China ’s manufacturing may
fall for a fourth month.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries dropped to
49.7 from 50.4 in January, London-based Markit Economics said in
an initial estimate today. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
had forecast a reading of 50.5.  Chinese Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing also may decline in February,
according to the preliminary 49.7 reading of an index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. It would be the fourth month
factory activity decreases in China as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis damps exports and the housing market cools. Readings
below 50 point to a contraction.  “We didn’t get rosy economic data,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “We’re still well above $105 and the bullish
factors that got us here are still there. The geopolitical
tensions with Iran continue to simmer.”  Purchases of previously owned homes in the U.S.  climbed 
less than forecast in January, rising 4.3 percent to a 4.57
million annual rate, a report from National Association of
Realtors showed. The median forecast of 74 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for existing-home sales called for
a rise to 4.66 million.  Greek Bailout  Agreement on a second bailout for  Greece  may not be enough
to end  Europe ’s debt crisis and countries in the euro-area
periphery must reduce debt and improve competitiveness, Bank of
England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said in a speech yesterday
in Glasgow, Scotland.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude supplies rose 1.35 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 340.4 million in the seven days ended Feb. 17,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The addition would leave supplies at the highest
level since the week ended Sept. 23.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 514,792
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 723,166
contracts yesterday, 22 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.44 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  