-- CSL Raises Profit Forecast
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-02-22T06:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/csl-raises-profit-forecast.html
CSL Ltd. (CSL) ,  Australia ’s biggest
drugmaker, raised its full-year profit forecast as demand for
blood-derived treatments increased and licensing fees rose.  Net income will climb about 13 percent to A$1.06 billion
($1.1 billion) in the 12 months ending June 30, Melbourne-based
CSL said today. The company, whose forecast is based on exchange
rates in the prior fiscal year, previously projected profit of
A$1.04 billion.  Demand for immunoglobulin products, which raise antibody
levels, and royalties earned from treatments such as Merck &
Co.’s Gardasil cervical-cancer vaccine boosted earnings, CSL
said. That’s helping cushion the impact of a stronger Australian
dollar, which is cutting the value of overseas sales.  “The company is making a great transition from a commodity
to an intellectual property company,” Shane Storey, an analyst
at Wilson HTM Investment Group in  Brisbane , Australia, said by
phone. “It is increasingly becoming more of a biotechnology
company,” said Storey, who  rates  CSL “buy.”  CSL rose 2.5 percent to A$31.72 at the close of trading in
Sydney. The shares have fallen 0.9 percent this year, compared
with a 5.8 percent advance for Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index.  Net income fell 3.4 percent to A$483.3 million in the first
half ended Dec. 31, hurt by a stronger Australian dollar, CSL
said. Analysts projected profit to fall to A$485.3 million,
based on the average of four  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Mighty Aussie Dollar’  Gains in the local currency cut earnings by about A$95
million. That compares with an October forecast for an A$85
million reduction.  Excluding the impact of exchange rates, first-half profit
rose 16 percent, CSL said.  Revenue climbed 6.3 percent to A$2.3 billion in the six-
month period. Fees from licensing of intellectual property
totaled A$80 million, 60 percent more than a year earlier.  The Australian dollar advanced 6.3 percent against its U.S.
counterpart in the past 12 months, the second-best performer
among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We have the mighty Aussie dollar,” Chief Executive
Officer  Brian McNamee  said on a conference call. “As we
translate where we make profits worldwide back to Australian
dollars, we are open to the vagaries of what happens when
speculators want to see the Australian dollar as an
opportunity.”  ‘Natural Hedges’  The company will try to put in place “natural hedges”
against currency movements, such as generating more expenses in
the U.S., where it has a high revenue base, McNamee said.  North America  was CSL’s  biggest market , accounting for 42
percent of revenue, followed by  Europe  with 32 percent and
Australia with 10 percent.  CSL said it plans to begin reporting in U.S. dollars in the
year starting July 1, in line with industry practices and to
reflect the predominance of the company’s global sales.  The company made a provision of about 11 million euros ($15
million) in the first half in case of delays or defaults in
payments by southern European customers, McNamee said.
“Hopefully we don’t have to use it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at  j.gale@bloomberg.net  