-- Cuomo Says Tappan Zee Replacement Plan Moving at ‘Phenomenally Rapid’ Pace
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-22T21:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cuomo-says-tappan-zee-replacement-plan-moving-at-phenomenally-rapid-pace.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said
a construction team may be chosen in the next six months to
build a $5.2 billion replacement for the Tappan Zee Bridge and
that he’s considering turning the old span over the  Hudson River 
into a pedestrian greenway.  The pathway for pedestrians and cyclists would be similar
to the Walkway Over the Hudson, a state park built on the
Poughkeepsie-Highland Railroad Bridge that has  drawn  almost
500,000 visitors a year. Tearing down the bridge would cost $150
million, Cuomo said today at a Cabinet meeting in Albany.  In the last decade, New York has spent $88 million on
studies and held more than 430 public meetings where it
presented 150 proposals to replace the Tappan Zee, he said.  “Ten years worth of talking, and now in a matter of months
so much progress has been made,” Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat,
said. “This is a phenomenally rapid process.”  In December, the state applied for a $2 billion federal
loan, and earlier this month it announced that four construction
teams, including companies such as  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , Bechtel Group
Inc.,  Skanska AB (SKAB)  and  Grupo Dragados SA (DRC) , were in the running to
win the project. President  Barack Obama  in October named
building a new Tappan Zee as one of 14 U.S. projects to be sped
through the federal oversight process.  Job Creation  Final proposals for the project, which would create more
than 45,000 jobs, will be submitted in June and the winning
group will be announced this summer, Cuomo said today. The state
is using the so-called design-build process to speed the
construction timeline, he said. Approved by lawmakers in
December, the process puts private companies in charge of
designing and building the project, rather than having the state
develop the plan and then put it out for bid.  The three-mile-long (4.8-kilometer) Tappan Zee, which
connects Rockland and Westchester counties as part of the  New
York  State Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40
percent more than its original design intended, according to the
application for the $2 billion Transportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act loan.  New York’s project is one of 26 seeking a total of $13
billion in Tifia loans, the U.S. Transportation Department said
in a statement e-mailed Feb. 15. The program has about $1.1
billion available, and New York is asking that its $2 billion be
spread out over several years.  Mass Transit  The Tappan Zee design plan will immediately allow for a
rapid-bus transit line and light rail, Cuomo said. Those
commuter systems haven’t been built yet, and doing so could cost
about $5.2 billion for the buses and $5 billion for the rail, he
said.  “We’re actually building a bridge that’s ahead of the
existing system,” Cuomo said. “I think it’s a prudent
investment because it’s a smart idea, and if we can’t afford it
now, we can down the road.”  The state  hired  Jeffrey A. Parker & Associates in December
to help develop the funding plans for the new bridge. The
federal loan would be secured by revenue collected statewide by
the Thruway Authority, which totaled $660 million in 2011,
including $130 million from the Tappan Zee, the loan application
said. Other options include selling bonds-backed by tolls, and
pension funds or other private investment, Cuomo said today.  “The main funding stream will be tolls,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at   wglasgall@bloomberg.net  