-- CVC Said to Hire Adviser After Japanese Approaches for StarBev
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-02-22T13:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cvc-said-to-hire-adviser-after-japanese-approaches-for-starbev.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
British private equity firm that owns Formula One, is weighing
whether to pursue a sale of Staropramen brewer StarBev after
receiving approaches for the company, three people with
knowledge of the plans said.  CVC has retained  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  to help evaluate
expressions of interest from brewers that include Kirin Holdings
Co., Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Holdings Ltd. of
 Japan , said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private and at an early stage. Belgium-based
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , which sold the business to CVC in 2009,
has a right of first offer, they said.  Other companies that may be interested in StarBev include
the Turkish brewer Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii A.Ş.,
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) , Denmark’s  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  of the
Netherlands, one person said.  CVC, which manages a 10.8 billion euro ($14.3 billion)
European buyout fund, purchased the operations, which include
breweries in the  Czech Republic ,  Hungary , Romania and Bulgaria,
for $2.2 billion, or 1.5 billion euros at the time. Renamed
StarBev, the company employs more than 4,000 people and owns the
well-known Czech lager Staropramen.  Spokesmen for CVC, Kirin, Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg,
Heineken, Efes, SAB and Nomura declined to comment. A spokesman
for Asahi couldn’t be reached for comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that CVC had
received expressions of interest in StarBev.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in London at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  