-- CVC Capital Said to Seek $1.5 Billion in Leveraged Loans for Ahlsell Bid
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-22T16:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/cvc-capital-said-to-seek-1-5-billion-in-leveraged-loans-for-ahlsell-bid.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
buyout firm that owns Formula One, may raise about 9.9 billion
Swedish kronor ($1.5 billion) of leveraged loans to back its bid
to buy Ahlsell AB, a Swedish construction products supplier,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The private-equity firm is in talks with lenders for the
financing that may include a 3 billion kronor term loan A, 1.5
billion kronor of revolving credit and an acquisition facility
paying initial interest at 5 percentage points more than
benchmark lending rates, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  The deal will also include a 5.4 billion kronor of term
loan B denominated in the local currency and euros at an
interest margin of 5.5 percentage basis points, the person said.  Barclays Capital , Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Nordea Bank AB are in negotiations with CVC to provide
the loans, the person said.  CVC is in exclusive talks to buy Stockholm-based Ahlsell
from Goldman Sachs and Cinven Ltd., people with knowledge of the
talks said on Jan. 30. CVC had four weeks to complete the
financing of its bid, the people said.  Ed Moore, a spokesman in  London  for CVC, declined to
comment.  Cinven and Goldman Sachs bought Ahlsell in 2006 for 1.2
billion euros ($1.6 billion), according to the private-equity
 firms  website.  Ahlsell, which distributes heating and plumbing products
and other construction equipment in the Nordic region,  Russia 
and Eastern Europe, had revenue of 19.3 billion kronor and
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of 1.25 billion
kronor in 2010, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  