-- Obama Urged to Resist Calls to Use Oil From U.S. Reserves Amid Iran Risks
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-23T14:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/democrats-urge-obama-to-tap-oil-reserve-as-industry-promotes-conservation.html
President  Barack Obama  should resist
calls to combat rising gas prices with oil from U.S. reserves,
which must be available in the event Iran blocks a pathway for a
fifth of the crude heading to market, Republicans say.  Gasoline prices that have climbed every day for two weeks
and a nine-month high for oil spurred Democratic Representatives
Ed Markey of Massachusetts,  Peter Welch  of Vermont and Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, to ask Obama yesterday to use the
stockpiles. Republicans opposed the request, citing tensions
with Iran over its nuclear-weapons program and possible
retaliation that would interrupt crude shipments.  “The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is there for times of
emergency and supply disruptions,” Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of
Alaska, senior Republican on the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, said yesterday. “It is imperative” the stockpile be
available for “a serious supply disruption down the road.”  Gasoline (3AGSREG)  prices at the pump have climbed 42 cents, or 13
percent, in the 12 months through yesterday, causing American
families to spend about $27 a month more to fill their tanks,
according to the  American Petroleum Institute , the largest
energy-industry trade group.  The U.S. reserve holding 696 million barrels of oil, the
world’s largest government-owned stockpile, was used in July and
August last year, under an International Energy Agency effort to
ease shortages of Middle East supply.  ‘Quite Well Supplied’  “The market is currently quite well supplied,”  Richard
Jones , deputy executive director of the Paris-based agency, said
today in an e-mail responding to questions on the Democrats’
request. “There is actually no disruption at hand.”  “A release of crude oil from the SPR may cause a temporary
decline in the price,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, said in an interview. “However the
markets’ concern with  Iran , Sudan and Nigeria, as well as the
closing of seven refineries in the Northern hemisphere over the
last six months has taken precedence and boosted prices.”  Oil fell today for the first time in six days on
speculation an Energy Department report will show crude supplies
last week were at the highest since September. Oil for April
delivery dropped 71 cents, or 0.7 percent to $105.57 a barrel at
9:44 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen
7.6 percent in the past year.  Iran Tensions  The U.S. and Israel haven’t ruled out air strikes against
Iran’s nuclear facilities, escalating tensions in a region
that’s home to 54 percent of global oil reserves. Iran, which
says its nuclear program is for energy, has refused to let
United Nations inspectors check allegations of illicit nuclear
activity.  Speculation that supplies will be disrupted has increased
as tension between Iran and Western nations escalates, David Greely, head of energy research at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in
 New York , said in a report yesterday.  “This most-recent run-up in prices is primarily the result
of fear driving oil markets,” Markey, Welch and DeLauro wrote
to Obama. “We urge you to consider again deploying oil” in the
reserve “to combat the rapid price escalations resulting from
speculation.”  House Republicans criticized the call.  “This is a time-honored ruse used by Washington Democrats
who oppose more American-made energy every time gas prices
rise,” said Michael Steel, spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner . “The SPR is for severe supply disruptions, for
example, if Iran blocks the Straits of Hormuz.”  White House  At the White House yesterday, press secretary Jay Carney
said he hadn’t seen the Democrats’ letter and had no comment on
the possibility of using the reserve or whether administration
officials had considered a price that would trigger a release.
“We take no possible response off the table,” he said.  The American Petroleum Institute said releasing oil in the
reserve might push prices lower only for a short time.  “It drains reserves that could be needed in a real supply
emergency,”  John Felmy , chief economist of the Washington-based
group, said on a conference call.  The group, which represents more than 490 companies,
including Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and London-based
 BP Plc (BP/) , urged drivers to remove junk from their trucks and tune
engines to reduce fuel use.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the U.S.
needs to keep the reserve well-stocked and use it in case of
supply disruptions.  U.S. Withdrawals  The U.S. has withdrawn oil 18 times since 1985, including
in 2008 after hurricanes Gustav and Ike struck the Gulf Coast.  “Speculators are driving up the cost of oil, hurting
consumers and potentially damaging the economic recovery,”
House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said in a
statement yesterday. “Wall Street profiteering, not oil
shortages, is the cause of the price spike. In fact, U.S. oil
production is at its highest level since 2003.”  U.S. oil output is the highest in eight years, and Obama
said he plans to offer additional oil leases in the Gulf of
Mexico in June. The administration also approved  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  oil-spill response plan in the  Chukchi Sea  on Feb. 17,
bringing the Hague-based company closer to drilling off the
north coast of Alaska after five years of preparation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  