-- Dodgers to Submit Bankruptcy Plan That Includes Immunity for Fan Beating
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-22T22:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/dodgers-can-send-bankruptcy-plan-to-creditors-for-review-with-no-voting.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  won court
permission to let creditors review a bankruptcy-exit plan that
would give team officials partial immunity from a lawsuit filed
by a man who was almost beaten to death after a game last year.  Because creditors including Bryan Stow, the injured fan,
are to be paid in full, they won’t be given a chance to vote on
the baseball club’s proposal. Under the  bankruptcy code , those
who are paid in full are presumed to support a plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
Delaware, today overruled an objection by Stow’s attorney, who
said a disclosure statement describing the terms of the plan
doesn’t provide enough detail about whether the proposal will
give  Frank McCourt , the Major League Baseball team’s owner,
immunity from Stow’s personal-injury lawsuit.  “Will Mr. McCourt and his affiliates be released from the
claims filed in state court by Mr. Stow?” the attorney, William Baldiga, asked the judge today.  Stow, of  Santa Cruz , California, was left in a medically
induced coma with a fractured skull after being attacked
following the Dodgers 2-1 defeat of the visiting San Francisco
Giants on March 31. He sued the Dodgers and McCourt in May. The
attack was one reason Major League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  gave when appointing a monitor to oversee the team before
McCourt put it in bankruptcy.  Release From Liability  Under the plan, McCourt and other Dodgers officials would
be released from legal liability for any actions they took in
their official capacity as team representatives that may have
contributed to Stow’s injuries, Sidney Levinson, a team
attorney, said in court.  Whether McCourt and other team officials could be held
liable for their personal actions can’t be determined without a
trial, Gross said.  The Dodgers have asked the judge to determine that Stow
does not have any claims against the team or its officers. Stow
asked Gross to put off a hearing on that motion and allow the
case in  California  to go forward.  McCourt is in the process of selling the Dodgers, which
could attract bids worth more than $1 billion, according to
court records. Today’s approval of the disclosure statement
keeps the team on schedule to exit bankruptcy by April 30, the
team said in a statement.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  