-- Dow Transport Losses Awaken Concern on Rally: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-02-22T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/dow-transport-losses-awaken-concern-on-rally-chart-of-the-day.html
A two-week retreat in the Dow Jones
Transportation Average may signal a warning for the rally that
has added $1.35 trillion to American equity values this year,
according to analysts who use charts to predict markets.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the gauge has fallen 3.8 percent
since Feb. 3, a period in which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
climbed 0.8 percent and reached the highest level since May
2008. The transportation average is viewed by some analysts as a
leading indicator because truckers, airlines and couriers may be
the first to experience the effects of an economic slowdown.  “This market does seem to be overdue for a pullback,”
Chuck Carlson, chief executive officer at Horizon Investment
Services LLC in Hammond,  Indiana , said in a phone interview.
Horizon oversees $150 million and uses the relationship between
the industrial and transportation gauges to determine how much
cash to hold. A divergence “doesn’t always necessarily signal a
change in the major trend, but it can foreshadow a bit of a
correction,” he said.  United Continental Holdings Inc. led air carriers lower
since Feb. 3, falling 15 percent to $21.24 as fuel prices jumped
to the highest since May. Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., the
largest U.S. crude-tanker owner, fell 24 percent to $9.82 in the
same period after saying it will stop loading cargoes in  Iran 
amid tightening sanctions on the Persian Gulf nation.  The Dow industrials have gained 6.1 percent this year,
extending its rally from an October low to 22 percent, as
European leaders stepped up efforts to contain the region’s debt
crisis and the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep  interest rates 
near zero through 2014. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
broader benchmark for U.S. equities, is up 8.3 percent this
year, including a 4.4 percent increase last month, the best
January rally since 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  