-- Duke Energy Files Power Competition Plan in North Carolina
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-02-22T23:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/duke-files-power-competition-plan-in-north-carolina-correct-.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  proposed to
upgrade its transmission system to import more power from out-
of-state generators to ease competition concerns from its $16.1
billion takeover of  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)   Duke Energy and Progress Energy are amending their proposal
to  North Carolina  regulators after the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission rejected an original plan in December. The
North Carolina Public Utilities Commission has as long as 30
days to review the filing before it is submitted with FERC,
according to a statement today from both companies.  Duke Energy, based in Charlotte, said its proposed
transmission projects will expand the ability to import
wholesale power into North Carolina and South Carolina and would
cost between $75 million to $150 million.  “They are increasing the potential for competition by
allowing more power to be imported into their service
territories,” said  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility
analyst for Glenrock Associates LLC.  The utility owners will also sell 800 megawatts during
summer off-peak hours, 475 megawatts during summer peak hours,
225 megawatts during winter off-peak and 25 megawatts during
winter peak hours.  “We believe this is a solid plan that addresses the FERC’s
concerns about market power while providing benefits to our
customers and shareholders,” said Progress Energy Chief
Executive Officer Bill Johnson in the statement. Johnson will
become the chief executive of the combined companies.  The deadline for the transaction was extended to July 8
after FERC rejected Duke’s plan to limit the combined company’s
ability to manipulate power prices. North Carolina and  South
Carolina  regulators must approve the latest proposal as well as
FERC, the companies said. Progress Energy is based in Raleigh,
North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 