-- Durbin Calls for ‘Careful Review’ of For-Profit University
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-02-22T18:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/durbin-urges-careful-review-of-university-of-phoenix-correct-.html
U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin  called on
the Higher Learning Commission, the college accrediting body, to
do a “careful review” in its examination of  Apollo Group
Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix.  Since the last evaluation a decade ago, the for-profit
college, the largest in the U.S., has been the subject of at
least five state lawsuits and a federal investigation, Durbin,
the Democrat from  Illinois , said in a letter yesterday to Sylvia
Manning, president of the commission.  The for-profit college industry has been under scrutiny by
Congress and states attorneys general who are investigating
sales practices and student debt loads.  The Higher Learning
Commission , based in  Chicago , is one of six regional accreditors
that examine schools for financial stability and academic rigor.
Accreditation is essential for students to receive federal
financial aid. For-profit colleges get as much as 90 percent of
their revenue from federal programs.  The industry has grown faster than any other field in
education and “warrants careful scrutiny,” Durbin wrote in the
letter. “We have limited federal resources for student
financial aid, making it imperative that participating
institutions offer their students quality education, clear
information about their financial obligations and appropriate
educational support.”  Apollo, based in Phoenix, rose 0.3 percent to $52.01 at
1:37 p.m. in  New York . The stock had climbed 13 percent in the
past year before today.  Benchmark Review  “We appreciate Senator Durbin’s focus on ensuring a
thorough accreditation process,” said Bill Pepicello, president
of the University of Phoenix. “This review will be the largest
and most significant in higher education accreditation history
and will be the benchmark for review of all institutions and
online programs. We are proud of the quality education we’ve
provided at University of Phoenix for more than 30 years.”  John Hausaman, a spokesman for the Higher Learning
Commission, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  