-- The Worse the Economy Gets, the Longer People Live: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/the-worse-the-economy-gets-the-longer-people-live-peter-orszag.html
A weak labor market, like the one
we’ve experienced since the financial crisis in 2008, imposes
enormous stress on people. Given the added anxiety created by a
weak economy, you might think  life expectancy  would decline.
Oddly, though, during recessions, exactly the opposite tends to
happen: Life expectancy rises.  It’s happening again now.  The age-adjusted death rate in the U.S. declined by 2
percent from 2007 to 2010, according to preliminary data from
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. As a result,
projected  life expectancy  at birth rose to 78.7 years in 2010
from 77.9 years in 2007, an increase of 0.8 year.  In contrast, from 2004 to 2007, when the economy was much
stronger, life expectancy rose by only 0.4 year.  Life expectancy appears to have risen more in the states
with relatively large increases in  unemployment . In Michigan and
 Illinois , for example, where joblessness rose much more than in
 North Dakota  or  Iowa , age-adjusted death rates have had a
steeper decline since 2007. (In the states with the smallest
increase in unemployment, the death rates have perversely
risen.)  These cross-state data are consistent with historical
patterns that economists Douglas Miller, Marianne Page, Ann
Stevens and Mateusz Filipski have found. Their  research  shows
that a one-percentage-point increase in a state’s unemployment
rate is associated with a 0.5 percent reduction in the state’s
mortality rate.  More Proof  During the Great Depression, too, life expectancy rose,
according to research by Jose Tapia Granados and Ana Diez Roux
of the  University of Michigan . As they  conclude , “The evolution
of population health during the years 1920-1940 confirms the
counter-intuitive hypothesis that, as in other historical
periods and market economies, population health tends to evolve
better during recessions than in expansions.”  How could this be? In a series of  important   papers ,
Christopher Ruhm, an economist at the  University of Virginia ,
has explored the reasons. It appears that while suicide rates
rise during downturns, other types of fatalities, such as from
motor-vehicle accidents, fall more. The surprising findings
apply even to heart attacks. In a study titled “A Healthy
Economy Can Break Your Heart,” Ruhm finds that higher
unemployment reduces deaths from heart attacks, perhaps because
when there is less economic activity, hazards such as air
pollution and traffic congestion are less severe. Smoking and
obesity also tend to decline, Ruhm has found.  By the way, the reduction in deaths averted tends to be
proportionally smaller for the elderly, but larger in absolute
numbers -- because their underlying mortality rates are higher
than those of younger people. This may partly explain why, over
the past few years,  Medicare spending  has decelerated more than
commercial health-care spending has. The big debate concerning
the recent slowing in the growth of health-care costs is over
whether it reflects structural changes (and therefore will last)
or merely the weak economy (and therefore will fade). I believe
the weight of evidence suggests a significant structural
component.  However, for those who argue that the trend is entirely
cyclical, the disproportionate effect of recessions on life
expectancy for the elderly may help make their case. After all,
it has been hard to see why Medicare spending growth should fall
more in response to an economic decline than other types of
health spending would, when most Medicare beneficiaries have
Medigap insurance that covers co-payments, and a larger share of
their income (through Social Security) is protected from
economic fluctuations. But perhaps the recession could have a
pronounced effect on Medicare spending because the economic
slowdown causes a larger decline in deaths (and associated
hospitalizations) among the elderly.  Little Comfort  What can we make of all this? That life expectancy seems to
go up rather than down during recessions is little comfort to
those suffering through a weak labor market. What’s more, the
rise in suicide rates is particularly worrisome, because the
sense of loss from a suicide is particularly high. Despite the
increase in life expectancy from a recession, therefore, the
best policy approach remains an aggressive support for the
economy now, coupled with lots of  deficit reduction  enacted
today but implemented later on.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 