-- Eco-Labeling: The Critical Questions to Ask
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-02-22T23:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/eco-labeling-the-critical-questions-to-ask.html
     Will we see the day when all products carry environmental
labels with data on  carbon emissions  and other impacts? Recent
news tells us a definitive...maybe. Within a couple days of
each other, GM announced new eco-labels for some
Chevy models, while U.K. mega-retailer Tesco pulled back from
an important 4-year experiment in carbon labeling.  The attempt to give corporate buyers and end consumers
more sustainability data about the products they are
purchasing has had a somewhat tortured history. The Tesco
experience in particular highlights a few big questions about
green data labeling.  Tesco has been a leader in sharing carbon footprint
information with consumers, having reviewed and labeled over
500 products. The company's efforts came on the heels of
 Pepsi's first foray into labeling with its Walkers
potato chips brand, also in the UK. Since then, however, it
has been running up against the most important questions about
how to make data labeling work:  -- Which products "need" it? It makes a lot more sense to
put information on a car, which is a purchase people research
heavily and one that has a significant impact on household's
carbon emissions. Your potato chips, not so much  -- What type of information should be provided (if any)?
Is the carbon footprint the most useful data for customers to
have? Or total energy use during the product's lifetime? The
best thing to share will depend heavily on the product - the
labels on energy hogs like light bulbs, air conditioners, and
cars should tell us the total energy use and cost to operate
over a year or the product's lifetime. For milk or snacks, the
energy used to get it to shelves makes sense, but again, may
not be helpful for consumers. So even without the specific
grams of carbon, a combination of qualitative and quantitative
info, like on Chevy's new labels, could still make sense in
many cases.  -- Can you even summarize the sustainability of a product
in a label? This is perhaps the toughest question and the
literally hundreds of highly varying eco-labels out there
attest to the challenges of trying. In some cases, like a
car, maybe the concept of "sustainability" is fairly
straightforward given how much of the impact comes in the "use
phase" of the product — if you're getting 50% better fuel
efficiency, you know you're reducing the impact a great deal.
But how sustainable is 80 grams of carbon for a bag of chips?
Heck if I know.  -- How much work/cost does it take to research and
produce the label? Tesco made it clear that a core reason it's
stopping this process is that each product takes "a minimum of
several months' work." It's an interesting time to reach that
conclusion because the tools for calculating footprint are
evolving fast. But, and this is a big caveat, we're a lot
closer to knowing the "hot spots" in most product lifecycles
(e.g., for detergent, the largest part of the footprint is the
machine in the home), than we are to knowing the exact grams
of carbon per product. That level of sophistication will come
with better data and carbon allocation methods (mirroring, I
suspect, the cost allocation tools accountants have developed
for a century). But isn't directionally correct information
good enough in most cases?  -- Do consumers even care? This is the critical
question, but the answer for now may not matter. Did people
"care" about nutrition labels when they first came out?
Probably not much, and it's unclear if they do now, given how
unhealthy Americans are in general. But then, maybe our
obesity problems would be worse without the labels.  But what's really interesting about all of this is that
the consumer side of the discussion, while getting more media
attention, has been less important in actually forcing change.
It's in the business-tobusiness world that the demands for
more information on every product have really been rising.
From the Sustainability Consortium for retail and consumer
products — which saw its own shakeup recently with the exodus
of its Executive Director after only 8 months on the job — to
the Sustainable Apparel Coalition for outdoor gear and
clothing, industry groups are coming together to gather data
and set standards for measuring footprints.  I am confident that Tesco and other major retailers will
continue to ask suppliers for carbon data and other
sustainability data when picking products for their shelves
and setting up special promotions. The greening of the supply
chain is the most dependable of trends in the sustainability
sphere because there is so much clear benefit to companies
when they know their value-chain footprint, from cost savings
to risk reduction to better brand storytelling.  So much of this data-gathering and ranking work will
continue unbeknownst to consumers. Given how much power
retailers and other B2B customers have to transform products
and pre-select better options for consumers, maybe it's
actually better this way.  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the
bestseller Green to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He
advises some of the world’s biggest companies on environmental
strategy. Follow him on Twitter at @GreenAdvantage.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business. 