-- EDF’s U.K. Hinkley Nuclear Power Site Faces Protests Next Month
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-22T16:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/edf-s-u-k-hinkley-nuclear-power-site-faces-protests-next-month.html
Electricite de France SA’s Hinkley
Point nuclear power station in southwest England will next month
be targeted by protestors against new reactors in the U.K.  The Stop New Nuclear Alliance, a grouping of campaigners
who oppose nuclear power stations, plans to blockade the station
for 24 hours from about 5 p.m. on March 11, Zoe Smith, a
campaigner helping arrange the protest, said by telephone from
Bristol today. Protesters will gather at the site from midday,
she said.  “We aren’t intending to stop production but we are going
to blockade the entrance,” preventing vehicles from entering
the site. “We’re planning to surround the power station,” she
said. The group is against  EDF’s (EDF)  plans to build a new nuclear
power station at the site, next to the current one, which has
capacity of 860 megawatts.  Last March, disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station triggered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986 and prompted international concern about the safety of
reactors. The U.K. government has reviewed the safety case for
the technology and is altering rules to help guarantee power
prices for new investors. EDF, EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA
are also considering investing in new atomic plants in Britain.  The protest has been arranged to coincide with the first
anniversary of the Fukushima disaster, Smith said. The group
arranged a similar campaign in October, which attracted more
than 400 people, she said. “We’re hoping for that again, if not
more,” she said.  “We respect the rights of individuals to peaceful
protest,” Claire Cook, an EDF spokeswoman in East Kilbride,
 Scotland , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  