-- Mediobanca Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Higher Writedowns
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-02-22T17:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/mediobanca-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-higher-writedowns-2-.html
Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, said  second-quarter profit  fell
95 percent, hurt by writedowns of Greek bonds and its stake in
RCS MediaGroup SpA.  Net income declined to 6.6 million euros ($8.7 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 135.3 million euros a year
earlier, the Milan-based bank said in a statement today. That
compares with the 10.3 million-euro average estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mediobanca, which makes most of its money from equity
holdings, selling loans and advising businesses, is boosting its
retail business to improve profitability. Chief Executive
Officer  Alberto Nagel  said in October he wants to cut costs to
compensate for declining net interest income.  “Mediobanca is the most attractive bank stock in  Italy 
after having missed the sub-sector rebound that had started in
mid-January,” Domenico Santoro, a Nomura analyst in  London ,
wrote in a note yesterday. He rates the stock a “buy.”  Extraordinary losses in the first six months of the
lender’s fiscal year included 55.2 million euros of writedowns
for its stake in media company RCS, 34 million euros on Delmi
SpA shares and 114.5 million euros on Greek bonds.  Interest Income  Net interest income in the second quarter rose 1.3 percent
to 272.8 million euros, while trading income climbed to 108.7
million euros from 33.4 million euros a year earlier.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial strength, was little changed at 11 percent as of Dec.
31, confirming Mediobanca as one of the best-capitalized lenders
in the country.  Mediobanca increased Italian sovereign debt exposure by 2
billion euros to 5.5 billion euros, Nagel said during a
conference call today. The bank, which has about 8 billion euros
of bonds maturing in the next two years, plans to participate in
the  European Central Bank ’s auction of three-year loans next
week, Nagel said. Mediobanca will request an amount close to the
4 billion euros applied for in December, he said.  The bank  rose  2.7 percent to 4.99 euros in Milan trading,
giving the bank a market value of about 4.3 billion euros.  Fondiaria  Mediobanca, which has lent more than 1 billion euros to
Fondiaria-SAI SpA, Italy’s second-biggest insurer, is advising
the company on its restructuring plan that involves a merger
with competitor Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA.  The best solution for restructuring Fondiaria is Unipol’s
merger proposal, according to Nagel. He said the insurer needs
both a capital increase and a partnership after its ratios
worsened in the final quarter of 2011.  “No European company has presented an alternative global
solution to Unipol’s,” Nagel said.  Henri De Castries, CEO of French insurer AXA SA, and
Salvatore Ligresti, who controls Fondiaria-SAI through his
holding company, showed up at Mediobanca’s headquarters earlier
today, fuelling speculation about a transaction between the two
insurers. De Castries declined to comment on Fondiaria when he
left the bank.  AXA may consider an offer for some of Fondiaria’s units or
for the entire company, daily La Stampa reported Jan. 31, citing
unidentified financial sources.  Fondiaria rose 4.8 percent to 1.69 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  