-- Lehman Seeks to Boost First Payout to Creditors 3 Years After Bankruptcy
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/lehman-brothers-seeks-to-boost-first-payout-to-creditors-after-bankruptcy.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  is set
to ask a judge today to approve a plan that would allow it to
boost its first payment to creditors after more than three years
in bankruptcy.  The defunct investment bank has about $18 billion of cash
available, it said earlier this month. In theory, it could give
creditors $12 billion to $14.7 billion initially, depending on
how much cash it needs to keep in reserve for disputed claims,
it said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Few
objections remain to the plan to limit cash reserves, which
would boost the payout by $2.8 billion, and should be overruled,
Lehman said yesterday.  Lehman, whose creditors range from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
to individual bondholders, hasn’t set an exact amount for the
payout scheduled for this quarter. Last month, it said it may
initially distribute $8.1 billion to $10.7 billion.  To boost the payment to the higher end of the range, New
York-based Lehman is asking the judge to let it keep non-cash
assets as reserves for disputed claims. Yesterday, it said it
had settled its differences with most indenture trustees for
mortgage securities, who hold large disputed claims, by valuing
the claims at $5 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and other trustees faulted
an earlier proposed estimate of the claims at $2.4 billion, down
from the $37 billion they filed.  Firm’s Assets  Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal has said he
intends to raise $65 billion from the firm’s assets in the next
few years, giving the average creditor less than 18 cents on the
dollar for estimated claims of about $370 billion.  Last month, Lehman said it would make a total of about
$56 billion in distributions to creditors over the next few
years. It put disputed claims at $112 billion.  Lehman, which in 2008 filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history under former Chairman Richard Fuld, has winnowed down
claims from 67,000 filed originally demanding about $1.2
trillion from what was once the fourth-largest investment bank.
It filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 