-- Lehman Brothers Wins Approval for Proposal to Boost First Creditor Payout
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-22T17:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/lehman-brothers-wins-approval-for-proposal-to-boost-first-creditor-payout.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , the
defunct investment bank that filed for bankruptcy more than
three years ago, won court approval for a plan that may boost
its first payment to creditors by about $2.8 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  signed off on
a proposal today to limit cash reserves for disputed claims,
which Lehman said will free up cash and allow increased initial
distributions to creditors with approved claims.  Peck at a court hearing described Lehman’s plan as an
“appropriate balancing” of the needs of creditors whose claims
have been allowed and those that are fighting with Lehman over
claims.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in 2008
and won court approval in December for its plan to pay
creditors. Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  has said he
intends to raise $65 billion from the firm’s assets in the next
few years, giving the average creditor less than 18 cents on the
dollar for estimated claims of about $370 billion.  Peck approved a plan to use non-cash assets for a portion
of reserves for disputed claims. The aggregate amount of
disputed claims for which Lehman must maintain reserves is about
$112 billion, the firm said in a court filing.  Cash Reserves  Lehman had argued that it would be “inequitable” to delay
distributions to creditors that reached settlements over claims
because of the need to retain “unusually large” cash reserves
for disputed claims. The request was supported by the committee
representing unsecured creditors.  “We believe there is no risk that a creditor will bear
permanent risk of nonpayment,” Dennis Dunne, a lawyer for the
group, said at the hearing.  Lehman estimates that allowed claims of general unsecured
creditors total more than $280 billion, according to a court
filing. It said it could distribute $11.9 billion to
$14.7 billion of cash initially, depending on cash reserves for
disputed claims.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 