-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise as Oil Gain Offsets Europe Slowdown
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-02-22T23:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/emerging-market-stocks-rise-technology-companies-energy-producers-climb.html
Most emerging-market stocks climbed
as higher prices for oil boosted producers, offsetting data
showing a contraction in manufacturing in Europe and China.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
1064.56 at the close in New York, as 411 stocks gained and 369
declined. Brazilian oil driller  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA 
advanced the most since October after a partner released oil
reserve estimates for an exploration area.  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  reached a ten-month high.  Argentina ’s  Merval
index (MERVAL)  neared a one-month high as  Tenaris SA (TS) , the world’s largest
producer of seamless steel tubes used in the oil industry,
advanced to the highest level in seven months.  Oil rose to a nine-month high as officials from the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  were denied access to an
Iranian military base, increasing speculation tensions between
 Iran  and Western nations will disrupt oil shipments. European
services and manufacturing output unexpectedly shrank in
February after expanding the prior month, data from Markit
Economics showed today.  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a
fourth month, according to data from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit.  “A combination of softer data and renewed concerns about
Greece is weighing on emerging-market stocks,”  Neil Shearing ,
an emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London  said by phone. For oil exporters, higher prices “should
help cushion any effects of weaker global demand.”  ‘Restricted Default’  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) package for Greece by tapping into European
Central Bank profits and convincing investors to provide more
debt relief to the Mediterranean country.  Fitch Ratings  lowered
Greece’s credit rating by two levels to C from CCC, saying a
default is “highly likely in the near term.” Fitch will cut
 Greece  to “Restricted Default” once a bond exchange is
completed.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa index  snapped a three-day advance, falling
0.2 percent. Sugar-cane processor  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio 
fell 5.8 percent after saying it will acquire a stake in
railroad company  ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) . HRT advanced
9.6 percent, and OGX rose 2.3 percent to 18.05 reais, the
highest since April 15.  Crude for April delivery increased 3 cents to $106.28 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 4. Futures have gained 14 percent in the
past year.  Tenaris gained 3.1 percent, boosting Argentina’s Merval up
1.4 percent to the highest level since Jan. 26.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  sank 1.3 percent in Moscow as  OAO Aeroflot (AFLT) ,
 Russia ’s biggest airline, dropped 3 percent. The  BUX Index (BUX) 
retreated 0.7 percent in Budapest and the  PX Index (PX)  slipped 0.2
percent in Prague.  Alibaba, PetroChina  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , China’s biggest corporate e-commerce
site, surged 43 percent to HK$13.20, the most since November
2007, after its parent company bid to buy out minority
shareholders. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., controlled by
billionaire Jack Ma, offered HK$13.50 a share for the 27 percent
it doesn’t already own in Alibaba.com, according to a  Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange statement yesterday. A gauge tracking  technology
companies  on MSCI’s developing-nation index climbed 1.1 percent
today, the most among 10 industry groups.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s biggest oil company, rose 1.4
percent in Hong Kong.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
energy producer, gained 1.5 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in Hong Kong jumped 1.2 percent to the highest level
since Aug. 4.  Chinese Manufacturing  The preliminary 49.7 reading of a China manufacturing index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compared with
a final 48.8 in January. A number below 50 indicates a
contraction. A gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing
output dropped to 49.7, London-based Markit Economics said,
below the 50.5 forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 366, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  