-- Meredith Whitney Plans to Write a Book on Municipal Bond Market, NYT Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-02-22T00:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/meredith-whitney-plans-to-write-book-on-muni-market-new-york-times-says.html
Meredith Whitney , the banking
analyst whose prediction of “hundreds of billions of dollars”
of municipal-bond defaults last year didn’t prove true, plans to
write a book about the market, according to the New York Times.  The book, to be titled “Downgraded: Why the Next Economic
Crisis Will Be Local,” is set to be published by Portfolio, a
Penguin Group imprint, in November, the Times said today, citing
a statement from the company.  Whitney, 42, gained prominence after her 2007 prediction
that  Citigroup Inc. (C)  would cut its dividend because of mortgage-
related losses proved correct in 2008. Her recommendation to
sell bank stocks before the credit crisis hit with full force
propelled her to fame.  The December 2010 call on municipal bonds, during an
appearance on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” television show in
which she said “50 to 100 sizable defaults” would occur,
helped spark the withdrawal of $23 billion from tax-exempt
municipal-bond funds from January 2011 through April 2011,
according to Investment Company Institute data.  Analysts including Tom Doe of Municipal Market Advisors and
Richard Larkin of Herbert J. Sims & Co. criticized the
prediction, noting that debt service is a relatively small
portion of most government budgets and that states and cities
were taking steps to cut spending, raise taxes and address
underfunded pensions.  Defaults on municipal bonds involving missed payments
totaled $2.6 billion out of $3.7 trillion of outstanding
municipal bonds.  Portfolio didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking information
about Whitney’s book deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  