-- Ternium Sees Lower Operating Profit as Net Misses Estimates
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-22T21:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/ternium-sees-lower-operating-profit-as-net-misses-estimates-1-.html
Ternium SA (TX) , Latin America’s second-
largest steelmaker, reported fourth-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates amid foreign-exchange losses and said it
expects lower operating income this quarter.  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to $104.7
million, or 53 cents per American depositary share, from $77.5
million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, Luxembourg-based Ternium
said today in a statement. Earnings of 53 cents per ADR included
a 25 cent foreign-exchange loss.  The company was expected to post profit of 59 cents a
share, the average of five  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to $369.6 million, beating the average
estimate of $315.8 million from four analysts.  The company said it expects operating income to fall in the
three months through March from the fourth quarter as shipments
remain “relatively stable” and costs rise. Ternium expects
weaker shipments in  Argentina  and higher sales in  Mexico .  “It was a negative surprise that they’re expecting a worse
result for the first quarter,”  Christian Reos , an analyst at
Allaria Ledesma & Cia. brokerage in  Buenos Aires , said by
telephone today. “I expected stable costs and the company said
costs are going to rise.”  Net sales rose 14 percent to $2.2 billion in the three-
month period because of higher steel prices and demand from
Latin America. Ternium posted a foreign-exchange loss in the
quarter after the depreciation of the Mexican peso boosted the
value of the unit’s U.S. dollar denominated debt.  Ternium, which earlier fell as much as 10.6 percent,
declined 0.9 to $22.27 at the close of New York trading. The
shares dropped 36 percent in the 12 months through yesterday’s
close.  -- With assistance from  Alex Emery  in Lima. Editors: Dale
Crofts, Jessica Resnick-Ault  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  