-- Ternium Falls on Lower Earnings Outlook: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-22T21:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/ternium-plunges-on-lower-earnings-outlook-buenos-aires-mover.html
Ternium SA (TX) , Latin America’s second-
largest steelmaker, declined after fourth-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates and it forecast lower operating income for
this quarter.  Ternium’s American depositary receipts fell 1 percent to
$22.27 in  New York  at the close. The Luxembourg-based company
declined as much as 11 percent, the most intraday since Nov. 28,
when the company bought a stake in Brazilian steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA. (USIM5)   Ternium forecast operating income will fall in the three
months through March from the fourth quarter as shipments remain
“relatively stable” and costs rise, according to a statement
today. The company expects weaker shipments in Argentina and
higher sales in Mexico.  “It was a negative surprise that they’re expecting a worse
result for the first quarter,”  Christian Reos , an analyst at
Allaria Ledesma & Cia. brokerage in Buenos Aires, said by
telephone today. “I expected stable costs and the company said
costs are going to rise.”  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to $104.7
million, or 53 cents per American depositary share, from $77.5
million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, according to the
statement. Earnings of 53 cents per ADR included a 25 cent
foreign-exchange loss.  The company was expected to post profit of 59 cents a
share, the average of five  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ternium plans to boost investment to about $1 billion this
year from $600 million in 2011, Chief Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio said on a conference call today. This year’s capital
expenditure includes about $250 million in Argentina, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  