-- EU Announces Members, Mandate of Group to Assess Bank Structure
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-22T16:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/eu-announces-members-mandate-of-group-to-assess-bank-structure.html
The European Commission published
the  members  and remit of a group of experts that will examine
whether banks should build internal firewalls to protect
taxpayers and customers when failure of one part of a lender
threatens to cascade throughout the company.  The group, to be chaired by European Central Bank council
member  Erkki Liikanen , will “determine whether, in addition to
ongoing regulatory reforms, structural reforms of EU banks would
strengthen financial stability and improve efficiency and
consumer protection,” the Brussels-based commission said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Measures to be considered by the group include
“prohibiting banks from carrying out some activities or
requiring banks to put certain activities (e.g. taking deposits
from retail customers) into separate legal entities,” according
to the statement.  Lenders including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , have criticized plans by U.S
regulators to ban commercial banks from proprietary trading,
saying the draft measures would increase risk, raise costs for
investors and be vulnerable to legal challenge.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has said that this initiative, known as the Volcker rule,
will be among those examined by Liikanen’s high-level group.  The group will report “by the end of summer 2012,” the
commission said.  The group’s members include European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. Chief Executive  Louis Gallois  and  Alessandro Profumo ,
former chief executive officer of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest
bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 