-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Unexpectedly Contract Amid Budget Cuts
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-22T09:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/euro-area-manufacturing-services-unexpectedly-contract.html
European services and manufacturing
output unexpectedly shrank in February as the euro-area economy
struggles to rebound from a contraction in the fourth quarter.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 49.7 from 50.4 in
January, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate released by e-mail today. Economists had forecast a
reading of 50.5, according to the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Budget cuts by governments may curb the pace of  Europe ’s
recovery as countries across the region battle the sovereign-
debt crisis. At the same time,  China ’s manufacturing may shrink
for a fourth month in February, indicating the world’s second-
biggest economy remains vulnerable to a deeper slowdown as
Europe’s crisis caps exports.  “We see some signs of stabilization but it’s still too
weak to conclude that we’ll be able to avert a recession,” Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “Germany
and  France  helped counter some of the slack, but tougher
consolidation measures in countries like Spain or Portugal will
continue, which means that it will probably have a negative
impact on the economic performance into 2013.”  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  rose to 49 in February
from 48.8 in January, Markit said. A measure of services fell to
49.4 from 50.4.  Largest Economy  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, the nation’s services
and manufacturing expansion unexpectedly slowed.
The German factory gauge fell to 50.1 from 51, while the
 services index  declined to 52.6 from 53.7, according to a
separate release from Markit. The composite index of both
industries in Germany fell to 52.9 from 53.9 in January.  In France, an index of manufacturing rose to 50.2 from
48.5, while a services measure fell to 50.3 from 52.3.  Greece yesterday reached a debt-swap deal with its private
creditors aimed at averting default and ending a fiscal crisis
that has damped confidence across the continent.  As Europe struggles to recover, some companies are
benefiting from growth in Asia and  emerging markets .  Pernod
Ricard SA (RI) , France’s biggest distiller, raised its annual
earnings forecast on Feb. 16 as Chinese consumers increased
purchases of spirits such as Martell cognac.  Chinese Manufacturing  In China, an index from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics of the manufacturing industry showed a preliminary
February reading of 49.7 today, compared with a final 48.8 in
January. January and February economic data are distorted by a
weeklong holiday.  Euro-area  consumer confidence  improved for a second month
in February, with a report yesterday showing an index of
sentiment rose to minus 20.2 from minus 20.7. Still, government
austerity measures and unemployment at the highest in almost 14
years may restrain household spending.  “The prospects for euro-zone  consumer spending  still look
far from promising in the near term at least,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “It is still more likely than not that the euro zone
will see further economic contraction overall in the first
quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  