-- Euro-Area Industrial Orders Rebound in Sign Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/euro-area-industrial-orders-rebound-in-sign-economy-stabilizing.html
European industrial orders rebounded
in December, adding to indications the region’s economy is
stabilizing.  Orders (EUNGEZM)  in the 17-nation euro region rose 1.9 percent from
November, when they dropped 1.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists (EUNGEZM)  had
forecast an increase of 0.5 percent, the median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The region’s economy may struggle to gather strength as
governments from Ireland to  Spain  step up spending cuts to fight
the sovereign-debt crisis and unemployment remains at the
highest in almost 14 years. European services and manufacturing
output unexpectedly shrank in February, a separate report today
showed.  The euro-area economy shrank in the fourth quarter for the
first time in 2 1/2 years as the region’s debt crisis undermined
confidence and forced countries to toughen austerity measures.
Cooling global growth and rising unemployment may yet tip the
economy into recession, which is commonly defined as two
consecutive quarterly contractions.  Euro-area December industrial orders for capital goods rose
4.2 percent from November, when they fell 1.8 percent, today’s
report showed. Orders for  durable consumer goods  decreased 2.7
percent, while those for intermediate goods increased 1.5
percent. Total orders excluding heavy transport equipment such
as ships and trains gained 2.5 percent from the previous month.  Overall orders declined 1.7 percent in December from a year
earlier after a 2.5 percent drop in November, the data showed.  Professional forecasters surveyed by the  European Central
Bank  this month predicted the euro-area economy will contract
this year and grow less than previously projected in 2013. The
ECB will publish new forecasts in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  