-- Europe Struggles to Rebound With China’s Output Poised to Shrink: Economy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-22T11:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/euro-area-struggling-to-rebound-from-fourth-quarter-contraction-economy.html
European services and manufacturing
output unexpectedly shrank in February as the euro-area economy
struggled to rebound from a contraction in the fourth quarter.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 49.7 from 50.4 in
January, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate today. Economists had forecast a reading of 50.5,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Budget cuts by governments may curb the pace of  Europe ’s
recovery as countries across the region battle the sovereign-
debt crisis. At the same time, China’s manufacturing may shrink
for a fourth month in February, indicating the world’s second-
biggest economy remains vulnerable to a deeper slowdown as
Europe’s crisis caps exports.  “We see some signs of stabilization, but it’s still too
weak to conclude that we’ll be able to avert a recession,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany .
“Germany and  France  helped counter some of the slack, but
tougher consolidation measures in countries like Spain or
Portugal will continue, which means that it will probably have a
negative impact on the economic performance into 2013.”  The euro erased losses after the data were released,
trading at $1.3235 at 12:28 p.m. in Brussels, up less than 0.1
percent on the day. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.8
percent to 264.74.  Banks’ Reserve Requirements  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  rose to 49 in February
from 48.8 in January, Markit said. A measure of services fell to
49.4 from 50.4.  In  China , the preliminary 49.7 reading of a manufacturing
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit compared with a final
48.8 in January.  China is cutting banks’ reserve requirements from Feb. 24
to support an economic expansion that Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates may be 7.5 percent this quarter, the least since the
global financial crisis. In today’s report, a measure of export
orders fell to an eight-month low, underscoring Commerce
Minister Chen Deming’s Feb. 9 caution that the government is not
optimistic about the outlook for trade after a decline in
shipments in January.  ‘External Weakness’  “With a meaningful rebound of domestic demand not in
sight, external weakness is starting to bite, adding more
downside risks to growth,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based
economist for HSBC. The central bank “should step up policy
easing as inflation pressures continue to ease.”  The gloomy economic news in  Asia  and Europe contrasted with
the U.S., where sales of previously owned houses probably rose
in January to the highest level since May 2010, adding to signs
the housing market is regaining its footing, economists said
before a report today.  Purchases climbed 1.1 percent, a fourth straight monthly
increase, to a 4.66 million annual rate from a 4.61 million pace
in December, according to the median forecast of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The National Association of
Realtors’ data are due at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  “Things are beginning to pick up here,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “We will see better home sales data in coming
months. With healthier gains in payrolls, incomes should be
picking up as well. That’s going to spill over.”  ‘Far From Promising’  European efforts to tackle the debt crisis advanced
yesterday, as  Greece  reached a debt-swap deal with its private
creditors aimed at averting default and restoring confidence.  Euro-area  consumer confidence  improved for a second month
in February, with a report yesterday showing an index of
sentiment rose to minus 20.2 from minus 20.7. Still, government
austerity measures and unemployment at the highest in almost 14
years may restrain household spending.  “The prospects for  euro-zone   consumer spending  still look
far from promising in the near term at least,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “It is still more likely than not that the euro zone
will see further economic contraction overall in the first
quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  