-- Evonik of Germany Said to Plan Decision on Public Offering by End of March
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-02-22T15:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/evonik-of-germany-said-to-plan-decision-on-public-offering-by-end-of-march.html
Evonik Industries AG’s owners are
planning to decide at the end of next month when to pursue an
initial public offering of the German chemical maker, according
to two people familiar with the deliberations.  The board of trustees is scheduled to meet on March 23 and
will discuss whether to proceed as soon as possible with the
listing, said the people, who declined to be identified before
an announcement. A decision to sell shares, taking into account
full-year figures due March 14, would prompt an IPO sometime
before mid May, one of the people said.  Evonik and its owners, RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., postponed an IPO last year, joining Siemens AG’s
Osram lighting unit and HC Starck GmbH after the sovereign debt
crisis roiled markets. The Essen-based maker of polymers, which
has been valued at as much as 20 billion euros ($26 billion),
may benefit from this year’s 16 percent gain in  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX Index, which it would be a candidate to join.  RAG Stiftung, the body in charge of winding down Germany’s
subsidy-reliant deep-shaft coal industry, is Evonik’s biggest
 shareholder , with 74.99 percent. The institution will use
proceeds from selling Evonik assets to pay for mine closures.
Private equity firm CVC Capital owns 25.01 percent.  Spokesmen for Evonik and RAG Stiftung couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment. A spokeswoman for CVC declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  