-- Hewlett-Packard German Stock Falls on Limited Forecast
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-23T21:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/hewlett-packard-second-quarter-profit-forecast-misses-estimates-amid-slump.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  dropped the most
in six months after the company’s fiscal second-quarter profit
forecast fell short of analysts’ estimates as consumers
curtailed personal-computer purchases.  The shares declined 6.5 percent to $27.05 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decrease since Aug. 19. Before today, the
shares had jumped 12 percent this year, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 8 percent.  Profit before some items in the three months through April
will be 88 cents to 91 cents a share, Hewlett-Packard said
yesterday. That was less than the 95-cent average analyst
 estimate , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the personal-computer group dropped 15 percent to
$8.87 billion in the three months ended in January as consumers
held off on buying new machines in the first full quarter under
Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman . Revenue from servers,
printers and storage gear also declined, suggesting Whitman’s
attempts to reverse a sales slump aren’t yet taking hold.  “Headwinds will likely continue through the second
quarter,” Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., said in a research note yesterday. “The company is again
being conservative for the second quarter and remains
cautious.” The New York-based analyst began coverage of
Hewlett-Packard on Feb. 8 with a “neutral” rating.  ‘Underinvested in Innovation’  On a conference call after the report, Whitman said the
company’s PCs, printers and information-technology services
haven’t been compelling enough to attract customers’ spending.  “For years, we’ve been basically running our business in
silos,” she said. “We underinvested in innovation.”  First-quarter sales of home computers fell 25 percent and
business-PC revenue was down 7 percent, the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company said. Consumers may wait to buy new PCs
until  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releases its Windows 8 software later this
year. Rival  Dell Inc. (DELL)  earlier this week forecast lower sales for
the current period amid tepid demand from consumers and
governments.  Hewlett-Packard’s printer group also has too many unsold
products sitting in dealers’ inventory, Lamba said in an
interview. Sales in the printer group declined 7 percent to
$6.26 billion.  Profit Margins  Information-technology services revenue rose 1.1 percent to
$8.63 billion, though the profit margin narrowed. Shifting to
more profitable types of services will take time, Lamba said.  “It’s not going to be a one-year turnaround,” he said.  Sales of servers, storage and networking equipment declined
10 percent to $5.02 billion, Hewlett-Packard said. Software
revenue climbed 30 percent to $946 million.  In the first quarter, which ended Jan. 31, profit excluding
some items declined to 92 cents a share, compared with analysts’
average estimate of 87 cents.  Net income fell 44 percent to $1.47 billion, or 73 cents a
share, from $2.61 billion, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier,
Hewlett-Packard said. Sales fell 7 percent to $30 billion.
Analysts had projected $30.8 billion.  Whitman said she’s attacking inefficient product-design and
sales processes and investing in research and development to try
to make the company more competitive. In an interview, she said
she’s paring the number of PCs and printers Hewlett-Packard
sells and making it easier for salespeople to adjust price
quotes to book an order. She’s also been holding roundtables in
Houston and other cities with chief information officers of big
customers to suss out their needs.  Annual Forecast  “We’ve got everyone we can get calling on customers,”
Whitman said. “I’ve got board members calling on customers.”  When the company reported fourth-quarter results Nov. 21,
it  forecast profit  for fiscal 2012, which began Nov. 1, of at
least $4 a share; analysts had previously expected $4.58. The
manufacturer said yesterday that there has been no change to its
annual forecast.  Since she took the helm, Whitman has been seeking to halt
the missed sales forecasts and strategy shifts that marked the
tenure of her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , who resigned Sept. 22.
She has also said she’ll eschew big  acquisitions . Apotheker left
after a year and a half of management turmoil, falling computer
demand and reduced growth forecasts. Whitman told analysts a
complete turnaround of results could take two years or more.  Whitman has also said she will attempt to rebuild Hewlett-
Packard’s  balance sheet  and spend more on research and
development. R&D in the first quarter was 2.6 percent of sales,
compared with 2.5 percent a year earlier.  PC Business Plans  Whitman reversed a proposal, floated under Apotheker, to
jettison Hewlett-Packard’s $39.6 billion PC business. She’s also
opted to turn the WebOS operating system into an open-source
project, letting outside programmers tinker with the code and
use it in their own electronics devices.  U.S. PC shipments declined last year for the first time in
a decade, and the industry is wrestling with a shortage of hard
drives after flooding crippled factories in  Thailand  last year.
Meanwhile, Apple Inc.’s iPad is cutting into PC sales, and
Lenovo Group Inc. is gaining market share.  Hewlett-Packard, Dell and other PC makers are counting on a
new crop of thin-and-light laptops called ultrabooks to spur
sales. In addition, Hewlett-Packard is readying a lineup of PCs
that would run Windows 8 and go on sale in time for the
holidays.  Whitman likened her push to streamline the company’s
operations to the efficiencies implemented by former CEO  Mark Hurd  in his tenure from 2005 to 2010. Hurd departed after a
company investigation found he had violated its business conduct
standards.  “Mark Hurd did a lot of good for this company,” she said
in the interview. “Had he stayed, he might have gone after some
of the things I’m going after,” she said. “I’m standing on his
shoulders in some ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  