-- Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Claims Threats, Betrayal in Bonus Case
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-22T17:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/ex-credit-agricole-banker-says-complaint-over-boss-led-to-firing.html
A senior investment banker at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  told a London tribunal he was threatened and asked
to quit after reporting his manager to human resources.  Edward Willems, the French lender’s former deputy head of
fixed-income markets, said in a multi-million-pound claim that
he lost out on bonuses and was eventually dismissed after making
what he believed were confidential complaints about his boss,
Guy Laffineur.  “I was completely betrayed,” Willems said at a the
employment tribunal hearing today.  The banker said he made several disclosures about
Laffineur’s conduct under whistle-blowing rules, which protect
employees from being fired or punished if they reveal
malpractice in the public interest. While damages for wrongful
dismissal are generally capped at about 72,000 pounds
($113,000), employment tribunals can award unlimited amounts in
whistle-blower cases.  Willems said he told an HR representative in 2009 that
Laffineur was blocking his efforts to overhaul the fixed-income
division in the wake of the financial crisis. He claims that the
day after that discussion took place, his boss “stormed” into
his office and appeared “physically threatening,”  Credit
Agricole ’s lawyer Nicholas Randall told the tribunal today.  ‘Have to Leave’  Willems was told “you have to leave,” according to a
witness statement he gave to the tribunal. Randall said
Laffineur, who now works at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , denies this and just
wanted to talk to Willems. The two men had worked together for
18 years before the 2009 dispute.  “The case is under consideration by the employment
tribunal and it would be inappropriate to make any comment at
this stage,” Virginie Ourceyre, a spokeswoman for Credit
Agricole, said in an e-mailed statement. Laffineur declined to
comment citing the ongoing case.  “Your sole purpose in bringing the grievances was in
getting compensation, wasn’t it?” Randall asked Willems at the
hearing.  Willems responded that he wanted restitution for being
wronged.  According to papers filed by Willems’s lawyers, he received
a bonus of about 870,000 pounds in March 2010, which he says was
half what his peers at the bank were given. The following year
he was awarded about 522,000 pounds.  Following the complaint, Willems was accused of expenses
fraud while on “imaginary business trips” to  Brazil  and  South
Africa  and was dismissed by Credit Agricole in July 2011.  “I have never been to Brazil in my life,” he said.  Jean-Yves Hocher, the chief executive officer of Credit
Agricole’s investment banking unit, is scheduled to testify as a
witness during the 11-day trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  