-- Mexican Peso Drops on Concern Europe Will Drag on Export Market
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-22T22:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/mexican-peso-drops-on-concern-europe-will-drag-on-export-market.html
Mexico ’s peso fell to a one-week low
after a gauge of  Europe ’s economy unexpectedly shrank, fueling
concern that a global economic slowdown will reduce demand for
the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 12.8447 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Mexico City, from 12.7929 yesterday. The level was
the weakest since Feb. 15. The currency has gained 8.5 percent
this year.  European services and manufacturing output unexpectedly
shrank in February, as the euro-area economy struggled to
rebound from a contraction in the fourth quarter, London-based
Markit Economics said in an initial estimate. Concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will squelch global growth helped fuel the
peso’s 11.4 percent drop last year, the worst performance among
the six most-traded Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The peso is dropping as today’s data “increases all the
gloom in the market about growth and basically increases  risk
aversion ,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Latin America economist at 4Cast
Inc., said by phone from Washington. “The question is how much
that will affect the U.S.”  The U.S. buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  Mexican retail sales rose 3.5 percent in December from the
same month the previous year, the country’s statistics agency
said today on its website. Economists had forecast sales would
increase 4.1 percent, according to the median estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 was little
changed at 6.50 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 0.04 centavo to 130.32 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  