-- Expert Networker John Kinnucan Released From Jail by Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-02-22T23:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/expert-networker-john-kinnucan-released-from-jail-by-judge-1-.html
John Kinnucan, founder of Broadband
Research LLC, was ordered released from jail, a day after he was
indicted for passing tips to hedge fund clients about  SanDisk
Corp (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  Kinnucan, who was arrested last week, appeared in federal
court in Portland,  Oregon , today where U.S. District Judge
Janice Stewart ordered him released at a detention hearing that
was held over from Feb. 17.  “Keep your mouth shut,” Stewart told Kinnucan, after
prosecutors cited what they said were threatening voice-mail
messages he left for agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and an assistant U.S. attorney.  Kinnucan, a so-called expert networker, is accused in a
securities-fraud and conspiracy indictment of helping pass
inside tips from employees of public companies to his clients at
two  hedge funds  in a scheme that ran from 2008 to 2010. Federal
prosecutors in New York, where the case is pending, didn’t
identify the funds.  Kinnucan, 54, has denied receiving illegal tips and
insisted the information he gave clients was publicly available.
In October 2010 he publicly said that he refused a request by
FBI agents to wear a wire and inform on his fund manager
clients.  ‘Mean Spirited’  Kinnucan had been held in U.S. custody since his Feb. 16
arrest at his  Portland  home. Prosecutors said he poses a danger
to the community, citing the voice-mail messages.  On Dec. 6, prosecutors said Kinnucan left a voice mail for
an unnamed prosecutor: “Remember me? The guy who you tried to
destroy, you scummy piece of s--t.” Kinnucan added, according
to prosecutors, “Ah, too bad Hitler’s not around. He’d know
what to do with scum like you.”  In court today, Kinnucan said his comments, while “mean
spirited and wrong,” weren’t “intended to convey threats.”  “I have never been a violent person,” he told the judge.  Stewart rejected a request from Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne that the case be postponed until a judge in
 New York  may rule on Kinnucan’s request to be released. Stewart
didn’t require Kinnucan to post a bond.  Conditions  Kinnucan will be required to wear an electronic monitor,
remain employed and not speak to prosecutors or FBI agents on
the case, Stewart said. He won’t be permitted to consume drugs
or alcohol or keep alcohol in his house, Stewart said, adding
that she didn’t think he would flee.  Kinnucan will appear in Manhattan federal court on March 8.  Donald Barnetson, a former executive at Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk, pleaded guilty in New York on Feb. 17
and said he conspired with Kinnucan to leak inside information
about his company. Prosecutors said other insiders who worked
with Kinnucan included employees at Flextronics International
Ltd., F5 Networks Inc. and SanDisk.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 