-- Exxon, OMV Find Up to 3 Trillion Cubic Feet of Romanian Gas
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-22T16:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/exxon-omv-find-up-to-3-trillion-cubic-feet-of-gas-in-romania.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central  Europe ’s biggest oil
company, said it discovered what may be its biggest gas find in
a Black Sea well it is exploring together with a unit of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Shares soared in Vienna trading.  “The exploration well encountered 70.7 meters of net gas
pay, resulting in a preliminary estimate for the accumulation
ranging from 1.5 to 3 trillion cubic feet (42 to 84 billion
cubic meters),” OMV said in a statement today.  The Domino-1 well, which is operated by the Exxon unit, is
located in the Neptun Block, 170 kilometers (106 miles) offshore
in water about 1,000 meters deep, according to the statement.
Drilling operations started at year-end 2011 and the total depth
of the well is expected to be more than 3,000 meters below  sea
level .  OMV Petrom (SNP)  and Exxon each hold 50 percent in the well.  “This may be the biggest find in OMV’s history,” Chief
Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss told reporters in Vienna today.  OMV  shares  advanced after the announcement, climbing 4.3
percent to 28.78 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in the
Austrian capital. Petrom shares rose 5.1 percent to 0.41 lei in
Bucharest.  Multi-Billion Dollar Investment  The companies are planning new 3D seismic acquisition
during 2012, Jaap Huijskes, who heads exploration and production
at OMV, said.  While “it is too early in the data evaluation and
exploration process to determine whether the Neptun block will
ultimately prove to be commercially developable or not,” the
companies would need to spend “multiple billions of dollars to
develop” Domino-1, he said, adding that potential first
production would be “toward the end of the decade at the
earliest.”  Exxon’s Romania unit head Ian Fischer said in August that
the first drilling of the well may cost about $150 million
and that the companies may invest between $3 billion and $10
billion to operate the block if the testing proves to be
successful, according to Mediafax. OMV today declined to comment
on specific amounts.  Appraisal wells and 3D Seismic “will take some time, the
 Black Sea  is not off the coast of Aberdeen, it takes some time
to get rigs into the Black Sea and it takes time to get seismic
vessels into the Black Sea,” Huijskes said, declining to
specify a time frame.  Setting up the rig for the initial drilling took one year
as it had to be dismantled to pass under bridges in the
Bosphorus Straits, said CEO Rois.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  