-- Fannie-Freddie Plan, Sweden FSA, Trader Suspects: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-22T13:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/fannie-freddie-plan-sweden-fsa-trader-suspects-cdo-lawsuit-compliance.html
With no plan from Congress or the
Obama administration to shutter  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
companies’ regulator told Congress yesterday it will expand its
oversight with a strategic plan to develop new systems and
standards for home loans.  The companies, which own or guarantee most of the nation’s
mortgages, exist in an extended policy limbo that poses new
risks to taxpayers and the housing market, said Edward J.
DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
The mandate to protect taxpayers must be balanced with the need
to invest in staff and infrastructure, he said.  Conservatorship, an emergency, short-term fix established
by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act, has evolved into a
long-term government operation. In a strategic plan sent to
Congress yesterday, DeMarco said he will begin building a single
system for securitizing home loans and set standards for how
those loans are managed.  Washington lawmakers began last year with sweeping plans to
wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner  offered three options for reducing the government’s
footprint and has promised a more detailed plan in the coming
months. The House and Senate so far have failed to reach
consensus on any legislation.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have survived on taxpayer aid
since September 2008, when catastrophic losses from failing home
loans forced them into government conservatorship. Since then,
the companies have drawn more than $180 billion from a U.S.
Treasury Department lifeline.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Ministers Adopt Curbs on Naked CDSs in Short-Selling Law  European Union finance ministers adopted a short-selling
law that includes an optional ban on naked credit-default swaps
tied to sovereign debt.  The legislation, which would also curb so-called naked
short-selling of stocks and  government bonds , was approved at a
meeting in Brussels today. The decision marks the final stage in
the adoption of the law, which was also approved in November by
lawmakers in the European Parliament.  Investors buy CDSs as insurance to protect themselves from
losses if a bond issuer defaults. A sovereign CDS trade becomes
naked when an investor buys the swap without being at risk of
suffering such losses.  The short-selling and naked-CDS curbs will come into effect
on Nov. 1, according to a copy of the law published on the  EU’s
website .  Banker Pay on Agenda for Barnier Meetings With U.S. Regulators  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, will discuss banker bonuses with U.S. regulators during a
visit to the country this week.  The talks may also cover the implementation of bank capital
rules agreed to by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
and regulation of financial derivatives, the  European Commission 
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Commission has said that it’s weighing tougher rules on
banker pay in response to awards which Barnier has said lack
“all reason, common sense and morality.”  High-Frequency Trading No Threat to Stability, Sweden’s FSA Says  High-frequency trading, under scrutiny from securities
regulators globally, has had a minimal negative impact on the
Swedish market and poses little threat to stability, the
nation’s financial services watchdog said.  “The investigation shows that the negative effects related
to high frequency and algorithmic trading are limited,” the
Swedish  Financial Supervisory Authority   said  yesterday. “It is
apparent that trading has undergone a transformation, and to
some extent a deterioration, but most parties believe that this
is due to multiple factors and not just faster, more
computerized trading techniques.”  The role of high-frequency firms in periods of market
swings has come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares.
Traders and other professional investors were said to have
withdrawn bids as the selloff worsened, according to a September
2010 report from U.S agencies. Regulators and exchanges later
installed curbs to limit the disruption to markets.  In  Europe , Financial Services Commissioner Michel Barnier
last year proposed rules covering high-frequency trading as part
of a wider overhaul of European Union market regulations, known
as Mifid. A U.K. government study in September concluded that
computerized trading isn’t spurring broad increases in market
volatility even though it sometimes creates “instability” that
may lead to crashes.  Still, the Swedish regulator yesterday said it will remain
vigilant because investors said market abuse has become harder
to spot and more widespread. Traders and investors “must focus
on expanding their systems that monitor trading in real time and
improving co-ordination between themselves to identify any
market abuse,” Sweden’s FSA said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Cordray Announces U.S. Inquiry Into Bank Overdraft Policies  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is starting
an inquiry into bank checking account overdraft policies,
director  Richard Cordray  announced today.  Banks and credit unions were set to charge customers about
$38 billion from overdraft fees in 2011, according to a Sept. 15
estimate by Moebs Services, a Lake Bluff, Illinois-based
economic research firm. Overdrafts occur when consumers spend or
withdraw more money than is available in their checking
accounts. Banks typically charge a fee when balances go below
zero, and treat the amount of the overdraft as an interest-
bearing loan.  The bureau will request data from banks, and input from the
public on how the ordering of transactions affects how much
consumers pay, the agency said in the statement. Banks have
sometimes debited customers’ accounts not in the order of the
transactions, but with the highest amount first, so as to
overdraw the account as quickly as possible and incur fees and
interest.  The agency will also examine the quality of information
consumers receive on overdraft programs, bank marketing
campaigns on overdrafts, and how young and low-income persons
are affected by overdrafts, the bureau said. The bureau is
seeking feedback on ways to make overdraft fees easier to
understand on account statements.  In the past, other regulators including the  Federal Reserve 
and the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  have imposed rules
limiting the application of overdraft programs.  U.K. Insider-Trading Suspects Said to Face FSA Charging Decision  Seven people arrested by Britain’s financial regulator as
part of its highest-profile insider-trading investigation may
learn next month whether they’ll be charged, two people familiar
with the probe said.  The suspects were arrested almost two years ago by
Britain’s Financial Services Authority and included employees
who worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Exane BNP Paribas and Moore
Capital Management LLC. The suspects must report to police
stations in  London  on March 26 to discover if they’re being
prosecuted, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case.  The investigation is codenamed Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern, and is probing whether the men engaged in the front-
running of block trades. Investigators are seeking to determine
if the suspects profited by using knowledge of upcoming
securities sales, generally on behalf of a corporate client.  Not all of the suspects will necessarily be charged next
month and some final decisions may be delayed, according to one
of the people.  The FSA arrested an eighth suspect last year, and last week
a ninth -- a trader at insurer  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ’s
investment-management arm.  Ex-Mizuho Credit Executive Rekeda May Face SEC Lawsuit Over CDO  U.S. regulators, as part of a broad probe of how Wall
Street firms bundled mortgage-linked financial products as the
housing crisis worsened, notified a former  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (MFG)  executive he may be sued for his role in structuring
the securities.  Alexander Rekeda, who was previously head of structured
credit in the Americas at Mizuho, received a so-called Wells
notice in October informing him that Securities and Exchange
Commission staff intends to recommend an enforcement action
against him for allegedly making misrepresentations about a
collateralized debt obligation, according to his public broker
filings.  Rekeda was part of a group of about 10 traders who left
Calyon, the investment-banking unit of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , in
2006 to join Mizuho, helping the Japanese lender ramp up its
activity in U.S. mortgage-backed securities just as the housing
market began its steep decline. As defaults on subprime home
loans climbed, Mizuho struggled to find buyers for its CDOs and,
as their values plummeted, had to absorb billions of dollars in
losses.  Over the past three years, the SEC has targeted a range of
firms and individuals for their role in creating and selling
products linked to risky mortgages.  An e-mail to Masako Shiono, a spokesman for  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , wasn’t immediately answered. Steven Kobre,
a lawyer representing Rekeda, declined to comment.  The Wells notice was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Courts  Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Uses Whistle-Blower Rule in Suit  A senior investment banker at  Credit Agricole SA (CRARY)  sued the
French lender for millions of pounds, claiming he missed out on
bonuses and was dismissed for reporting colleagues under
whistle-blowing rules.  Edward Willems, former deputy head of fixed income markets
at Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment banking unit, was
“subjected to detriment as a result of making protected
disclosure,” his lawyer Tom Croxford told a London employment
tribunal yesterday.  Willems’ bonuses in 2010 and 2011 were “inappropriately
low” because of the whistle blowing, Croxford said, without
describing the conduct he reported. Willems “is seeking
millions of pounds,” Credit Agricole’s lawyer Nicholas Randall
said at the hearing yesterday.  While most wrongful dismissal damages are capped at about
72,000 pounds ($114,000), employment tribunals can award
unlimited amounts in whistle-blower cases. Employees are
protected by U.K. law from being fired or punished if they
reveal malpractice in the public interest.  Most cases settle before trial, said Samantha Mangwana, an
employment lawyer at  Russell Jones & Walker  who isn’t involved
in the case.  Meriel Schindler, one of Willems’ lawyers, didn’t respond
to an e-mail requesting comment. An e-mail to Credit Agricole’s
press office wasn’t immediately answered.  U.S. Seeks to Drop First Foreign-Bribery Sting Case  The U.S. asked a court to dismiss the biggest prosecution
of individuals accused of foreign bribery after two trials in
the case ended with acquittals and hung juries.  The U.S. Justice Department yesterday requested that a
federal judge in Washington dismiss the indictment, which
originally accused 22 security-industry officials of planning to
make payments to a federal agent posing as a representative of
the West African country of Gabon to secure a stake in a fake
$15 million weapons deal.  It was the first time the government used a sting operation
involving undercover techniques to charge violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  In its filing, the government said it “carefully
considered” the outcomes of the first two trials of 10
defendants and the impact of rulings in those cases on future
trials of the remaining defendants, as well as the resources
needed to continue with “another four or more” trials.  “Continued prosecution of this case is not warranted under
the circumstances,” according to the filing.  The government asked that the case be dismissed with
prejudice, meaning it couldn’t try to charge the defendants
again for the same crimes.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment beyond yesterday’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Keydata Founder Seeks Probe Ban on FSA Staff Who Saw E-Mails  Keydata Investment Services Ltd.’s founder told a judge the
Financial Services Authority should exclude from its probe of
the company anyone who saw protected attorney-client e-mails
improperly obtained by the U.K. regulator.  The FSA, which lost a ruling over the e-mails in October,
should also hand over communications with other agencies to
which it sent the material, including the Serious Fraud Office
and the Insolvency Service in Britain and financial watchdogs in
Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands, lawyers for Stewart Ford said
at a hearing in London yesterday.  Keydata administered 2.8 billion pounds ($4.42 billion) of
assets when the FSA asked a court to place it into
administration in 2009. The watchdog had started investigating
the company two years earlier, examining whether it targeted
investors with potentially misleading advertisements, and for
tax irregularities.  The e-mails sent by Ford and other directors to legal
advisers were covered by the attorney-client privilege and
improperly obtained by the FSA, Judge Ian Burnett ruled in
October. The so-called judicial review prompted the regulator to
suspend its four-year-old investigation into Keydata.  The FSA’s lawyer declined to comment during a break in the
hearing. Andrea Kinnear, a spokeswoman for the regulator, didn’t
immediately have a comment when reached by phone.  The privileged material included a lawyer’s advice to Ford
on how to deal with the FSA and an instruction that the
regulator should never see the communications, said Hodge Malek,
one of Ford’s lawyers.  Interviews/Speeches  McNerney Says Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Vital for U.S.  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney  urged
Congress to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import Bank and raise
the limit for its lending to aid domestic companies.  Loans made by the bank helped create 290,000 direct and
indirect jobs at more than 3,600 U.S. companies, McNerney, also
Boeing’s chairman, said yesterday during a conference at the
State Department in Washington. The bank’s current authorization
expires May 31.  Barofsky Says Volcker Rule Good for Financial Stability  William Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” and a Bloomberg View columnist,
and Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about the proposed
Volcker rule.  Former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker met in person
with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Schapiro last week to discuss the proposed ban on proprietary
trading named for him, according to a person familiar with the
meeting. Cohan, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack,” also discussed the departure of
Lucas van Praag as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s chief spokesman.  (Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For the video, click here.  Stumm Says Currency Markets Should Be More Transparent  Michael Stumm, president and chief executive officer of
Oanda Corp., discussed currency markets and explained why he
thinks more transparency in the Forex market is called for and
how to accomplish it.  He talked with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  BOE’s Bean Says Greek Deal Doesn’t Eliminate Crisis Risks  Bank of England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said agreement
on a second bailout for Greece may not be enough to end the debt
crisis and countries in the euro-area periphery must reduce debt
and improve competitiveness.  While the agreement “between the Greek government and the
euro-area authorities is certainly welcome, there still remains
a possibility that events could unfold in a disorderly and
damaging fashion at some stage in the future,” Bean said in a
speech yesterday in Glasgow, Scotland. The euro crisis
“represents the biggest downside risk” to the U.K.  The Bank of England expanded its  bond-purchase target  by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds this month in
response to a recovery weakened by a squeeze on consumers and
Europe’s debt turmoil. Bean said that while inflation is easing
and some recent  business surveys  have been encouraging, growth
will be “sluggish” in the first half of 2012 and there’s
“added incentive” to cement the recovery.  The deputy governor said a “disorderly outcome” in the
euro area would hit the U.K.’s export and financial links,
reduce confidence and lead companies and consumers to “hunker
down and postpone spending.” He also said that Greece isn’t the
only country in the currency zone facing challenges.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 