-- FCC Chief Presses Internet Providers on Cybersecurity
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-22T20:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/fcc-chief-presses-internet-providers-on-cybersecurity.html
Internet-service providers should
adopt an industrywide standard to help keep hackers from taking
over customers’ computers, Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.  Providers of high-speed Internet service, such as  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , should create a voluntary code of conduct
to help protect against so-called botnets that secretly infect
computers, Genachowski said in a speech today in Washington. He
urged providers to take steps to thwart schemes that hijack
Internet traffic and direct consumers to fraudulent websites.  “Cyber attacks pose a critical threat to our economic
future and national security,” Genachowski said. “If you shut
down the Internet, you’d shut down our economy.”  Genachowski’s remarks add to debate in Washington over how
to strengthen security of  computer networks . A bipartisan Senate
bill introduced last week would require tougher defenses by
companies running systems essential to U.S. economic and
national security.  The push for comprehensive cybersecurity legislation has
intensified following attacks last year on companies including
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company.  Genachowski spoke at an event sponsored by the Bipartisan
Policy Center, a Washington-based group founded by former
lawmakers that says it works to promote bipartisan solutions to
public-policy issues.  ‘Global Priority’  “Protecting American consumers, businesses and governments
from cybersecurity threats should be a global priority,” Kyle McSlarrow, head of Comcast/NBC Universal’s Washington office,
said in an e-mailed statement. “To be effective, everyone who
is a part of the Internet ecosystem must play a meaningful
role.”  AT&T “will evaluate” recommendations from the FCC and
looks forward to broader discussions proposed by the Commerce
Department,  Bob Quinn , senior vice president of federal
regulatory and chief privacy officer, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The government needs to establish rules to ensure that
companies adequately shield vital networks, Michael Chertoff, a
former Homeland Security Secretary under President  George W.
Bush , and Mike McConnell, former director of national
intelligence under Bush, said during a conference today in
Washington. The event was sponsored by George Washington
University’s Homeland Security Policy Institute.  Monitoring Traffic  McConnell, vice chairman of  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding
Corp. (BAH) , a McLean, Virginia-based government contractor, called
for establishing a center where the U.S. National Security
Agency, phone carriers and Internet-service providers could
share information on cyberthreats.  “If you put that together you’ve got a tremendous
capability,” McConnell said. He acknowledged that creating such
a facility would raise concerns about the NSA monitoring
Internet traffic sent over private networks in the U.S.  Chertoff, who founded the Chertoff Group, a Washington-
based security-consulting firm, praised the Senate measure for
creating a process through which companies would meet network
requirements.  “In this area, the market will fail to do an adequate
job,” he said. Without government rules, companies would face
requirements imposed by courts in response to lawsuits over
computer network attacks, he said.  The Senate bill is S. 2105.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  