-- FCC Jumps as Spain Set to Approve $66 Billion Debt Payment: Madrid Mover
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-22T16:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/fcc-jumps-as-spain-set-to-approve-66-billion-debt-payment-madrid-mover.html
Fomento de Construcciones &
Contratas ,  Spain ’s fourth-largest builder, rose the most in
almost five months as the government is set to approve a plan to
pay debt owed by the country’s regions and municipalities.  FCC  gained  9.6 percent to 20.19 euros in  Madrid , the
biggest increase since Sept. 29. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro commented on the payment proposals in the Senate
yesterday. Spain’s biggest banks and the state-run Official
Credit Institute are participating in the plan, details of which
will be announced Feb. 24, a Budget Ministry spokesman said.  Spanish construction companies including FCC and
 Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA  have been hurt by
cuts and growing debt in Spanish regions, which are halting
projects funded with public money as the country grapples with
one of the euro area’s largest deficits. Both companies also
offer services such as waste recycling and waste collection to
thousands of municipalities.  “FCC, as well as ACS, is quite leveraged and this news
allows the company to soothe its financial position,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said
today by phone. “It will have a positive impact in the short
term as it’s going to be effective immediately. This will also
lower funding costs for public works.”  The total owed to suppliers by the regions and
municipalities may be as much as 50 billion euros ($66 billion),
newspaper  ABC  reported today, citing unidentified people at the
ministry.  ACS, Spain’s biggest construction company, rose 2.7 percent
to 24.24 euros, valuing the company at 7.6 billion euros.
Barcelona-based FCC was the biggest gainer today in the IBEX 35
Index.  FCC’s Debt  FCC’s net debt at Sept. 30 was almost 7.8 billion euros,
about the same as in December 2010. The construction company
“significantly” beat its target of reducing the figure to 7.5
billion euros by the end of 2011, Chief Executive Officer
Baldomero Falcones said earlier this month. FCC is scheduled to
release full-year figures on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  