-- Philip Morris Wins Reversal of Florida ‘Engle’ Verdict
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-22T20:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/florida-court-overturns-engle-verdict-against-philip-morris.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris 
USA won reversal of a $2 million Florida jury award in a
wrongful-death case filed by the widower of a smoker who died of
 lung cancer .  The trial court erred in denying Philip Morris’s request to
bar the claim because the lawsuit was filed too late, the
Florida District Court of Appeal in  West Palm Beach  said in a
 ruling  today.  The lawsuit was filed in December 2007 by the estate of
Shirley Barbanell, who died of lung cancer in April 1996 at the
age of 73. Evidence demonstrated at a trial that Barbanell was
aware before May 1990 that cigarette smoking had caused serious
problems with her health, the appeals panel wrote.  “Although the decedent was not diagnosed with cancer until
1996, the critical event is not when an illness was actually
diagnosed by a physician but when the disease or condition first
manifested itself,” the appeals panel said.  The  Florida  Supreme Court in 2006 threw out a $145 billion
punitive-damage verdict against the industry and ended a class
action filed on behalf of the state’s smokers. The ruling, which
permitted smokers in the class to sue individually, is known as
the “Engle” decision, after  Howard Engle , the lead plaintiff in
the case.  ‘Engle’ First  The Barbanell case is the first “Engle” claim to be
overturned by an appeals court, Philip Morris said in a
statement. The jury had awarded damages of $5.34 million,
holding Barbanell about 64 percent responsible, which reduced
the damages to $2 million, according to the statement.  “This is an important decision that could impact many of
the claims being brought in the Engle cases,”  Murray Garnick , a
lawyer for Richmond, Virginia-based Altria, said in the
statement. “The court reaffirmed that the four-year statute of
limitations begins to run on a plaintiff’s claim when the
plaintiff knew or should have known that he or she has suffered
an injury caused by smoking.”  The ruling isn’t final and is subject to a request for a
rehearing.  The case is Philip Morris USA Inc. v. Barbanell, 4D09-3987,
Fourth District Court of Appeal of the State of Florida (West
Palm Beach).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  