-- Foreign Bribery, Wynn, Parmalat, Paulson, Teva in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-22T13:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/foreign-bribery-stanford-wynn-parmalot-paulson-teva-in-court-news.html
The U.S. dropped the biggest
prosecution of individuals accused of foreign bribery after two
trials in the case ended with three acquittals and seven
mistrials.  The Justice Department yesterday asked a federal judge in
 Washington  to dismiss the indictment, which originally accused
22 security-industry officials of planning to make payments to a
federal agent posing as a representative of the West African
nation of Gabon to secure a stake in a fake $15 million deal for
weapons and security gear.  It was the first time the government used a sting operation
involving undercover techniques to charge violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “I for one hope that this very long and very expensive
ordeal will be a true learning experience for the department and
the FBI as they regroup to investigate and prosecute FCPA cases
against individuals” U.S. District Judge Richard Leon said in
granting the Justice Department’s request. He said he had
earlier told prosecutors of his concerns about their
“aggressive conspiracy theory” of the case.  In seeking to end the case, the government said in court
papers it “carefully considered” the outcomes of the first two
trials of 10 defendants and the impact of rulings in those cases
the remaining defendants, as well as the resources needed to
continue with “another four or more” trials.  “If, as the DOJ said, there’s a sea of global corruption,
it’s much wiser for them to use their resources to prosecute
those actual crimes, rather than pursuing this fictitious sting
operation,” Eric Bruce of Kobre & Kim LLP, who represented
defendant Pankesh Patel, said in an interview.  Patel, of the U.K, is managing director of Quartermaster’s
Ltd., a company that sells military and law-enforcement
uniforms, according to court papers. He was scheduled to be
retried in May after a jury last year failed to reach a verdict.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment beyond yesterday’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford’s Secret Loans From His Bank Known to IRS, Lawyer Says  Internal Revenue Service auditors knew about hundreds of
millions of dollars R.  Allen Stanford  borrowed from his Antiguan
bank to fund an array of private ventures, a tax lawyer who
worked on the audits told jurors in Stanford’s criminal fraud
trial yesterday.  “In 1999, the IRS position was these were valid loans and
should be treated as valid loans” between the bank and Stanford
and between Stanford and his other companies, Larry Campagna, a
tax partner with Chamberlain Hrdlicka in Houston, testified in
the financier’s defense.  Prosecutors claim Stanford secretly borrowed $2 billion
from investor savings at Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. to finance an extravagant lifestyle and speculative
ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines, real estate
developments and cricket tournaments. CD buyers were told their
funds were held in safe, liquid investments.  U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s operations on
suspicion of fraud in February 2009. Stanford, 61, is fighting
charges he defrauded investors of $7 billion through what the
government claims were bogus Antiguan CDs. His trial is in its
fifth week in federal court in Houston.  Campagna told jurors that IRS auditors were already in
Stanford’s offices examining his personal and corporate tax
returns when Chamberlain Hrdlicka was hired to appeal certain
IRS rulings in 2003. Under questioning by prosecutors, the tax
attorney said the auditors weren’t necessarily given “free
rein” to look at any documents they wanted.  Jurors also heard testimony by genealogical researcher
Karen Pittman, a college librarian Stanford paid to investigate
his ancestry for links to Stanford University founder Leeland
Stanford.  Earlier in the trial, prosecutors told jurors that Stanford
University has denied any linkage between its founder and the
 Texas  financier. Allen Stanford often touted such blood ties in
promotional materials given to investors.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Appeals Court Revives Parmalat Suits Against Grant Thornton  A U.S. appeals court again revived two lawsuits by  Parmalat
SpA (PLT)  against accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP, vacating a lower
court judge’s decision dismissing them.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  said U.S. District
Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan should have abstained from
ruling on the cases because of bankruptcy-related proceedings
and because he didn’t have jurisdiction over the cases. The
appeals court yesterday said the cases should be sent to federal
court in Illinois so they can be handled by an Illinois state
court.  This is the latest ruling in a case that has gone up to the
federal appeals court and back to Kaplan. In January 2011, the
2nd Circuit in New York revived the cases after Kaplan had
dismissed the lawsuits, ruling that he’d applied the wrong
standard in determining whether to exercise jurisdiction.  The appeals court sent the cases back to Kaplan to
determine whether federal law required him to abstain from
taking them in favor of the Illinois courts. Kaplan, applying
the rule set by the appeals court, ruled in August that he had
authority to rule in the cases and then later dismissed them.  Parmalat, a dairy company based in Collecchio, Italy,
collapsed in December 2003 in the country’s largest  bankruptcy ,
later disclosing more than 14 billion euros ($20.1 billion) of
debt, about eight times the amount reported by its former
management. Parmalat SpA emerged from  bankruptcy  and returned to
the stock market in 2005.  “The Second Circuit’s decision today is about which court
should resolve the case -- not about how it should ultimately be
resolved,” Michele Mazur, a spokeswoman for Grant Thornton,
said in an e-mail.  She said the firm is “confident” the Illinois courts will
dismiss the case as Kaplan did “after years of exhaustive
discovery.”  Grant Thornton never served as Parmalat’s auditor and is in
no way responsible for Parmalat’s fraud, she said.  The case is In re Parmalat Securities Litigation, 04-
cv-1653, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Shell EPA Permits for Alaska Drilling Challenged in Court  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s air pollution permits for offshore
oil drilling in Alaska were challenged by environmental groups
who said the permits violate the U.S. Clean Air Act.  The Alaska Wilderness League and eight other organizations
filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco 
on Feb. 17, asking it to review two permits the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency granted Shell to operate its
Discoverer drillship in the Sea of Beaufort and the Sea of
Chukchi.  “As early as this summer, the Discoverer drillship and
other vessels in Shell’s fleet could be in the Chukchi Sea or
Beaufort Sea of the Arctic Ocean where they will pump tens of
thousands of tons of pollution into pristine Arctic skies,” the
groups said in a statement yesterday.  The organizations allege that the EPA approved the permits
without ensuring that all air quality standards were met,
including not requiring that Shell install all the pollution
controls that it should have, according to the statement.  The EPA permits were issued Feb. 10 to U.S. subsidiaries of
The Hague-based Shell, according to the petition.  “Shell and EPA have worked to assemble strong,
environmentally responsible air permits,” Shell spokeswoman
Kelly op de Weegh said in an e-mailed statement. “Specifically,
we have committed to retro-fit our catalytic exhaust systems and
use ultra-low sulfur fuel on all of our vessels.”  The company will continue to work with regulators to get
all the permits it needs to start drilling this summer, op de
Weegh said.  Shell on Feb. 17 received U.S. approval for its oil-spill
response plan in the Chukchi Sea, bringing it closer to winding
up a five-year quest to drill off the north coast of Alaska.  An EPA spokesman in Washington didn’t immediately return
calls for comment.  The case is Redoil v. EPA, 12-70518, U.S. Court of Appeals
for Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  Ex-McKinsey Consultant in Embargo Case Again Wins Appeal  A former McKinsey & Co. consultant whose 2010 conviction
for violating a trade embargo with Iran was partially set aside
in October may face a retrial on three counts after an appeals
court sent the case back to a trial judge.  Mahmoud Reza Banki, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Iran
who was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison after his New York
jury trial, was freed in November after an appeals panel
overturned convictions on three of five counts. The government
appealed that ruling and the same panel yesterday issued an
amended decision that gives prosecutors the option to seek a
retrial on the three counts.  “We’re grateful that the panel largely denied the
government’s rehearing petition and that it declined to
reinstate any of the convictions,” Kathleen M. Sullivan, a
partner at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP (496224L)  who represents
Banki, said in a phone interview.  Banki had been in U.S. custody since his arrest in January
2010 and had served 22 months of his 30-month term before he was
released from prison in November.  The defendant, who has a doctorate in chemical engineering
from Princeton University, was originally accused of running a
“value-transfer” business that essentially moved money to
residents of Iran from 2006 to 2009 in violation of the U.S.
embargo. Banki received about $4.7 million as part of the
transfer process and used the money to buy a $2.4 million
condominium, invest in securities and pay credit-card bills, the
government charged.  Defense lawyers claimed Banki didn’t violate the law
because he got the money from his family and reported the funds
to the U.S. government.  In yesterday’s decision, the appeals panel reversed three
counts and sent them back for possible retrial to U.S. District
Judge John Keenan in Manhattan, who presided over the 2010
trial. The three charges include conspiring to violate the Iran
trade embargo, violating the regulation and operating an
unlicensed money-transmitting business.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the ruling or
whether the U.S. would seek to retry Banki.  The case is U.S. v. Banki, 1:10-cr-00008, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Supreme Court  University Affirmative Action Draws U.S. High Court Scrutiny  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  agreed to once again review
university affirmative action programs, re-entering a racially
charged debate by accepting an appeal from a rejected white
applicant to the University of Texas.  The appeal takes aim at a 2003 Supreme Court decision that
said universities could continue to consider the race of their
applicants to help ensure campus diversity.  Universities have had the court’s blessing for affirmative
action since the 1978 Regents of the University of  California  v.
Bakke decision gave race-conscious admissions a limited
endorsement. With five of the nine current justices openly
skeptical about racial classifications, yesterday’s action
suggests the court at a minimum will scale back diversity  The justices will hear the latest case -- in which student
Abigail Noel Fisher said she suffered discrimination when she
applied to the university’s flagship Austin campus -- during the
nine-month term that starts in October, potentially with
arguments before the November presidential election.  In urging the court not to hear the Fisher case, Texas
argued that “those who drafted and ratified the Fourteenth
Amendment did not establish the principle of ‘colorblind’
government that opponents of race-conscious admissions so often
invoke.”  Fisher’s lawyers point to statistics indicating that the
Top Ten Percent Law, enacted in 1997, was helping ensure a
significant number of minority students even without explicit
consideration of race.  The case is Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin,
11-345.  For more, click here.  Health-Care Argument Extended to Six Hours at U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court extended next month’s argument over
President Barack Obama’s health-care law to six hours, adding 30
minutes to what was already the longest session in decades.  Responding to a request from both sides, the justices
yesterday scheduled an extra half-hour for the first day of
arguments, which will run from March 26 to 28.  The first day will center on the Anti-Injunction Act, a law
that one federal appeals court concluded prevents judges from
ruling until 2015 on the central issue in the dispute: the
requirement that Americans either buy insurance or pay a
penalty.  Music Producer Spector’s Murder Appeal Rejected by Supreme Court  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  rejected an appeal by Phil Spector,
the music producer who developed the “wall of sound” recording
technique, of his murder conviction for the 2003 shooting death
of actress Lana Clarkson.  Yesterday’s rebuff leaves Spector, 72, to serve a prison
term of 19 years-to-life in a California state prison.  Spector argued unsuccessfully that his constitutional
rights were violated when a judge permitted videotaped evidence
from the producer’s first trial, which ended in a hung jury in
2007.  A jury found Spector guilty of second-degree murder for
shooting Clarkson, 40, at his mansion a few hours after they met
at a nightclub where she worked.  Spector gained fame in the 1960s with his “wall of sound”
method. The dense, multilayered productions resulted in hits for
the Ronettes, featuring Spector’s future wife Ronnie, and the
Righteous Brothers. He produced the Beatles’ album “Let It Be”
and solo projects by John Lennon and George Harrison.  The case is Spector v. California, 11-761.  Verdicts/Settlements  Teva Said to Pay $250 Million to End Nevada Propofol Cases  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  will pay more than $250
million to settle more than 80 lawsuits alleging the drugmaker
sold the anesthetic Propofol in a way that led colonoscopy
patients to develop hepatitis C, people familiar with the
accords said.  Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic medicines,
confirmed the settlement yesterday without specifying how much
it will pay. The company agreed last week to resolve claims by
Las Vegas residents that it intentionally sold Propofol in vials
large enough to be reused by doctors, the people said. They
spoke on the condition they not be named because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the agreements.  The deal also resolves a May 2010 case over Teva’s sales of
the anesthetic that spawned a  jury award  of more than $500
million against the Israeli drugmaker, according to the people
familiar with the settlements and a filing with the Nevada
Supreme Court. Henry Chanin, a private-school principal from Las
Vegas, alleged he developed hepatitis C after getting tainted
Propofol during a colonoscopy.  “The parties notify the court that they have agreed to a
settlement in this matter,” Chanin’s lawyers told the Nevada
Supreme Court in a Feb. 17 filing. Teva had asked the state’s
highest court to overturn Chanin’s verdict.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva, confirmed that the company had settled the
Nevada Propofol cases.  “Teva is pleased to have put the vast majority of these
matters behind us,” Bradley said in an e-mail. Fifteen Propofol
cases remain active on court dockets in Las Vegas, she said.  Teva faced a series of multimillion-dollar verdicts over
its Propofol sales in Nevada, including the award to Chanin and
more than $162 million awarded to fellow colonoscopy patients
Anne Arnold,  Richard Sacks  and Anthony Devito in October.  The settlement resolves all those verdicts and a Propofol
trial that was under way before Judge Jerry Wiese in Las Vegas,
the people familiar with the agreements said.  The case involved four colonoscopy patients who blamed
their hepatitis C on tainted Propofol from Teva vials. Wiese
dismissed the jury last week after learning about the
settlement, the people said. Teva officials said in a Feb. 17
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing that the
drugmaker still faces about 50 claims in state court in Nevada.  Teva officials noted in the filing that the company also
faces claims from 4,000 colonoscopy patients, whose cases have
been consolidated in federal court in Las Vegas. Those patients
haven’t been diagnosed with hepatitis C and are suing over fears
that they may contract the disease, the drugmaker’s executives
said.  The company also may face claims from an additional 1,700
colonoscopy patients whose claims have been stayed, Teva
officials added in the filing.  The Nevada Supreme Court case is Teva Parenteral Medicines
Inc. v. Chanin, 07085, Supreme Court of Nevada (Carson City).  BP, Transocean, Settle With Injured Deepwater Horizon Worker  BP Plc (BP/) , Transocean Ltd. and others involved in the
operation of the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded in the  Gulf
of Mexico  in 2010 agreed to settle a lawsuit filed by a worker
injured in the blast.  Oleander Benton, the Deepwater Horizon worker, said in a
filing Feb. 20 in federal court in New Orleans that all the
claims have been “amicably settled,” and asked U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  to dismiss the lawsuit.  Benton’s was among at least 40 lawsuits filed by survivors
or relatives of the 126-member crew that was aboard the rig when
it exploded off the Louisiana coast in April 2010, killing 11
and resulting in the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP faces
hundreds of other lawsuits, including from businesses that have
had their properties or livelihoods damaged by the spill, and is
pressing to settle claims before a trial over its liability.  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” BP Chief
Executive Officer Robert Dudley said Feb. 7 in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “If it’s not a reasonable settlement,
we’ll go to court.”  BP, based in  London , is negotiating with U.S. officials to
settle pollution claims, according to a person familiar with the
talks, who declined to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. The U.S. is seeking fines of as much as $4,300 for each
of the 4.1 million barrels spilled after the explosion, which
would total as much as $17.6 billion.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2-10-md-1979,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  Ex-Fiesta Bowl CEO Pleads Guilty in Political Donations Scandal  Former Fiesta Bowl Chief Executive Officer John Junker
faces as much as 2 1/2 years in prison after pleading guilty to
a state felony charge for his part in soliciting political
donations from employees.  Junker will be sentenced April 26 after entering his plea
yesterday in Maricopa County Superior Court in Phoenix. As part
of a deal, Junker won’t face any more charges after he pleads
guilty to a federal felony count, the Associated Press said,
citing his attorney, Stephen Dichter.  The Fiesta Bowl was fined $1 million in May after an
investigation into campaign contributions and executive
compensation. The Arizona Republic reported in December 2009
that current and former bowl employees said they were encouraged
to make contributions to certain politicians and then were
reimbursed.  “To ensure that violations of the law will not occur
again, we have made significant and lasting changes to our
governance and hired some great new leaders who are eager to put
this sad episode behind us,” Fiesta Bowl Chairman Duane Woods
said on the organization’s website.  Junker was fired in March after failing to cooperate with
an independent investigation.  Ex-Mets Clubhouse Manager Pleads Guilty in Memorabilia Case  Former New York Mets clubhouse manager Charlie Samuels
pleaded guilty to criminal possession of almost $2.3 million
worth of team memorabilia including autographed jerseys, bats
and baseballs.  Samuels, who has been free on $75,000 bail since his arrest
in May, also pleaded guilty to evading city and state taxes,
Queens County District Attorney Richard Brown said yesterday in
a statement. Samuels is expected to receive five years’
probation at his sentencing on April 16.  The Mets fired Samuels on Nov. 12, 2010, following an
internal investigation, and he was charged after a New York
Police Department inquiry.  “We thank the NYPD organized crime investigations division
and the Queens district attorney’s office for their lengthy and
through criminal investigation and successful prosecution,” the
Mets said in an e-mail.  After entering his plea yesterday, Samuels, 55, who spent
27 seasons with the Major League Baseball team, was banned from
the Mets’ home park, Citi Field, the team’s minor-league park in
Brooklyn and the spring training facility in Port St. Lucie,
Florida.  Samuels also agreed to pay restitution.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Transocean Employee Hurt in BP Blast Asks for Separate Trial  Buddy Trahan, a  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  rig supervisor who barely
survived the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon rig disaster, asked a
federal judge to free his stalled personal-injury lawsuit from
the oil-spill litigation set for trial in New Orleans on Feb.
27.  Trahan is one of about a dozen Transocean employees who
haven’t settled death and injury claims resulting from the Gulf
of Mexico rig explosion that killed 11 workers, according to
lawyers representing the employees.  His suit against BP shouldn’t have been caught up in the
other spill litigation and should be sent to a Texas court for a
speedy trial, according to yesterday’s filing by his lawyer,
Lance Lubel in the court of U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier.  The judge hasn’t ruled on earlier similar requests by
Trahan and families of other workers injured and killed on the
rig. They are trying to untangle their cases from the thousands
of economic-injury claims consolidated for pretrial processing.  Barbier has said he will address Deepwater Horizon injury
and death claims at some point after the spill trial set to
begin next week. The nonjury trial is to determine the relative
fault of BP, Transocean and other contractors in the offshore
project.  Scott Dean and Daren Beaudo, BP spokesmen, and Ellen
Moskowitz, a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to
telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment on Trahan’s case.  “I feel betrayed, robbed, ashamed that I’m not strong
enough to overcome this,” Trahan said. “I’ve lost my security.
I don’t know who I am and what I’m going to do now. They can
never make me whole.”  The spill case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2:10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  Gas-Fracking Ban in Upstate New York Upheld by State Court Judge  A central New York town can block natural-gas drilling
after a state judge, in the first test of local laws, upheld the
Town of Dryden’s ban on hydraulic fracturing.  State Supreme Court Judge Phillip Rumsey in a ruling
released yesterday said the town’s zoning amendment on gas
drilling wasn’t pre-empted by state law. Denver-based Anschutz
Exploration Corp. sued in September, seeking to overturn the
ordinance, which bans gas and oil exploration in the town about
200 miles (322 kilometers) northwest of Manhattan.  New York placed a moratorium on the drilling process known
as hydraulic fracturing in 2010 while state regulators developed
environmental rules. Since then, about 20 towns in the state
have adopted laws to ban drilling, Karen Edelstein, a geographic
information-systems consultant in Ithaca, said.  Jim Monaghan, a spokesman for Anschutz, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Paramount Pictures Sues Puzo Estate Over ‘Godfather’ Sequels  Paramount Pictures Corp. (0001184D)  sued Anthony Puzo, the son and
executor of the estate of author Mario Puzo, to prevent the
publication of a new sequel novel to “The Godfather.”  Paramount, which says it bought the copyright to Puzo’s
novel in 1969, is trying “protect the integrity and reputation
of The Godfather trilogy,” according to a complaint filed Feb.
17 in federal court in Manhattan.  Paramount claimed that, after Puzo’s death in 1999, the
company agreed to allow  Bertelsmann AG (BTG) ’s Random House unit to
publish a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” in
2004. The estate published another novel, “The Godfather’s
Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, according to
the complaint.  “Far from properly honoring the legacy of ‘The Godfather,’
the unauthorized ‘The Godfather’s Revenge’ tarnished, and in the
process, also misled consumers into believing that ‘The
Godfather’s Revenge’ was authorized by Paramount,” Paramount, a
unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc. (VIAM) , said in the complaint.  Paramount is seeking damages and an order barring the Puzo
estate from publishing the third sequel novel, “The Family
Corleone,” this year.  Bertram Fields, a Los Angeles lawyer who represents the
Puzo estate, said he had repeatedly notified Paramount of the
sequel, which is to be published in May. The studio didn’t
protest before suing, said Fields, who called the suit “a sneak
attack.”  “For Paramount to do this to Mario Puzo’s children after
the tens of millions of dollars he made for the studio is
outrageous,” said Fields in a telephone interview.  The case is Paramount Pictures Corp. v. Puzo, 12-CV-1268,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Okada Payments Violated U.S. Anti-Bribery Law, Wynn Report Says  Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada’s Universal Entertainment
Corp. improperly gave more than $110,000 in payments and gifts
to two chief gambling regulators in the Philippines and their
families, according to a report prepared for  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)   Okada, his associates and companies made three dozen
improper payments, including a four-day stay by a Filipino
regulator, Cristino Naguiat Jr., in the most expensive room at
Wynn Resorts Macau, according to a report by Freeh Sporkin &
Sullivan LLP. The room, known as Villa 81, covers 7,000 square
feet and costs $6,000 a day, the report said. Okada, who has
been asked to step down as a director of Las Vegas-based Wynn
Resorts, is developing a gaming business in the Philippines.  “Naguiat’s luxury stays at Wynn Resorts facilities were
fully known to Mr. Okada, who actively involved himself in some
of the arrangements,” according to the report, prepared by
former Federal Bureau of Investigation director Louis Freeh and
filed by Wynn with a lawsuit in state court in Nevada.  The suit, filed Feb. 19, claims Okada, Universal and a
company controlled by Universal, Aruze USA Inc., breached their
duty to Wynn. On Feb. 19, Wynn forcibly redeemed Universal’s
19.7 percent stake in the company at a discount, escalating a
dispute between Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Wynn  and Okada,
who helped bankroll the company.  “The decision by the Wynn board, which followed a rushed
investigation that lacks absolute findings, to redeem Universal
Entertainment’s nearly 20 percent holdings in Wynn Resorts based
on its project in the Philippines is outrageous,” Universal
said in a statement yesterday.  Universal said in a statement yesterday, that while it
hadn’t been provided with a copy of the report, “we believe the
allegations leveled against Universal are motivated by self-
interest and represent the results of an incomplete and
otherwise flawed corporate governance process.”  Universal said Aruze USA would seek a court order to
prevent the redemption of the shares.  Okada visited the office of regulator Philippine Amusement
and Gaming Corp., or PAGCOR, in Manila yesterday and denied
making cash gifts, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Wynn Resorts Ltd. v. Okada, A-12-656710-B,
District Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas). The earlier
case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd., A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas). For more, click here.  Paulson Hedge Fund Investor Sues Over Sino-Forest Losses  John Paulson ’s $23 billion hedge fund was sued by an
investor over its losses in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  last year.  Hugh Culverhouse seeks class-action status on behalf of all
investors who lost money in the hedge fund, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Miami.  “Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by conducting
a grossly negligent due diligence analysis of Sino-Forest’s
business operations that did not analyze the substantial risks
of holding a near-billion-dollar investment in a forestry
company based in  China ,” Culverhouse said in his complaint.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped more than 80 percent in June
when Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said the Hong Kong-based
company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denied the
allegations.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, told clients in a June
letter that it lost C$462 million ($463.30 million as of
yesterday’s conversion rate) since the end of May on its Sino-
Forest investment. The hedge fund had held 31 million shares of
Sino-Forest in May, or 12.5 percent of outstanding stock, and
had sold its entire stake as of June 17, according to the
letter.  “The lawsuit filed by Hugh Culverhouse against Paulson &
Co. is without merit,” the company said in a statement. “As in
all our investments, Paulson has access to the same information
that everyone else in the securities markets does. Like other
public market investors, we must rely on audits and underwriter
due diligence for comfort that financial statements and
disclosures are accurate and reflect the true state of affairs
at companies with publicly traded securities.”  Paulson said on a July 21 investor call that he would hire
a specialist in  Hong Kong  after losses tied to Sino-Forest, two
people briefed on the matter said that month.  The net realized loss on the investment since Paulson first
bought Sino-Forest was C$105 million ($105.25 million),
according to yesterday’s company statement.  The case is Culverhouse v. Paulson & Co., 12-cf-20695, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Uses Whistle-Blower Rule in Suit  A senior investment banker at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  sued the
French lender for millions of pounds, claiming he missed out on
bonuses and was dismissed for reporting colleagues under
whistle-blowing rules.  Edward Willems, former deputy head of fixed income markets
at Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment banking unit, was
“subjected to detriment as a result of making protected
disclosure,” his lawyer Tom Croxford told a London employment
tribunal yesterday.  Willems’ bonuses in 2010 and 2011 were “inappropriately
low” because of the whistle blowing, Croxford said, without
describing the conduct he reported. Willems “is seeking
millions of pounds,” Credit Agricole’s lawyer Nicholas Randall
said at the hearing this morning.  While most wrongful dismissal damages are capped at about
72,000 pounds ($114,000), employment tribunals can award
unlimited amounts in whistle-blower cases. Samantha Mangwana, an
employment lawyer at Russell Jones & Walker who isn’t involved
in the case, said she has seen several whistle-blowing claims in
the financial industry, often for large sums when bonuses are
involved.  Employees are protected by U.K. law from being fired or
punished if they reveal malpractice in the public interest. The
conduct could be “improper, illegal or negligent behavior by
anyone in the workplace,” according to a guidelines published
on a British government  website .  Meriel Schindler, one of Willems’ lawyers, didn’t respond
to an e-mail requesting comment. An e-mail to Credit Agricole’s
press office wasn’t immediately answered.  RBS Sued by LBBW Over $71 Million in Mortgage Securities  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  was sued in New York by
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg over $71 million in mortgage-
backed securities.  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg said the offering materials
for the sale of the securities contained “misrepresentations
and omissions” about the characteristics of the mortgages,
according to the complaint filed in New York state court
yesterday.  The defendants, which include RBS Securities, obtained
mortgage loans from the banks that issued them and bundled them
into securities. Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg bought the
securities, which have declined in value or were sold at a loss,
according to the complaint.  “Each of the defendants knew, or at a minimum was
negligent in not knowing, that its representations and omissions
were false and/or misleading,” Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
said in the complaint.  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, based in Stuttgart, seeks at
least $71 million in damages.  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman for Edinburgh-based
Royal Bank of Scotland, declined to comment.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg v. Royal Bank of
Scotland, 650482-2012, Supreme Court of the State of New York
(Manhattan).  Expert Networker John Kinnucan Indicted for Securities Fraud  John Kinnucan, founder of Broadband Research LLC, was
indicted for passing tips to clients at two unidentified  hedge
funds  about  SanDisk Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) ,  OmniVision
Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  Kinnucan, 54, was charged in yesterday’s indictment with
two counts of conspiracy and two counts of securities fraud in a
scheme to obtain nonpublic information about technology
companies for his clients that operated from 2008 to 2010.  Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public technology
companies, obtained nonpublic information from them and passed
them to his fund manager clients, the U.S. said.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
“including paying for their meals at high-end restaurants and
shipping them expensive food, providing them with confidential
information about other technology companies and industry trends
and providing them stock trading advice and tips,” said
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara.  Donald Barnetson, a former executive at Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York on Feb. 17 and said he conspired with Kinnucan and passed
on inside information about his company.  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics manager, pleaded
guilty in federal court in July and claimed he passed inside
information to Kinnucan while working as a consultant for
Broadband Research. He said he was paid a total of $27,500 for
passing tips about his company, OmniVision Technologies, Apple
Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   While neither man was named in the indictment of Kinnucan,
both men are cooperating with the probe of insider trading by
fund managers, expert networking consultants and employees of
publicly traded technology companies by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York and Bharara’s office.  Thomas Hester, a public defender in Oregon who was
appointed to represent Kinnucan, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left at his office seeking comment about the case.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 