-- Former Mets Clubhouse Manager Samuels Pleads Guilty in Memorabilia Case
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/former-mets-clubhouse-manager-samuels-pleads-guilty-in-memorabilia-case.html
Former New York Mets clubhouse
manager Charlie Samuels pleaded guilty to criminal possession of
almost $2.3 million worth of team memorabilia including
autographed jerseys, bats and baseballs.  Samuels, who has been free on $75,000 bail since his arrest
in May, also pleaded guilty to evading city and state taxes,
Queens County District Attorney  Richard Brown  said yesterday in
a statement. Samuels is expected to receive five years probation
at his sentencing on April 16.  “The defendant had a dream job that any Mets fan would die
for and he blew it,” Brown said. “He allowed his greed to get
the better of him.”  The Mets fired Samuels on Nov. 12, 2010, following an
internal investigation, and he was charged after a New York
Police Department inquiry.  “We thank the NYPD organized crime investigations division
and the Queens district attorney’s office for their lengthy and
through criminal investigation and successful prosecution,” the
Mets said last night in an e-mail.  After entering his plea yesterday, Samuels, 55, who spent
27 seasons with the Major League Baseball team, was banned from
the Mets’ home park, Citi Field, the team’s minor-league park in
 Brooklyn  and the spring training facility in  Port St. Lucie ,
 Florida .  Restitution Order  In his appearance before acting Queens Supreme Court
Justice Barry Kron, Samuels pleaded guilty to second-degree
criminal possession of stolen property and third- and fourth-
degree criminal  tax fraud .  He agreed to pay restitution of $20,843 to the New York
State Department of Taxation and Finance; $14,738.35 to the New
York City Department of Finance; $24,955 to Sterling Mets LP,
which owns the Mets, and $15,000 to the Queens County district
attorney’s office.  Samuels, who joined the Mets in 1976, had hundreds of
autographed and unsigned Mets jerseys, baseballs, bats, helmets
and other equipment acquired between Sept. 1 and Nov. 13, 2007,
valued at almost $2.3 million, Brown said. The property was
recovered in November 2010 from the basement of a Madison,
 Connecticut , house belonging to a friend of Samuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  