-- Ex-UVA Student Huguely Found Guilty of Murdering Girlfriend Yeardley Love
-- B y   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-23T05:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/former-virginia-lacrosse-player-huguely-guilty-of-murdering-yeardley-love.html
George W. Huguely V, a former
University of Virginia lacrosse player, was found guilty of
second degree murder in the beating death of his sometimes
girlfriend,  Yeardley Love , a 22-year-old UVA student and
athlete.  A jury of seven men and five women in Charlottesville,
Virginia, recommended a prison sentence of 25 years for the
crime -- an intentional killing that, unlike first degree
murder, isn’t premeditated.  Huguely, 24, crossed himself moments before the jurors
issued the guilty verdict, which came yesterday after about nine
hours of deliberations. His lawyer, Francis Lawrence, rubbed his
client’s back after the verdict was read and the jurors left the
courtroom.  “We are of course disappointed with this verdict,”
Lawrence said after court. “George has the support of a loving
family. He has resilience and courage. He is hopeful and
spiritual.”  Love’s death has increased awareness of domestic violence
on campus and drawn attention to the Campus Sexual Violence
Elimination, or SaVE, Act, said Melissa Lucchesi, the director
of program services of Security on Campus Inc., an advocacy
group based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania .  SaVE Act  The SaVE act, introduced in Congress last year, would
expand federal laws covering the prevention and reporting of
sexual assault on campus to include other forms of violence,
Lucchesi said. Her death makes clear why the law is necessary,
Lucchesi said.  Huguely was charged with first-degree murder, robbery,
burglary, breaking and entering and murder in the commission of
a robbery, and acquitted on those counts. He was found guilty of
grand larceny for stealing Love’s laptop computer after the
beating. The jury recommended a one-year prison term for that
offense.  The defendant told police investigators he entered Love’s
apartment through the unlocked front door and then kicked open
the door to her bedroom. He said the two had an altercation
during which he “shook Love and her head repeatedly hit the
wall,” according to an affidavit filed by prosecutors.  Badly Bruised Body  Love’s badly bruised body was discovered by a friend and
teammate who went to her apartment at about 2 a.m. on May 3,
2010. She was in her bedroom, face down on a pillow in a pool of
blood.  A hearing to schedule sentencing is set for April 16. Under
 Virginia  law, Circuit Judge Edward Hogshire isn’t required to
impose the punishment the jury recommended. As part of the
punishment phase, jurors heard testimony from Love’s mother and
her sister about the impact the murder had on their lives.
Neither recommended a specific sentence.  “We dread looking back on the events of May 3, 2010, and
pray for the strength to get through each day,” her mother,
Sharon Donnelly Love, and sister, Lexi, said in a statement.
“Time has not made us miss Yeardley any less. In fact, quite
the opposite. It is truly devastating to wake up each day and
realize that she is no longer here.”  'Worst Decisions'  Rhonda Quagliana, one of Huguely’s lawyers, told jurors
that her client was a “young person with familiar
shortcomings” and urged them to vote their conscience.  “No person is the sum of the worst decisions they’ve ever
made,” she said. “His life was filled with sports, sex and
alcohol and he lacked the maturity, insight and will.”  Hogshire told jurors that Huguely won’t be eligible for
parole and they should recommend “a punishment that you feel is
just.”  During 10 days of trial, state prosecutors portrayed
Huguely as a violent man who intentionally murdered Love.  Commonwealth Attorney Warner D. Chapman, in closing
arguments on Feb. 18, showed the jury photographs of Love’s
injuries. He described “20 to 25 distinct contusions”
including a swollen, shut eye, and lacerations in Love’s mouth
and under her chin.  "Reflection of Malice'  Her bedroom door sat along the courtroom
wall, a large hole by the doorknob where Huguely told police he
had kicked it in the night of her death.  “These injuries are a reflection of malice,” Chapman
said, referring to the photos during his closing argument. “If
you’ve got your arm wrapped around her head and her face
grinding into the ground, that’s malice.”  Jurors asked the judge for the video of Huguely’s interview
with police within minutes after receiving the case for
deliberation.  The jury also asked to see a handwritten letter Huguely
sent Love in February 2010 apologizing for putting her in a
choke hold. In the letter, found by police with Love’s
belongings, Huguely wrote, “Alcohol is ruining my life. I’m
scared to know that I can get drunk to the point where I can’t
control how I act.”  Manslaughter Request  Huguely’s lawyer read the letter to jurors while asking
them to return a verdict of manslaughter rather than murder.  Before closing arguments began, Huguely’s defense was dealt
a setback when the judge limited key expert-testimony on how the
victim died because defense attorneys had improper contact with
expert witnesses. Huguely didn’t testify.  “George had no intent to commit a crime,” Lawrence said.
“It was immature compulsiveness. When he was drunk, he was
aggressively evil.”  Lawrence said Huguely went to Love’s apartment the night
she died to talk with her, not to beat her and steal her
computer. He also said that Love first got aggressive with
Huguely.  Bedroom Door  Chapman, in his rebuttal, dragged over Love’s bedroom door
so jurors could get a closer look.  “If you think he went over there to have a conversation,”
the prosecutor said, “what kind of conversation starter is
that?”  The trial has put a national spotlight on the university
town of roughly 43,400 people located about 115 miles southwest
of Washington. The courthouse area of downtown has been besieged
by media, with more than 200 reporters and producers requesting
credentials, according to Ric Barrick, director of
communications for the city.  “This puts blight on the  University of Virginia  because
both were students,” Robert Blake, a 68-year-old retired land
surveyor and Charlottesville resident, said in an interview at
the Downtown Mall after the case went to the jury.  Drinking to Excess  Blake said that drinking -- and drinking to excess -- has
been an unfortunate tradition at the university dating back
decades.  Mikolai East, 17, of Charlottesville, who is taking classes
at Piedmont Virginia Community College as he finishes Murray
High School, said he fears UVA will get a reputation as a school
to avoid.  The defense attempted to show that Huguely and Love had a
tempestuous relationship. One witness said that Love hit Huguely
with her purse when she found her and friend at his apartment,
demanding to know whether he’d been sending them  text messages .  Huguely’s aunt, Alina Massaro, narrated video taken from a
surveillance camera at a Charlottesville restaurant two days
before the alleged murder. Huguely, who Massaro referred to as
Georgie, is seen hugging his 17-and 18-year-old cousins and
holding hands with Love.  Closing Argument  In his closing argument, Chapman, the commonwealth
attorney, portrayed the death as the result of a deliberate act.  “This is not an accident case,” he said. “This is the
case of a woman who went to bed in what should be one of the
safest and secure places -- her home. And then he began to
assault her,” the prosecutor said. “He left her for dead.”  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Huguely, 11-00102,
Virginia Circuit Court (Charlottesville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bonnie V.  Winston in Virginia Circuit Court in Charlottesville
at   bvwinston@yahoo.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  