-- Former BOJ Deputy Governor Says Unsustainable Debt Risks Bond-Yield Spike
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-02-22T06:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/former-boj-deputy-governor-says-unsustainable-debt-risks-bond-yield-spike.html
Japan ’s swelling  bond  sales risk
pushing the world’s most indebted nation to a “trigger” point
where capital inflows reverse and bond yields rise, former
Deputy  Bank of Japan  Governor Toshiro Muto said.  “It’s common sense that huge bond issuances aren’t
sustainable,” Muto, 68, who served as the BOJ’s deputy chief
for five years until March 2008, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. “I don’t know how much time we have,” he said,
noting that he doesn’t see the nation reaching the tipping point
in the near future.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to double the
 sales tax  to rein in debt expected to reach 1 quadrillion yen
($13 trillion) next year just as policy makers in Europe work to
contain their fiscal crisis. Standard & Poor’s this week
maintained a negative outlook on Japan’s sovereign rating and
warned a downgrade is likely if growth prospects weaken.  “I have no doubt that a rating cut will take place” if
the government can’t raise the 5 percent sales tax, said Muto,
who also worked at the  Finance Ministry  for 37 years and is
currently chairman of the Daiwa Institute of Research. “I don’t
think the cut will cause a market rout, but we have to keep in
mind the unwinding of capital inflows may happen” if Japan
repeatedly fails to get its finances in order, he said.  Muto was the government’s first choice to become BOJ
governor in 2008, only to be rejected by the opposition-
controlled upper house, who said his stint at the ministry may
hamper the bank’s independence. 　  Possible Favorite  He is one of the favorites to succeed Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , whose five-year term ends in April next year,
according to Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief Japan economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo , who is also a former central
bank official.  Reductions in Japan’s rating by S&P and Moody’s haven’t led
to a drop in bond prices. The benchmark 10-year government bond
yield was at 0.960 percent as of 11:44 a.m. in Tokyo, the second
lowest in the world after  Switzerland . S&P has had Japan’s debt
rating on a negative outlook since April after lowering it to
AA- in January 2011.  Conditions surrounding Japanese debt sustainability are
changing as the debt grows faster than household assets, Muto
said. Outstanding government debt rose seven times faster than
growth in net household assets from a year earlier in the three
months ended September 2011, according to the  Bank of Japan. (8301)   Japan’s bond sales to the market will climb to a record
149.7 trillion yen for the year starting in April 1. The
budget’s dependence of bonds will increase to an unprecedented 
49 percent in the same year, according to the Finance Ministry.  Record Deficit  A report this week showed the nation had a record trade
deficit in January as fuel imports surged because of nuclear
shutdowns, and yen strength and weakness in global demand capped
 exports .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  predicts Japan, the world’s
largest net creditor, may need to rely on inflows of foreign
capital by 2015.  The Bank of Japan last week boosted its planned government
bond purchases by 10 trillion yen and set an inflation goal at 1
percent for the time being to end deflation.  “It’s appropriate for the BOJ to increase its buying of
 government bonds ,” Muto said. If there isn’t an improvement in
the economy and financial markets going forward, “the BOJ may
have to shoulder a big burden depending on those developments.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  reached a six-month high this
week after the BOJ decision. The yen has weakened about 1.8
percent since the central bank meeting. It traded at 79.85 at
11:47 a.m. in Tokyo after rising in October to a post-World War
II high of 75.35 per dollar.  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan has proposed raising
the  consumption tax  to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10 percent in
October 2015 to help pay for soaring welfare costs as the
population ages. Lawmakers opposing the increase have said it
may hamper the recovery from last year’s disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  