-- UN Nuclear Regulator Says Iran Denies Request to Visit Key Military Base
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-22T17:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/former-nuclear-inspectors-advise-against-strike-on-iran-sites.html
Officials from the  International
Atomic Energy Agency , sent to  Iran  to defuse tensions over the
country’s nuclear program, were denied access to a military base
and said the talks “couldn’t finalize a way forward.”  The IAEA inspectors were refused permission to visit the
Parchin base during two days of meetings that ended yesterday.
Iran’s ambassador to the IAEA, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, told state
television that officials discussed grounds for cooperation and
further talks will be held. He didn’t elaborate.  “We couldn’t get access and we couldn’t finalize a way
forward,” the IAEA’s chief inspector, Herman Nackaerts, told
reporters in Vienna today upon his return from Tehran. Nackaerts
was accompanied by Jacques Baute, a French nuclear-weapons
scientist, Laura Rockwood, a U.S. legal expert at the agency and
Rafael Grossi, the IAEA’s political affairs director.  Allegations about the possible military aim of  Iran’s
nuclear program  have led the U.S. and the European Union to
tighten economic sanctions. The U.S. and Israel haven’t ruled
out air strikes against Iran’s atomic facilities, escalating
tensions in a region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil
reserves.  ‘Disappointing’  “It is disappointing that Iran did not accept our request
to visit Parchin during the first or second meetings,” IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano said in a  statement posted  on the
organization’s Facebook page. “We engaged in a constructive
spirit, but no agreement was reached.”  Nackaerts declined to answer questions on whether Iran
denied the IAEA team immediate access to Parchin or whether the
Persian Gulf nation also ruled out requests for future visits.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast 
underlined yesterday that the high-level IAEA officials were in
Iran for talks and their trip was separate from routine
inspections of Iranian nuclear facilities that the agency
conducts.  “Iran has never been after nuclear weapons and never will
be,” the country’s highest authority, Supreme Leader  Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei , said today in a  statement . “The Islamic Republic
considers possessing nuclear weapons, from an intellectual and
religious point of view, as a big crime and believes it to be
unnecessary, harmful and dangerous.”  Pre-Emptive Action  The risk of a military conflict was underscored yesterday
when an Iranian general said his nation would consider pre-
emptive action if it is threatened.  “We will no more wait to see enemy action against us,”
the state-run Fars news agency quoted Mohammad Hejazi, deputy
head of the general staff of the Iranian Armed Forces, as
saying. Iranian officials had said in recent weeks that they
would not attack another country first and their actions would
be solely retaliatory.  Iran tried to defuse tension created by the comments today
in Moscow where Iranian Ambassador Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi said
pre-emptive attacks weren’t part of his country’s policy.  China 
may host a new round of negotiations over Iran’s nuclear
program, he said.  Crude oil for April delivery gained 7 cents to $106.32 a
barrel at 11:15 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract earlier rose to $106.47, the highest level since May 5.  Iran said on Feb. 20 it had stopped selling crude to  France 
and Britain in retaliation for an EU decision to stop buying its
oil as of July 1. The EU and U.S. are tightening sanctions in
order to pressure Iran’s leaders to make concessions on its
nuclear program, which the country says is for civilian uses.  ‘Best Relations’  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said his country
wanted the “best relations possible” with the EU and urged the
bloc to revisit its policies. Iran sent the EU a letter last
week asking for negotiations at the “earliest opportunity.”  Two former United Nations weapons inspectors said yesterday
it isn’t too late for diplomacy to resolve the dispute. They
warned that a military strike would probably compel Iran to
expel the IAEA and deprive the international community of
surveillance of a nuclear program that Western nations say is
being used to develop nuclear weapons.  “The worst thing I can imagine right now is something
short of war that causes the Iranians to kick the IAEA out,”
 Robert Kelley , a nuclear scientist and former UN chief weapons
inspector in  Iraq , said at a forum in  Washington .  Essential Inspections  He was accompanied by former IAEA head Hans Blix, who said
inspections were essential in monitoring Iran’s work.  The IAEA operates cameras and conducts regular, as well as
surprise visits, to declared nuclear sites including the
country’s Fordo and Natanz enrichment centers, reactors in
Bushehr and Tehran and a uranium metallurgical laboratory in
Isfahan. Inspectors make regular measurements of Iran’s nuclear
material in order to track how much uranium the country has for
peaceful or non-peaceful purposes.  While the IAEA has continued to verify Iran isn’t diverting
its existing uranium stockpile, the UN Security Council demanded
in a resolution that the country open additional facilities to
investigation. In addition to suspicions regarding Parchin, the
IAEA reported Nov. 8 that Iran may have tested explosives
designed for its Shahab-3 missile warhead in Marivan. Iran also
has uranium mines and centrifuge workshops that fall outside of
existing safeguards.  Parchin is a military base 30 kilometers (18 miles)
southwest of Tehran. The IAEA suspected nuclear activities at
the site in 2004 when Tehran’s government allowed inspectors
access to parts of the sprawling facility. The agency reported
in September 2004 that they didn’t find anything.  High-Explosives Tests  The IAEA reported in November that more recent information
and satellite-imagery analysis indicated Iran may have been
conducting high-explosives tests at Parchin of components needed
for a nuclear weapon. Inspectors aren’t allowed onto the base,
which may house a test-blast chamber built in 2000, because it
isn’t a declared nuclear facility.  IAEA inspection agreements with Iran only allow it access
to declared sites. Binding UN Security Council resolutions
against Iran demand that the country strengthen its nuclear-
inspection agreements with the agency.  Israeli leaders say there is limited time left to carry out
an effective strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities before they are
secure from attack. The countries accuse each other of bombings
and assassinations, with  Israel  blaming Iran for car bomb
attacks last week in  India  and  Georgia  and the Persian Gulf
nation blaming Israel for the murder of several of its nuclear
scientists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  