-- Frankfurt Airport Scraps 13% of Flights as Talks Resume
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-23T08:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/frankfurt-airport-sees-20-flight-cuts-as-strike-extended.html
Frankfurt airport  scrapped 13
percent of the flights scheduled for today as it builds
operations after ground controllers suspended a strike in order
to resume contract talks.  Carriers are canceling 169 flights of the 1,260 planned,
Mike Schweitzer, a spokesman for airport operator  Fraport AG (FRA) ,
said today in a phone interview. That’s four more cancellations
than yesterday.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  (LHA),  Europe ’s second-biggest
airline and the dominant carrier at Frankfurt, is dropping more
than 150 flights, according to its website.  Fraport and the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union plan
to restart negotiations today, according to Matthias Maas, a GdF
spokesman. Maas and Schweitzer declined to disclose details
about the talks.  The walkout by about 200 workers who handle taxiing and
parking of aircraft has disrupted flights at Frankfurt airport
on six of the past eight days, including today. The GdF agreed
yesterday to talks after  Fraport (FRA)  offered negotiations as long as
the strike was halted.  The series of walkouts began on Feb. 16, and the
controllers halted work entirely from Feb. 20 until yesterday.
The GdF is entering the talks “with an open mind,” Maas said,
adding that he wasn’t immediately aware of the new terms being
proposed.  Fraport was  unchanged  at 46 euros as of 9:26 a.m. in
 Frankfurt  trading after declining as much as 0.8 percent.
Lufthansa  declined  1 percent to 10.39 euros.  Strike Cost Estimates  Lufthansa (LHA) , which has been sending 1,000  text messages  a day
to inform passengers about the disruption, has estimated its
losses from the strike at the “double-digit million level,”
meaning more than 10 million euros ($13 million).  Fraport (FRA) 
estimated yesterday that its costs have totaled 6.5 million
euros to 7 million euros.  Fraport has declined to accept recommendations from its own
mediator, former Hamburg Mayor Ole von Beust, in the dispute.  Those terms would have amounted to wage increases by 2015
of 53 percent for apron controllers, who direct planes to their
gates, and 27 percent for senior apron controllers, plus 33
percent for marshals who signal to pilots on the ground and 26
percent for traffic-management staff, who determine the position
aircraft will occupy, Fraport said yesterday.  Fraport sought to maximize flights during the strike by
drafting in people with ground-control qualifications from
administrative posts. That helped lift the proportion of
scheduled services performed from 68 percent during the Feb. 16
action to 85 percent on Feb. 21, and the figure would have risen
above 90 percent had the action continued, it said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  