-- Fukushima Disaster Left U.S. NRC Confused, Documents Show
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-22T15:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/fukushima-disaster-left-u-s-agency-in-confusion.html
Relying on information from Japanese
officials, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  told Congress last year that a spent-fuel pool at  Japan ’s
crippled Fukushima plant was dry. It wasn’t true.  “I’ve said publicly the pool is dry,” Jaczko told Chuck
Casto, the NRC’s lead official in Japan, on a conference call
hours after Jaczko’s March 16 testimony to the House Energy and
Commerce Committee. “Do you think that’s inaccurate?”  “It’s probably inaccurate to say it’s dry,” Casto said.  More than 3,000 pages of transcripts released yesterday by
the NRC show the agency was struggling to assess the severity of
Japan’s nuclear disaster, even as it gave the White House a
recommendation for U.S. citizens to evacuate within 50 miles (80
kilometers) of the damaged reactors.  The transcripts highlight what Jaczko called the “fog of
war” as the agency responded to the world’s worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years. The agency’s information about
developments, provided by local officials, news media and  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) , owner of Fukushima Dai-Ichi, created a
chaotic environment where details weren’t always accurate.  “There was not a lot of information” in the first hours
after the accident, Jaczko told reporters yesterday. “Much of
what we knew came from a variety of sources,” including the
Japanese government and the news media, he said.  Weighing Rules  The five-member NRC is weighing rules to improve safety at
104 U.S. nuclear reactors, and may issue its first Fukushima-
related orders by March 9. The orders may require plants to have
adequate instruments to monitor spent-fuel cooling pools and
equipment to deal with power failures. Regulators also are
considering a rule directing plant owners to have sturdy venting
systems to relieve pressure in  General Electric Co (GE) .-designed
reactors that are similar to those that failed at Fukushima.  The U.S. nuclear-energy industry yesterday approved its own
plan to have portable equipment, including back-up pumps and
generators, at  power plants  to handle emergencies. NRC officials
have said the Nuclear Energy Institute-designed plan may speed
the regulatory process.  Reports from  Tokyo Electric  and Japan’s government had
indicated the cooling pool to store atomic waste at Fukushima’s
Unit 4 reactor was dry, which would cause more radiation to leak
into the air, according to comments by staff members. “The
nuclear agency here admits that No. 4 doesn’t have any water in
it,” Casto said on a conference call from Japan March 17.  Quake, Tsunami  The NRC said June 15, after further examination, that the
reactor pool probably never lost all of its water.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami March 11 caused
explosions and a loss of power, leaving the pools unable to keep
fuel rods cool and triggering meltdowns and radiation leaks.  “It’s hell over here for that government,” Casto said on
a March 17 call. “When you’ve got a thousand dead bodies
washing up on the shore” it makes it “tough for them, and
we’re over here barking at them” about the situation, he said.  Jaczko a day earlier pressed officials on a conference call
from the Rockville,  Maryland , operations center about advice for
U.S. citizens near Fukushima.  “What I need to do is just make sure that the White House
knows what our recommendation is,” Jaczko said in reference to
the evacuation zone. “We need to get that message as quickly as
possible.”  ‘Appropriate Guidance’  “If this happened in the U.S., we would go out to 50
miles,” Bill Borchardt, the NRC’s executive director for
operations, told Jaczko. “That would be the appropriate
guidance to give the ambassador to pass on at this point.”  Republicans in Congress criticized Jaczko’s leadership
during the 2011 disaster, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, in May questioned why Jaczko recommended
a 50-mile evacuation zone when Japan’s government cleared 12
miles. Jaczko has said his response was consistent with what the
NRC would propose in a similar U.S. crisis.  Agency officials found reliable information was scarce and
“there was confusion and communication problems” in the first
hours after Fukushima lost power,  Eliot Brenner , an NRC
spokesman, said in a blog post on the agency’s website
yesterday. “The first days were very hectic.”  Jaczko asked his four colleagues to stay out of the
emergency operations center in the days after the Fukushima
crisis began. He “broadly interprets the authority granted to
the NRC chairman,” a Dec. 13 report from Republicans on the
U.S.  House Oversight  and Government Reform Committee said.  Jaczko has said he assumed increased authority as Fukushima
unfolded because of powers granted to the chairman in 1980,
following a partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island nuclear
plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , a year earlier.  The NRC released the transcripts in response to multiple
Freedom of Information Act requests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  