-- Fuller Brush Files for Bankruptcy Less Than Two Months After ‘Reboot’
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-22T20:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/fuller-brush-files-for-bankruptcy-court-protection-owing-up-to-50-million.html
Fuller Brush Co., founded in 1906
and for decades known for its door-to-door salesmen, filed for
bankruptcy less than two months after saying the company had
“completely rebooted itself.”  The cleaning-products maker, based in Great Bend, Kansas,
listed assets and debt of as much as $50 million each in Chapter
11 documents filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan . CPAC Inc., Fuller Brush’s parent company, also sought
court protection from creditors.  “The filing was a necessary means to effectuate a
reorganization of the company in an effort to return the company
to profitability and restructure its balance sheet,” Chief
Restructuring Officer Lawrence Perkins said in a statement
today.  Perkins said the company is “lowering its operating costs,
while seeking to broaden its existing revenue streams.”  Fuller Brush said Jan. 3 that 2012 would be a “landmark
year” as the company introduced a new marketing campaign,
products and distribution channels, as well as a revamped
 website  with an interactive format, cleaning tips and links to
Facebook and Twitter.  Company founder Alfred C. Fuller was born in  Nova Scotia  in
1885 and moved at age 18 to  Boston , where he eventually sold
brushes door-to-door, according to a company history on
myfullerbrush.com from Investor’s Daily.  At 21, with a $375 investment, Fuller started making
brushes based on feedback from customers, and hired crews to
help with sales nationwide, according to the website. For
advertising, he managed to get Donald Duck and the Big Bad Wolf
cast as Fuller Brush men in cartoons, and the icon appeared in
the comic strips Blondie and Mutt and Jeff.  Skelton Comedy  The company also was highlighted in the 1948 Columbia
Pictures Corp. comedy “The Fuller Brush Man,” starring  Red
Skelton  and Janet Blair, according to IMDB.com. Publicity shots
show Skelton carrying an armful of mops, cleaners and brushes on
his door-to-door rounds.  Customers across the U.S. became familiar with the
greeting, “I’m your Fuller Brush Man.” The Reverend Billy
Graham, Dick Clark, baseball Hall of Famer  Joe DiMaggio  and
actor  Dennis Quaid  were among the company’s salesmen, Fuller
Brush said in a 2007 statement.  Fuller Brush expanded to a $109 million business by 1960,
according to myfullerbrush.com. The company’s founder died in
1973. Its factory near Great Bend, completed that same year,
turns out more than 2,000 products, Fuller Brush said.  The case is The Fuller Brush Co. Inc., 12-10714, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 