-- General Maritime Plan ‘Unconfirmable,’ Unsecured Creditors Claim
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-22T03:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/general-maritime-plan-unconfirmable-unsecured-creditors-claim.html
Unsecured creditors of  General
Maritime Corp. (GMR) , the second-largest U.S. owner of  oil tankers ,
objected to the company’s reorganization plan to reduce debt by
$600 million and cancel all of its old stock.  The official committee of unsecured creditors said that
General Maritime failed to fully explore alternatives to a
$175 million equity investment from  Oaktree Capital Management (OAKTRZ) 
LP, according to a filing in federal  bankruptcy court  in New
York today,  A plan of reorganization “should never come at the expense
of a good faith process that treats all creditors fairly and
equitably and complies with applicable law,” lawyers for the
committee said in the filing.  The company’s disclosure statement is “devoid of any
discussion” of “some alternative to the terms dictated by
Oaktree,” according to the filing.  In its reorganization plan filed Feb. 1, General Maritime
said it had engaged in “extensive, good faith negotiations”
with secured creditors, and that secured claims would be repaid
in full and a rights offering was expected to raise $61.3
million.  ‘All the Hallmarks’  The company, based in  New York , won approval of the $175
million investment from Oaktree in December after changing terms
to address creditors’ objections. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said the arrangement had “all the hallmarks of a loan-to-
own structure.”  Adam Rogoff, a lawyer representing General Maritime, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the objection after
regular business hours.  Under the terms of the plan, Oaktree’s $175 million in
secured debt will be repaid in full and converted to equity in
the reorganized company. General unsecured creditors will get
warrants to buy stock in the new company, which would be valued
at an estimated $421.1 million.  General Maritime, which operates in more than 230 ports of
call in more than 70 countries, filed for bankruptcy in
November. The company listed assets of $1.71 billion and debt of
$1.41 billion in its Chapter 11 petition.  The case is In re General Maritime Corp., 11-15285,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  