-- USDA Says Rule Changes to Hasten Modified Crop Approvals
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-22T22:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/genetically-modified-crops-will-get-faster-approval-usda-says.html
Seed companies including  Monsanto
Co. (MON) , the world’s largest, will get speedier regulatory reviews
of their genetically modified crops under forthcoming rule
changes, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said.  The goal is to cut by half the time needed to approve
biotech crops from the current average of three years, Michael Gregoire, a USDA deputy administrator, said today in a telephone
interview. The changes will take effect when they’re published
in the Federal Register, probably in March, he said.  Approvals that took six months in the 1990s have lengthened
because of increased public interest, more legal challenges and
the advent of national organic food standards, Gregoire said.
U.S. farmers worry they may be disadvantaged as countries such
as  Brazil  approve new technologies faster, said Steve Censky,
chief executive officer of the American Soybean Association.  “It is a concern from a competition standpoint,” Censky
said in a telephone interview.  Faster approvals also benefit seed developers by allowing
them to profit from new products sooner, Jeff Windau, a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone
interview. The financial benefit is difficult to estimate until
the new rules are in place, he said.  “If you can reduce the approval time, you get sales that
much faster,” said Windau, who rates Monsanto “hold” and
 DuPont Co. (DD)  “buy.” “It could be significant for the companies
like Monsanto and DuPont.”  Faster Approvals  One way the USDA plans to speed up approvals is by inviting
public comments as soon as seed developers such as Monsanto file
a complete petition for deregulation of a biotech crop, rather
than waiting until the end of the review, Gregoire said. That
will allow regulators at the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service, or APHIS, to address any concerns as they
conduct their environmental analysis and risk assessment, he
said.  “We can improve the quality of decisions by providing for
this earlier public input in the process,” Gregoire said. “We
are not sacrificing quality at all.”  Congress is helping to speed crop reviews by increasing
APHIS’s budget for biotech regulation to a record $18 million
this year, from $13 million in 2011, Gregoire said.  The  Center for Food Safety , a Washington-based non-profit
group that has successfully challenged approvals of Monsanto’s
Roundup Ready sugar-beet and alfalfa crops, said the rule change
is aimed at preventing opponents of modified crops from voicing
criticism of the agency’s methods.  Working the System  “They are trying to work the system so they can dismiss
public comments more quickly and easily in order to speed things
up,” Bill Freese, a policy analyst at the group, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a rubber-stamp system. A real
regulatory system will occasionally reject something.”  Under the rule changes, new versions of existing crop
technologies, such as corn that produces a naturally occurring
pesticide, would undergo a review lasting about 13 months,
Gregoire said. That would be accomplished by making the agency’s
determination final after a 30-day public review period, he
said.  For new technologies, such as a crops engineered to
tolerate a new herbicide, there will be a second comment period
after the agency makes its preliminary decision, extending the
duration of the review to about 16 months, he said.  Which of these two regulatory routes is taken for each of
the 22 biotech crops currently under review will be announced
along with the publication of the rule change, Gregoire said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  