-- German Clinic to Complete Report on Health of Tymoshenko in Days
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-22T17:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/german-clinic-to-complete-report-on-health-of-tymoshenko-in-days.html
A team of German doctors will
complete a preliminary report on the health of Ukrainian
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  in the coming days amid
speculation that her condition is deteriorating.  Tymoshenko is “seriously ill,”  Der Spiegel  reported,
citing a report by doctors from Berlin’s  Charité hospital  who
examined the former prime minister last week. Charité confirmed
the visit in a statement, though declined to say what the
assessment of Tymoshenko’s health is.  Ukrainian authorities moved 51-year-old Tymoshenko to a
penal colony in the Kharkiv region in eastern Ukraine on Dec.
30, a week after a court upheld her seven-year prison term for
signing a gas contract with Russia in 2009. A verdict last year
that found Tymoshenko had abused her authority by signing the
agreement when she was premier drew condemnation from the
European Union, the U.S. as well as  Russia .  The Ukrainian politician’s daughter, Eugenia Tymoshenko,
said in a statement that the German doctors determined that
Tymoshenko has a herniated disc. The opposition leader is
confined to bed and can’t sleep because of back pain, the
daughter said on her  mother’s website .  If “things continue the way they are and she is not given
medical care, she will need an operation,” Eugenia Tymoshenko
said. “This operation can’t be done in the prison.”  The team of doctors from Berlin, including neurologist Karl
Max Einhaeupl and physician Norbert Haas, will complete a
preliminary report in the next few days after coordinating with
an independent visit by Canadian doctors on Dec. 15, the Charité
clinic said in an e-mailed statement.  Unhindered Access  The German doctors were given “unhindered” access to
Tymoshenko and performed their examination for “several hours”
in the presence of a prison doctor on Feb. 14, Charité said in
the statement. They rejected unspecified “speculation” about
Tymoshenko’s health in the Ukrainian media based on their
assessment.  Tymoshenko has denied the accusations against her and said
President  Viktor Yanukovych  orchestrated the trial to sideline
competitors in parliamentary elections this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  