-- Germany Unfairly Treated in Crisis, Ex-Irish Leader Bruton Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-02-22T08:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/germany-unfairly-treated-in-crisis-ex-irish-leader-bruton-says.html
Former Irish Prime Minister John Bruton said bailed-out countries need to take responsibility for
their own problems, with  Germany  “‘very unfairly treated” in
the debate over solving Europe’s debt crisis.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias last week criticized
German leaders for comments about his country as stalled talks
stoked tensions between  Greece  and the northern European
countries funding its rescue. Papoulias, who fought against the
Nazis during World War II, said he didn’t accept “insults”
after Germany’s finance minister blamed Greece’s New Democracy
party for delaying a bailout agreement and his deputy, Steffen Kampeter, compared Greece to a “bottomless pit.”  “It’s easy to start scapegoating, it’s easy to start
resurrecting historical stereotypes to avoid facing one’s own
responsibilities,” Bruton said in an interview in  Frankfurt 
yesterday. “We in Ireland did a lot of that including in the
first half of the 20th century where we tended to blame the past
record with the British for every problem we had.”  Ireland, Greece and  Portugal  have sought bailouts, as
investors shunned their securities amid spiraling debt. Greece
yesterday won a second rescue, while Ireland is seeking help
from the  European Central Bank  to deal with its bank debt.
Bruton  said  in September the ECB didn’t control banks enough,
partly because of “nationalistic political reasons.”  “You could argue that the people who lent the money to
them have a responsibility, and they do, but nobody forced
Greece to borrow the money, nobody forced Ireland to borrow the
money or banks or Irish households to borrow the money,” Bruton
said. “One must first face up to one’s own responsibilities.”  Ireland stepped out of bond markets and sought a 67.5
billion-euro ($89.4 billion) international rescue in November
2010, amid concern that the nation’s banking woes would push it
into bankruptcy. The country’s financial system came close to
collapse, after a real estate bubble burst in 2008, with  house
prices  halving.  Credit Bubble  Irish Social Protection Minister  Joan Burton  said in a
 speech  last week that while “the main responsibility for
Ireland’s plight rests with Irish institutions,” the ECB had
helped fuel “a credit bubble” in Ireland and other peripheral
countries.  “We appreciate the support that we have been extended by
the ECB, the EC and the IMF,” she said. “However, we do not
feel that citizens in the peripheral countries should carry an
undue burden.”  Bruton, who was in Frankfurt to promote the  Irish Financial
Services Center  of which he is chairman, said the fiscal compact
drawn up to speed sanctions on high-deficit euro-area states and
make members anchor balanced-budget rules in national law would
gain more credibility if the European Union president was
directly elected by voters.  “It will build the sort of emotional cement through  Europe 
that it needs to have,” Bruton said. The “huge new powers”
bestowed in the compact “should only be exercised by people
with a democratic mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  