-- Gillard Calls Australia Leadership Vote as She Seeks to Block Rudd Return
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-23T09:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/gillard-calls-australian-leadership-vote-expects-to-face-predecessor-rudd.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called a leadership vote for Feb. 27, setting up a
second showdown with her predecessor Kevin Rudd as weeks of
growing tension damage the Labor government.  “We need a leadership ballot in order to settle this
question once and for all,” Gillard, the nation’s first female
prime minister, said at a press conference in Adelaide, after
Rudd yesterday resigned as foreign minister. “For far too long
we have seen squabbling within the Labor party which has
obscured the government’s achievements.”  The move aims to bring to a head 11 days of escalating
rivalry between Gillard and Rudd, as opinion polls show Labor’s
popularity is hovering near a record low. At stake for Labor is
survival of an administration that’s unveiled unprecedented
taxes on natural resources and fees to address climate change --
an agenda Gillard calls “nation-changing reform” that has
proved unpopular with voters.  “Gillard and her advisors have decided it’s better to
lance this boil quickly,” said John Wanna, a professor of
public administration at the Canberra-based  Australian National
University . “If Rudd doesn’t challenge, it’s probably the end
of his career, but if he can assemble any numbers, she risks
having a damaged prime ministership.”  Long Campaign  Gillard said there had been a long-running campaign to
undermine her government and that she is best-placed to lead
Labor to victory against opposition leader  Tony Abbott  in
elections due in 2013. She sought to head off any attempt by
Rudd to continue his campaign even if he loses the ballot.  “If, against my expectation, I do not receive the support
of my colleagues I will go to the backbench and renounce any
further” ambitions for the leadership, Gillard said. “Kevin
Rudd should give a comparable commitment.”  Australia ’s currency snapped a two-day decline as Asian
stocks pared earlier losses. The so-called Aussie dollar
strengthened to $1.0670 as of 6 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0638
yesterday in  New York . Benchmark 10-year government
bond yields dropped six basis points to 4.04 percent.  “I don’t think it does the confidence in investments
particularly from offshore any good at all to see a nation at
each others’ throats at the highest political level,’’ Simon
Bennison, chief executive officer of the Perth-based Association
of Mining and Exploration Companies, said by phone. “We would,
like everybody else, like this resolved as quickly as
possible.”  Tensions between Rudd and Gillard have simmered since she
ousted him in a June 2010 party coup.  “It is now evident to me and I think it is evident to the
Australian people that there has been a long-running
destabilization campaign here to get to this point where  Kevin
Rudd  is clearly going to announce that he wants to seek the
Labor leadership,” Gillard said.  Rudd Encouraged  Rudd resigned at a 1 a.m. press conference yesterday in
 Washington , where he had been meeting U.S. government officials.
In a news conference from Washington today shortly before
Gillard spoke, Rudd said he was encouraged by support he has
received from party colleagues and said he was best-placed to
defeat Abbott.  “I do not believe that Prime Minister Gillard can lead the
Australian Labor party to success in the next election. That is
a deep belief,” Rudd said. “I believe it is also a belief
shared right across the Australian community.”  He stopped short of declaring a challenge, saying he will
make a statement on any decision after he returns tomorrow to
Australia.  Rudd listed policy challenges facing the country, such as
encouraging small businesses to boost investment through  tax
reform  and continuing government support for manufacturing,
including the nation’s car industry.  Swan’s Reaction  If Rudd contests the leadership ballot he will need the
backing of 52 of the 103 Labor lawmakers. Gillard has the
backing of 65 of the 103 caucus member who will vote, compared
with 31 for Rudd and seven who are undecided, the Australian
newspaper reported on its  website  without saying how it compiled
the tally.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  urged colleagues not to return Rudd to
the job they ousted him from amid sinking poll ratings and
concern about his autocratic style.  “The party has given Kevin Rudd all the opportunities in
the world and he wasted them with his dysfunctional decision
making and his deeply demeaning attitude towards other people
including our caucus colleagues,” Swan said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday. “He sought to tear down the 2010
campaign, deliberately risking an Abbott prime ministership, and
now he undermines the government at every turn.”  Backing Gillard  Attorney General  Nicola Roxon , speaking with the Australian
Broadcasting Corp., joined Communications Minister Stephen Conroy and Environment Minister Tony Burke in publicly backing
Gillard since Rudd’s resignation.  Resources Minister Martin Ferguson told reporters he would
back Rudd in a vote.  By saying the ballot should settle the leadership matter
once and for all, Gillard is seeking to avoid a repeat of the
showdown between Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  and  Paul Keating  20
years ago. After unsuccessfully challenging Hawke, Keating
retreated to the backbench, where he prepared a second
leadership bid six months later that toppled the prime minister.  Abbott’s Lead  Abbott, a former amateur boxer who studied for the
priesthood in the 1980s, leads Gillard as preferred prime
minister among voters, with 40 percent support to her 37
percent, according to a Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12.
Labor’s primary vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind
Abbott’s coalition on 46 percent. The survey of 1,141 people had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  A Feb. 2-4 Nielsen poll revealed 57 percent of voters
surveyed preferred Rudd as Labor leader, compared with 35
percent for Gillard. The survey of 1,400 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  “What I think the Australian people yearn for right now is
a prime minister who they chose, not a prime minister that the
faceless men chose,” Abbott told reporters today. “The only
way we can get away from a government based on dodgy backdoor
deals, deals done in the dark, is to have an election.”  Bets on Gillard  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet.com.au, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$1.25 on every A$1 bet that Gillard will win a
leadership contest, from A$1.33 yesterday. It will pay A$3.75
for Rudd, from A$3.15.  “We’ve currently taken more individual bets on Rudd, but
there has been five times the amount of money wagered on
Gillard,” Haydn Lane, a spokesman for sportsbet.com.au, said in
a statement. “Those punters who routinely clean us up on
political markets have all stepped into Gillard at short odds.”  After the nation’s closest election in seven decades in
August 2010, Gillard cobbled together a minority government with
the backing of independent lawmakers and the Greens, giving her
a majority of one in the lower house of parliament. Labor risks
triggering the collapse of that arrangement if Rudd takes the
helm, according to independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor .  “I did a deal with the current prime minister,” Windsor
told  Sky News  yesterday after Rudd’s resignation. “If the Labor
party suddenly wants to change arrangements in the middle of the
stream, all bets are off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  