-- Gillard Backed by ‘Vast Majority’ as Leadership Tensions With Rudd Simmer
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-22T03:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/gillard-backed-by-vast-majority-shorten.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is
backed by the “vast majority” of  Australia ’s government, one
Cabinet member said, as Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  said he
intends to remain in his job.  “I support the prime minister, it is up to her how she
deals with the matter of leadership speculation,”  Bill Shorten ,
Workplace Relations minister, said in Melbourne. “She has the
confidence of the vast majority of members of the government.”  Rudd was ousted as leader by Gillard in June 2010, and 
speculation has grown in the past week he plans to challenge 
her for the role. “We have a prime minister, I support the
prime minister and I intend to remain as foreign minister,”
he told reporters on a visit in  Washington .  The comments follow a public spat among supporters of
Gillard and Rudd as the government’s poll ratings decline in the
wake of legislation on taxes on mining, which has propelled the
nation’s economy. Gillard, 50, Australia’s first female leader,
has sought to refocus attention on an agenda that includes
enacting “nation-changing reform” to counter  climate change .  “There’s no doubt that in a month or two months these two
aren’t going to be in the same positions,” said Haydon Manning,
an associate professor in the Department of Politics and Public
Policy at Flinders University in Adelaide, referring to Gillard
and Rudd. “Gillard’s supporters obviously hope the polls
improve and she can survive for the next month or two to the
budget.”  Vote Question  Local media broadcast conflicting reports on whether
Gillard is planning a vote on her leadership to bring the
episode to a close. Former Queensland state Labor Premier Peter Beattie said two days ago such a step would help the party
settle the matter and limit damage in a state election in
Queensland coming March 24.  The Australian reported that the prime minister is prepared
to call an internal Labor ballot Feb. 28, after parliament
resumes session, citing Cabinet sources it didn’t name. Cabinet
members expect her to win, and remove Rudd as foreign minister,
the newspaper reported.  Sky News  reported that Gillard has no
intention of acting on the tensions, citing a senior source it
didn’t name.  “It is certainly distracting to the party,” Shorten told
reporters in Melbourne today. Attorney General Nicola Roxon said
in an ABC news radio program today that “everybody needs to
take a bit of a cold shower. It’s not in anyone’s interests, the
country’s or the  Labor party , for us to be spending our time
talking about endless leadership speculation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  