-- Gillard Set for Australian Leadership Showdown as Rudd Canvasses Support
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-22T21:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/gillard-set-for-australian-leadership-showdown-as-rudd-canvasses-support.html
Julia Gillard  staged a political
coup in June 2010 to become Australia’s prime minister and clung
to power two months later, assembling a one-seat majority after
the closest election since 1940. Her biggest leadership test may
come next week.  Kevin Rudd , 54, announced his resignation as foreign
minister after 1 a.m. on a visit to Washington yesterday, saying
he would consult with colleagues and reveal his decision before
parliament resumes Feb. 27. He said the “overriding question”
for the Labor party is who is best placed to defeat opposition
leader Tony Abbott at the election, due in 2013.  Tensions escalated after remarks by Gillard, 50, in an
 interview  last week set off a public spat between supporters of
the two, by reviving debate over her toppling of Rudd. At stake
for Labor is survival of an administration that’s unveiled
unprecedented taxes on natural resources and fees to address
climate change -- an agenda Gillard calls “nation-changing
reform” that has proved unpopular with voters.  “The challenge is on,” said Tim Harcourt, a fellow in
economics at the Australian School of Business in Sydney who has
served under both Labor and Liberal-National coalition
governments. “Rudd is saying that I was elected by the people
and I deserve to finish my mandate.”  Setting Vote  Gillard,  Australia ’s first female prime minister, is
scheduled to hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. Sydney time in
Adelaide today.  Sky News  reported she will announce a leadership
vote to be held on Feb. 27, without saying where it got the
information. “The sooner it comes, she’ll maximize her votes,”
former Labor lawmaker Graham Richardson said on Sky.  The prime minister has “the confidence of the vast
majority of members of the government,”  Bill Shorten , minister
of workplace relations, told reporters in  Melbourne  yesterday.
 Wayne Swan , the Treasurer who backed Gillard’s takeover in 2010
and became her deputy prime minister, said in a statement Rudd
had wasted opportunities in office from 2007-2010 with
“dysfunctional decision making” and a “demeaning attitude”
toward colleagues.  Australia’s dollar and government bonds were little changed
immediately after Rudd’s move. The so-called Aussie declined
later as stocks dropped worldwide after reports indicating
weakness in European and Chinese output. The currency fetched
$1.0637 as of 8:18 a.m. in Sydney, compared with $1.0676 at 6
p.m. yesterday. Ten-year government bond futures climbed to
95.905 from 95.85 yesterday, according to the  Sydney Futures
Exchange .  Election Risk  Independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor , on whose support Labor
relies to maintain its majority in parliament, said that “all
bets are off” if the leader is changed, raising the risk of an
early election. A federal vote isn’t due until 2013.  Attorney General Nicola Roxon, speaking with the Australian
Broadcasting Corp., joined Communications Minister Stephen Conroy and Environment Minister Tony Burke in publicly backing
Gillard since Rudd’s resignation.  “There is one overriding question for my colleagues and
that is who is best placed to defeat  Tony Abbott ,” Rudd said in
Washington. He is yet to leave the city, ABC TV reported today.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition led Labor by 46 percent
to 32 percent in a Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12 of 1,141
people with a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  Amateur Boxer  “The poison will continue regardless who emerges” as
Labor’s leader, Abbott said in an interview on ABC TV today.
“The Labor party is hopelessly divided.”  Abbott, 54, a former amateur boxer, called for an early
election. The opposition chief has said Australians cannot
afford the carbon tax enacted by Gillard and highlighted that
the nation recorded its worst job growth in 19 years in 2011.  Australia’s economy even so has outperformed peers under
Labor. The nation’s 5.1 percent  unemployment rate  compares with
the 7.9 percent average for advanced economies last year. Gross
domestic product growth in the two quarters through September
was the strongest since 2007. The performance hasn’t healed
Labor’s splits.  Rudd, in  Washington  for meetings with U.S. officials after
attending a Group of 20 gathering in  Mexico , said he resigned
because Gillard had failed to “repudiate” attacks by
colleagues including Simon Crean, a former Labor leader who is
minister for Australia’s regions.  Infighting Intensified  After Rudd said in a Sky interview broadcast Feb. 19 that
he’d changed the autocratic style that helped lead to his
downfall, Crean said he had “either got to put up or shut up.”
The infighting intensified after Gillard declined in an
interview with ABC television to specify whether she knew her
staff was preparing, two weeks before Rudd’s overthrow, a
victory speech that she subsequently delivered.  “I am totally frustrated by this needless distraction,”
Labor lawmaker Sid Sidebottom, who said he supports Gillard,
said in a telephone interview from Tasmania before yesterday’s
resignation by Rudd. “Everyone has a right to challenge, but
they have to do it in the caucus, instead of boring Australian
people, frustrating their colleagues, and spoiling a good story
of legislation and reform.”  Rudd cut short a trip that was to take him to London and
Tunis for meetings on Somalia and  Syria .  ‘Use the Stage’  “Politics is about theater and Rudd certainly used the
most of his opportunity to use the stage,” said Michael McKinley, a professor of global policy at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra. “It’s not normal for a
democratic foreign minister to resign his position from
Washington.”  Rudd himself said the leadership speculation had become
“little better than a soap opera,” and warned that business
confidence could be at risk. Peter Anderson, chief executive
officer of the  Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry , said
this week that “we need to make sure that there are as few
distractions introduced as a result of our own domestic politics
as possible.”  Gillard, a former labor lawyer born in the U.K. who
emigrated to Australia when she was four after contracting
bronchial pneumonia, has sought to keep focus on her
administration’s policy initiatives, flagging a health-insurance
overhaul and review of education policies in recent days.  Unfinished Business  One unfinished measure is a 30-percent tax on coal and
iron-ore profits, which still awaits Senate approval. Mining
companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. have warned the measures
will hurt investment and job growth in the nation, which has
seen its exports led by Chinese demand for its natural
resources.  Rudd, a Mandarin-speaking former diplomat, in office had
sought a bigger mining tax that prompted a slide in his approval
ratings, and retreated on climate-change proposals. In the past
week, he highlighted as achievements during his tenure that
Australia stayed out of recession during the global financial
crisis and his government prevented “mass unemployment.”  One option for Rudd is to undertake two challenges to win
the leadership, a strategy pursued successfully by Labor
predecessor  Paul Keating , when he ousted Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  20 years ago.  Historical Precedent  While Keating lost the first challenge to Hawke in June
1991, he secured 44 votes to Hawke’s 66, enough to convince
 Labor party  powerbrokers he had widespread support, according to
 Michael Gordon , author of the Keating biography “A True
Believer.” Keating moved to the backbench, leaving his
supporters to criticize and undermine Hawke, and six months
later struck again, winning the leadership by 56 votes to 51.  Had Keating polled fewer than 40 votes in the first ballot,
according to Gordon, Labor powerbrokers were emphatic that he
wouldn’t have received another chance and would have had to
leave politics.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet.com.au, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$1.33 on every A$1 bet that Gillard will win a
leadership contest, and A$3.15 for Rudd.  “If the race is a sprint, we’re backing Gillard, but if it
turns out to be a marathon, Rudd’s chances will increase
significantly,” Haydn Lane, a spokesman for sportsbet.com.au,
said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  