-- GlaxoSmithKline Nigeria to Boost Sales With New Consumer Items
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-22T08:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/glaxosmithkline-nigeria-to-boost-sales-with-new-consumer-items.html
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria
Plc (GLAXOSMI) , a unit of the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, is targeting a 25
percent rise in revenue this year as it expands sales of its
branded retail items in  Africa ’s most populous nation.  Glaxo Consumer Nigeria is looking to increase the volume
sales of Lucozade, Ribena and Horlicks drinks, Panadol pain
relief pills, and Sensodyne toothpaste, Chidi Okoro, managing
director in charge of consumer products, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Lagos, the commercial capital.  The move is part of London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s push
into consumer products in  emerging markets  at a time when the
European debt crisis is putting pressure on prices. Marketing
smaller sized packages aimed at lower income earners will also
help sales of new products in the West African nation in the
next two years, such as multivitamins and Panadol for children,
Okoro said.  “We have a lot of offerings we sell in other markets that
we haven’t brought into  Nigeria ,” he said. “Over the next few
years we are strongly looking at driving growth, especially
through volumne expansion with new products and pack offerings
and sizes.”  The company is aiming for revenue of 24 billion naira ($152
million) this year in the nation of over 160 million, Okoro
said.  Glaxo Consumer Nigeria said Oct. 28 revenue climbed to
15.84 billion naira in the nine months to Sept. 30 from 12.8
billion naira a year earlier, while net income was little
changed at 1.672 billion naira from 1.668 billion naira from the
same period a year before.  Economic Expansion  Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy may grow 6.3
percent this year,  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  said yesterday
in an e-mailed report. That compares with last year’s growth of
7.7 percent, it said.  Bank of America also raised its inflation forecast for 2012
to an average of 15 percent from an earlier estimate of 13.3
percent with fuel prices higher by about 50 percent and power
prices due to increase.  Nigeria’s annual  inflation accelerated  to 12.6 percent in
January from 10.3 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics
said on Feb. 20.  “Cost pressures are there,” Okoro said. “The
transportation system is not very well developed, so you’re
paying a premium all the time to move your goods.”  Attacks in the north by an Islamist group known as Boko
Haram haven’t had much impact on Glaxo Consumer Nigeria’s
earnings, Okoro said.  Shares Fall  The group claimed responsibility for the Jan. 20
coordinated blasts that killed at least 256 people in Kano, the
biggest city in northern Nigeria, according to Civil Rights
Congress. It also bombed a church near Abuja, the capital, on
Christmas Day, killing 43 people, and a United Nations building
on Aug. 26 that left 24 dead.  “Except Kano, Abuja and a few towns, the north is really
not a big contributor to us,” said Okoro. “So the terrorism
happening is not taking a big hit on us.”  Glaxo Consumer Nigeria’s  shares  have fallen 4.3 percent
this year to 22 naira, compared with a 1.2 percent decline in
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  