-- Global Investment Banking Revenue to Drop 4%
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-02-22T13:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/global-investment-banking-revenue-to-drop-4-jpmorgan-says.html
Investment-banking revenue will drop
about 4 percent this year as commissions earned from advising on
mergers, underwriting securities and trading fall, JPMorgan
Cazenove analysts said.  Revenue will be 13 percent lower in the first quarter
compared with the year-earlier period, analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a note to clients today.  The analysts upgraded their estimate for fixed-income,
currencies and commodities sales to a 13 percent drop for the
first quarter from a decline of 26 percent after a “material
improvement” at the start of the year. Their estimate for total
sales this year was unchanged at 6 percent lower than 2011.  “We witnessed material improvement in investment banking
overall revenues from the first two weeks of January into
February, leading us to upgrade our year-on-year FICC revenue
estimate,” analysts said in the note.  Income from equities will be down 15 percent in the first
quarter and 5 percent for the full year over the year-earlier
period, the analysts said. Revenues from  investment banking ,
which includes advising companies on mergers and underwriting
debt and equity sales, will decline 16 percent in the first
quarter compared with the year-earlier period amid a dearth of
rights offerings and initial public offerings.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s revenue will outperform  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the analysts said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
remains their top stock pick in the industry because a drop in
revenue may prompt the Zurich-based firm to scale back in
investment banking, releasing the proceeds to shareholders.  “In short, UBS investment bank should be much smaller than
management’s targets and the release of equity will be highly
accretive to shareholders,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  