-- GM-Peugeot Seen as Europe Money-Losers Still Losing Money: Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-22T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/gm-peugeot-seen-as-europe-money-losers-still-losing-money-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  have something in common: They both lose money in
Europe. The issues they face may not be fixed by teaming up.  The two carmakers are in talks about forming an alliance to
develop engines and build vehicles together in Europe, a person
familiar with the situation said yesterday. A deal between the
two automakers could link the 11 factories of GM’s Opel unit
with PSA’s 12 European manufacturing plants.  Some analysts, including  Max Warburton  at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  London , are skeptical that the alliance will make
much difference in the companies’ outlooks.  “Two wrongs don’t make a right,” he said. “PSA and Opel
can’t restructure independently. We see no reason why putting
PSA and Opel together would speed up the process of plant
closures, as both have excess capacity.”  The companies have failed to end losses in  Europe  after
extensive cost-cutting programs in recent years. The prospects
for a turnaround aren’t improving with auto demand in the region
poised to drop for the fifth straight year in 2012 as the
sovereign debt crisis unsettles consumers.  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. PSA is projected to use just 62 percent of its
European capacity this year, compared with 74 percent at Opel,
according to LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England .  Carmakers risk losses when they use less than 90 percent of
their capacity, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen.  Cutting Investment  “We routinely talk with others in the industry, but have
no comment beyond that,” Klaus-Peter Martin, a GM spokesman,
said yesterday. Peugeot spokesman Jonathan Goodman reiterated
comments from Feb. 21 that the carmaker was in discussions on
possible partnerships, without saying with whom.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, last week
announced plans to reduce investments and marketing spending as
part of a goal of saving 1 billion euros, an increase from a
previous 800 million euros. The steeper cuts come after the car-
making division lost 92 million euros in 2011. The Paris-based
manufacturer also aims to sell 1.5 billion euros in assets to
reduce debt, which widened to 3.4 billion euros last year.  General Motors is planning more cost cuts for its
unprofitable European unit after the last turnaround plan failed
to end losses. The Detroit-based automaker’s Europe business,
which is chiefly Opel and its U.K. sister brand Vauxhall, lost
$747 million last year before interest and tax.  Shrinking Share  While that’s an improvement from $1.95 billion lost in
2010, GM had planned to break even in the region until November,
when it pulled back the forecast as the European outlook
worsened.  GM’s restructuring of its European operations may cost at
least $1 billion, according to the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last week.  The lack of distinctive models has eroded market share for
the two groups. Peugeot’s share in Western Europe slumped to
12.6 percent in 2011 from 13.7 percent last year after its sales
in the region fell 8.8 percent. Opel and Vauxhall’s share
slipped to 7.3 percent from 7.4 percent. The GM brands
controlled 12.6 percent of the market in 1993.  “From a U.K. perspective, Peugeot, Citroen and Vauxhall
are probably the weakest major brands,” said Simon Empson,
managing director of Broadspeed.com, a discount car website.
“This is grasping at straws. What could you combine? They’re
going after exactly the same customers.”  Potential Savings  Peugeot’s best-seller is the subcompact 207 line, which
starts at 12,350 euros, and vies with Opel’s 11,825-euro Corsa.
Opel’s 16,770-euro Astra compact, its top-seller, rivals
Peugeot’s 17,050-euro 308 model.  Savings from a GM-Peugeot alliance may ultimately approach
$2 billion to $3 billion for the  Detroit  automaker, according
to an estimate by Morgan Stanley.  “Any restructuring of  GM Europe  would require cash
resources from Detroit,” Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley, wrote as lead author in a note to investors. “We
expect an alliance would help GM get more bang for its buck, and
would not expect significant capital commitment over and above
that required to initiate joint projects.”  GM could record savings by sharing vehicle platforms with
Peugeot and tap into technology such as Peugeot’s diesel
engines, Jonas wrote.  ‘Who’s Going to Cut?’  The alliance possibilities cited by analysts are less far-
reaching than the 1999 transaction in which Renault SA and
Nissan Motor Co. bought stakes in each other. Robert Lutz, a
former GM executive, said that year that Renault would be better
off sinking $5.4 billion in the ocean rather than buying a stake
in Nissan.  Lutz by 2005 had changed his mind, citing “the
personality, drive, firm will and daring of  Carlos Ghosn ,” the
CEO of both automakers.  The Renault-Nissan alliance is worldwide while a GM-Peugeot
one would involve two money-losing European units.  “The problem of bringing together two generalists in the
same region is who’s going to cut anything?” said Colin Couchman, a London-based analyst at IHS Automotive. “There’s
massive crossover between the brands. They both have the same
overcapacity problems and both have political interference.”  French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Varin against cutting jobs as a
result of a deal with GM.  A deal would be good for Peugeot as long as it upholds
“the long tradition of maintaining employment in France,”
Bertrand said yesterday in an interview with the country’s
Europe1 radio station. “It is evident that a group like PSA
Peugeot, which has this tradition, has the responsibility of
maintaining this tradition.”  French Elections  France ’s government has taken an active role in protecting
local jobs. President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who’s running for re-
election this year, summoned Varin on Nov. 17 to ask him to
reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs, including
temporary staff employed by partners. The French carmaker last
year distanced itself from a leaked proposal to close a French
plant after the government described it as “unacceptable.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has also shielded German
factories. She brokered the sale of Ruesselsheim, Germany-based
Opel to protect jobs. The deal ultimately fell apart when GM
backed out in November 2009 after exiting bankruptcy. A
restructuring agreement stemming from then prohibits plant
closures until 2014.  Backed by that agreement, Opel’s unions don’t feel
threatened by a potential deal with Peugeot.  “It could be positive if we bring our respective strengths
together,” said Rainer Einenkel, the head of the works council
at Opel’s plant in Bochum,  Germany . “I don’t see any
competition with Peugeot because we build the more beautiful
cars.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  