-- Google Is Poised to Overtake Facebook in U.S. Display Advertising by 2013
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/google-poised-to-overtake-facebook-in-u-s-display-ads-next-year.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will lose its lead to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  in U.S. display-ad revenue next year as the social-
networking service’s advertising growth slows, according to
research firm EMarketer Inc.  Google will grab 19.8 percent of the market in 2013,
generating $3.68 billion, while Facebook will attract 17.7
percent, or $3.29 billion, New York-based EMarketer estimates.
Facebook had taken the lead from  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  last year, and it
should maintain its edge through 2012 in the market, which
includes ads with pictures, videos and other visual elements.  Facebook and Google, both relative latecomers to the
display-ad market, have shoved aside other rivals to become the
industry’s main contenders. Facebook took the lead by peppering
its burgeoning social networking with small ads. Google,
meanwhile, expanded from its origins in text-based search-engine
links. It now sells a variety of graphical advertising on
websites, mobile phones and  YouTube clips .  Facebook, with 845 million users, needs to do more to
persuade big brands to spend money on marketing, rather than
just having them set up free company pages on the social
network, said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst with EMarketer.  “It really comes down to brand advertisers,” she said.
“They just need to do a better job of convincing the big
advertisers that ads are effective and that they perform.”  IPO Filing  Facebook, which filed for an initial public offering this
month, is coping with slowing revenue growth. Sales rose 55
percent to $1.13 billion in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, after more than doubling in the previous three
quarters, according to a  regulatory filing . EMarketer expects
Facebook to reach $6.1 billion in total revenue this year, up
from $3.71 billion in 2011.  Facebook filed this month to raise $5 billion in the
largest initial public offering of an Internet stock. The  Menlo
Park , California-based company is considering a valuation of
between $75 billion and $100 billion, people familiar with the
matter have said.  Facebook and Google will tighten their control over the
industry in the coming years, EMarketer said.  Yahoo (YHOO)  will account
for 7.5 percent of the U.S. display market in 2014, down from
almost 11 percent last year.  AOL Inc. (AOL)  will drop to 3.7 percent
from 4.3 percent. Google will have 21.7 percent in 2014, with
17.1 percent going to Facebook.  Google is benefiting from its longstanding leadership in
search-based marketing, according to EMarketer. Including that,
the company will have 47.4 percent of the total U.S. online ad
market in 2014, up from 41 percent last year. Facebook will rise
to 7.1 percent from 5.4 percent, EMarketer estimates.  Google also benefits from its ad network, which places
marketing messages on sites outside of the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s own properties, said David Hallerman,
another analyst with EMarketer.  “Don’t underestimate the importance of existing
relationships,” he said. “Google has relationships with more
major brands than Facebook does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 