-- Google Privacy Plan Should Be Stopped, Consumer Group’s FTC Complaint Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-22T17:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/google-privacy-plan-should-be-stopped-consumer-group-s-ftc-complaint-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s planned changes to its
privacy policy are deceptive, violate a settlement with the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission and should be stopped, an advocacy
group said in a federal complaint.  The plan to streamline privacy settings for about 60
different services and products on March 1 is primarily aimed at
targeting users with advertising relevant to their interests,
not making Google easier to use,  Jeff Chester , executive
director of the Center for Digital Democracy, said in a
complaint filed today with the FTC.  “Google fails to tell users in its principal privacy-
change communications how such data collection, profiling, and
targeting practices impact -- and potentially harm -- their
privacy,” Chester wrote in the complaint. “Google presents the
information in a deceptive way that suggests consumers will
benefit from the new policy.”  The Center for Digital Democracy, which has also urged the
FTC to address privacy issues at Facebook Inc. and other online
marketers, asked the FTC to sue Google to stop the policy change
and to fine the company. The FTC can levy fines of $16,000 per
day, per violation, for breaches of consent decrees.  Another privacy group, the  Electronic Privacy Information
Center , or EPIC, sued the FTC in federal court Feb. 8 seeking to
force the agency to act against Google’s new privacy policy. A
judge is weighing a U.S. motion to dismiss the case.  User Data  The agency’s settlement with Google last year, which barred
sharing user data outside the company without clear permission,
stemmed from a complaint EPIC filed in 2010.  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail
that the new policy will make privacy practices easier to
understand and Google’s services easier to use.  “We’ve undertaken the most extensive notification effort
in Google’s history,” he said. “We’re continuing to offer
choice and control over how people use our services.”  Claudia Bourne Farrell, a spokeswoman for the FTC, said the
agency had received the complaint and declined to comment
further.  Google, the world’s most-popular search engine, announced
plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for products
including YouTube videos and Android software for mobile phones,
saying it will simplify conditions users agree to.  It also means Google will be able to pull together
everything it knows about users from its disparate products. A
consumer’s YouTube viewing history can be used to tailor results
in  Google Search  while an individual’s search history will
enable more relevant ads across Google products, Google’s
Gaither said.  Consent Decree  Under the consent decree announced March 30,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google agreed it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies when it introduced its Buzz
social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles information and obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  Google’s new privacy policy is also under review by data-
protection agencies in  Europe , which have asked the company to
delay introducing the new policy pending that review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 