-- Gordhan Unexpectedly Reduces South African Budget Deficit Target for 2013
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-22T17:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/gordhan-unexpectedly-reduces-south-african-budget-deficit-target-for-2013.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  unexpectedly cut the  budget deficit  target for
next year as  tax revenue  is set to climb, easing investors’
concerns about rising debt in  Africa ’s largest  economy .  The fiscal gap will narrow to 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2013, lower than an October
forecast of 5.2 percent, Gordhan told lawmakers in  Cape Town 
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts
was for a shortfall of 5.4 percent.  Gordhan is curbing spending on wages and raising taxes to
rein in a budget deficit that led Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings to cut the outlook on South African debt to
negative from stable in the past four months. At the same time,
the government is ramping up expenditure on railways,  power
plants  and ports to bolster economic growth and create  jobs  for
the one in four people without work.  “This is a fairly neat way of moving toward fiscal
discipline, but still giving some economic stimulus,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg,
said in a telephone interview. “This will be pleasing for the
 ratings agencies  and may ease some of the concerns about fiscal
sustainability.”  South Africa has taken necessary steps to have its credit
rating outlook raised to stable from negative, avoiding a
possible downgrade, Gordhan said in an interview in Cape Town
today after his speech. Debt levels are “moderate” and aren’t
a source of concern, Gordhan said in an interview on Talk Radio
702 today.  Credit Outlook  The deficit will reach 4.8 percent of GDP in the year
ending March 31, down from an October estimate of 5.5 percent,
as company tax earnings exceed projections, according to the
 National Treasury . The fiscal gap will ease to 4 percent of GDP
in the 12 months through March 2014 and 3 percent in the year
after that, compared with earlier forecasts of 4.5 percent and
3.3 percent for the same periods.  The rand gained as much as 0.5 percent to 7.7021 per dollar
in Johannesburg after Gordhan spoke in Parliament. The yield on
the benchmark rand bond due in 2015 fell as much as 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.58 percent.  South Africa  is “stabilizing the fiscal position without
burdening the economy and future generations with excessive
debt,” Gordhan said. The budget aims to “accelerate growth,
expand investment, support economic development and confront
poverty and inequality.”  Rating Outlook  Government borrowing, including that of state-owned
companies such as Eskom SOC Holdings Ltd., will ease to 5
percent of GDP in three years’ time from 7.1 percent this year.
State debt will peak at 1.5 trillion rand, or 38.5 percent of
GDP, in the year through March 2015, compared with 39.7 percent
estimated in October.  Fitch lowered the outlook on South Africa’s BBB+ rating to
negative from stable last month as government debt and
unemployment increased. Moody’s cut its outlook in November,
citing “heightened political risk.”  The deficit is narrowing even as the economy is forecast to
expand at a slower pace this year, mainly because inflation will
boost tax earnings, Michael Sachs, chief director of fiscal
policy at the Treasury, said in an interview. Economic growth
will reach 2.7 percent this year, down from October’s estimate
of 3.4 percent, and accelerate to 3.6 percent in 2013 and 4.2
percent in 2014.  “An uncertain global growth outlook and the need to
rebuild fiscal buffers means that state resources will remain
constrained for some time to come,” according to the Budget
Review.  Wage Restraint  Revenue will rise to 904.8 billion rand in the year through
March 2013, 15 billion rand more than was forecast in October,
according to the Treasury. The government estimates it will
boost revenue by 11 percent a year in the two years after that.  Gordhan is keeping spending in check by limiting wage
increases to 5 percent annually over the next three years.
Government expenditure will increase at a slower pace than
economic growth, reaching 1.06 trillion rand in the year through
March 2013.  The wage bill, which reached 39 percent of non-interest
 government spending  this year, “has resulted in fewer resources
available for social and economic infrastructure, and other
priorities,” the Treasury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  