-- Greece Cut to Cusp of Default as Fitch Lowers Rating
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-22T14:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/greece-cut-to-cusp-of-default-by-fitch-in-first-step-by-rating-companies.html
Greece ’s downgrade by  Fitch Ratings 
is the first in a series of ratings cuts that the nation can
expect after it negotiated the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history.  Fitch lowered Greece’s credit grade by two levels to C from
CCC, saying a default is “highly likely in the near term,” and
that it will cut the nation again to “Restricted Default” once
a bond exchange is completed.  Standard & Poor’s  said in July it
expected to downgrade Greece to “Selective Default” after the
restructuring agreement, while Moody’s Investors Service has
said it will cut the nation to its lowest rating.  Greece sealed a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout
package by agreeing yesterday to austerity measures while
reducing its bond principal by 53.5 percent as investors swap
into new securities with longer maturities and lower coupons.
Fitch and S&P have both said they expect to later raise Greece’s
ratings once the deal has been completed.  “It’s almost a paradoxical exercise,” said  Richard McGuire , a strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“They downgrade you because you’re not paying your bonds and
then upgrade you because the bonds don’t exist, so you’re not in
default.”  Default Swaps  Fallout from a downgrade to default won’t affect credit-
default swaps insuring Greece’s debt, according to the rules of
the International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Once the debt exchange is completed, Greece will be moved
out of the RD category and “re-rated at a level consistent with
the agency’s assessment of its post-default structure and credit
profile,” New York-based Fitch said in today’s statement.  In  emerging markets , the process has typically taken “a
couple of months,” though Jamaica spent one day rated RD in
2010, according to London-based Paul Rawkins, Fitch’s primary
analyst on Greece. “With Greece, the onus will be on completing
the process as quickly as possible.”  S&P, Moody’s  S&P rates Greece at CC, two steps up from a default rating.
Moody’s said in December it will cut the country’s Ca grade by
one level to C if the debt exchange means the so-called net-
present-value loss on its bonds is greater than 65 percent.  Moody’s is assessing Greece’s bailout and will comment in
due course, according to a spokeswoman for the ratings firm who
declined to be identified.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos repeated today
that a formal invitation for the bond exchange will be made by
Feb. 24. Real losses from the swap may be more than 70 percent,
said Andreas Koutras, an analyst at ITC Markets in  London .  Greece needed to get its second bailout from European
governments or risk a default that could endanger the 13-year-
old monetary union by sending Greece crashing out of the euro.
That move isn’t foreseen in the treaties and might call into
question the continued membership of other stressed nations such
as  Portugal  and Ireland.  “We’re treating Greece as a unique experience in a euro-
zone context,” said Fitch’s Rawkins. “We can highlight
differences with other countries including that the programs are
working in Ireland and Portugal and in Greece they weren’t.
Current account imbalances are coming down in Ireland and
Portugal and in Greece they aren’t.”  The country’s debt was forecast to balloon to almost double
the size of its shrinking economy this year without the write-
off, the European Commission said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  