-- Greek Bailout Wins Cheers From Wary Investors
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2012-02-22T10:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/greek-bailout-wins-two-cheers-from-wary-investors.html
Greece ’s bailout reinforces a rally
that has driven  yields for Italy and Spain  down from euro-era
records, giving the region’s leaders time to convince investors
they can deliver both economic growth and spending discipline.  “It is good to have cleared the Greek Damocles sword for a
few months,” said Raphael Gallardo, the head of economic
research at Axa Investment Managers in Paris, which oversees
about 515 billion euros ($680 billion). “The euro area
governments and  European Central Bank  have won some time, two
months at least. It is positive for risk assets in the short
run.”  Italy ’s average 10-year borrowing cost has dropped to below
5.4 percent this year from 7.1 percent at the end of December.
 Spain ’s 10-year yield is 5.08 percent, down from more than 6.7
percent in mid-November and compared with its 2011 average of
5.4 percent.  Greece’s government has to convince its lenders it can
enforce the spending cuts that won it 130 billion euros of aid,
its second rescue in three years. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  faces an election, while Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has to persuade lawmakers to back labor market reforms.  “The deal may have removed near-term uncertainty, it won’t
immediately change our investment view,” said Helen Roberts,
who oversees 27 billion pounds ($43 billion) as head of
government bonds at F&C Asset Management in London. “People
said the right thing, now they need to do the right thing. It’s
a hard environment to implement austerity measures. It’s a worry
that the Greek government might not be able to do much even
though they are fully committed to the agreement.”  ‘Containment Walls’  Euro members have spent at least 386 billion euros averting
defaults for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, none of which are
currently able to sell bonds on the international  capital
markets . The euro has held between a low of $1.26 and a high of
$1.33 this year, and currently trades at about $1.32. It peaked
at almost $1.50 in May last year, and was at a low of $1.2858 on
Dec. 29.  “Unfortunately it doesn’t feel like the world has changed
a whole lot,” said Arif Husain, the director of European fixed
income at Alliance Bernstein Ltd. in London, which oversees $218
billion. “It will be a relief to not have to read the same
repetitive headlines each morning. This does hopefully buy some
more time for  Europe  to further build containment walls and move
further toward fiscal consolidation before it has to tackle this
problem for the third and potentially final time.”  Unlimited Funds  The ECB will offer a second round of unlimited three-year
loans on Feb. 29 via a longer-term refinancing operation, after
handing out 489 billion euros in December. That cash has helped
drive the Euribor-OIS spread, which gauges banks reluctance to
lend to each other by measuring the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, to its
lowest in more than five months, at 68 basis points.  “I invested 10 percent of one of the portfolios I manage
in Italian debt in mid-January having never bought Italian
 government bonds  before,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based
 fund manager  at M&G Investments, which oversees about $323
billion. “I didn’t think Greece would have a messy default. The
enormous liquidity that the ECB is throwing at the market via
LTRO is having a much larger effect on peripheral sovereigns
than what happens in Greece.”  Avoiding Default  Greece’s latest rescue includes a debt swap with private
bondholders who will forego 53.5 percent of their principal by
swapping new debt for old.  “The biggest benefit here for investors and for Greece and
the  euro zone  is that we’ve been able to avoid a disorderly
default and all of the negative consequences that would in all
likelihood have come with that default,”  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the International Institute of Finance,
which represented bondholders in the negotiations, said
yesterday.  The package means Greece won’t miss a 14.5 billion-euro
debt payment scheduled for next month, which risked triggering
concern that other nations such as  Portugal , which has seen its
10-year yield stuck above 10 percent for the past six months,
might also default.  “You’ve got to be encouraged,” said Geraud Charpin who
helps oversee $42 billion at BlueBay Asset Management Ltd. in
London. “It has effectively removed the prospect of a
disorderly default at the end of March.”  ‘Accident-Prone’  A report by the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Union and the ECB warned that Greece’s situation remains
“accident-prone with questions about sustainability hanging
over it.” While the cuts imposed on the nation are designed to
get its debt down to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020, the report said a worst-case scenario could see that
balloon to 160 percent.  “This doesn’t put Greece on a sustainable footing in
anything other than a best-case scenario,” said Patrick Armstrong, a managing partner at Armstrong Investment Managers
which oversees $353 million and holds a “small amount” of
Greece’s March 2012 note. “A default or exit of the euro-region
is still very likely at some point.”  Armstrong said the IMF’s growth forecasts are overly
optimistic and reflect “the best-case scenario rather than the
base-case,” with the government’s inability to generate revenue
by collecting taxes likely to undermine its economy.  No Surprise  Greece’s economy will contract 4.3 percent this year and
stall next year before returning to growth in 2014, based on the
assumptions used in the bailout agreement. Debt will peak at 168
percent of GDP in 2013.  “This is probably the best deal the Greeks are likely to
get that is consistent with staying in the euro,” said Toby Nangle, who helps manage the equivalent of about $49 billion as
head of multi  asset allocation  at Threadneedle Asset Management
in  London . “There’s a question mark over Greece’s ability to
deliver. People have had a long time to prepare. They ought not
to be surprised at what’s going on now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  