-- Greentech Energy May Acquire Companies in Distress, Chief Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-22T12:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/greentech-energy-may-acquire-companies-in-distress-chief-says.html
Greentech Energy Systems A/S (GES) , a
Danish renewable energy developer, is considering purchasing
companies in distress due to the European debt crisis and plans
to make an announcement in the first half of the year.  “I always think that even crises are very strong
opportunities if you know how to exploit them,” Sigieri Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini, chief executive officer at the
Copenhagen-based company, said today in a phone interview.  “We are looking more to international companies that have
portfolios spread in different regions but  Poland  we like
particularly,” he said. Greentech will make a “move” in the
first half as it seeks to install one gigawatt of renewable
energy capacity by 2014 from about 300 megawatts now. “We have
very aggressive plans,” the executive said.  The acquisition remarks came as Greentech reported an
annual profit of 11.3 million euros ($15 million) compared with
a 2.9 million-euro loss in 2010. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization before impairment rose to
19 million euros from 2.3 million euros a year earlier.  Net electricity production in 2011 more than doubled. The
company is also reducing costs by about 2 million euros by
cutting staff and improving efficiencies, Chief Financial
Officer Mark Fromholt said in the same interview.  “What we are looking for are companies that due to the
current crisis might be under pressure, maybe not called
distressed but close-to-distress,” Fromholt said. “Therefore
we’re able to buy companies at a price that is better for us.”  Central America, India  The company will look at businesses in markets including
 Europe , Central America and  India  as well as increasing its
Spanish portfolio, the CEO said.  Greentech is planning to spend about 100 million euros this
year to develop projects. That wouldn’t include potential
mergers, which would involve offering stockholders of a company
securities in Greentech in exchange for shares, Fromholt said.  Greentech has projects including wind parks in Denmark,
Germany and Poland as well as Italy and  Spain  where it also has
solar plants. The company is no longer studying an acquisition
of Scan Energy A/S, a competitor that restructured last year,
the CEO said.  Greentech merged with GWM Renewable Energy II SpA, a unit
of the Geneva-based financial services company GWM Group, in
August to form a “New Greentech.” The company worked since
then to revive its stock price relating to approvals of a wind
park and an association with a Sicilian wind-farm stake.  Today’s 2010 figures relate to the activities of GWM.  The annual report for 2011 will be published on March 22.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  