-- Greece Plan ‘Important Step,’ U.S. Treasury’s Brainard Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-22T00:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/greece-plan-important-step-treasury-s-brainard-says-correct-.html
Europe’s bailout plan for  Greece  is
an “important step” and the continent’s challenges include
boosting economic growth, the U.S. Treasury Department’s top
international official said.  “There are a number of additional steps that are going to
be necessary to put Greece firmly on a sustainable path as part
of a kind of an overall framework to put Europe on a much
stronger footing,”  Lael Brainard , Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, said in an interview today on the
“Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) package for Greece early today by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country. The deal
includes a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s
debt.  Europe ’s leaders are “grappling with the challenges of
supporting growth at a time when several of the countries are
also trying to get their fiscal deficits down to more
sustainable levels,” Brainard said.  The  Greece (GKGNGDPY)  plan seeks to reduce that nation’s debt burden
by 107 billion euros, about half the country’s estimated gross
domestic product for 2011, according to the Institute of
International Finance.  In return for the new cash, Greece signed up to cuts in
pensions, the minimum wage, health-care and defense spending, as
well as layoffs of state employees and asset sales. The country
must implement that austerity with unemployment already topping
20 percent.  Market Doubt  Financial markets signaled doubt the accord will fix
Greece’s travails permanently or spell an end to the two-year
debt crisis. The euro surrendered initial gains against the
dollar and European stocks fell from a six-month high.  Euro members have spent at least 386 billion euros averting
defaults for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , none of which are
currently able to sell bonds on the international  capital
markets .  “Ultimately it’s Europe’s responsibility to chart a path
forward that will fundamentally restore market confidence and
show the world that euro area is going to be sustainable and
viable into the future,” Brainard said.  “We have stayed very engaged” on Europe, she said. “We
do a lot of back-channel diplomacy with the key decision-makers
at the table.”  Europe’s debt crisis will be the focus when Group of 20
finance chiefs, including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , meet this weekend in Mexico City.  On China, Brainard said the world’s second-largest economy
“has made a lot of progress on the currency issue.”  Unfair Advantage  The Obama administration says  China  uses an undervalued
currency to give its exporters an unfair advantage in overseas
markets.  President  Barack Obama  told Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping last week that China’s growing influence brings with it
responsibility to work toward “balanced” trade and to
recognize the aspirations of all people for greater rights.  Obama met in  Washington  with Xi, who is in line to become
China’s top leader next year. The U.S. also is prodding China
toward greater cooperation on confronting the regime in  Syria  as
well as thwarting Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 