-- Woods to Face Watney in Round Two of World Match Play Golf; Donald Exits
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/tiger-woods-targets-fast-start-to-avoid-second-early-exit-at-match-play.html
Tiger Woods will play fellow
American  Nick Watney  today at golf’s  World Match Play
Championship , where defending champion Luke Donald and 2010
winner  Ian Poulter  failed to make it to the second round.  Woods trailed after 14 holes against Gonzalo Fernandez- Castano yesterday before taking the lead by winning consecutive
holes. He sealed the 1-up victory with a six-foot par putt after
blasting out of a sand trap on the Dove Mountain course’s 18th
hole at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club in Marana,  Arizona .  “It was just a match that was just back and forth, and we
both made our share of mistakes,” Woods, 36, said in a news
conference. “But somehow I was able to move on.”  Donald, who won the title last year without having to play
the 18th hole, lost 5-and-4 to Ernie Els, meaning he trailed by
five holes with four left to play. Els gained entry when  Phil
Mickelson  withdrew to go skiing with his family.  “I struggled,” Donald told reporters. “I gave away too
many holes and made too many mistakes. You can’t do that in
match play against anyone, let alone Ernie.”  Donald, the fourth defending champion to lose in the
opening round in the 14-year history of the tournament, will be
replaced atop the world rankings by U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy or  Lee Westwood  if either wins the title. McIlroy faces
 Anders Hansen  today, while Westwood plays  Robert Karlsson .  Poulter, who defeated fellow Englishman  Paul Casey  to win
the tournament two years ago, lost 4-and-3 to Sang-Moon Bae, a
South Korean who goes on to play Charl Schwartzel, the 2011
Masters Tournament winner.  Four Lead Changes  Woods’s opening match had four lead changes and he missed a
chance to end it on the 17th green when he knocked an eight-foot
birdie putt past the hole.  Woods lost the first two holes and took the lead with a
birdie at the eighth. He surrendered the advantage when he
played the next three holes in 4-over par.  Woods, ranked 20th going into the tournament, took the lead
for the second time when 31-year-old Fernandez-Castano, a
Spaniard who is No. 48 in the  Official World Golf Ranking ,
missed a par putt on the 16th hole.  “If there was one day to beat  Tiger Woods , this was it,”
Fernandez-Castano said in a news conference. “I didn’t take the
opportunity. I missed a few shots and, of course, you can’t miss
spots if you want to beat one of the greatest in history.”  Woods, who won the World Match Play title in 2003, 2004 and
2008, tees off at 1:37 p.m. eastern time against Watney, a 5-
and-4 winner against Darren Clarke, the British Open champion
from Northern Ireland.  PGA Tour Drought  “I’ve got to hit the ball a little better than I did,”
Woods said. “I’ve got to get a better feel for my distances.”  Woods, who lost in the first round last year to  Denmark ’s
 Thomas Bjorn , is chasing his first win on the U.S.  PGA Tour 
since September 2009. He ended a 749-day winless streak in
December at the Chevron World Challenge, an 18-player
invitational tournament that he hosts, and this year has
finished third at the Abu Dhabi Golf Championship and tied for
15th at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am.  Match play involves head-to-head competition over 18 holes,
each one decided by the low score. The match is decided when one
player has an insurmountable lead. In stroke-play events, which
make up most of the world’s pro golf tours, the player with the
lowest score wins the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  