-- Military Medals Lies Spur High Court Debate Over Free Speech
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-02-22T19:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/military-medals-lies-spur-high-court-debate-over-free-speech.html
U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  justices grappled
with whether Congress can make it a crime to falsely claim
having been awarded a military medal, in a case testing the
reach of the Constitution’s free-speech protection.  Hearing arguments today on the Stolen Valor Act, the
justices discussed wartime bravery, high school diplomas and
lies people tell on dates. The law punishes people with as much
as a year in prison for lying about receiving a medal. A federal
appeals court said the law violated the Constitution’s free-
speech protection, and President Barack Obama’s administration
is appealing.  A false claim of receiving military honors “does diminish
the medal in many respects,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said
during the hour-long argument in  Washington . Still, he and other
justices suggested that upholding the law might broaden the
kinds of lies the government could sanction, beyond matters like
perjury and false statements to a federal agent.  “Where do you stop?” asked Chief Justice  John Roberts . He
asked how the stolen-valor law would differ from making it a
crime to claim falsely to have earned a high school diploma, a
matter that can be verified just as easily.  “What is the First Amendment value in a lie?” Roberts
said later in the argument session.  ‘Big Deal’  The case involves Xavier Alvarez, one of the first people
charged under the 2005 law. That year, he was serving as an
elected member of the local water board in Pomona,  California ,
when he said at a board meeting that he served 25 years in the
Marines and was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. In
truth, he had never served in the military.  Prosecutors have filed charges under the Stolen Valor Act
in 45 cases since the law was enacted, Alvarez said in court
papers.  “The point of these medals is that it’s a big deal,” U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in support of the law.
For the government to “stand idly by when one charlatan after
another makes a false claim to have won the medal does debase
the value of the medal in the eyes of the soldiers.”  Even though people are “entitled to be upset by these
false claims,” Alvarez didn’t harm anyone and was quickly
exposed as a liar, countered his lawyer, Jonathan Libby, deputy
federal public defender in  Los Angeles . Alvarez’s statements
were not the same as an intentional infliction of emotional
distress, which could be sanctioned, his lawyer said.  Legitimate Speech  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  questioned Verrilli on what sort of
harm the law is trying to stop.  “I too take offense when people make these kinds of
claims, but I take offense when someone I’m dating makes a claim
that’s not true,” Sotomayor said.  Conversely, Justice Elena Kagan asked Libby what kind of
legitimate speech would be discouraged by the stolen-valor law.  “It’s not that it may necessarily chill any truthful
speech,” Libby said, adding that people know whether they’ve
won a military honor.  Since 1923, federal law has prohibited wearing a military
medal without authorization. Kennedy and Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  asked how that differed from the speech prohibited by
the Stolen Valor Act, and they expressed skepticism when Libby
said the 1923 law involved conduct rather than speech.  False Information  “There is real harm” in falsely claiming military honors
“and yet I can think of instances where we do want to protect
false information,” said Justice  Stephen Breyer .  Justice  Antonin Scalia  suggested giving a “medal of
shame” to people who falsely claim to have been honored for
valor. Roberts said that too would be barred under Libby’s
argument because it would be a government sanction for speech.  Alvarez was indicted for violating the Stolen Valor Act and
pleaded guilty, while reserving his right to appeal on First
Amendment grounds. Alvarez was sentenced to three years of
probation, a $5,000 fine and 416 hours of community service. A
divided federal appeals court in  San Francisco  threw out the
guilty plea.  The case is  United States  v. Alvarez, 11-210.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  