-- Illinois’s ‘Toughest’ Budget May Cut $2.7 Billion From Medicaid
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/illinois-s-toughest-budget-may-cut-2-7-billion-from-medicaid-program.html
Illinois (STOIL1)  Governor  Pat Quinn  will
propose a $33.8 billion spending plan that would cut $2.7
billion from the Medicaid program, which provides health care
for the poor.  It’s the “toughest budget,” Jack Lavin, Quinn’s chief of
staff, told reporters in Springfield, capital of the fifth-most-
populous U.S. state. The plan, an increase from the current
$33 billion, would close two prisons and four mental-health
facilities, he said. The state faces a backlog of $9 billion in
unpaid bills.  The proposal, which Quinn is to present to the Legislature
today, would reduce spending in most departments by an average 9
percent. Funding for elementary and secondary education would
see a 1 percent increase.  The federal Census Bureau reported in December that U.S.
state and local-government tax revenue rose 4.1 percent in the
third quarter, the eighth consecutive gain. Yet even after
record corporate and income-tax increases last year,  Illinois 
faces fiscal 2013 with pension and health care costs that are
ravaging its budget.  Pension expenses have tripled since fiscal 2008 and “it
squeezes everything out,” Lavin said. Next year’s spending on
retirements will reach $5.2 billion, up from $4.1 billion in the
current fiscal year that ends June 30, he said. Payments into
the funds are projected to consume 15 percent of the general-
fund budget next year, compared with 6 percent in fiscal 2008.  Bills Pile Up  Illinois had its general-obligation bond rating reduced
Jan. 6 by Moody’s Investors Service to A2 from A1, making it the
company’s lowest-graded state. The unfunded pension liability in
2010 was $85 billion, and the system has assets to pay 45
percent of promised benefits, according to a study by Bloomberg
Rankings. It is the lowest so-called funded ratio of any state.  Illinois’s unpaid bills may more than triple to $34.8
billion by 2017 unless lawmakers and the governor immediately
bring Medicaid and pension spending under control, the Chicago-
based Civic Federation said in a report. The backlog of bills
would nearly equal the anticipated budget for fiscal 2017, the
report said.  Jerry Stermer, a senior Quinn adviser, said the mounting
cost of health care for the poor is “a recipe for collapse of
the Medicaid program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  