-- Mental-Health Cuts by U.S. States Risk Boosting Health Costs
-- B y   M e l i s s a   S i l v e r b e r g   a n d   B o b   K a z e l
-- 2012-02-22T17:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/illinois-mental-health-cuts-endanger-all-patients-doctor-access.html
U.S. states looking to balance
budgets by cutting mental-health facilities and Medicaid
payments risk increasing health-care costs by pushing
psychiatric patients into emergency rooms.  States trimmed 9.5 percent, or more than $1.6 billion, from
their mental-health spending from fiscal 2009 to 2012, according
to the  National Alliance on Mental Illness . The coming budget
year will be worse in some states, with  Illinois  looking to
shutter two psychiatric hospitals and  Alabama  planning to close
all of its except for one serving the elderly and another
treating criminal cases.  If patients can’t find free or low-cost outpatient
psychiatric care due to government cutbacks, they may swamp
emergency rooms and raise health-care costs for all patients,
said Dr. William Sullivan, an ER physician at University of
Illinois Medical Center in Chicago.  “Saying that they’re going to save money doing this is kind
of short-sighted,” Sullivan said. Patients “just don’t
disappear. Their problems don’t get better. They go somewhere
for care.”
　　　Chicago’s Public Health Department will shutter half its 12
psychiatric clinics by the end of April, and the state will
close as many as two hospitals in the coming budget year. The
measures are in addition to state trims in Medicaid that
Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat, is expected to announce today in
his fiscal 2013 budget address.  ‘Catastrophic’ Danger  The Alabama Mental Health Department last week announced
plans to close four psychiatric hospitals by May 2013. The
almost 1,000 patients still in state-run hospitals will be moved
to private-care providers or group homes, said James Tucker,
associate director for the Alabama Disabilities Advocacy
Program.  While the shift merely accelerates a longer-term trend of
moving the mentally ill out of state facilities, Tucker said it
could cause “catastrophic” results for those patients and raise
health-care costs.  “Alabama could see a significant increase in the number of
involuntary civil commitments, so there would actually end up
being a need for new hospital beds,” Tucker said. “It could
completely backfire. There’s a real threat to patient safety
here.”  South Carolina Cuts  South Carolina , Alabama and  Alaska  lead the states for
mental-health spending cuts since 2009, according to a national
report issued in November by the Arlington, Virginia-based
 National Alliance  on Mental Illness. South Carolina has reduced
its budget by more than 39 percent, Alabama 36 percent and
Alaska more than 32 percent.  “We saw cuts on a scale we’ve never seen before,” said
 Mike Fitzpatrick , NAMI’s executive director. “It was
devastating.”  Illinois’ mental-health spending declined 12 percent to
$520 million in fiscal 2012 from $591 million in 2009, according
to NAMI Illinois, a patient advocacy group that’s part of the
national alliance.  Illinois’ trims were among the deepest cutbacks in the U.S.
and reflected worsening care for low-income, jobless and
uninsured psychiatric patients across the U.S., said Dr. Michael
Wahl, president of the Illinois College of Emergency Physicians.  “This is a huge issue that affects access to care to
all,” said Wahl, whose group represents more than 1,200
doctors. “It’s like the pebble in the pond. The ripples go out
and affect all.”  ER Overload  　　　More use of ERs by people with mental illness, Wahl said,
could mean additional overcrowding and make it harder for
doctors to promptly see those who can pay, those with private
insurance, and patients with nonpsychiatric illnesses and
injuries. It also puts further strain on hospitals already
 struggling  with balance-sheet pressure due to state
reimbursement cuts to providers.
　　　In July, Illinois plans to close its Tinley Park Mental
Health Center in south suburban  Chicago . The facility serves
only 50 patients yet costs the state more than $20 million a
year to operate. Yesterday, Quinn administration officials said
they would also seek to close Singer Mental Health Center in
Rockford in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Illinois now runs
nine mental hospitals.
　　　“The state is in terrible financial shape,” said MaryLynn
McGuire Clarke, senior director at the  Illinois Hospital
Association . “Tough times mean tough decisions. But you still
hope the most vulnerable among us will get the care they need,
because the illness doesn’t go away.”  Looking Elsewhere  The six Chicago centers slated for closing serve about
5,300 people, most with no health insurance or receiving
Medicaid, the joint state-federal health-care program for the
poor. Many patients who can’t get care at the remaining clinics
will be asked to seek treatment at nongovernment community
health centers or with private doctors and therapists.
　　　More admissions to emergency rooms could further test the
financial health of hospitals, which consider that care a public
service and not a money maker, said Wahl, an ER doctor at
Evanston Hospital in north suburban Chicago. When psychiatric
patients use the ER, costs may include security guards, social
workers and sometimes “sitters” to accompany them on a medical
floor if a psychiatric bed is unavailable.
　　　“You can’t bill for a sitter’s time or security time,”
Wahl said. “It’s expected of the hospital. It’s a significant
expense. It adds up.”  ‘Falling Through Cracks’  　　　A patient who gets treatment at one of the Chicago-run
clinics set to close, Jacob Aronov, 56, said he has been going
there about 10 years. The closest remaining one is an hour away
by elevated train and bus; his current clinic is a short walk
from his North Side apartment. He has glaucoma, and the longer
trip will be more difficult.
　　　Aronov said he worried about interrupting his established
therapeutic relationships and finding providers within a
reasonable distance who accept Medicaid.
　　　“It will make it harder to make an appointment,” he said.
“Some of the patients won’t get help, and will wind up falling
through the cracks.”
　　　Most users of the clinics that are closing can still find
care, said Dr. Bechara Choucair, commissioner of the city’s
 Public Health Department . He acknowledged that some would have
to travel farther, but said his office would pay their public
transportation.  About 1,100 Affected  　　　About 1,100 patients cut from the clinics -- mainly those
with government insurance -- will be able to go to community
mental-health agencies not operated by the city, he said.  Some patients who will have to travel farther will wait
until problems are serious enough for an ER, said Dr. Leslie
Zun, chairman of emergency medicine at Mt. Sinai Hospital in
Chicago, who has studied the issue.  ERs increasingly can’t find other hospitals to absorb
psychiatric patients. The number of inpatient psychiatric beds
in Illinois has dropped 28 percent in the past 10 years,
according to the state hospital association.
　　　A nationwide study by the Lafayette, Louisiana-based
 Schumacher Group , an ER management firm, found 70 percent of ER
administrators say they’re keeping psychiatric patients for at
least 24 hours because they can’t be admitted or transferred.
Ten percent reported boarding them as long as a week.
　　　Governor Quinn warned this month that Illinois might have
to “step on the toes” of medical providers and offer still-
lower reimbursement rates to trim spending, by about $2.7
billion, his administration has said.  Many doctors and counselors already resist taking Medicaid,
in part because of relatively low fee schedules and tardy
payments, said Fitzpatrick, the NAMI executive director.  “If you’re going to cut the reimbursements one more time,
fewer docs are going to be willing to take Medicaid clients,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Melissa Silverberg and Bob Kazel in Chicago
through 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 