-- IMF Resources Talks Should Follow Europe Financial Firewall, Brainard Says
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-22T22:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/imf-resources-talks-should-follow-europe-firewall-brainard-says.html
Group of 20  nations should discuss
possible further resources for the  International Monetary Fund 
after  Europe  decides on its financial firewall, the U.S.
Treasury Department’s top international official said.  Lael Brainard, the Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, also said today that a “large share” of
the funding to solve the euro-area crisis will come from the
region itself.  “The IMF should continue to play a constructive role in
Europe but IMF resources cannot substitute for a strong and
credible European firewall in response,” Brainard told a news
briefing in Washington. “I’m sure when Europe’s response
becomes clear the G-20 will be able to better assess IMF
resources.”  Europe’s debt crisis will be the focus when G-20 nations’
finance chiefs, including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , meet this weekend in Mexico City. Brainard reiterated
that the Obama administration will not seek more funds for the
IMF this year.  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) package for  Greece  yesterday by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country. The deal
includes a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s
debt.  European stocks retreated for a second day today after a
report showed services and manufacturing output in the euro area
unexpectedly contracted in February. The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index
fell 0.8 percent to 264.59 at the close. The euro rose 0.1
percent to $1.3247 at 4:42 p.m. in  New York .  European Leaders  Brainard said a discussion on further IMF resources should
follow European leaders’ assessment on the capabilities of a
firewall at a March 1-2 summit.  “The IMF can come behind that as a second line of defense
but what is going to matter most is the euro area’s own
commitment as evidenced by their firewall,” Brainard said.  “We believe going forward as the IMF has played a very
constructive role in Greece, we anticipate that the IMF should
continue to play a constructive role in the program countries of
the euro area. But the large share of the financing will
continue to come from the euro area for its members,” she said.  The IMF is seeking $500 billion in additional lending
power. With the U.S. not planning to contribute and euro-region
nations having pledged 150 billion euros, IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  has turned to countries including  China  and
 Saudi Arabia  to fill the gap.  Convince Lenders  Greece’s government has to convince its lenders it can
enforce the spending cuts that won it the second rescue in three
years. Brainard said Greece has made “very strong” commitments
for reforms and the U.S. will monitor its implementation.  “The path forward for Greece if it is able to deliver on
its commitments to implement will be a sustainable path,” she
said.  The Greece bailout plan seeks to reduce that nation’s debt
burden by 107 billion euros, about half the country’s estimated
gross domestic product for 2011, according to the  Institute of
International Finance .  In return for the new cash, Greece agreed to cut pensions,
the minimum wage, health-care and defense spending, and to
increase layoffs of state employees and boost asset sales.  The
country must implement that austerity with unemployment already
topping 20 percent.  Euro members have spent at least 386 billion euros averting
defaults for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  