-- Impala Protest Deaths Signal Higher Cost for S. Africa Mines
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-23T13:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/impala-platinum-protest-deaths-signal-higher-costs-for-south-africa-mines.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  may
have to raise pay even as energy costs surge or face prolonging
an almost four-week closure of the world’s biggest mine for the
metal after selective wage increases triggered violent riots.  In the past week protesters set fire to cars, barricaded
roads and attacked miners going to work with axes, traditional
fighting sticks and stones at the mine near Rustenburg, 105
miles (170 kilometers) northwest of Johannesburg. The unrest
follows Impala’s firing of 17,200 people for striking illegally.
Three have been killed and more than 100 arrested in the
violence. It’s main labor union has now demanded equal pay
raises for all workers.  A pay rise would set “quite a dangerous precedent for
others,” Justin Froneman, an analyst at SBG Securities Ltd.,
said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “If Impala does
agree to raise wages, we could see a flow-through impact on
industry costs.”  Impala, and South African rivals including  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  that together produce about three
quarters of the world’s platinum, operate power-intensive
smelters in a country where electricity prices have almost
tripled over the last four years. Power and labor account for
about two-fifths of Impala’s costs.  A “substantial proportion of the South African platinum
group metals industry is currently loss-making,” Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a note Feb. 21.  Sticks, Whips  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said Feb. 17 it will review its platinum
business as returns lag expectations. The cost per platinum
ounce produced by Impala rose 9.9 percent last year as wage and
utility increases exceeded inflation, it said Feb. 16.  South
Africa ’s annual  inflation  was 6.3 percent in January.  “Our problem is money,” Emmanuel Ntetha, a dismissed
rock-drill operator, said on the fringe of the Freetown township
where he and thousands of others demonstrated within sight of
Impala’s mine, carrying fighting sticks known as knobkieries and
whips. “People have become angry here.”  Ntetha and about 20 other fired workers said in interviews
that they are demanding pay of 9,000 rand ($1,162) a month after
tax and other deductions, more than twice the 3,500 rand he says
he earns now as a police squad looks on across rock and log
debris lying by the roadside after riots that saw some of those
who wanted to go to work beaten by protesters. About 45,000
people work at the mine.  No Control  At the mine hospital lies a 62-year-old man who lost an eye
and had his skull fractured after a mob attacked him while he
was cycling to work. In a hospital bed nearby a 38-year-old man
has a split cheek, a stitched scalp and a broken arm, a result
of an attack with an ax and stones. The men and hospital
management requested anonymity for fear of reprisals.  Ntetha is one of about 5,000 rock-drill operators who went
on an illegal strike on Jan. 20, saying they were passed over
when only some miners were given a raise. Many say they have
lost faith in the  National Union of Mineworkers , the only
recognized union at the operation, because they say it ignored
their demand that all workers get the increase.  Impala  shares  traded at 165.91 rand as of 3:40 p.m. in
Johannesburg, taking its decline since Jan. 20, when the strike
began, to 6.8 percent, compared with the 1.8 percent drop in the
21-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Mining Index (JMNNG) . Platinum has risen for 5
days, gaining 6.3 percent over that period to trade at $1,727.50
an ounce in  London .  Insults, Heckling  “NUM is not representing us for our views and our
demands,” Mzoxolo Zolwana, a 34-year-old boilermaker, said Feb.
21, after he and hundreds of others heckled NUM representatives,
shouting “voetsek,” an Afrikaans insult that translates as
“go away.”  While Impala relies on NUM to call workers to order to
start formal talks “mistrust” has been created by insufficient
communication between the union’s local branch and members,
Senzeni Zokwana, NUM’s president, said in a Feb. 21 interview on
the sidelines of a meeting with protesters.  Zwelinzima Vavi , the general secretary of the Congress of
South African Trade Unions, of which NUM is an affiliate, told
protesters that Impala handled the matter “very badly.” Vavi
is due to address workers near Rustenburg again today and Impala
said it will meet NUM representatives today or tomorrow.  Miners got an 18 percent increase while rock-drill
operators didn’t, Vavi told workers workers at a sports ground
near North Hostel, a company-run residence for miners.  Security, Guards  Impala in January agreed to bring miners’ accommodation
benefits in line with other worker categories to try stem its
annual staff turnover rate of as much as 25 percent in each of
the past three years, Group Executive for People Johan Theron
said. They also received a “small” pay increase to reflect
“more intense” government safety audits, he said Feb. 21.  Rock-drill operators are paid an average of about 6,000
rand a month  leaving most them with about 4,000 rand after
deductions including those for goods bought from mine shops and
for garnishee orders from companies other than Impala, Theron
said. They can also earn a production bonus that averages about
2,000 or 3,000 rand  “Impala remains committed to look at any legitimate demand
and will endeavor to resolve it,” he said.  The initial strike brought the Rustenburg mine, which
accounts for about 12 percent of global annual platinum
production and over half of Impala’s total output, to a halt on
Jan. 30, resulting in 3,000 ounces of lost platinum output a
day. It also produces palladium, rhodium and other metals.  Reinstated Workers  April platinum deliveries from the mine may be about 50
percent less than usual, Group Executive for Marketing Derek Engelbrecht said.  “It’s an absolute guess, because it’s too early to know,”
he said by mobile phone yesterday.  Impala has re-hired at least 8,368 workers so far, rather
than reinstating them, which the union doesn’t agree with
because they lose accumulated benefits.  Many say they won’t go back unless pay is raised.  “I’m angry, I want my children to go to school and they
can’t; and we don’t even have food in the house,” said Sqaobalo
Phatalala, a 46-year-old rock driller with six children who has
worked at the mine for nine years. “Prices for food and school
fees are going up, but here our salaries aren’t,” he said after
armed security guards restrained him from climbing a fence to
confront union representatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  