-- Jeremy Lin of N.Y. Knicks Files Request to Trademark ‘Linsanity’ Phrase
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/lin-files-own-request-for-linsanity-trademark.html
Jeremy Lin wants to own the term
“Linsanity.”  Lin, who has rejuvenated the  New York Knicks  over the past
two weeks, moved to take control of the catch phrase that’s
encapsulated his meteoric rise, filing an application on Feb. 13
with the  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office , according to the
agency’s website.  The filing came six days after Yenchin Chang, a 35-year-old
Alhambra,  California , resident with no ties to Lin, became the
first to apply for a Linsanity trademark, according to the
website.  A second filing was made on Feb. 9 by Andrew W. Slayton of
 Los Altos , California, and on Feb. 14 there was another filing
by Yoonsoo Stephen Kim of Duluth, Georgia.  “We’re prepared to enforce his intellectual property
rights,” Pamela M. Deese, a partner in the law firm Arent Fox
LLP, said in a telephone interview, confirming that she had
filed the application on Lin’s behalf.  Trademark applications generally take about three months to
be examined and published, according to Gary Krugman, a partner
at the Washington-based firm of Sughrue Mion. As Lin, 23, is the
subject of the phrase Linsanity, he would probably be successful
in opposing an application filed earlier than his own, Krugman
said.  “Nobody can register a mark if it falsely suggests a
connection with a person or an institution,” Krugman said in a
telephone interview. “I would guess that Jeremy Lin would be
able to oppose on the grounds that Linsanity points uniquely and
unmistakably to him.”  Harvard Graduate  Lin, the first Harvard University graduate to play in the
 National Basketball Association  since  Ed Smith  in 1953-54 and
the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American ever to play in the
league, drew widespread attention coming off the bench Feb. 4 to
score 25 points and hand out seven assists in a win over the  New
Jersey Nets . As a starter, he led New York to six straight wins,
boosting television ratings, ticket prices and worldwide
interest in his game.  Lin’s agent,  Roger Montgomery , also filed his own Linsanity
application on Feb. 14, one day after Lin’s. An e-mail seeking
comment from Montgomery about the reasoning behind his separate
filing wasn’t immediately returned. Deese declined to comment
about Montgomery’s filing.  Chang said he “wanted to be part of the excitement” in
making his own filing. An Andrew Slayton who said he used to
coach Lin in high school told the  New York  Post that in 2010 he
registered the domain names Linsanity.com and
thejeremylinshow.com, where Lin-related merchandise is being
sold.  Lin’s filing seeks to use Linsanity for goods such as bags,
cups, clothing, toys and beverages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 