-- Indiana Board to Consider Tea Party Questions on Lugar Residency
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-22T23:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/indiana-board-to-consider-tea-party-questions-on-lugar-residency.html
The  Indiana  Election Commission is
being asked to determine whether U.S. Senator Richard Lugar is a
resident of the state and deserving of a place on this year’s
ballot.  The Tea Party-backed challenge gives Democrats a new avenue
of attack in a race in which their candidate starts out with a
financial disadvantage against the six-term Republican.  “Whether or not it’s legal, it’s not right,” Ben Ray, a
spokesman for the Indiana Democratic Party, said in a telephone
interview, referring to Lugar’s residency status.  If Lugar survives the primary, he would face Democratic
U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly, who has been making a point on
his campaign kickoff tour of telling voters that he works in
 Washington , then spends most weekends in Indiana.  Backers of Lugar’s challenger in the May 8 Republican
primary, state Treasurer Richard Mourdock, asked for the ruling
on the legality of Lugar’s candidacy, given that Lugar sold his
home in Indiana in 1977 after he was first elected to the Senate
and moved his family to McLean, Virginia.  The complaint is on the agenda of the Feb. 24 meeting of
the four-member Election Commission.  Lugar’s campaign didn’t respond to a request for comment
today.  The senator told RTV 6, an Indianapolis television station,
he had received assurances from two state attorneys general that
his “residency situation” was “proper and correct.”  The station also reported that Lugar said he wasn’t sure of
the address on his driver’s license, and presumed it listed  the
house he sold in 1977.  Lugar’s Advantage  As 2012 began, Lugar had a 4-to-1 cash advantage over both
Donnelly and Mourdock.  Lugar’s campaign reported $4.04 million on hand, compared
with $847,000 for the Donnelly campaign and $363,000 reported by
the Mourdock campaign.  On Feb. 14, the anti-tax group Club for Growth endorsed
Mourdock. Lugar subsequently started running a television ad
labeling Mourdock a “mudslinger,” according to a report in the
Evansville Courier and Press.  In an e-mailed statement, Mourdock spokesman Chris Conner
said the campaign was making the argument that Lugar is out of
touch. “He has actively chosen not to live in our state since
1977 so he doesn’t hear the concerns of the people of our
state,” the spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  