-- India Allows Airlines to Import Jet Fuel
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-22T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/india-allows-airlines-to-import-jet-fuel-to-save-on-local-taxes.html
India  allowed airlines to directly
import jet fuel to help cut operating costs by saving as much as
30 percent in local taxes.  Carriers keen to import aviation turbine fuel need to apply
to the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, the country’s
ministry of commerce and industry said in a statement yesterday.
Only state trading agencies were allowed to import the fuel
previously.  Airline fuel costs as much as 40 percent more in India than
in the international market because of higher taxes.  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya,  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest carrier, and discount
airline  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  all posted losses in the three months to
Dec. 31 as  jet fuel  costs and competition eroded gains from
rising travel demand.  “Taxes are killing the industry,” said Dhiraj Mathur,
executive director at the local unit of auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “Every airline will be interested
in importing fuel directly. The decision will also push state
governments to lower taxes.”  Indian states levy sales tax on jet fuel, which varies from
4 percent to 30 percent, government data show.  Kingfisher is seeking new investment after pledging its
brand and other assets against $1.3 billion of debts. It plans
to import jet fuel to cut expenditure as part of a turnaround
plan after more than 10 straight quarterly losses.  The carrier is operating less than half of its 64 planes
and has pared services to about 175 flights a day, E.K. Bharat Bhushan, India’s Director General of Civil Aviation, said Feb.
21.  The nation’s civil aviation ministry told airlines Feb. 16
to tie-up with the suppliers for oil storage infrastructure.  Go Airlines (India) Pvt., which runs a budget domestic
airline, is interested “very strongly” in jet fuel imports,
Chief Executive Officer Giorgio De Roni said in an interview
Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  