-- Cooperman: Investing in Treasuries ’Makes No Sense’
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-02-22T16:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/investing-in-u-s-treasuries-makes-no-sense-cooperman-says.html
Leon Cooperman , founder of equity
hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc., said buying U.S. Treasuries is
the least attractive investment in a world of “financial
repression.”  Bonds will be the worst place for investors to put their
money for the next three years, Cooperman, 68, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with
Erik Schatzker.  “With a 2 percent government bond, if we’re talking about
marginal tax rates, you’re keeping 60 percent of your 2 percent
-- you’re keeping 1.2 percent,” he said. “The rate of
inflation is somewhere in the range of 2 to 3 percent, so your
capital is being confiscated. It makes no sense.”  Gold and Standard & Poor’s 500 shares will be attractive
investments, Cooperman said. His target at the start of the year
for the equity benchmark was 1,400 to 1,450. Cooperman’s New
York-based fund invests in technology stocks including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , financial companies including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. and health care stocks including
WellPoint Inc. and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)   Omega invested in  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the Waterloo,
Ontario-based manufacturer of BlackBerry smartphones, late last
year and has since sold that position because it triggered stop-
loss orders, Cooperman said. He has been a long-term investor in
Apple and said he believes it is worth over $600 a share with
“a couple more years of very good runway” growth ahead.
Cupertino, California-based Apple gained 2.5 percent to close
yesterday at $514.85 in New York trading.  Cooperman spent 25 years at Goldman Sachs & Co., including
as CEO of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, before founding Omega
in 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  