-- Iran Has No Pre-Emptive Strike Policy: Ambassador
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-22T15:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/iran-has-no-pre-emptive-strike-policy-ambassador.html
Iran doesn’t have a policy of
carrying out pre-emptive strikes to counter threats, the
country’s ambassador to  Russia  said.  The Persian Gulf state is seeking to defuse tensions over
its nuclear program after officials from the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  were denied access to a military base in
Parchin during two days of meetings that ended yesterday. An
Iranian general, Mohammad Hejazi, said his nation would consider
pre-emptive action when threatened, Fars news agency reported
yesterday.  “We have no policy of taking action to pre-empt attacks
against us,” Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi said in an interview in the
Iranian embassy in Moscow today, adding that he heard a
recording of the general’s speech. “Fars isn’t the official
agency of the government, IRNA is,” he said, referring to the
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  Allegations about the possible military aim of  Iran’s
nuclear program  have led the U.S. and the European Union to
tighten economic sanctions. The U.S. and  Israel  haven’t ruled
out air strikes against Iran’s atomic facilities, escalating
tensions in a region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil
reserves.  Parchin Visit  “In Iran, we’ve  heard nothing about the IAEA requesting a
visit to Parchin,” Sajjadi said. “Parchin isn’t a place where
nuclear activities are being carried out, but is part of Iran’s
defense industry.”  Iran has rejected United Nations demands to suspend uranium
enrichment, which can be used both for generating electricity
and making nuclear warheads. Negotiations broke down in January
2011 after talks in Istanbul between Iran and the five permanent
members of the UN Security Council --  China , France, Russia, the
U.K. and U.S. -- as well as  Germany .  China may host a new round of talks over Iran’s nuclear
plans between the six countries involved in the negotiations,
Sajjadi said.  “I heard that members of the club are still talking about
the date and place,” he said. “But the mediators have yet to
reach consensus”  Iran sent the EU a letter last week asking for negotiations
over its nuclear program to resume at the “earliest
possibility,” according to a copy of the one-page document
obtained by Bloomberg. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and EU foreign policy head Catherine  Ashton met Feb. 18 and
said they are reviewing the Iranian offer.  Iran is still waiting for an official response to the
letter, Sajjadi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  