-- Irish Trees Earmarked for Sale in 3 Billion-Euro State Sell-Off
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-22T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/irish-trees-earmarked-for-sale-in-3-billion-euro-state-sell-off.html
Ireland may sell timber, parts of
its energy companies and a stake in airline  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) 
to raise as much as 3 billion euros ($4 billion), as the country
seeks to regain its economic sovereignty.  The government today detailed a plan to sell power stations
and the energy unit of Bord Gais Eireann, and said it will
consider the sale of assets belonging to state forestry company 
Coillte  and its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus.  Ireland has “made it abundantly clear that there will be
no fire sales,” Brendan Howlin, the public expenditure
minister, said today at a press conference in Dublin. “We want
a good price. We are not going to short-change taxpayers.”  The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  demanded asset sales as a condition
for Ireland’s 2010 bailout.  Greece  has been told to raise at
least 50 billion euros by selling or renting state assets, while
 Portugal  this month agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in REN-
Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA for 592 million euros.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said in parliament he
expects the sales to begin next year at the earliest. While the
government dropped plans to sell a stake in the Electricity
Supply Board, it will invite bidders for “non-strategic power
generation capacity,” he said.  Airline Sale  Howlin said they will await improved market conditions
before selling its stake in Aer Lingus.  The company’s 96 euro cents share price doesn’t reflect
fair value for the Dublin-based carrier, he said. Howlin
declined to comment on a possible sale of the stake to  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , which has made two failed bids for Aer Lingus.  The government won’t sell land belonging to Coillte, which
owns more than 1 million acres, most of which is forested,
according to its website. Coillte’s forestry businesses include
log sales, farm forestry services, and plant sales.  As much as 1 billion euros of the proceeds may be invested
in “jobs rich” investments, Howlin said, with the remainder
earmarked for debt reduction. Ireland’s national debt was 119.4
billion euros at Jan. 31, according to its debt agency.  “The concern is that this money will be wasted on schemes
that do not bring any economic benefit,” said Conall Mac Coille, chief economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy.
“A lot of economic literature shows that the benefit of
government employment training schemes is close to zero. Maybe
the money could be better spent just paying down debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  