-- Isa’s $13 Giant Squid, Yoga Classes Woo Hipster Foodies: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/isa-s-13-giant-squid-yoga-classes-woo-hipster-foodies-review.html
Isa is a fine little farm-to-table
restaurant specializing in wood-fired cooking. And yoga.  Vinyasa yoga, to be precise. Classes are held upstairs at
the  Brooklyn  hotspot on Tuesdays and Thursdays before dinner.  Bodies stretch in one room while the kitchen fries sardine
skeletons into crunchy marine breadsticks.  Isa isn’t the first culinary establishment to have a mixed
exercise-epicurean arrangement. In Napa, California, Ubuntu has
a yoga studio along with its Michelin-starred vegetarian fare.  It’s the sort of fashionable eccentricity one might expect
on the Left Coast, though Williamsburg is catching up. Isa’s
Taavo Somer, the bearded proprietor behind Freemans and Peels,
knows this. The new place is packed with beautiful people
warming up to barley soup with smoked yolk or barley porridge
($21) with Camembert and Treviso -- a cheesy, earthy risotto.  Diners who don’t finish that outstanding creation get the
leftovers wrapped in a foil swan. Isa is endearingly odd, if a
bit self-important: After one ambivalent review ran last year,
the restaurant responded with a menu depicting the offending
critic  stabbing a knife  into the heart of Brooklyn.  Mouse Menu  Other nights, menus are Magic Markered in the same, hard-
to-read script as high school Battle of the Bands flyers.
Fortunately, there are just 14 or so items among the a la carte
offerings; a three-course “pouncing rodent” prix-fixe is $50.  Isa bills itself as “Brooklyn primitive, modern,” as good
a description as any. Isa relies on a wood furnace to keep
guests cozy while scraping swaths of grapefruit curd, matcha
powder and lime sherbet.  Those who sit next to that furnace might feel a little
cooked themselves. No matter; take off your jacket and guzzle a
glass of fruity sparkling wine from the Jura; Isa boasts perhaps
New York’s only wine list that’s heavily French yet lacking
Champagne. Every vino is natural, without sulfites, resulting in
heady, sometimes even offaly aromas.  Even a bold  California  red, the Coturri Sandocino ($14),
veers off the beaten track, blending Bordeaux grapes like
cabernet and merlot with Rhone varietals like syrah and then
throws some American zinfandel in there too.  Cocoa ‘Dirt’  It’s the right pairing for the splendid duck breast ($29).
The bird, with soft, silky fat, comes with fluffy celeriac
puree, candy-like baby beets and black trumpet mushroom powder
with cocoa nibs that the menu coyly calls “dirt.”  This is robust, northern, almost Nordic fare, courtesy of
chef Ignacio Mattos. Other modern restaurants like to showcase
whole animals; Mattos dares to serve whole squid ($13), head and
tentacles attached.  The foot-long mollusk arrives brown and charred; the chewy
beast eats like a steak. Dredge the flesh through a rich squid
ink sauce that turns your teeth black. Clean up in the restroom,
where the odd angled mirrors give it the feel of Tim Burton’s
“Beetlejuice.”  Mind the kitchen when walking about, as it’s literally part
of the dining room, with almost no boundary between client and
cook. Platings are precise yet natural, as if a forest floor was
tidied up by an interior designer.  Mattos takes a rectangular slab of pork, straighter than a
ruler, and sears it medium rare. It’s a bit fatty but has almost
as much flavor as the esteemed Iberico. Verdant circles of
watercress and sorrel sauce gently cushion the oily sting of
perfectly cooked mackerel ($26).  Power Tastes  Spotlighting dominant, powerful, almost unadulterated
flavors, Isa isn’t for filet-mignon types.  Oysters ($13 for four) get their chill from a sour shaving
of rice vinegar-infused ice and yuzu. Chicken wings shock the
palate with fish sauce, salt and cilantro. The meat itself has a
gamy, concentrated flavor.  Milder types will try the beef tartare, a thin circle of
seasoned, grass-fed meat spiked with sunchoke cream for an
unexpected sweetness. Double up on root vegetable madness for
desserts ($11), where the same sunchoke makes a sweeter cameo as
sorbet covered with yolk cream and ground-coffee “soil.”  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30; three courses for $50.  Sound Level: Tolerable, around 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Super bread basket ($4) with caraway butter.  Special feature: Stellar juniper-berry spiked gin cocktail.  Back on My Own Dime? Frequently.  Isa is at 348 Wythe Ave., Brooklyn. Information:
+1-347-689-3594 or  http://isa.gg/isa .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 