-- Mitsubishi Sees Encana Investment Reaching C$6 Billion
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-22T09:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/mitsubishi-says-encana-gas-field-investment-to-reach-c-6-billion.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ’s total investment
in the Canadian gas assets of  Encana Corp. (ECA)  will reach about C$6
billion ($6 billion) over five years to cover development costs
in excess of its equity participation.  Japan’s biggest trading company will spend about C$4.5
billion on field development in addition to a C$1.45 billion
upfront payment to Encana for a stake in Cutbank Ridge,
Mitsubishi spokesman Shunsuke Nanami said today by telephone in
Tokyo. Mitsubishi was to invest C$1.45 billion over five years
to explore the area on top of its share of joint development
costs and what it’s paying for the stake, Encana said Feb. 17,
without specifying the full amount.  The deal will give Mitsubishi a 40 percent stake in Cutbank
Ridge that holds 35 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas
resources, enough to cover  Japan ’s annual demand for nine years.
The two companies will need to spend more than C$6 billion to
develop the area that could yield more than 3 billion cubic feet
of the fuel a day and produce for more than half a century,
Mitsubishi said Feb. 22.  Mitsubishi’s agreement to pay a greater part of the
development costs leaves Encana to cover a 30 percent share, the
Calgary-based producer said in a Feb. 17  statement . The Japanese
company may use bank loans in addition to cash to cover the
upfront payment, according to Nanami.  The investment commitment comes less than four months since
Mitsubishi paid  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  $5.39 billion for 24.5
percent of its Sur copper unit in  Chile . The trading house this
month also bought an 18.1 percent stake in a Peruvian copper
asset controlled by Anglo American.  Negative Cash Flow  Mitsubishi’s  cash flow  turned negative in the first six
months of this fiscal year, which ends March 31, as a result of
its resource investments. That may put the company’s A+  credit
rating  under pressure should commodity prices drop or the level
of its debt to earnings rise substantially, said Yuri Yoshida,
an analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in Tokyo.  “They are paying very high prices” for assets whose
commodities have a high degree of price volatility, Yoshida said
by telephone yesterday. Mitsubishi will need to sell some assets
or find partners for some of them to share costs to avoid
increasing its leverage, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 