-- Johannesburg to Toll Road Users From April to Help Repay Debt
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-22T12:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/johannesburg-to-toll-road-users-from-april-to-help-repay-debt.html
South Africa  will begin tolling road
users in Johannesburg from April to help repay 20 billion rand
of debt incurred in expanding highways in the nation’s most
populous city.  The government will allocate South African National Roads
Agency 5.8 billion rand ($727 million) to pay outstanding debt,
helping to lower toll fees to 30 cents a kilometer, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in Cape Town today.  Sanral, as the agency is known, sold bonds in the past four
years to finance the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project the
helped to widen, upgrade, resurface and build 185 kilometers of
roads around Johannesburg. The tolling system, which was due to
start in March, was postponed after labor unions threatened
 strike action . Taxis and public buses will be exempt from the
fees.  “This is an extremely generous and balanced way in which
government is responding to the various suggestions and concerns
that are being raised,” Gordhan said. “It is a win-win
solution for everyone involved.”  Frequent road users will pay a maximum toll of 550 rand a
month, while heavy vehicles can save 20 percent depending on the
time they use the road, according to the National Treasury.  Sanral’s debt will increase to 59 billion rand, the
Treasury said. The government will pass laws to give Sanral
powers to enforce the tolling system, it said.  The road agency, which is responsible for maintaining and
expanding the nation’s 16,170 kilometer (10,100 miles) of
freeways, will spend 38 billion rand in the year through March
2013 on new roads and maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  