-- Junk Bonds Seen Rallying as Europe Crisis Wanes
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-22T11:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/junk-returns-seen-soaring-as-european-debt-crisis-abates-credit-markets.html
Junk bond returns may triple from
last year as confidence builds that  Europe  will avert a
sovereign-debt crisis and investors turn their attention to a
U.S. recovery, according to analyst forecasts.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists led by  Peter Acciavatti ,
the top-rated high-yield team in Institutional Investor
magazine’s annual poll, raised their estimate last week for 2012
gains to 13.7 percent from 9.4 percent. While Bank of America
Merrill Lynch expects returns of 12.3 percent, Barclays Capital
is holding with 5 percent to 7 percent, saying Greece is still
grappling with fiscal challenges.  High-yield, high-risk debt in the U.S. is rallying as
Greece’s second bailout in three years helps avert a global
credit crisis and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reaches an
almost four-year high with the U.S. unemployment rate at the
lowest since February 2009.  Junk bonds  have returned 1.21
percent this month, following a gain of 5.45 percent in December
and January, the best back-to-back returns since September 2009.  “When people see that better U.S. economic data, and they
see the stock market up, they feel it’s safe to go back into the
water and a good time to go back into high yield,” said Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in  New York , who
oversees $2.5 billion of high-yield debt in funds. “The market
seems somewhat satiated that  Greece  isn’t going to be a disaster
and it’s manageable for now, and that is decreasing the tail
risk that JPMorgan was looking for.”  ‘Brighter Macro Picture’  High-yield returns for 2012 would compare with a 4.4
percent gain last year, following 15.2 percent in 2010 and a
record 57.5 percent in 2009, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “When we set our 2012 targets for high yield back in
December, concern of a systemic crisis in Europe and U.S.
recession were widespread,” JPMorgan strategists led by
Acciavatti said in the Feb. 17 note. “The brighter macro
picture augurs the case for the rally in high yield extending
and the low yield environment being sustained.”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  raised $5.25
billion as new issues in the U.S. rebounded for the busiest day
in almost two weeks. A benchmark gauge of U.S. company debt risk
fell to the lowest level in a week.  Semtech Corp. (SMTC)  is seeking
$350 million in loans to support its acquisition of Gennum Corp.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.05 basis point to 29.45 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  BHP Billiton  BHP Billiton  divided its offering into two-year floating
rate notes and three-, five-, 10- and 30-year fixed-rate bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $1 billion of 2.875
percent debt maturing in February 2022 yields 92 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries. Sales yesterday of more
than $10.5 billion were the most since $11.9 billion was sold
Feb. 8.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.9 basis point to a mid
price of 97.6 basis points in New York, according to data
provider CMA. That’s the lowest since Feb. 13.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 1.5 to 132.5, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 11:30 a.m. in  London . The Markit iTraxx
Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
climbed 2 basis points to 160, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Bondholder Protection  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Ryder System Inc. (R)  were the most actively traded
U.S. corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 108 trades
of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The Miami-based transportation logistics company sold $350
million of 2.5 percent, five-year debt yesterday, Bloomberg data
show.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose for the first time in four days, adding 0.04 cent to 93.17
cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, had fallen from
this year’s high of 93.55 on Feb. 9.  Semtech Loan  Leveraged loans and high-yield, or junk-rated, bonds are
graded below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at S&P.  Semtech, a supplier of analog and mixed-signal
semiconductors, is seeking financing due in five years,
including a $250 million term loan B and a $100 million term
loan A, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.
Camarillo, California-based Semtech is acquiring Gennum of
Burlington, Ontario for approximately $494 million, according to
a Jan. 24 statement.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed for a third
session, declining 9 basis points to 366 basis points or 3.66
percentage points, according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index .
The measure has averaged 358 basis points over the past year.  Mutual Fund Inflows  The junk rally is being propelled by the lowest-ranked
debt, with bonds graded CCC or lower gaining 6.67 percent since
year-end, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Overall, high-yield bonds have returned 4.15 percent while
investment grade gained 1.99 percent. The December and January
gains are the most since an 8.13 percent return in the two
months ended September 2009.  Even as investors pour $12.6 billion into high-yield mutual
funds this year, a record pace, the securities remain relatively
attractive compared with stocks, government debt and investment-
grade corporate bonds, the JPMorgan strategists said in the
research note.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose above its highest close since 2008
yesterday, while investment-grade debt yields 3.55 percent and
10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  offer about 2 percent.  The JPMorgan strategists estimate a yield of 7 percent at
the end of the year and a spread of 570 basis points, according
to the report. The strategists also raised their return forecast
for loans to 8.8 percent from 7 percent.  Yields on high-yield debt were 7.7 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Jobless Rate Falls  “I thought that the return they had at the beginning of
the year was way low,” Gross said of the JPMorgan forecast.
 “Fundamentally, the  U.S. economy  is getting better.”  A report last week showed the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index increasing to 10.2,
topping the median economist forecast for a reading of 9.
Housing starts climbed 1.5 percent to a 699,000 annual rate in
January, the Commerce Department said. The U.S. jobless rate
fell to 8.3 percent last month.  Greece won 130 billion euros ($172 billion) in aid it needs
to avoid a March bankruptcy this week after seven months of
negotiations. The nation signed up to a program of austerity and
economic reform aimed at slashing debt to 120.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from about 160 percent last year.  Bradley Rogoff, who leads the No. 2 high-yield team at
 Barclays Capital  according to the Institutional Investor
magazine poll, said it’s too early to change forecasts for the
year, especially after gains for 2011 were wiped out in October.  ‘Fully Priced In’  “A good outcome in Greece is fully priced in,” said
Rogoff, the head of U.S. credit strategy in New York. “It looks
like we’re more likely to avoid a worst-case scenario, but any
hiccups in Greece will certainly lead to some kind of selloff.
We’re priced for perfection for a lot of the high-yield
market.”  The 6.3 percent return in the first seven months of last
year turned into a loss of 1.7 percent by the end of September
as the European sovereign debt crisis roiled markets, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The securities rallied
6.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  “Our forecast of 5 to 7 percent doesn’t imply some hugely
negative outcome” Rogoff said. “It does imply some lower
prices on bonds than where they are today. That’s taking into
account a lot of macro risks that aren’t fully priced into the
market today. Fundamentals are still solid but they’re not
strengthening to the same effect as last year.”  Taking the Risk  Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists led by Oleg Melentyev in New York anticipate spreads tightening to 550 basis
points by the end of the year, while five-year Treasury yields
rise by 50 basis points, according to a Dec. 15 report.  The
bank is ranked No. 3 in the magazine poll.  Relative yields on junk bonds have fallen to 614 basis
points, the lowest since Aug. 3, and down from last year’s high
of 910 on Oct. 4 as debt swaps signaled a near-certain
probability of Greece defaulting.  “Investors are hungry for yield and confident enough in
the economic outlook to be willing to take the risk,”  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners, said in a telephone interview from New York. “That
projection of 13 percent would be a great outcome if it turns
out that way but it is dependent on considerable further spread
tightening.”  “The biggest concern investors would have is about a
relapse into recession and that concern has been going down
steadily,” Fridson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  