-- KL Kepong Profit Rises 12% on Higher Palm Oil, Rubber Prices
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-02-22T10:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/kl-kepong-profit-rises-12-on-higher-palm-oil-rubber-prices-1-.html
Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK) , Malaysia’s
third-biggest listed palm oil producer, said first-quarter
profit rose 12 percent after it got more for its edible oil and
rubber, as well as better contributions from its refineries.  Net income  climbed to 341 million ringgit ($113 million),
or 32 sen a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, from 304.2
million ringgit, or 29 sen, a year earlier, the company said in
a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange today. Revenue
advanced 21 percent to 2.92 billion ringgit.  “With our crude palm products prices reasonably hedged by
forward sales and the expectation of higher fresh-fruit-bunches
production, the group anticipates good plantations profit for
the current financial year,” the Perak-based company said in
the statement. “Despite the uncertain economic environment, the
prevailing  palm oil  price has held on reasonably well, supported
by strong fundamentals and the drought situation in South
America,  India  and  China .”  Hot and dry weather in major soybean-producing countries
Argentina and Brazil have damaged crops, reducing global
vegetable oil supplies. Dorab Mistry, director of Godrej
International Ltd., has forecast a  bull market  in palm oil this
year as demand growth outstrips the projected increase in
production. The price may reach 4,000 ringgit by June, Mistry
forecast in December.  KL Kepong got an average 2,753 ringgit per metric ton for
its palm oil in the quarter, compared with 2,678 ringgit in the
same period a year earlier. Palm oil gained 9.3 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31. Profit from the company’s core
plantations business rose 24.5 percent to 391.7 million ringgit
on better selling prices for palm oil and rubber, and higher
fresh fruit bunch production, it said. Earnings were also
boosted by its refinery operations.  The group posted a lower profit of 3.9 million ringgit in
its oleochemical division from 23.1 million ringgit a year
earlier, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  