-- Kodak Case Against Apple, HTC to Get Agency Investigation
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-22T21:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/kodak-case-against-apple-htc-to-get-agency-investigation.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) ’s newest patent-
infringement complaint against Apple Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  will be
reviewed by a federal trade agency that has the power to block
imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  The U.S. International Trade Commission agreed to
investigate the claims filed by Kodak with the agency Jan. 10,
according to a  notice  posted today on the Washington-based
commission’s website.  Kodak filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month and is
turning to its patent portfolio to help fund a turnaround. The
company claims infringement of inventions related to digital
photographs. It plans to phase out the unit that makes digital
cameras and picture frames.  The complaint at the commission accuses Apple and HTC of
using Kodak inventions covered by four patents related to image
transmission, including a way for users to share images directly
from cameras. Kodak also claims HTC is infringing a fifth patent
for an image preview feature that’s at the center of another
case at the agency against Apple and Research In Motion Ltd.  In the latest case, Rochester, New York-based Kodak is
seeking to block imports of products including Apple’s iPad and
iPhone, and HTC’s Flyer tablet and Wildfire S phone.  Import Ban  Kodak has said it filed the complaint after licensing
negotiations failed, and it’s counting on the threat of an
import ban to lead to a settlement.  The company has put its more than 1,100 digital-imaging
patents up for sale. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez has
said that the Apple-RIM trade commission case may generate $1
billion in new revenue.  The commission typically completes investigations in 16 to
18 months. The case against Apple and RIM has taken longer
partly because the judge handling the case retired. A new judge
is scheduled to release findings in that case in May.  The case is In the Matter of Electronic Devices for
Capturing and Transmitting Images, 337-831, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ). The related civil case against
Apple is Eastman Kodak Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12cv6020, and the case
against HTC is Eastman Kodak Co. v. HTC, 12cv6021, both in U.S.
District Court for the Western District of  New York  (Rochester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  