-- Naira Rises to 16-Week High on Low Dollar Demand, Auction Sale
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-22T16:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/naira-heads-for-16-week-high-on-low-dollar-demand-before-auction.html
Nigeria ’s naira appreciated to its
strongest level in sixteen weeks on lower demand for the dollar
as the central bank sold the U.S. currency at a twice-weekly
auction.  The currency of Africa’s largest oil producer appreciated
0.2 percent to 157.36 naira per dollar as of 4:50 p. m. in
Lagos, its strongest since Nov. 3, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nigeria  sold  $113.5 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, less than $150 million it put on offer, the Abuja-based
 Central Bank of Nigeria  said in an e-mailed statement. The
marginal rate, which is also used as the prevailing exchange
rate strengthened 0.1 percent to 155.90 naira, compared with
156.10 naira at the previous sale on Feb. 20, it said.  The central bank’s dollar supply is “coming at a time of
limited demand and has added support to the naira,” Sewa Wusa,
currency analyst at Lagos-based Sterling Capital, said by phone.  Government probes into the authenticity of certain fuel
subsidy payments have lowered dollar demand and are “regarded
as the catalysts for the appreciation of the naira,” Ridle Markus, Dumisani Ngwenya and Mike Keenan, Johannesburg-based
 Africa  analysts at  Absa Capital , wrote in a note to clients
today.  Fuel Probes  Nigeria’s parliament is probing whether fraudulent
practices by government agencies fueled a fivefold rise in
spending on gasoline subsidies in the past three years. Fuel
imports have been a large source of pressure on Nigeria’s
foreign-currency market and demand for foreign currency to fund
fuel imports has eased, central bank Deputy Governor Tunde Lemo
told a committee at a public hearing on Feb. 7.  The Central Bank of Nigeria offers dollars at auctions on
Mondays and Wednesdays and through interbank trading to maintain
exchange rate stability. The oil industry is the second major
source of dollar supplies in the country.  The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at a record high for a second consecutive meeting on Jan. 31 to
curb inflation after the government partially removed fuel
subsidies, boosting gasoline costs.  Annual  inflation  rate in Nigeria jumped to 12.6 percent in
January from 10.3 percent a month earlier, the National Bureau
of Statistics said Feb. 20. It has increased from 9.3 percent in
August, the lowest since May 2008.  Ghana ’s cedi depreciated by 0.6 percent at 1.7115 per
dollar, as of 4:40 p.m. in Accra, the nation’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  