-- Neptune Orient Shares Fall Most in Three Years After Loss: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-02-23T02:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/neptune-orient-seeks-500-million-cost-cuts-higher-cargo-rates.html
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) , parent of
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest container line, plunged the most in
almost three years after reporting its biggest loss in a decade
and saying it had no plans to cut capacity.  The company fell as much as 11 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since March 2009. It was down 7.4 percent at
S$1.32 as of 10:02 a.m. in Singapore trading. The shipping line
was the best performer in the Straits Times Index in the six
months ended yesterday.  Neptune Orient said yesterday that it expects to keep
capacity about unchanged this year even after a global glut of
vessels and rising fuel costs caused industrywide losses. The
reluctance to idle ships may scupper efforts to raise cargo fees
and offset the company’s efforts to cut costs, said Citigroup
Inc. analyst Rigan Wong.  “Internal discipline is insufficient to return NOL to
profit unless industry discipline is also present,” he said in
note today. A failure to cut capacity means an “upcoming rate
increase is likely to be short-term in nature,” he said.  Wong reiterated a “sell”  rating  and gave a S$1.05 price
target. Neptune Orient surged 38 percent in the six months
through yesterday on speculation its APL Ltd. unit will be able
to revive rates.  The company yesterday reported a loss of $320.4 million for
the quarter ended Dec. 30. It was expected to make a loss of
$123.6 million in the period based on the average of eight
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The carrier’s sales
fell 13 percent to $2.4 billion.  Cost Cuts  Neptune Orient Chief Executive Officer Ng Yat Chung plans
to cut costs by $500 million this year through steps including
reduced fuel usage, better purchasing and improvements in
network design, he told reporters yesterday in  Singapore .  “It’s a difficult target,” he said. Still, “there is
room for us to improve.”  APL is filling more than 90 percent of capacity on Asia-
 Europe  routes and pushing “very hard” for higher rates, said
Kenneth Glenn, the unit’s president. The unit has no plan to
idle assets, he said.  The shipping line is among carriers seeking to raise Asia-
Europe rates by $750 to $800 per 20-foot box starting next
month. That would about double spot rates. It is also among six
container lines that will begin cooperating on Asia-Europe lanes
next month.  The shipping line’s plan to maintain sailings on the Asia-
Europe route contrasts with  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s plan to
reduce its capacity by 9 percent. The Copenhagen-based container
line is making cuts in a bid to revive rates.  On Asia-U.S. routes, APL is among 15 lines seeking to boost
fees by $300 per 40-foot box next month. The group has also set
a $500 per box guideline as they seek rate increases in annual
contracts starting around May, according to the Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement.  Spot prices for hauling containers to Europe and the U.S.
from  Asia  have risen 45 percent from a 12-month low in December,
based on weekly indexes compiled by the Shanghai Shipping
Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Hong Kong  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  