-- New York Town’s Ban on Gas Fracking Upheld by Judge in First Test of Laws
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-02-22T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/new-york-town-s-ban-on-gas-fracking-upheld-by-state-court-judge.html
A central New York town can block
natural-gas drilling after a state judge, in the first test of
local laws, upheld the Town of Dryden’s ban on hydraulic
fracturing.  State Supreme Court Judge Phillip Rumsey in a ruling
released yesterday said the town’s zoning amendment on gas
drilling wasn’t pre-empted by state law. Denver-based Anschutz
Exploration Corp. sued in September, seeking to overturn the
ordinance, which bans gas and oil exploration in the town about
200 miles (322 kilometers) northwest of  Manhattan .  New York placed a moratorium on the drilling process known
as hydraulic fracturing in 2010 while state regulators developed
environmental rules. Since then, about 20 towns in the state
have adopted laws to ban drilling, Karen Edelstein, a geographic
information-systems consultant in Ithaca, said.  “I think you’d call this a pretty substantial victory,”
Mahlon Perkins, attorney for Dryden, said yesterday in an
interview. “The pertinent part of it is, he declared that the
zoning amendment as slightly modified is not pre-empted by state
law.”  Tom West, an Albany attorney representing Anschutz, said
the ruling was disappointing. Anschutz has 30 days to decide
whether to appeal in state court, he said.  “These pure questions of law have a tendency to get
reviewed, and different judges can see it differently,” West
said in an interview. “We still feel very confident in our
position that the oil and gas law does pre-empt municipalities
from these types of regulation.”  Jim Monaghan, a spokesman for Anschutz, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Marcellus Shale  New York  sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale
formation, which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S.
for about seven years, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
U.S. states from  Wyoming (STOWY1)  to  West Virginia (STOWV1)  with shale are
encouraging so-called fracking even as the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency studies the effects on drinking water and may
adopt nationwide regulations.  In  Ohio (STOOH1) , earthquakes that rattled the Youngstown area last
year are under review by state officials for possible links to
fracking, which forces millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand underground to free gas trapped in rock.  New York, the nation’s third most-populous state, may
become the only state that lets municipalities ban fracking,
West said. Anschutz challenged the ban in Dryden, while
Cooperstown Holstein Corp., a dairy farm, in September sued to
overturn a similar restriction in Middlefield.  West Virginia  In  West Virginia , the Circuit Court of Monongalia County in
August overturned a Morgantown ordinance that prohibited
fracking. In her decision, county Judge Susan B. Tucker said the
state has “exclusive control” over oil and gas development.  New York and most other states regulate oil and gas
development, according to  Eric Waeckerlin , an environment and
energy attorney with  Kelley Drye & Warren LLP  in  Washington . The
state also recognizes municipal home rule, which lets towns
adopt laws to protect their “physical and visual environment”
and the “safety, health, and well-being” of residents.  Most local bans would exclude heavy industry such as gas
drilling through local zoning laws, Waeckerlin said.  In  Pennsylvania (STOPA1) ,  Ohio  and West Virginia, drillers dipping
into Marcellus Shale contributed to a boost in fracking that
helped increase U.S. natural-gas supplies and cut prices 32
percent last year. A public comment period on draft regulations
New York ended Jan. 11 with the state receiving an unprecedented
“tens of thousands” of responses,  Joe Martens , commissioner of
the Department of Environmental Conservation, said in a
 statement .  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said Jan. 4 he would
wait for state regulators to finish the guidelines before making
a decision on how to proceed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  