-- New York Fed Said to Seek Bids for Mortgage Bonds Linked to AIG’s Rescue
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/new-york-federal-reserve-said-to-plan-sale-of-aig-linked-mortgage-bonds.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
is seeking bids for more of the  mortgage bonds  assumed in the
government rescue of American International Group Inc. as prices
on the debt rally, two people with knowledge of the plan said.  After it was approached by a potential buyer, the New York
Fed may sell the remaining assets in its  Maiden Lane II LLC (FARWML2) 
vehicle, totaling about $6 billion in face value, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deal is
private. Maiden Lane II was created in 2008 to buy holdings that
AIG handed the central bank in exchange for a cash injection.  The New York Fed has used two previous sales this year
totaling about $13 billion to retire its loan to Maiden Lane II.
Those transactions were in response to unsolicited bids, after
the New York Fed halted regular and more public auctions last
year of about $10 billion that were blamed for damaging prices
in credit markets. The latest sales haven’t curbed a rally in
home-loan bonds.  “Investors are less concerned now about the supply
overhang,” Jeffrey Wheeler, a bond manager at Durham, North
Carolina-based Smith Breeden Associates Inc., said on Feb. 13.
“The Maiden Lane sales provide a model for how other sales
could take place and also highlight how there’s institutional-
sized demand when sales are managed properly.”  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on the potential auction.  Subprime, Alt-A  After inviting more than 40 broker-dealers to take part in
the auctions last year, the New York Fed has been turning to a
more limited number of dealers in response to reverse inquiries.
It began selling the bonds piecemeal after rejecting a $15.7
billion bid from New York-based AIG for the entire pool in
March.  The portfolio includes securities backed by the types of
home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as so-
called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgage debt.  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
ARMs climbed to 55 cents on the dollar last week from 49 cents
in October and November, according to Barclays Capital data.
That’s still down from last year’s high of 65 cents in February.
Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest they
owe by increasing their balances.  The Fed made another loan to help bail out AIG to a vehicle
called Maiden Lane III LLC, and was owed about $9.3 billion
under that facility as of Feb. 15, according to the  New York 
Fed’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  