-- Noah Jumps as Lower Rates May Lure to Equities: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-22T21:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/noah-jumps-as-lower-rates-may-lure-investors-to-equities-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
rebounded from a one-week low on speculation policy makers will
cut  interest rates  to spur the economy, boosting the appeal of
investing in stocks over keeping cash in  bank deposits .  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S. rose for the first time in three days, adding
1 percent to 107.69 yesterday in New York, led by  Noah Holdings
Ltd. (NOAH)  and  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  Wealth manager Noah climbed the most
in three months after getting a Chinese mutual fund distribution
license, while online games operator Shanda surged to a one-
month high after reporting profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Speculation that  China  will reduce its benchmark rates to
stoke credit growth was bolstered after the People’s Bank of
China said on Feb. 18 it would cut the reserve-requirement ratio
for banks for the second time since December. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of shares traded in  Hong Kong  has jumped
19 percent this year, while the Bloomberg China-US 55 has gained
12 percent, the best start to a year since Bloomberg started
collating data on U.S.-traded Chinese stocks in 2005.  “People would put more money into stocks and other
securities as monetary easing may keep the inflation rate high
and erode the values of their bank deposits,” Michael A. Gayed,
chief investment strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC,
which advises on over $150 million in assets and invests in
Chinese stocks through exchange-traded funds, said by phone
yesterday. “There is a lot of room for the Chinese people to
increase wealth-management investment.”  China ETF Gains  Standard Charted Plc estimated that China’s total wealth-
management product funds sold by banks, which are mainly
invested in “asset pools” supervised by lenders and are
separate from general deposits, reached as much as 5 trillion
yuan ($794 billion) by the end of last year, or 14 percent of
household deposits, according to a Feb. 22 report.  China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate has been kept at
3.5 percent since July, while  consumer prices  rose 4.5 percent
in January and 5.4 percent in 2011, exceeding the government’s
full-year goal of 4 percent. Nomura International Plc. predicts
the reserve ratio will be cut by a total 150 basis points, or
1.5 percentage points, this year, and a 25 basis-point reduction
in interest rates in March, according to a Feb. 20 note.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1 percent to $40.32
yesterday, snapping a two-day decline. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  retreated 0.3 percent to 1,357.66.  Puda Fraud Charges  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA)  sank 7 percent to 26 U.S. cents in New York,
after the Securities and Exchange Commission charged two of its
executives with defrauding investors. Chairman Ming Zhao and
former chief executive officer, Liping Zhu, defrauded investors
into believing they were investing in a Chinese coal business
when they were actually investing in an empty shell company, the
SEC said in a statement yesterday.  Noah Holdings, based in  Shanghai , surged 30 percent, the
most since November 2010, to a two-month high of $7.96 in New
York.  The company got a license to distribute mutual funds to
high net-worth individuals from China’s securities regulator,
according to a statement yesterday.  “The license will allow Noah to sell products to customers
before its competitors, so definitely positive news to its
stock,” said Ella Ji, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. in
New York who rates Noah “market perform.” “China’s wealth
management is still on an initial stage of development. There
are limited channels of personal wealth investment and bank
deposit interest rates are relatively low.”  Beating Estimates  The Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced for a fourth day,
gaining 0.9 percent to 2,403.59, the highest close since Nov.
29.  Shanda Games, the third-biggest online games operator in
China, jumped to the highest level in a month in New York after
fourth-quarter profit beat analysts’ predictions.  American depositary receipts of Shanda gained 9.4 percent
to $4.30, the strongest level since Jan. 20. Each ADR represents
two common shares.  Fourth-quarter net profit was 17 cents per ADR, Shanghai-
based Shanda said in a statement released after markets closed
in the U.S. yesterday, exceeding the 15.6-cent  average estimate 
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Total net income for the quarter fell 17 percent from a
year earlier to $48.3 million due to withholding tax charges
related to dividend payments, according to the statement.  Yingli Green  Shanda Games’ parent,  Shanda Interactive Entertainment
Ltd. (SNDA) , climbed for a fifth day, adding 0.7 percent to $41.28, the
highest level in eight months.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  will target 8 percent economic
growth this year in his report to the National People’s Congress
in Beijing on March 5, according to eight of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace of growth slowed to 9.2 percent
last year from 10.4 percent in 2010.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , a solar-panel maker based
in Baoding city in northern China, sank 10 percent to a two-week
low of $4.33 in New York.  The company said fourth-quarter shipments probably fell 30
percent from a year ago, down from previous guidance for a “low
to middle 20s percent” decline, in a statement after U.S.
trading closed yesterday. Yingli is scheduled to report fourth-
quarter earnings before markets in  New York  open on Feb.
29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  