-- Norway’s Krone Jumps as Interest-Rate Cut Speculation Fades: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-22T13:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/norwegian-krone-jumps-as-jobs-data-damps-rate-cut-speculation-oslo-mover.html
Norway ’s krone jumped, gaining
against all 16 major currencies, after a stronger-than-estimated
labor market report fueled speculation the central bank may
refrain from cutting  interest rates  next month.  The krone, this month’s best performing major currency
against the dollar and the euro, strengthened 0.4 percent to
7.5068 per euro and 0.4 percent to 5.6755 per dollar as of 2:35
p.m. in Oslo. The central bank publishes its next rate decision
on March 14.  A report today showed  unemployment fell  to 3.3 percent in
the December quarter, when most economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had predicted no change from 3.4 percent in the prior period.
Declining joblessness suggests the economy of the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter is withstanding  Europe ’s debt
crisis and may prompt central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen to
refrain from cutting rates.  “Given the strong labor market in Norway and the signals
in Governor Olsen’s annual speech last week, indicating that
bringing inflation back to target no longer has top priority, we
expect no cut in the key policy rate in March,” said Kari Due- Andresen, an analyst at Handelsbanken Capital Markets in Oslo,
in a note.  The country’s central bank in December lowered its  main
rate  by half a percentage point to 1.75 percent, its biggest cut
since May 2009, to guard against the fallout on the economy of
Europe’s debt crisis and to avoid excessive krone gains. Olsen
last week signaled his bank’s policy would seek to boost
competitiveness in Norway.  “My general picture is that job prospects in Norway are
quite good,” Olsen said today in Oslo. “Most forecasts that I
know about, also the recent ones from  Statistics Norway , tell us
that unemployment will remain low, more or less at the present
level, so that will be my macro picture as well.”  Krone Signals  Olsen said yesterday that the currency has gained from a
strong level as policy makers struggle to prevent the  exchange
rate  from hurting exporters and distorting consumer prices.  If the krone “remains at the present level or even
strengthens further in the coming weeks, we will see a change of
one important variable compared to what we assessed in
October,” Olsen said. The krone “has strengthened markedly
over the last weeks; it’s been even stronger from an already
strong level.”  Norway, which boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA
rated nation, has emerged as a haven from the crisis. The
country’s statistics office estimates Norway’s economy,
excluding income from oil and shipping, will grow 2.7 percent
this year, versus a European Commission estimate for 0.5 percent
in the euro area.  The  petroleum industry  will invest a record 185 billion
kroner ($32.6 billion) in Norway this year, the statistics
office said in December, citing an industry survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 