-- Novozymes Says Additive Expected to Push Ethanol Prices Lower
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/novozymes-says-additive-expected-to-push-ethanol-prices-lower.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes for biofuels, has produced an additive that may
lower the price of producing ethanol from natural waste
products, a company vice president said.  The enzyme, Cellic CTec3, is more concentrated than its
predecessor and will save biomass-ethanol makers 5 to 10 percent
in total production costs, Poul Reuben Andersen, vice president
for bioenergy at the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company, said in
an interview yesterday.  “You now get more horsepower per enzyme, which for the
companies will lower cost per use,” Andersen said at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  A U.S. law signed in 2007 mandates the nation use 36
billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022, with 16 billion
being cellulosic ethanol. Ethanol produced from biomass may
eventually supplant as much as 25 percent of the gasoline
currently consumed in the U.S., Andersen said. “We envision
further improvements still can be made.”  The enzymes are added to the pulp of wheat straw, corn
stalks, switchgrass and household waste to form sugar and
ferment into fuel and chemicals.  Fiberight LLC, which on Jan. 20 was conditionally approved
by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  for a $25 million loan
guarantee for a cellulosic-ethanol plant in  Iowa , will open a
plant later this year in Lawrenceville,  Virginia , that will use
CTec3 enzymes to produce about 6 million gallons annually.  The U.S. consumed 12.6 billion gallons of ethanol last
year, compared with 5 billion gallons in  Brazil , 2.7 billion in
the European Union and 590 million gallons in  China , according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Denatured ethanol for March delivery fell 1.4 percent to
$2.184 a gallon yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  