-- TNT Seen Delivering Biggest Payout in Europe After Spurning UPS: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/tnt-seen-delivering-biggest-payout-in-europe.html
Traders are betting TNT Express NV
is the most likely takeover target in Europe to get a higher
offer, even after spurning the industry’s richest proposal from
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   Shares of  TNT (TNTE) , Europe’s second-largest package-delivery
company, ended yesterday almost  10 percent  above the unsolicited
bid of 9 euros a share, more than any other pending deal over $1
billion in the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The 4.9 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) offer valued Hoofddorp,
Netherlands-based TNT at 12.7 times  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, 60 percent higher than the
median for comparable acquisitions in the U.S. or Europe.  While the 43 percent premium that UPS proposed to pay is
also the biggest for any transportation services deal in Europe,
Dahlman Rose & Co. and Tullett Prebon Plc say TNT could command
more because it would let UPS more than double its share of
express deliveries in the region to rival  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL.
As the biggest remaining independent package-delivery company in
Europe, TNT may also attract  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and get at least 11
euros a share in a takeover, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said.  “It’s prized in the context that this is the end game in
terms of acquisitions” for European delivery services,  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger arbitrage
strategist at Tullett Prebon, said in a telephone interview.
“UPS knows that they have to up the offer.”  Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for TNT, declined to comment on
whether it had been approached about a competing offer, received
a higher bid from UPS or at what price the company would be
willing to sell itself.  Australian Roots  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s
largest package-delivery company, declined to comment on whether
it was considering increasing its proposal.  Founded  in  Australia  as Thomas Nationwide Transport in 1946,
TNT was spun off in May from the Dutch postal operator, which is
now named PostNL and retains 29.9 percent of the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After reaching 10 euros a share that month, TNT  tumbled  as
much as 54 percent to a low of 4.64 euros as sales and per-share
earnings fell short of  analysts’ estimates  in both the second
quarter and third quarter, the data show.  The stock then surged 60 percent on Feb. 20 after TNT said
in a statement that the supervisory and executive boards turned
down UPS’s “ conditional ” offer and that it was continuing to
negotiate a sale.  UPS, which confirmed that discussions were continuing, said
it had revised and increased its offer to the current bid of 9
euros a share on Feb. 11 after talks with TNT.  Relative Value  The proposal valued TNT at 12.7 times its  Ebitda (TNTE)  of 390
million euros in the past year, or at least 27 percent higher
than any other comparable deal in the transportation services
industry in the U.S. or Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the premium to TNT’s average price in the 20 days
prior to the announcement was also the biggest, the shares ended
at 9.886 euros yesterday, or 9.8 percent above UPS’s bid. The
gap was almost three times as wide as the next billion-dollar
European deal, indicating that merger arbitragers anticipate a
higher bid will emerge, the data show.  “I fully expect another offer to be made,”  Jason Seidl ,
an analyst at Dahlman in New York, said in a telephone interview.  After TNT reported a loss of 270 million euros last year as
trade between  Asia  and Europe slowed and as the company wrote
down the value of its Brazilian operations, analysts estimate
that it will post a profit this year and then boost 2013
 earnings  at more than double the pace of either UPS or FedEx,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Express Deliveries  Buying TNT would increase UPS’s share of European express
deliveries to about 17.3 percent from 7.7 percent, according to
data compiled by research firm  Transport Intelligence . Bonn-
based Deutsche Post’s DHL unit has 17.6 percent of the market.
FedEx, UPS’s main competitor globally, has a 3.3 percent share
in  Europe , the data show.  UPS would also gain an express-delivery business within
 China  from its acquisition of TNT, according to Deutsche Bank AG.
Tullett Prebon’s Shah says combining the two companies could
save as much as 400 million euros in costs.  “It is a very strategic asset and I think it will command
a premium as a result of that,” Benjamin Hartford, an analyst
at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “Can they go higher? Absolutely.”  FedEx may also jump in with a bid to cut into UPS’s
advantage in Europe and to bolster its own lead in Asia, where
TNT gets almost a quarter of its sales, according to  David Ross ,
a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus.  ‘Offensive Move’  Ross said UPS could pay 11 euros a share for TNT and still
add to earnings. A bidding contest could push the price as high
as 15 euros, he said.  “It could be an offensive move for FedEx as much as it’s a
defensive move to go in and try to thwart a UPS takeover,”  Lee Klaskow , a Bloomberg Industries analyst in Skillman,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t seem like the 9-euro
offer is something that will stand.”  Jess Bunn, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx,
said it doesn’t comment on “corporate development matters.”  One reason FedEx could be dissuaded from bidding against
UPS is that it has less than half the $4.1 billion in  cash  that
its larger competitor holds, according to Justin Yagerman, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in  New York . Instead, FedEx may pursue
smaller deals to build its business in the region, he said.  “FedEx is likely not to bid -- it makes a lot more sense
for UPS to buy this company,” Yagerman said in a telephone
interview. “UPS will be able to do this without much of a
premium” to its 9 euro-a-share offer, he said.  Relegated and Marginalized  James Rasteh, president of New York-based White Eagle
Partners LLC, said that TNT can probably get a bigger windfall
for  shareholders  because FedEx can’t afford to let UPS acquire
TNT without making it pay a higher price.  “FedEx needs an asset like this,” Rasteh, who owns TNT
stock, said in a telephone interview. “Without it, they are
going to be relegated to a very distant third position and get
increasingly marginalized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at +49-30-70010-6232 or  cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 