-- Obama Campaign Prepares for Political Fallout From Rising Gasoline Prices
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-22T17:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/obama-campaign-prepares-for-political-fallout-from-rising-gasoline-prices.html
President  Barack Obama  will try to
head off the political impact of rising gasoline prices as
Republicans vow to make the price at the pump an issue in the
2012 election campaign.  Obama plans events this week focusing on his
administration’s efforts to expand domestic exploration and
development of alternative energy sources to combat cyclical
spikes in gas prices.  The price rise, driven in part by increased tensions over
 Iran’s nuclear program  and higher demand as the U.S. recovery
strengthens, is the one negative in recent economic data that
have enhanced Obama’s political position. The cost of gasoline
confronts voters daily.  “Gas prices will be the number one issue by summertime,”
U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , the House
Republicans’ chief vote-counter, said in an interview.  Obama’s political team has been preparing to counter
Republican attacks since the administration denied a permit for
TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL oil pipeline, White House
officials said. The renewed focus on what Obama has described as
an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy kicks off with a speech
tomorrow at the  University of Miami  in  Florida .  White House awareness of the political impact was
illustrated yesterday when the president mentioned higher gas
prices at a White House event promoting the extension of the
payroll tax cut through year’s end.  Typical American Family  Obama said the $40 increase each two-week pay period for a
typical American family “helps to pay the rent, the groceries,
the rising cost of gas -- which is on a lot of people’s minds
right now.”  The White House press secretary,  Jay Carney , came to his
daily press briefing armed with statistics about domestic
exploration and said Obama favors various forms of energy,
including higher fuel-efficiency standards, nuclear reactor
development and alternative energy research.  “There are no magic solutions to rising oil prices and the
pain that Americans feel at the pump,” Carney said. He said the
president is “very aware” of how global oil prices affect U.S.
families.  Crude oil for April delivery gained 7 cents to $106.32 a
barrel at 11:15 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract earlier rose to $106.47, the highest since May 5.  Obama’s Message  Obama’s message will draw largely from previous speeches
and proposals, officials said. He will attribute elevated prices
in part to high demand globally, particularly in  China ,
according to one of the officials, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  He will discuss the steps his administration has taken to
increase domestic production of oil and natural gas, raise fuel
efficiency standards and promote new construction of nuclear
facilities, officials said.  “The  United States  of America cannot afford to bet our
long-term prosperity and our long-term security on a resource
that will eventually run out,” Obama said at  Georgetown
University  in Washington almost a year ago.  The average price for regular gasoline at the pump was
$3.57 yesterday, according to  AAA data . That’s up from $3.17 a
year ago. Prices are the highest ever for this time of year
before the U.S. summer season, when consumption rises.  Stronger Economy  Rising gas prices aside, other signs point to an improving
economy. The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in January, the  unemployment rate  declined for a fourth
consecutive month to  8.3 percent  in January, and claims for
 jobless benefits  dropped in the week ending Feb. 11 to the
lowest level since 2008.  The Republican presidential candidates are turning to
energy to attack Obama.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said this week that
Obama’s energy policies “exist in a fantasy world where we’re
all going to end up buying an electric car.”  “His policy has been outrageously anti-American energy,”
Gingrich said in an interview on “CBS This Morning.” “The
high price of gasoline is a direct result of Obama.”  In advance of a multistate round of primaries on March 6,
Gingrich is buying advertising time in key cities for a 28-
minute speech entitled “$2.50 per Gallon Gasoline, Energy
Independence and Jobs,” according to his campaign.  Environmental Policies  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  blames Obama’s
environmental policies for helping to drive up gasoline prices.  At a rally last night in Phoenix, Santorum accused Obama of
favoring higher gasoline prices to force Americans to drive less
as a way to cut greenhouse gas emissions. He said Obama also has
“systematic plan” to stifle domestic oil and gas production.  “The president of the United States has done everything
possible to shut down energy production,” Santorum said.  While administration officials dismissed Gingrich’s
criticism yesterday, the former speaker’s pledge to bring down
 gas prices  to $2.50 a gallon within the first year of his
presidency could resonate with voters if gas prices remain high
through the November election, said Clyde Wilcox, a government
professor at Georgetown University.  “When people really, really notice it, it becomes an
issue,” Wilcox said. People “kind of get used to the $3.50 to
$3.90 range,” he said.  Canadian Oil  Carney rebutted criticism of Obama’s decision on
TransCanada’s bid to build a $7 billion oil pipeline from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  He said that the administration rejected a Congress-imposed
deadline, not the pipeline, and that Republicans politicized the
issue after being on “the wrong side” of last year’s fight
over extending the payroll tax cut.  Carney said U.S. oil production has risen each year since
Obama took office and is at its highest in eight years. He said
the administration has opened “millions of new acres for oil
and gas exploration” as part of a commitment to expand
“responsible domestic production.”  The administration’s higher automobile fuel-efficiency
standards over a decade will almost double efficiency and cut
oil consumption by 12 million barrels, Carney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  