-- Obama Readies Plan to Cut Corporate Tax Rate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-22T08:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/obama-to-ask-congress-to-lower-corporate-tax-rate-to-28-remove-loopholes.html
The Obama administration will
propose today reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate to 28 percent
from 35 percent along with removing tax breaks for companies to
help offset lost revenue, an administration official said.  The plan would eliminate dozens of tax breaks and reshape
the current manufacturing deduction to reduce the tax rate on
manufacturing to 25 percent, according to the official, who
outlined the proposal on condition of anonymity because it
hadn’t been released. The restructured tax code would still
include incentives for research and development and renewable
energy.  President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  have said corporate taxation is an issue that could
provide an area for agreement with congressional Republicans and
business groups.  “There is, I hope, more room for common ground on this,
and we need to use this opportunity now to start to lay the
foundation for the fundamental change ahead,” Geithner told the
House Ways and Means Committee on Feb. 15.  The plan may face opposition from Republicans who want net
tax cuts, corporations who say the rate reduction should be
deeper and companies that would lose tax breaks they now enjoy.  Business groups , including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
have spent the past three years criticizing the administration’s
approach to international taxation, which has focused on making
it harder for companies to defer U.S. taxes on income earned
outside the country.  International Competitiveness  “Countries around the world are promoting the
international competitiveness of their companies and creating
jobs by adopting modern tax laws that enhance the ability of
their locally headquartered companies to serve foreign
markets,” a coalition of business groups wrote to Obama on Feb.
8. They expressed concern Obama favors proposals that “would go
in exactly the opposite direction,” raising taxes on U.S.
companies with overseas operations.  Geithner told the Ways and Means Committee the
administration will propose retaining breaks that directly
support U.S. investment at home. Treasury officials previously
said the research and development tax credit should survive a
 tax-code  overhaul.  “We’ll have a very important debate about which of those
types of incentives we should preserve, which ones we can’t
afford any longer,” Geithner said.  Tougher Proposals  He also said the administration’s proposals would be
“tougher” in some ways than those outlined by congressional
Republicans.  The current U.S. corporate tax rate is the second-highest
marginal rate in the world, behind  Japan . Effective tax rates on
U.S. companies are below 30 percent, in line with the tax burden
in other major economies. Manufacturers in most industries can
deduct 9 percent of their earnings from domestic production,
meaning that they already get a lower tax rate.  Companies such as  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and Macy’s Inc.
have been urging a lowering of the corporate tax rate. Other
companies, including Apple Inc. and Google Inc., have been
lobbying for a tax holiday on profits earned outside the U.S.  Any change that isn’t a net  tax cut  would tend to raise
taxes on companies that benefit from many tax breaks, such as
drugmakers and technology companies, while lowering payments for
retailers and others that don’t get many tax breaks under the
current system.  Corporate Tax Revenue  The U.S. expects to collect $236.8 billion in corporate
income taxes, or 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, in the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30.  The administration has been working on a corporate tax
overhaul for more than a year. In his 2011 State of the Union
address, Obama blamed “a parade of lobbyists” for the complex
tax code that leaves companies with disparate tax rates.  “Get rid of the loopholes,” he said. “Level the playing
field. And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for
the first time in 25 years -- without adding to our  deficit .  It
can be done.”  This year, the tax portion of Obama’s State of the Union
speech focused on international  tax avoidance  and said he wanted
to remove tax provisions that he said encourage companies to
move jobs outside the country.  “From now on, every multinational company should have to
pay a basic minimum tax,” he said. “And every penny should go
towards lowering taxes for companies that choose to stay here
and hire here in America.”  Minimum Tax  The administration’s budget, released Feb. 13, didn’t
provide details on the minimum tax. It included corporate tax
provisions Congress has blocked.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who heads
the House Ways and Means Committee, has released part of a
proposed corporate tax overhaul. Camp proposed a 25 percent top
rate and changes to the international tax system that would let
companies avoid paying U.S. taxes on most of the income they
earn outside the country.  Last week, Camp urged Geithner to propose a comprehensive
tax-code overhaul that would include changes to corporate and
individual taxation.  The proposals from the administration and Camp are designed
to not increase the federal  budget deficit , in contrast with
policies promoted by the Republican presidential candidates.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, wants to
reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 percent before eliminating
any tax breaks.  Rick Santorum , the former Pennsylvania senator,
wants to cut the rate to 17.5 percent and eliminate corporate
taxes for manufacturers.  Newt Gingrich , the former House speaker, wants to cut the
rate to 12.5 percent and let companies write off all capital
investments immediately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  