-- Obama Proposes Corporate Tax Rate Cut to 28%
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-22T19:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/obama-administration-proposes-corporate-tax-rate-drop-to-28-1-.html
The Obama administration called for
reducing the corporate  tax rate  to 28 percent from 35 percent,
eliminating tax breaks and changing core features of the  tax
code  such as interest deductibility.  The plan, which leaves many details up to Congress, would
retain tax breaks for corporate research, manufacturing and
renewable energy. Over the next decade, the proposal would raise
$250 billion more than the current corporate tax system does,
because expiring provisions would either be allowed to lapse or
offset with revenue increases elsewhere.  “It is time to stop rewarding businesses that ship jobs
overseas, and start rewarding companies that create jobs right
here in America,” President  Barack Obama  said in a written
statement.  The proposal includes ideas his administration has
previously advanced and adds a few new ones. U.S.-based
companies with overseas operations would face a new minimum tax
on their global profits.  New taxes would be imposed on some insurance products,
depreciation schedules would get longer and companies would face
new restrictions on the deductibility of interest. Large
companies that aren’t structured as corporations could face
higher taxes, though the proposal isn’t specific on how that
would happen.  ‘Good Step’  Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he
appreciated the administration’s attention to corporate taxation
even though there are disagreements over the taxation of income
earned outside the country and Obama’s reluctance to offer a
plan that also addresses individual taxation.  “While this is a good step by the administration,” he
said in a statement, “I will borrow from the president’s own
words to Congress from just yesterday: Don’t stop here. Keep
going.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  released the
proposal today in  Washington . He called the current U.S. tax
code “outdated” and “unfair.”  “The current tax code was written for a different economy
in a different era,” he told reporters.  Geithner said he planned to meet with top congressional tax
writers, including Camp, as early as next week.  The framework doesn’t detail how much of the new revenue
would come from ending breaks and how much would come from
changes to structural features such as the interest deduction.  ‘Special Preferences’  “Today’s proposal falls short of the bold reforms that are
sorely needed,” said Katherine Lugar, executive vice president
for public affairs at the Retail Industry Leaders Association, a
trade group in Arlington, Virginia, whose members include  Gap
Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)   In a statement, Lugar said the administration’s proposal
preserves “special preferences” for some industries and
doesn’t change international taxation to match what other
countries have done.  The administration wants the manufacturing, research and
clean-energy tax breaks to remain while other industry-specific
tax breaks would end, officials told reporters in a briefing, on
condition of anonymity.  “These subsidies distort choices about where companies
should invest,” Geithner said.  Exemption for Hotels  Hotels and some other kinds of businesses with operations
that by necessity exist offshore would be exempt from the
proposed new minimum tax on global earnings, according to the
officials.  Administration officials, members of Congress and business
groups have been discussing a potential corporate tax overhaul
for several years.  They disagree over how low the rate should go and on how
income earned outside the U.S. should be taxed.  “This so-called framework is murky, ill-defined and
contradictory to the goal of reducing complexity and making our
tax code more efficient,” said  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top
Republican on the Senate Finance Committee.  Camp has proposed a revenue-neutral overhaul of the
corporate tax code that would drop the top rate to 25 percent
and leave most foreign earnings of U.S. companies untaxed.  Foreign Profits  In contrast, the administration plan would continue to
impose a U.S. tax on foreign profits and would make it harder
for companies to defer that income.  The plan doesn’t include any mention of what would happen
to the more than $1 trillion in untaxed offshore profits now
held by U.S. companies. Some, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , are calling for a tax holiday on repatriating that money.
The administration officials said the treatment of untaxed
earnings would have to be part of the conversation about
imposing the minimum tax.  The Republican presidential candidates are all proposing to
lower corporate taxes without eliminating many tax breaks.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, wants a 25 percent
rate.  Rick Santorum , the former Pennsylvania senator, has
proposed a 17.5 percent rate for most companies and a 0 percent
rate for manufacturing.  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House speaker, has called
for a 12.5 percent rate. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  wants
to set the corporate rate at 15 percent.  James Pinkerton, co-chairman of a coalition of companies
advocating lower corporate tax rates, said the bipartisan
agreement on a lower rate could signal a repeat of the 1986
overhaul of the tax code.  “We’re hopeful that the same larger spirit of public
policy or the spirit of re-election -- between those two
spirits, something will prevail that will make them want to do
it this year,” said Pinkerton, whose RATE Coalition includes
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  and Viacom Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  