-- Obama Says African-American History Museum a ‘Long Time Coming’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-22T16:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/obama-says-african-american-history-museum-a-long-time-coming-.html
President  Barack Obama  broke ground
today for the Smithsonian Institution’s only museum dedicated to
the history of African-Americans, saying it will be “a monument
for all time.”  “This day has been a long time coming,” Obama, the first
black president of the U.S., said at a ceremony on the National
Mall. The museum will serve “not just as a record of tragedy
but as a celebration of life,” he said.  Smithsonian’s National  Museum of African American History 
and Culture, between the Washington Monument and the National
Museum of American History, will document African-American life,
art, history and culture. It’s scheduled to open in 2015.  Obama was joined by former first lady Laura Bush at the
event hosted by actress Phylicia Rashad of television’s “The
Cosby Show.”  The museum, created by Congress in 2003, will be built on a
five-acre site at a cost about $500 million, half of it funded
by taxpayers and the remainder from donations.  Its exhibits will cover all aspects of African-American
life in America, from the era of slavery and the period of
Reconstruction to the Harlem Renaissance and the civil rights
movement of the 1960s. Stories will be illustrated through
research, exhibitions and programs.  The story of the past 400 years must be told “from slavery
to the president, without anger or apology,” said U.S.
Representative  John Lewis , a Georgia Democrat who is a veteran
of the civil rights movement and was among the speakers at
today’s ceremony.  American ‘Triumph’  The museum “isn’t an attempt to pay back” for injustices,
said Kansas Governor Sam Brownback, who as a Republican U.S.
senator sponsored legislation establishing the museum. Rather,
he said, it represents “a triumph of the African-American
people” and will enable American grandchildren “to see the
triumph of great Americans.”  The museum’s collection will represent all regions of the
U.S., with artifacts and artwork reflecting historic and
cultural links to  Africa , the Caribbean,  Latin America  and
 Canada , according to the Smithsonian. The museum will also
feature photographs, movies, archival documents, electronic
data, audio recordings, books and manuscripts.  Among the 25,000 items in the collection is the dress Rosa
Parks was making shortly before her arrest in 1955 for not
giving up her seat on a segregated bus in Montgomery,  Alabama .
Also included are entertainer  Michael Jackson ’s fedora from his
1992 “Victory Tour” and a $600 bill of sale of a 16-year-old
girl as a slave in Jackson County,  Arkansas , in 1835.  The current Museum of African American History and Culture
is located on the second floor of the National Museum of
American History and now features a display on slavery and
“Jefferson’s Monticello: Paradox of Liberty.”  Private donations for the new museum have come from  Aflac
Inc. (AFL) , Bank of America Charitable Foundation,  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
International Business Machines Corp. and the Metropolitan Life
Foundation, according to the Smithsonian’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at  
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  