-- Earthquake Rebuild Spurs Japan Small Caps
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-02-22T15:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/tokyo-small-caps-set-for-longest-win-streak.html
Japan ’s $250 billion in spending to
rebuild after last year’s record earthquake is propelling the
longest streak of advances in more than 50 years for the
country’s smaller stocks.  Japan’s  TSE Second Section Price Index (TSE2) , a capitalization-
weighted measure of smaller companies on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, rose yesterday for a 27th day, the longest series of
gains ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg going back
to 1961.  Four stimulus packages totaling 21 trillion yen have fueled
demand and lifted shares of companies that rely on the domestic
economy, such as regional lender Kirayaka Bank Ltd. and Delica
Foods Co. Japan’s retail sales rose in December by the most in
16 months, boosting prospects for  second section  firms, more
than a  third  of which cater to consumers.  “When these neglected stocks in the second section start
to move, they keep going,” said Hiroyuki Uekusa, general
manager of trading at Meiji Yasuda Asset Management Co.
“Japanese stocks have lagged behind other global markets, and
stocks on the second section of the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange have
lagged the most.”  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  has risen about 83 percent
since March 2009, when global equity markets bottomed after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Topix Index,
Japan’s broadest equities gauge, has gained 18 percent. The
record rally has taken the advance of the second-section measure
to 32 percent.  Even after climbing 10 percent this year, shares on Tokyo’s
small-cap index trade at an average of 0.69 times book value,
compared with 1.2 times for  the Topix.  A number below one means
that companies can be bought for less than value of their
assets.  ‘Unexpectedly Robust’  Companies on the Tokyo bourse’s second section are required
to have at least 800 shareholders and a market value of 2
billion yen, bourse spokeswoman Yukari Hozumi said by phone. For
inclusion in the first section, home to Toyota Motor Corp. and
Canon Inc., companies must have no fewer than 2,200 shareholders
and market capitalization of 50 billion yen.  Japanese consumers are supporting the economy as a stronger
yen and faltering global demand weigh on exports, which slid
last month by the most since May.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in January consumer spending has been
“unexpectedly robust,” citing increased demand after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami.  Delica Foods, Kirayaka  Among companies on the small-cap gauge that have surged
this year, Delica Foods, a vegetable wholesaler, advanced 49
percent since Dec. 30.  Kirayaka Bank (8520)  in the Tohoku area affected
by the disaster has surged 68 percent to 124 yen. The bank’s
earnings rose by 97 percent in the nine months through December,
the company said on Feb. 10.  Building and material companies have benefited. Takasago
Tekko K.K., a metal products manufacturer affiliated with Nippon
Steel Corp., surged 75 percent in the period. Kagetsuenkanko
Co., a resort manager valued at 1.4 billion yen, has risen 229
percent since Jan. 16, leading gains during the second section’s
streak.  Still, Japan’s smaller firms have risen less than measures
tracking exporters and bigger companies because investors are
wary of buying shares that can’t easily be sold, according to
Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research in
Tokyo, who manages $300 million.  “Even if you see some stocks you like, that are cheap and
with fundamentals looking OK, you won’t go there because
liquidity isn’t good,” Merner said. “This is a broad-based
rally. The buying is going everywhere, mostly into medium-size
and bigger stocks and some of the smaller first market stocks.”  Market Capitalization  The Topix Index of the 1,668 largest companies on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange has advanced 13 percent since Dec. 30, hitting a
six-month high yesterday. Shares surged about 6 percent since
last week when the  Bank of Japan  expanded bond purchases by 10
trillion yen, weakening the currency. The yen slipped yesterday
to 80.08, the weakest against the dollar since Aug. 4.  Tokyo’s second section has a market capitalization of 1.47
trillion yen, less than 1 percent of the Topix index’s 179
trillion yen. Nippon Seiki Co., a maker of instrument panels for
cars and boats valued at 61 billion yen, is the second section’s
biggest company.  Some 2.4 billion shares traded hands yesterday on the
Topix, compared with 43.5 million on the smaller gauge.  “The biggest factor supporting domestic-focused shares is
reconstruction demand,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee
the equivalent $24 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Recent gains are mainly driven by an
adjustment in valuations as investors recognize how cheap these
shares are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  