-- Toll Brothers Declines After Builder Reports Unexpected Loss on Expenses
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-02-22T22:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/toll-brothers-reports-first-quarter-loss-as-homebuilder-s-revenue-declines.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, fell the most in three months after
reporting a surprise first-quarter loss as revenue declined and
expenses increased.  The net loss was $2.79 million, or 2 cents a share, for the
three months ended Jan. 31 compared with profit of $3.42
million, or 2 cents, a year earlier, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts expected
earnings of 3 cents a share, the average of 14  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Unexpectedly high expenses contributed to the loss,
according to Wilkes Graham, an analyst at Compass Point Research
& Trading in Washington. Administrative expenses were “21.6
percent of revenues, the all-time highest general and
administrative margin for Toll,” Graham, who has a “neutral”
 rating  on the company, said in an e-mail.  “We were looking for 16 percent,” he said. “Closings
being down 1 percent didn’t help either.”  Toll Brothers fell 5.2 percent to $22.48, the biggest
decline since Nov. 9, at the close in  New York . The company was
the second-biggest loser in the 11-member Standard & Poor’s 1500
Homebuilding  index , which fell 2.7 percent.  Some of the costs were because of the acquisition in
November of CamWest Development LLC, a closely held homebuilder
that operates mostly in the Seattle metropolitan area, Graham
said. Martin Connor, Toll Brothers’ chief financial officer,
cited the purchase as a reason for the increase.  “We are growing the company,” Connor said in the
statement. “With such growth comes some increase in our selling
general and administrative cost in advance of revenues.”  Builders Struggle  Homebuilders have struggled to compete as  foreclosed
properties  sell at a discount and the U.S.  unemployment  rate
remains above 8 percent. Toll Brothers depends on people selling
their homes and buying its more expensive residences.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose in January to an
annual pace of 4.57 million, the highest level since May 2010,
the National Association of Realtors reported today from
 Washington . The results were below the  median  forecast of 4.66
million by 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S.  new-home  sales in January, scheduled for release Feb.
24, probably rose to an annual pace of 315,000, the median
estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Last year,
302,000 new homes sold, the slowest pace in Commerce Department
records dating to 1963.  Miss Not ‘Significant’  Toll Brothers’ earnings miss wasn’t “significant,”
because it was caused by the longer period needed to complete
high-rise condos in New York, which accounted for its most
profitable sales, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr.
said on Bloomberg Television today.  “This is the best we’ve felt in about five years,” he
said on “Street Smart” with  Trish Regan . “For the first three
weeks of February, our orders are up significantly. We’re seeing
deposits up. We’re seeing traffic up.”  Toll Brothers’ first-quarter revenue fell to $322 million
from $334.1 million a year earlier. Home deliveries dropped to
564 units from 570 units. The company’s results included a net
tax benefit of $3.6 million, less than the previous year’s $20.5
million benefit.  ‘One-Off Event’  The company reported pretax writedowns on inventory of $8.1
million. Toll Brothers probably booked the charges now because
its business otherwise is strong and improving, Steven Blitz,
chief economist for ITG Investment Research Inc., said before
the report was released.  “I’d look at that as a one-off event,” Blitz said by
telephone.  Newly signed contracts totaled $444.7 million for 652
units, up from $307.2 million for 548 units a year earlier. The
average price for homes ordered was $682,000, up from $561,000.  The company will deliver 2,600 to 3,200 homes in fiscal
2012, according to the statement. The lower number is 200 homes
more than an estimate in its fourth-quarter earnings statement,
issued Dec. 6. The average price will be $550,000 to $575,000
each, the same as in December, Toll Brothers said.  Megan McGrath, an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
MKM Partners LP said she was “encouraged” by that projection.
Orders are “solid and gross margins essentially in line with
expectations,” she wrote today in a research note.  She also cited higher administrative costs and lower-than-
expected closings in her note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  