-- Hollande Victory in France Would Rattle Europe: Magnus
-- B y   G e o r g e   M a g n u s
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/hollande-victory-in-france-would-rattle-europe-george-magnus.html
If, as opinion polls suggest, the
French Socialist Party’s presidential candidate, Francois Hollande, ousts  Nicolas Sarkozy  in elections this spring, the
euro area may be in for a new wave of instability with far-
reaching consequences for financial markets and the euro system
itself.  The elections are, of course, important above all for
 France . But they can also be seen as a referendum on the German
approach to redesigning Europe’s single currency. This is an
approach that Sarkozy has supported, but that Hollande is
targeting for attack in his election campaign. Small wonder then
that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has offered to campaign on
Sarkozy’s behalf.  If the mechanics and details of the so-called  fiscal
compact  for Europe are the “breaking news” here, the real
substance of the euro debate concerns the sensitive issues of
sovereignty and national self-determination that a well-founded
common-currency design has to invoke. It is these that
ultimately will determine if and how European integration will
evolve.  We already saw a skirmish in this underlying debate when it
was revealed that in negotiations over the fiscal compact,
Germany proposed to put a European commissioner in charge of
Greece’s budgetary policy. This was instantly ruled out by Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, as well as by European
Commission officials, and we can assume the proposal won’t
resurface. But, the German attempt reflected a truth: If
European leaders are serious about fiscal and political
integration, then a key component is the transfer of budgetary
sovereignty to European institutions.  Enter Hollande  Enter  Francois Hollande . On the campaign trail, Hollande
has articulated everything that is wrong with, or missing from,
“Merkozy’s” current approach to integration. This approach has
led to the fiscal compact, which in reality is less a path to
real fiscal integration than a dusted-off and beefed-up
Stability and Growth Pact, the agreement that was supposed to
keep euro-area deficits in check but was never enforced.
Hollande has said he wants to renegotiate the compact, which he
has called a “betrayal of French sovereignty and democracy.”  Hollande has come out in favor of a series of key goals
that even euro skeptics would concede are essential to the
integrity and survival of the euro area. These include a strong
and specific emphasis on measures to spur economic growth, both
nationally and at the level of European institutions; a more
activist policy by the  European Central Bank  with regard to
sovereign-bond purchases; a well-resourced bailout fund or
firewall; and, significantly, joint and severally issued euro-
area bonds.  If elected to office, it’s possible that Hollande might not
be as assertive in pursuing some of these goals, while the
threat to renegotiate the compact might evolve into a program to
amend and enhance it. However, what is striking about Hollande’s
declared platform is that he is backing concrete proposals to
make a fiscal union work that  Germany , for the most part,
implacably opposes. Think about it.  You have to have economic growth to change the perception
about sovereign solvency. This requires not a one-sided
adjustment in the form of relentless austerity in debtor states,
but a symmetric arrangement that involves creditors, too --
primarily Germany. You cannot solve structural external
imbalances successfully unless creditors also take some of the
responsibility for growth and changes, including higher
inflation rates in their own economies.  Shielding Sovereigns  To shield nations, such as  Italy , that are still solvent
but face liquidity problems, and to fund euro imbalances while
economic adjustment is proceeding, you need a big enough
firewall plus the year-to-year bridging finance that only the
ECB can provide. And no fiscal integration makes sense unless
you put in place a commitment to, and timetable for, euro-area
bonds, so that all sovereigns stand behind one another and no
sovereign instruments are distinguishable according to country
or national  credit rating .  So, could Francois Hollande become the French president who
stands up to  Angela Merkel  and says the current goal of a
Teutonic-style euro area is a path to a permanent austerity
zone, laid with land mines of social unrest? Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , who has won back respect for his country
in Europe’s political and economic circles, has already told the
German leader something similar. But if the leader of France --
the euro’s second-biggest economy -- were on board, he could act
as a lightning rod for rising European opposition to the German
approach to integration. If that happens, the future of fiscal
integration in the  euro zone  may be called into question again.  The immediate issue would be how the ECB might respond if
it felt the momentum behind the fiscal compact was stalling or
that it was hostage to new divisions. It seems most unlikely
that the Governing Council would continue to deploy financial
largess, as it does now.  More than that, how would Germany react? Especially in view
of the recovery in poll ratings that Merkel and her party have
seen lately? Remember, Germany’s national self-determination and
sovereignty also are at stake. The country’s opposition to many
of the things that Hollande and others favor, in particular the
creation of euro-area bonds, is based on Germany’s refusal to
hand the Bundestag’s budgetary sovereignty to a European
institution on a continuing basis, at least until such time as
the fiscal compact is cast in stone and functioning as Germany
desires.  Bridge Too Far  The surrender of sovereignty to achieve full fiscal union
is as much a bridge too far for Germany as handing over
budgetary control to external forces is for  Greece . This is not
about pro- or anti-Europe posturing, but about national and
sovereign interests that conflict in a politically integrated
euro area.  Germany wants a federal Europe, built around a rules-based
fiscal Ordnung, or discipline, which would be enforced by
supranational institutions, such as the  European Commission  and
the  European Court of Justice . Officials in Berlin want to see
this new order firmly established before considering bigger
concessions over their nation’s fiscal sovereignty. France
prefers that power reside in the  European Council , which
collects the heads of state of the member countries. Louis XIV’s
dictum “L’etat, c’est moi” is anything but an abstract concept
to this day in the Fifth Republic. Hollande would like to see
Germany make concessions on its fiscal sovereignty upfront.  Those tensions suggest the French elections may prove to be
the catalyst for a further bout of jitters in  Europe .  ( George Magnus  is a senior economic adviser at UBS AG. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
George Magnus at  george.magnus@ubs.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  