-- Homs Residents Seek to Negotiate Cease-Fire After Attack Kills Journalists
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-22T10:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/homs-residents-seek-to-negotiate-cease-fire-after-attack-kills-journalists.html
Residents of Homs, the Syrian city
under siege for almost three weeks, sought to negotiate a cease-
fire with the army, according to activists, as two western
journalists were reportedly killed by an artillery attack.  “Water and food are scarce, the situation is very dire in
the Baba Amr neighborhood,” Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by phone from Damascus today.
He said families from Homs were trying to negotiate a temporary
cease-fire with the government to be able to tend and evacuate
the wounded, and collect and bury the dead.  The two journalists were killed when a rocket hit a house
used by activists as a media center, Al Jazeera television
reported. The London-based Times, citing Reuters, identified
them as Marie Colvin of the Sunday Times and French photographer
Remi Ochlik.  Syria ’s assault on rebels in Homs and other strongholds
including the northern province of Idlib left more than 100 dead
yesterday, according to Merei and the Local Coordination
Committees, an opposition group with a network of activists in
the country. Ministers from the U.S., European Union and Arab
nations will attend a summit in  Tunisia  this week to discuss how
to assist the struggle to oust President Bashar al-Assad.  Merei said more than 8,500 people have been killed since
the conflict began in March last year. The  United Nations 
estimates that more than 5,400 were killed last year. About
40,000 members of Syria’s 270,000-strong security forces have
defected, according to Turkish Foreign Ministry estimates.  Army Reinforcements  The shelling of Baba Amr resumed at around 7 a.m. today,
the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said. The
group said that the army is sending additional troops to the
southern province of Daraa, and also carrying out raids in Idlib
and the eastern town of Deir al-Zour.  EU governments are moving toward stiffer sanctions on Syria
and considering trade restrictions and a freeze on central bank
assets. The  Arab League  has already suspended Syria and imposed
economic sanctions. Russia and  China  blocked a resolution at the
 Security Council  this month, supported by the U.S., EU and Arab
League, calling on Assad to step down in favor of an interim
government that would hold elections.  Assad accused unidentified foreign interests of providing
weapons and financial support to “armed terrorist groups” as
they seek to destabilize Syria, the official  Syrian Arab News
Agency  reported Feb. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  