-- Honda Putting No. 2 Executive in U.S. in Localization Drive
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-22T21:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/honda-putting-no-2-global-manager-in-u-s-in-localization-drive.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  plans to post its
second-highest ranking global executive in the U.S. for the
first time as the automaker that was  Japan ’s first to build cars
in the market extends a three-decade localization push.  Tetsuo Iwamura, 60, Honda’s chief operating officer for
North America, on April 1 adds the titles of executive vice
president and executive officer, the Tokyo-based company said
today in a statement. Iwamura is to also join Honda’s board in
late June, pending shareholder approval, the company said.  Iwamura will continue to run operations in North America
while assisting President Takanobu Ito in managing global sales,
said Jun Odajima, a company spokesman. “This is the first time
the top North American executive has also been the No. 2 company
official,” he said.  The promotion of Iwamura and naming of Erik Berkman to lead
Honda’s U.S. research and development unit, the first time that
job has gone to a non-Japanese engineer, come as the company
lifts production across  North America , its biggest source of
revenue, to counter a rising yen. Honda is increasing vehicle
output at plants in the U.S. and Canada, adding a factory in
Mexico to build subcompacts and preparing to make the Acura NSX
supercar in Ohio by 2014.  Berkman, currently vice president of corporate planning and
logistics for U.S. auto operations, is to become president of
Honda R&D Americas on April 1, the company said.  Honda’s U.S. headquarters are in Torrance, California. The
company’s American depositary receipts rose 1.3 percent to
$37.28 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  