-- OneRoof Energy Adds Solar-Power Savings to Homeowner Roof Tiles
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-22T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/oneroof-energy-adds-solar-power-savings-to-homeowner-roof-tiles.html
OneRoof Energy , a closely held San
Diego-based solar company, will spend much of the $50 million
acquired in its first funding round to buy residential power
systems for as many as 1,200 homes.  OneRoof’s solar panels can double as roofing tiles while
generating electricity for the home. The company trains workers
to install the systems and then leases them to homeowners at
little to no upfront cost, Chief Executive Officer David Field
said in a phone interview last week.  Field is scheduled to appear with San Diego Mayor Jerry Sanders today to announce OneRoof’s plans to add about 100 jobs
this year. The company was supported in its first financing
round by  Black Coral Capital  and other investors, Field said on
Feb. 16. A second round is expected to close this year, he said.  Former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in 2004
called for the state to have solar panels installed on  a million
roofs  by 2017. To spur demand for solar power and other forms of
clean power, the U.S. Treasury Department offers a 30 percent
tax credit for construction projects using renewable energy. The
subsidy is in place until 2016.  “One of the issues in the industry is that there’s a
pretty high consumer-acquisition cost,” Nikhil Garg, a vice
president at Boston-based Black Coral Capital, said yesterday.
“Talking directly to the developer of these communities, you
can really drive down the cost of solar install.”  Homebuilders want to work with OneRoof because customers
don’t have to pay upfront for the technology and “now they’ll
use that money for upgraded counter tops or for larger floor
plans,” Field said. The installations can cut monthly power
bills 10 to 20 percent, Field said.  OneRoof is starting work on a second round of funding and
“expects to close that by the middle part of this year,” Field
said. Garg, who declined to disclose the size of Black Coral’s
initial investment, said “we’re going to be actively looking at
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  