-- Tony Blair’s Wife Cherie Sues News Corp., Convicted Phone-Hacker Mulcaire
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-23T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/tony-blair-s-wife-cherie-sues-news-corp-convicted-phone-hacker-mulcaire.html
Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair’s wife Cherie sued  News Corp. (NWSA)  and a former private
investigator for its now-defunct News of the World tabloid for
hacking into her phone.  The lawsuit, filed Feb. 21 against the company’s U.K. unit
and  Glenn Mulcaire , comes as News Corp. prepares for the first
civil trial over the scandal, scheduled to start next week in
London. The company has already settled phone-hacking claims by
Blair’s former press chief,  Alastair Campbell , and former Deputy
Prime Minister  John Prescott .  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch shuttered the News of
the World in July in a bid to contain public anger after it was
revealed the tabloid hacked into the voice mails of a murdered
schoolgirl. While most of the current lawsuits have settled, the
company may face claims by more than 800 possible victims
identified by police.  “If it is true that a former prime minister’s family have
been targeted by Rupert Murdoch’s hackers, then it is clearly a
significant moment in the scandal,”  Tom Watson , a Labour Party
lawmaker who is on a parliamentary committee investigating the
scandal, said in an e-mail.  A message left with the press office of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit, News International, wasn’t immediately returned.
Mulcaire’s lawyer,  Sarah Webb , didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. Mulcaire was jailed in 2007 for hacking phones
of members of Britain’s royal family.  ‘Unlawful Interception’  “We have issued a claim on behalf of Cherie Blair in
relation to the unlawful interception of her voice mails,” her
lawyer, Graham Atkins of Atkins Thomson Solicitors in London,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “I will not be
commenting any further at this time.” Full details of the suit
aren’t yet available.  Tony Blair , who led Labour to three successive general-
election victories starting in 1997, regularly consulted with
Murdoch during his decade in office. Vogue magazine reported
last year that in 2010 he’d become godfather to Murdoch’s
daughter Grace. His office didn’t respond to an e-mail
requesting confirmation.  Cherie Blair, 57, was the subject of media attention
throughout her husband’s premiership. She continued her career
as a human-rights lawyer, and spoke of the difficulty of
juggling life as a working mother of young children and the wife
of the prime minister. Her father, Tony Booth, a prominent actor
who supported Labour, was critical of many of his son-in-law’s
policies.  ‘Rough Ride’  “For a long time she felt she had a very rough ride from
the press,” John Rentoul, Blair’s biographer, said in a
telephone interview. “We saw that when she left Downing
Street” on the day Blair left office in 2007.  “I don’t think we’ll miss you,” she told the assembled
press as the Blairs quit the prime-ministerial residence in
central  London  for the last time.  Cherie Blair also created her own problems. In 2006 she was
overheard being rude about  Gordon Brown , as he made a speech
praising her husband, after Blair had been forced by followers
of Brown to set a date for the then chancellor of the exchequer
to succeed him as premier.  In 2000, she became the first wife of a serving prime
minister in more than a century to give birth. Giving evidence
to the judicial inquiry into media ethics last year, Blair’s
spokesman, Alastair Campbell, suggested papers might have got
wind of her pregnancy by phone hacking.  “With Cherie Blair in particular, she was turning up at
places and the press was finding out about it,” Campbell said.
He pointed to Associated Newspapers Ltd.’s Mail newspapers and
Trinity Mirror Plc’s Mirror as having obtained stories that left
him and his colleagues “scratching our heads saying, ‘How the
hell did that get out?”’  ‘Criminal Wrongdoing’  “I hope Cherie Blair will also establish whether she was a
target for covert surveillance and computer hacking,” Watson
said. “And I hope Tony Blair comes forward to condemn  Rupert
Murdoch ’s failure to deal with the criminal wrongdoing that went
on over many years at News Corp. U.K.”  News Corp. paid 130,000 pounds last month ($204,000) to
settle hacking claims by the actor Jude Law and 50,000 pounds to
settle a complaint from his ex-wife, Sadie Frost.  A test trial involving singer Charlotte Church to determine
damages in future cases is scheduled to start next week in
London. Church may settle the suit before then, the Financial
Times reported.  News Corp. has agreed to pay out $15.6 million to phone-
hacking victims, settling at least 54 lawsuits out of 60 that
were filed by October.  Police, Judicial Probes  The scandal has resulted in separate legislative, judicial
and police probes. Five journalists at News Corp.’s Sun tabloid
in London were arrested on Feb. 11 as part of a related
investigation into bribes to officers and government officials.  News International will release a Sunday edition of its Sun
tabloid this week, overseen by Murdoch. The 80-year-old News
Corp. chairman flew into London last week to announce the new
newspaper and reassure staff after 10 reporters were arrested as
part of the police investigation into bribery.  He will stay in town for “several weeks” while the new
edition gets off the ground. The tabloid will fill the hole left
by the News of the World.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The case is  Cherie Blair  v. Newsgroup Newspapers,  High
Court  of Justice Chancery Division, No. HC12C00657.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  