-- Most Affluent Would Raise Social Security Age, BofA Survey Finds
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-02-22T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/most-affluent-would-raise-social-security-age-bofa-survey-finds.html
Affluent Americans support raising
the Social Security age because people are living longer, a  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  survey said today.  About 59 percent of people with more than $250,000 in
investable assets said the government should increase the
eligibility age for collecting retirement benefits, according to
the  study , which interviewed 1,000 individuals in December.
Social Security lets recipients take reduced payments as early
as age 62. It currently provides full benefits at age 66 and
increases payouts for those who wait until age 70.  “Many don’t think they’ll start taking benefits until
later,” said David Tyrie, head of personal wealth and
retirement for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “They’re living
longer and are still working or plan to be working when they
become eligible, and don’t need it yet.”  The  trust fund  which pays for Social Security benefits is
projected to begin shrinking after 2022 as people are living
longer and there are fewer workers supporting each retiree,
according to a  report  by the Social Security and Medicare Boards
of Trustees. The program is funded by  payroll taxes . Congress
voted last week to extend through 2012 a two percentage point
cut in that levy on workers’ wages to 4.2 percent.  Many employees age 55 and older are remaining on the job to
save enough for retirement as fewer businesses offer retiree
health benefits and traditional pensions that guarantee a stream
of income, the Employee Benefit Research Institute said in a
 report  released on Feb. 16. There also is a desire by some,
particularly those with more education, to keep working if they
enjoy their positions and are physically able to do them, Ebri
said.  More Older Workers  The rate of people age 55 and older participating in the
 labor force , which means they are either working or looking for
employment, was about 40 percent last year compared with about
29 percent in 1993 based on U.S. Labor Department data.  “People aren’t saying retirement is about hitting an
age,” Tyrie said in a phone interview last week. Less than 15
percent of respondents over age 50 in the Bank of America study
said that age would be a primary cause in their decision, he
said.  About 62 percent of respondents in the survey who weren’t
retired yet and were younger than age 62 said they would wait to
full  retirement age  or after to begin collecting Social
Security. About 20 percent said they would begin collecting
before full retirement age.  Those surveyed weren’t asked what age they would raise
Social Security eligibility to, said Matt Card, a spokesman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, which is the
second-largest U.S. lender by assets.  Deficit a Concern  A separate study of affluent Americans released in December
by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  found that about half, or 47 percent, also
were willing to take a cut in Social Security or Medicare
benefits if the money went to reducing the  U.S. debt , according
to that survey of 801 individuals with at least $100,000 in
investable assets.  Wealthy Americans estimate on average that Social Security
will cover about 23 percent of their monthly retirement income,
the Wells Fargo report said. The San Francisco-based bank has
about $280 billion in individual retirement account assets, said
Karen Wimbish, director of retail retirement for Wells Fargo.  While Americans are worried about having enough saved for
retirement, they’re also concerned about the U.S. deficit and
solvency of Social Security, Wimbish said.  “The country’s debt and its spending beyond its revenue
capacity is clearly on the minds of people,” Wimbish, who is
based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in a phone interview
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  