-- Picasso’s Naked Man Selling for $23 Million Shows Gagosian Clout
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/picasso-s-naked-man-selling-for-23-million-shows-gagosian-clout.html
Pablo Picasso  met Francoise Gilot,
then a 21-year-old painter, in a Paris restaurant in 1943 during
the Nazi occupation, and the two became lovers. While artists
such as  Max Ernst  fled Paris for the U.S., Picasso hung tough
even though the Germans prohibited his art from being shown.  “People of my generation admired Picasso because he
stayed,” says Gilot, now 90, who lives in Manhattan. “We
thought mostly of that courage.”  After the war, in 1948, Picasso and Gilot settled in
Vallauris in southern France. The move was liberating for
Picasso, spurring a burst of experimentation with sculptures,
ceramics and lithographs. Beginning on April 30, works from this
period will make up the fourth in a series of Picasso
exhibitions at Larry Gagosian’s galleries in New York and
 London , Bloomberg Pursuits reports in its premier issue.  The Gagosian shows unite the world’s biggest fine
art dealer and its best-selling artist over the past decade. The
involvement of Picasso’s heirs and his most noted biographer,
 John Richardson , have turned the exhibitions into blockbusters
by private-gallery standards. The first three events drew a
total of 260,000 visitors to view about 300 artworks.  “Having the opportunity to work closely with John
Richardson and the Picasso family on what will be our fourth
major exhibition has been professionally, and on a personal
level, one of the most exciting chapters in the gallery’s
history,” Gagosian says.  Gagosian’s Strategy  Three-quarters of the pieces in these exhibitions were
either loaned by or consigned from Picasso’s family, including
his children and grandchildren, giving collectors their first
look at many works.  “Each of Picasso’s seven heirs inherited a remarkable
collection of the artist’s work,” says Richardson, who’s
finishing the final book of his four-volume biography, A Life of
Picasso (Alfred A. Knopf,  1991 ,  1996 ,  2007 ).  The shows exemplified the strategy Gagosian, 66, has used
to expand to 11  galleries  in  Asia ,  Europe  and the U.S. After
opening his first gallery in a 10-foot-wide (3-meter-wide)
former Hungarian restaurant in  Los Angeles  in 1977, he has built
an A-list roster of clients, including hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen, private-equity magnate Leon Black and real-estate
investor and philanthropist Eli Broad. Gagosian often jumps into
a rising market and lifts it even higher, says Beverly Schreiber Jacoby, president of New York-based  BSJ Fine Art  and a valuation
specialist.  ‘Great Marketer’  In 2010, the year after Gagosian put on  Picasso:
Mosqueteros , which focused on his late works from the 1960s and
1970s, a collector paid $18 million for a 1964 Picasso painting
-- a record for this period. That topped the prior high of $17.4
million set in 2008. In November 2011, an unnamed collector set
a new record, paying $23 million for a 1967 Picasso depicting a
naked man playing a recorder for his nude lover.  “Gagosian is a great marketer,” says  Michael Steinhardt ,
chairman of hedge fund  WisdomTree Investments Inc.  and a buyer
of Picassos in the 1980s and 1990s. “He has created a force in
the market by accumulating paintings and having wonderful
exhibitions.”  Richardson, 88, a Briton who was a friend of Picasso’s from
1949 until the artist’s death in 1973, has served as a curator
for the shows. He wrote long, scholarly essays for the unusually
large, 300-page hardcover catalogs, which included letters and
photographs of the artist in addition to plates of his artworks.
Richardson says the fourth show will focus on the influence that
Gilot, whose image appears in ceramics, lithographs and
paintings, and the town of Vallauris had on Picasso’s work.  Revolutionary Artist  “The years of Vallauris are enormously important,” says
Richardson, a critic and former professor of fine art at Oxford
University. “He revolutionized the whole craft of ceramics,
turning it into an art form. He reinvented the art of
lithography, which had been a boring medium, into a major
medium. He breaks all the rules.”  Picasso’s famous  She-Goat  sculpture (1950) -- assembled
with discarded objects, including an old wicker basket to make
the rib cage and two broken ceramic pitchers for the udders --
is just one example from the period.  Valentina Castellani, a Gagosian gallery director in New
York, is the main organizer of the Picasso exhibitions.
“Valentina is at the center of everything,” Richardson says.
“She is Larry’s right hand.”  Bullfights With Picasso  She first met Richardson in 2007 when she reached out to
the writer for his advice on the gallery’s upcoming Giacometti-
Bacon show. Richardson had just published the third volume of
Picasso’s biography, drawing on his close friendship. Richardson
had accompanied the Spanish artist to bullfights in southern
 France  in the 1950s and threw dinners for him at the chateau
near Nimes that the writer shared with cubist-art collector
Douglas Cooper.  “Often when there was a bullfight, Picasso would drive
over,” Richardson recalls. “He would give us lunch at a
restaurant beforehand. Afterwards, we would give a dinner for
him, the bullfighter and his entourage.”  Richardson’s intimate knowledge of the artist’s work
prompted Castellani to suggest to Gagosian that the gallery
collaborate with the scholar on a Picasso exhibition. Gagosian
already knew Bernard Ruiz-Picasso, who had been interested in
promoting his grandfather’s lesser-known works. So Castellani,
Gagosian, Richardson and Ruiz-Picasso met for lunch and agreed
to showcase Picasso’s late production, from 1962 to 1972, partly
because collectors were expressing more interest in this
previously overlooked period.  New Lease on Life  Picasso remained prolific until his death at age 91,
creating about 50,000 works in all. His recovery from ulcer
surgery in 1965 spurred his last flurry of work, starting when
he was in his mid-80s, Richardson says.  “Most other people at that age would have lapsed into
invalidism,” he says. “For Picasso, it was a challenge. During
his convalescence, he read books on Rembrandt and Goya. When he
recovered, he felt he had a new lease on life, and he worked
intensively in the light and shade of these great masters.”  Picasso produced large and boldly colored expressionistic
canvases. They featured invented characters inspired by the
riffraff that gathered at the back of the open theaters in 17th
century  Spain , as well as bullfighters. Though Picasso quit
smoking after his surgery, he frequently equipped his subjects
with pipes.  “Nostalgia for tobacco comes across in the long white clay
pipes held by his mosqueteros,” Richardson says. “A self-
portrait with the red around the eye I find absolutely
terrifying. It’s Picasso outstaring death.”  Picasso: Mosqueteros  The first exhibition was called Picasso: Mosqueteros, which
Richardson says was a word for the misfits that the artist
painted. The show featured 53 paintings and 39 prints from his
late period and drew 100,000 people.  “We always have a few works for sale,” says Castellani,
who declined to provide details of purchases. “We send out a
message that Gagosian is a place where you can both sell and buy
Picassos of the highest quality.”  While Mosqueteros was on view, a 1968 Picasso painting from
the collection of Jerome Fisher, co-founder of footwear company
 Nine West Group Inc (866200Q) ., fetched $14.6 million at  Christie’s  in  New
York . That was double the price that Fisher paid for the work in
2004.  Steinhardt, the hedge-fund manager, says he had dismissed
the last decade of Picasso’s work as inferior. “I was loath to
get into the late-Picasso market,” says Steinhardt, who has
bought works from the 1920s and 1930s instead. “But I was
proven wrong.”  The Mediterranean Years  Encouraged by the success of the first show, Gagosian and
Richardson decided to do a second --  Picasso: The Mediterranean
Years  -- in the summer of 2010 in London. Richardson came up
with the idea to focus on the influence of the Mediterranean on
Picasso. He was born in the coastal city of Malaga, Spain, and
frequently lived in seaside towns in the French Riviera.  Picasso’s paintings, sculptures, cutouts and ceramics from
1945 to 1962 illustrate musicians, dancers and animals with
playfulness and delight. Images of Gilot and their two children,
Claude and Paloma, and his second wife,  Jacqueline Roque , whom
he married in 1961, also appear in the artworks. The show drew
60,000 people, fewer than the first.  Marie-Therese Walter  Marie-Therese Walter, the subject of a Picasso painting
that drew the highest price ever for an artwork at auction, was
the inspiration for Gagosian’s third exhibition. Picasso’s 1932
portrait of his mistress and muse, called Nude,  Green Leaves  and
Bust, sold for $106.5 million at Christie’s in New York in May
2010.  Picasso met Walter, then a 17-year-old French girl, on a
street in Paris in 1927. At the time, he was married to his
first wife,  Olga Khokhlova , a former Russian ballerina. By then,
his radical experimentation with cubism, which he helped pioneer
around 1910, had given way to a more-traditional neoclassical
style.  “He was a bit bored,” says Diana Widmaier-Picasso,
granddaughter of the artist and Marie-Therese. “Suddenly Marie-
Therese brings this fresh youth, sensuality and desire to renew
himself. He feels so free that he is ready to explore again in
his art.”  Widmaier-Picasso suggested that Gagosian focus a third show
on her grandfather’s relationship with Walter. During Picasso’s
years with his mistress, from 1927 to 1940, he produced some of
his greatest works.  Artist’s Daughter  They include the  Vollard Suite , a set of 100 etchings
depicting lovers, satyrs and mythological creatures, and
Guernica, painted in 1937, illustrating the human suffering from
the bombing of the Basque region during the Spanish Civil War.
The artist also made large sculptures of the voluptuous Walter.  “He buys a castle outside Paris where he is able to
install a sculpture studio and begins making monumental
sculpture,” Widmaier-Picasso says.  Acquavella Galleries in New York held a Marie-Therese
Walter show in 2008 with 15 pieces that attracted 25,000
visitors. Gagosian aimed for a bigger event that included works
from the artist’s family. But Maya Widmaier-Picasso, 76, the
artist’s daughter and Diana’s mother, resisted the idea of a
show about the clandestine love affair.  “It was not an easy project,” says Diana, who lives in
New York. “My mother has always been very protective with the
relationship that her parents had. I had to convince her that
the love affair between her parents was not a secret to anyone.
It belonged to art history.”  Salman Rushdie  On a warm night in April 2011, a long line formed outside
of Gagosian’s gallery in Chelsea to see  Picasso and Marie-
Therese: L’Amour Fou  (Mad Love). Novelist  Salman Rushdie ;  News
Corp. (NWS)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his wife, Wendi; actress  Kim Cattrall ; and Leon and Debra Black were there. They saw
portraits of Walter that are the definition of rapture and lust;
others are filled with tenderness. A painting lent by  Steven Cohen  depicts her as a cross between a woman and an octopus.  “Picasso used to say, ‘Art can only be erotic,’” Diana
Widmaier-Picasso says. “He couldn’t be creative without love.”  Almost all of the 90 works in the show, which drew about
100,000 visitors, had been rarely if ever exhibited before.  “We’ve never seen a Marie-Therese show like this,” says
Carmen Gimenez, the Stephen and Nan Swid curator of 20th century
art at the  Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum , which lent a 1931
painting of a sleeping Walter to the exhibition.  Gilot Leaves Picasso  Gilot is now working with Richardson and Castellani on the
fourth exhibition, which will cover her years with Picasso, from
1943 to 1953. Richardson says they lived in a small house in
Vallauris with a garden and raised their two children until she
became the only woman to leave him.  “I am very independent,” she says. “I was a completely
new type of woman for him.”  Picasso used terra-cotta roof tiles to make full-length
images of Gilot, who was 40 years younger than he. Picasso also
sculpted her as pregnant and as wheeling a baby carriage. His
canvases transformed her into a flower and captured her playing
with their children.  “These sculptures relate to their life at Vallauris, the
little villa where they lived, and Le Fournas, the derelict
former orange-flower distillery where he revolutionized painting
and sculpture,” Richardson says. “He’d gather scrap metal from
a nearby junkyard and turn it into sculpture.”  Richardson, who has written about Picasso for half a
century, still gets excited about his friend’s art. Sitting in
his  Manhattan  apartment, which overflows with books, flowers and
works by Picasso, Warhol and Ingres, he makes a promise about
the fourth show.  “Our show will cast new light on a period that has never
been studied in depth,” he says.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 