-- Pimco Said to Quit Mortgage Bond Group
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-22T16:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/pimco-said-to-quit-mortgage-bond-group-after-foreclosure-deal-disagreement.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
quitting the  American Securitization Forum (0150170D)  after the trade group
declined to issue a statement about investors’ views on the
nationwide foreclosure settlement this month by five banks, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Pimco, manager of the world’s  biggest bond fund , informed
ASF  Executive Director   Tom Deutsch  of its decision in early
February, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
talks were private. The episode underscored Pimco’s concern that
the trade group doesn’t advocate for debt buyers as well as
banks that underwrite mortgages, the people said.  The foreclosure agreement resolves state and federal probes
into practices such as so-called robo-signing. The settlement
was criticized by money managers who say their clients may bear
part of the costs because lenders, including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , can get credit for easing terms
on home loans that were packaged into bonds owned by others.  “It treats people’s 401(k)s and pensions like perpetrators
as opposed to victims,”  Scott Simon , the mortgage-bond head at
Newport, California-based Pimco, said in a Feb. 9 phone
interview, hours after the settlement was announced.  Simon declined to comment on his firm’s decision to quit
ASF, as did Deutsch, who faced other defections this year over
governance complaints highlighted in a Feb. 2 letter of
resignation to the board from Vernon Wright, its first chairman.  Independence From Sifma  The ASF, which counted Pimco Managing Director Daniel Ivascyn as a board member, was founded in 2002 as part of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall
Street’s biggest lobbying group. In 2010, the New York-based ASF
decided to become independent of Sifma.  Bondholders asked the ASF to publish a press release on
their views of the pending foreclosure settlement after being
denied last month by Sifma, which cited the “potential legal
issues involving the commercial interests of many of our
members.” Both organizations include banks that sell,
underwrite, service and trade debt.  U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
told reporters Feb. 9 that “a relatively small share, in the
range of 15 percent, of the principal reduction” for homeowners
resulting from the settlement will come from investor-owned
loans.  “Nothing in it requires any trustee or servicer to reduce
principal where it’s not allowed legally by the underlying
documents,” Donovan said. “The misunderstanding somehow that
investors will be paying the banks’ share is just false.”  Record Attendance  The ASF is among groups vying to influence policy makers
amid the largest financial regulatory overhaul since the 1930s
and following a crisis triggered partly by securitization, the
packaging of assets such as mortgages into bonds.  The organization helped spur industry-led reforms meant to
revive the almost-frozen  market  for home-loan securities that
aren’t backed by the government. In August, for example, its
“Project Restart” initiative offered suggested best practices
for new mortgage-bond contracts to aid in dealing with claims of
faulty loans.  Deutsch said in an e-mail that he’s “proud of the
achievements of the ASF in the two years since becoming an
entity distinct from Sifma.” ASF’s annual conference last month
in  Las Vegas  drew more than 5,000 people, a record, he said.  In 2009, asset managers seeking more outlets for their
opinions started the Association of Mortgage Investors, which
has issued press releases critical of the foreclosure deal.
Yesterday, in a statement, the group called for monthly reports
on steps banks are taking to adhere to the settlement. The
Association of Institutional Investors, which includes larger
asset managers such as Loomis Sayles & Co., was formed in 2010.  Separate Entity  Wright, an ASF founder and advisory board member who was
chief financial officer of credit-card issuer MBNA Corp., said
in his letter that the group’s directors were frustrated in
attempts to win governance changes. Wright confirmed his
resignation letter and declined to comment further.  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired MBNA in 2006.  The ASF, as part of its divorce from Sifma, created a
separate entity to house its operations, Wright said in the
letter. As a result, directors haven’t been able to see
financial information, including staff pay, and have no legal
control over the group, he said. The “corporate-governance
concerns lead me to the conclusion that the executive director
is not being properly supervised,” Wright wrote.  ‘Never Been Stronger’  Gregg Silver, CFO of South Dakota-based 1st Financial Bank
USA and a member of ASF’s management committee, said in a phone
interview that he resigned last month for reasons similar to
those expressed by Wright. ASF Chairman Ralph Daloisio, a
managing director at Paris-based Natixis, declined to comment.  “Financial statements have been seen by a number of
members of the organization,” Deutsch said. “Those statements
demonstrate that the financial position of the ASF has never
been stronger.”  The completion of its separation from Sifma “has
unfortunately taken longer than expected,” he said. Resolving
the remaining issues “will allow the ASF to take the final
steps toward becoming a complete, independent entity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  