-- Political Expediency Beats Good Policy in Obama’s Tax Plan: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-22T00:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/political-expediency-beats-good-policy-in-obama-s-tax-plan-view.html
Presidents often trade imperfect
policy for political expediency, and the tax proposals in
President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013  budget  are a good example.
In stitching new bits and pieces to an already Frankenstein-like
income-tax code, the budget is a showcase for muddled aims
producing bad policy, especially when it comes to taxing
investment income.  Beyond higher levies on millionaires, the president’s plan
makes only modest progress toward goals we applaud, including
raising more money and making the tax system fairer. The
president does too little to broaden the tax base, which is the
best way to combine the goals of greater simplicity, more
revenue and less  tax avoidance . As Obama prepares to offer a
corporate-tax reform measure, he should keep these first
principles in mind.  First, the good news. The administration wants to tax
dividends and so-called carried interest (the share of profits
that hedge-fund managers and private-equity partners receive) as
ordinary income, a change that’s long overdue. It also proposes
to cap  tax deductions  for those earning more than $1 million,
which broadens the base -- a smart move, albeit an unduly timid
one.  Unfortunately, Obama’s plan also includes a host of new tax
breaks and  preferences  for activities the administration wants
to encourage. It leaves the treatment of capital gains (apart
from carried interest) largely unreformed. And it pushes top
marginal rates to 39.6 percent, higher than they need to be to
achieve the administration’s revenue and fairness goals.  Better Plan  It’s not hard to envision a better plan. Several smarter
blueprints already exist, including one by the president’s own
fiscal commission. The  Simpson-Bowles  proposal achieves roughly
the same revenue gains and  deficit reduction  as the Obama budget
but in a way that simplifies the system, makes it fairer, and
dramatically lowers marginal rates for almost all taxpayers.  It’s worth remembering that many tax experts regard even
the Simpson-Bowles plan as too cautious. Most public-finance
economists think a more radical overhaul is needed to shift the
burden of taxation from income to consumption, so as to
encourage savings and economic growth. We’re for that, too, but
it’s too ambitious for a Congress that struggles to agree on
anything, let alone a plan as far-reaching as that.  Incremental Improvement  If root-and-branch reform is out, the focus needs to be on
incremental improvement, the scope for which is almost
unlimited. Taxes on  capital gains  are a notable instance. At the
moment, gains realized a year or more after an investment is
made are taxed at just 15 percent. The case for this
preferential rate is that profits have already been taxed once
at the corporate level and that gains realized after many years
have been boosted by inflation, so that in real terms the income
is less than it looks.  In principle, both points are valid. In practice, though,
effective rates of corporate  tax  vary widely from company to
company. With smart planning, profits can escape some, if not
all, corporate tax. Notice, too, that this is another case of a
tax base being hollowed out by exemptions and preferences, so
that higher rates are needed to collect even modest amounts of
revenue.  As for taxing gains due to inflation, that may seem unfair.
But the same issue arises for interest payments (nominal rather
than inflation-adjusted interest payments are taxed), and the
deferral of any tax liability until capital gains are realized
is an important offsetting benefit.  Lower and Flatter  Lower, flatter corporate taxes plus lower, more uniform
taxes on income, including capital gains, are the fairest, most
efficient approach -- with a side benefit of minimizing
avoidance tactics. Apply a lower rate of tax to a broader base
of corporate income; then tax capital gains (perhaps with an
allowance for inflation) at the ordinary rate of income tax.
Simplicity wins every time.  Another promising avenue for base broadening is the
deductibility of corporate interest expense. Dividends are a
cost of capital just as interest payments are a cost of capital,
except that interest is tax-deductible while dividends aren’t.
This creates a bias in favor of debt to finance new investment,
and an excessive reliance on leverage.  The 2008 crash shows the dangers of too much leverage.
Another commission appointed by Obama, this one led by former
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul  Volcker , discussed a cap on
interest deductibility, which would allow a further offsetting
cut in the corporate  tax rate . That’s also in the spirit of the
approach we are recommending.  Considering the toxic state of politics today, it’s
understandable that Obama would go for what’s politically easy,
but the excuse doesn’t really work in this case. The tax changes
in the president’s budget have no chance of passing this year,
and he knows it. The White House should have taken the
opportunity to advance a longer-term agenda by championing a
plan that was better, bolder and more fully thought-through.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 