-- Posadas Unwinding Mexican Peso Derivatives After Currency’s Rebound
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-02-22T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/posadas-unwinding-peso-derivatives-after-currency-s-rebound.html
Grupo Posadas SAB (POSADASA) ,  Latin America ’s
largest hotel company, is in the process of getting rid of a
“very high” percentage of its currency swap contracts after
the peso’s rally this year, an official said.  The  company , which operates hotels in cities including
Acapulco and Cancun, took out derivatives contracts to shift
liabilities into dollars, matching them with revenue that’s
partially denominated in the U.S. currency. The peso has gained
8.9 percent this year, tied with the Brazilian real for the most
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Posadas has “significantly” decreased its peso
derivatives positions after the currency’s rally, Ruben Camiro,
the company’s  Mexico  City-based chief financial officer, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “The idea is to get rid of
substantially all of them.”  As the peso posted a Latin America-worst 11.4 percent loss
in 2011, the company faced growing demands for collateral, known
as margin calls, on $145 million in currency swap contracts it
took out in 2008 to shift floating-rate peso debt into a fixed-
rate dollar liability.  The peso’s slide forced Posadas to set aside an additional
$14 million in collateral, pushing the total amount deposited to
$32 million by the end of September, tying up money the company
may need to meet bank debt, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  While the currency may appreciate further, variables
including Mexico’s July presidential elections and the European
debt crisis present risks, Camiro said.  “The risks involved currently are far greater than the
potential benefits,” he said.  While Posadas has unwound most of its derivatives, it’s not
finished and details will be disclosed when the company releases
fourth-quarter earnings by Feb. 27.  Posadas will also seek shareholder approval on March 7 to
issue a convertible bond, Camiro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  