-- Power Companies Win U.S. High Court Clash Over River Rights
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-02-22T21:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/power-companies-win-u-s-high-court-clash-over-centuries-old-river-rights.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  sided with
power and mining companies against states and environmentalists
in a clash over the rights to rivers explored two centuries ago
by Lewis and Clark.  The justices unanimously overturned a ruling that would
have required a unit of  PPL Corp. (PPK)  to pay more than $50 million
in rent to Montana for the use of riverbeds under ten of the
energy company’s dams.  The ruling puts new limits on state claims to ownership of
the rivers within their borders, modifying legal rules that date
back to the American Revolution. The court said states don’t own
major waterfalls and other river segments that weren’t navigable
at the time of statehood.  For companies with facilities on rivers, the decision lifts
a legal cloud. Companies had said a ruling favoring  Montana 
might have let other western states make similar rent demands.
Environmental groups had said a victory for PPL in the case
would weaken the ability of states to protect fisheries, river
ecosystems and recreation areas.  The dispute centered on hydroelectric dams on the upper
 Missouri , Madison and Clark Fork rivers. Meriwether Lewis and
William Clark explored the area during their 1804-06 expedition,
and their journals provided fodder for the legal case.  Great Falls Dispute  Both sides pointed to the exploration party’s decision to
take a 17-mile land route around a series of Missouri River
waterfalls known as Great Falls and re-enter the water upstream.
PPL said that trip showed that Great Falls wasn’t passable,
while the state countered that the river, taken as a whole, was
navigable.  A Montana state trial court ordered the company to pay $40
million in past rent, plus an unspecified amount for rent
starting in 2008. PPL Montana in 2010 recorded a pretax charge
of $56 million to cover estimated payments through the first
quarter of 2010. The company has said that its total accrued
loss from the case as of Sept. 30, 2011, was $84 million.  The Montana Supreme Court had said the state owns the
riverbeds and is entitled to rent payments. The company said the
riverbeds are owned either by private parties or the federal
government.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote the Supreme Court’s decision
today reversing the Montana court ruling.  PPL Rises  PPL, based in Allentown,  Pennsylvania , rose 27 cents to
$28.55 at the close in  New York . The shares climbed as high as
$28.72, rising 44 cents, or 1.5 percent, after the court issued
its ruling.  “The highest court in the land has affirmed PPL Montana’s
long-held position that non-navigable stretches of riverbed
lands are not owned by the state,” said Robert L. Grey, PPL’s
general counsel, in a statement.  Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock said the state would
try to press ahead with the case at the lower court level. The
high court ruling left open that possibility.  “From the beginning, this case has been about whether PPL
pays its fair share for use of our rivers for hydroelectric
power,” Bullock said in a statement.  PPL was represented in the case by  Paul Clement , the lead
lawyer for 26 states challenging President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law.  The case is PPL Montana v. Montana, 10-218.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  