-- Premier Wen’s Son Named Chairman of State-Owned China Satellite
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T04:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/premier-wen-s-son-named-chairman-of-state-owned-china-satellite.html
Wen Yunsong, the son of Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao , was appointed chairman of state-owned China
Satellite Communications Co., becoming the latest child of a
leader to secure a top executive position.  The younger Wen, who co-founded private equity firm  New
Horizon Capital , was elected to the post by China Satellite’s
board on Feb. 15, the company said in a  statement  on its website
two days later. China Satellite is one of the country’s six
telecommunications operators.  China Satellite’s revenue will reach 16 billion yuan ($2.5
billion) with 15 satellites in 2015, when it will become  Asia ’s
biggest satellite operator, the official People’s Daily said on
its website yesterday, quoting a company official it did not
identify. The older Wen is set to step down from his Communist
Party post later this year and the premiership next March as the
country undergoes a once-a-decade leadership change.  Hu Haifeng, the son of Chinese President  Hu Jintao , is the
former president of Nuctech Co., which sells equipment such as
radioactivity monitors and x-ray inspection systems. Li Xiaolin,
the chairwoman of China Power International Development, is the
daughter of former Premier Li Peng.  Levin Zhu, the son of former Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji,
wrested control of China International Capital Corp. from Morgan
Stanley in 2000 and has led the investment bank since. Liu
Lefei, the son of Liu Yunshan, a Politburo member and head of
the Communist Party’s Central Propaganda Department, is the
chairman of state-owned Citic Private Equity Fund Management Co.  -- Nicholas Wadhams. Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, John Brinsley  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ] 