-- Previously Owned Home Sales Probably Up in Jan.
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/previously-owned-u-s-home-sales-probably-rose-in-january.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
houses probably rose in January to the highest level since May
2010, adding to signs the housing market is regaining its
footing, economists said before a report today.  Purchases climbed 1.1 percent, a fourth straight monthly
increase, to a 4.66 million annual rate from a 4.61 million pace
in December, according to the  median  forecast of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A strengthening job market, combined with record
affordability driven by the drop in home prices and mortgage
rates, will probably keep underpinning demand. Nonetheless, the
Federal Reserve and Obama administration are striving to find
ways to lend the industry additional assistance amid concern
that mounting foreclosures will continue to hinder the recovery.  “Things are beginning to pick up here,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “We will see better home sales data in coming
months. With healthier gains in payrolls, incomes should be
picking up as well. That’s going to spill over.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.4
million to 4.91 million.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes,
climbed to 4.26 million last year, from 4.19 million in 2010.
Demand peaked at 7.1 million in 2005 during the housing boom. In
2008, sales totaled 4.1 million, the least since 1995.  One asset has been the improvement in employment. The
jobless rate fell in January to a three-year low of 8.3 percent,
and payrolls rose by 243,000 workers. Employment growth has
accelerated in each of the past three months.  Housing Affordability  Greater affordability is also supporting home demand. The
Realtors group’s  measure  of whether households earning the
median income can afford a median-priced house at current
 interest rates  reached record levels in the last three months of
2011.  Reports last week indicated housing is on the mend.
Builders broke ground on more homes than forecast in January,
helped by warmer weather, and permits also advanced. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of
builder confidence climbed in February to the highest level
since May 2007.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZ)  reported that orders jumped 36
percent in the final three months of 2011 from a year earlier,
and closings on new houses surged more than 60 percent. The
Atlanta-based builder said it expects to sell more properties
this year than last.  “While our visibility into the economic conditions for the
remainder of the year is limited, I believe that we will benefit
from a gradually improving housing market,” Allan Merrill,
chief executive officer, said on an earnings call on Feb. 2.  Warmer Weather  The fourth-warmest January on record may have boosted
homebuyer traffic. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  reported the average temperature was 36.3 degrees
Fahrenheit (2.39 Celsius), 5.5 degrees above the 1901-2000 long-
term average.  The favorable conditions helped spark  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ’s
biggest sales gain since the first quarter of 2004. The world’s
largest home-improvement retailer said yesterday that receipts
at stores open at least a year climbed 5.7 percent in the three
months ended Jan. 29. Net income increased 32 percent to 50
cents a share from 36 cents a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said.  Policy makers are working to help distressed homeowners.
The top five mortgage lenders this month reached a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the U.S. government over the use
of faulty paperwork in foreclosures.  Fed’s Bernanke  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s
efforts to spur growth are being blunted by impediments to
mortgage lending, and called for more steps to heal the housing
industry.  “The economic recovery has been disappointing in part
because U.S. housing markets remain out of balance,” Bernanke
told homebuilders on Feb. 10 in  Orlando ,  Florida . “We need to
continue to develop and implement policies that will help the
housing sector get back on its feet.”  The foreclosure crisis is unlikely to subside any time
soon. Owners of more than 14 million homes are in foreclosure,
behind on their mortgages or owe more than their properties are
worth, said RealtyTrac Inc., a property-data company in  Irvine ,
 California .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  