-- Rajat Gupta Asks Judge to Dismiss Fraud Charge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/rajat-gupta-seeks-dismissal-of-one-securities-fraud-charge.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of  insider trading  as part of
the Galleon Group LLC investigation, asked a federal judge to
dismiss one of six securities fraud charges against him.  An allegation that Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam bought
at least 350,000 shares of Goldman Sachs in March 2007 after
getting a tip from Gupta should be dismissed because the
indictment doesn’t say that Gupta communicated with Rajaratnam
before the alleged trade, Gupta’s attorneys said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The allegations about the purchase of Goldman Sachs shares
are vague and “make it impossible to identify the particular
transactions” at issue in the charge, the attorneys said in the
filing.  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader and former
director at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was accused in October by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing inside
information to Rajaratnam, co-founder Galleon Group. The U.S.
says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and P&G
earnings.  In a revised indictment filed last month, prosecutors
expanded their description of the insider-trading scheme, saying
it began in March 2007, not in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when
Gupta was first charged in October.  Revised Indictment  Gupta now faces six counts of securities fraud and one
count of conspiracy. In the new indictment, prosecutors added a
charge based on a March 12, 2007, conference call in which
people discussed Goldman Sachs’s pending earnings announcement.
Gupta tipped Rajaratnam after listening to a Goldman Sachs board
meeting while at Galleon’s offices, the U.S. said.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty.  He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of any
of the  securities fraud  charges and as long as five years if
convicted of conspiracy. He also faces a fine of as much as $5
million, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  