-- Rambus, J&J, Geico, Pernod-Ricard: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-22T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/rambus-j-j-geico-microsoft-pernod-ricard-puzo-intellectual-property.html
Memory-chip designer  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s
conduct before an industry board won’t be reviewed by the U.S.
Supreme Court, clearing an obstacle in the company’s decade-long
pursuit of patent royalties from semiconductor makers.  The  high court  yesterday declined to take an appeal of a
lower-court decision clearing Rambus of accusations it
improperly used knowledge gleaned from a standard-setting board
to obtain patents so it could extract royalties from the
computer-chip industry. The case was brought by  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (HYNX)  as part of an effort to overturn a $397
million judgment.  Rambus contends that the semiconductor industry conspired
to steal its technology and has filed patent-infringement
lawsuits against companies that refuse to pay licensing fees.
The litigation has defined Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus
since the late 1990s, and its activities at the semiconductor
industry’s standard-setting board form the basis of those
disputes.  The high court declined to hear two previous appeals of
rulings that favored Rambus on the issue of the company’s
participation in the industry board  The case is  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  v. Rambus Inc., 11-
549, U.S. Supreme Court.  J&J Bid to Reinstate Abbott Verdict Rejected by U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court rejected  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s request
to reinstate the largest patent-infringement verdict in American
history, a $1.67 billion award it won against  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  over arthritis treatments.  The high court yesterday declined to review a lower court
ruling that a patent on a method to make antibodies was invalid
because it inadequately described what J&J’s Janssen Biotech
said it invented. J&J and patent co-owner New York University
want to collect on the verdict they received over the drug
Humira.  A U.S. appeals court said inventors must describe their
work clearly to show they conceived the invention and that
failure to do so may lead to the patent’s being tossed out. J&J
contends that requirement is too onerous when it comes to
patents on basic research or discoveries that have broad
applications.  The dispute centers on a method to create antibodies that
block the action of tumor necrosis factor, or TNF. When the body
produces too much TNF, it can cause the immune system to attack
healthy tissue and leads to inflammation.  In ruling the patent invalid, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit said the claims made in the invention, as
written, “constitute a wish list of properties” that a human
antibody should have.  A March 2010 Federal Circuit decision laying out the
written description requirement got U.S. support, Abbott said,
and J&J “seeks to disrupt the settled expectations of
innovators like Abbott by upending decades of precedent.”  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s largest insulin maker, and
vaccine maker  Bavarian Nordic A/S (BAVA)  urged the high court to take
the case, saying they need broadly written patents to protect
their research.  Abbott has filed its own lawsuit, claiming J&J’s arthritis
drug Simponi, made with human antibodies, is infringing an
Abbott patent. It also claims a J&J psoriasis medicine, Stelara,
violates two other patents. Those cases are pending in federal
court in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  The case is Janssen Biotech Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories,
11-596, U.S. Supreme Court.  Berkshire Hathaway’s Geico Newest MacroSolve Patent Target  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ’s Geico unit is the most recent
defendant sued for infringing a patent held by an Oklahoma-based
mobile data company.  MacroSolve Inc. of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , filed the suit against
Geico Feb. 21 in federal court in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This suit is
among 28 the company has filed in the same court since March
2011.  Among the defendants MacroSolve sued earlier are Facebook
Inc., Marriott International Inc., Apple Inc., Dell Inc. and
Priceline.com Inc., as well as a number of smaller companies
that create apps for mobile devices. The various defendants are
accused of infringing patent 7,822,816.  The patent, which was issued in October 2010, is related to
mobile information-collection systems across a variety of
platforms and wireless networks. In a MacroSolve statement
issued yesterday, the patent is called “a significant
 intellectual property  asset.”  MacroSolve asked the court to bar unauthorized use of its
patented technology, and awards of attorney fees, litigation
costs and money damages.  The company is represented by  Larry Dean Thompson Jr., 
 Zachariah Harrington ,  Kris Yue Teng , and  Matthew J. Antonelli  of
Houston’s  Antonelli, Harrington & Thompson LLP .  The case is  MacroSolve Inc. (MCVE) , v. Geico Insurance Agency Inc,
6:12-cv-00074-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Texas  (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft’s Russian Trademark Dispute Goes to Court April 11.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s trademark-infringement suit related to
its “Windows” trademark is to be heard April 11 in Moscow
Commercial Court, the Russian Legal Information Agency  reported .  The Redmond, Washington-based software company is seeking
to bar Dmitry Shapovalov, identified by the  news agency  as a
Russian businessman, from using the mark in his “Windows.ru”
domain name.  Presently the website is blocked, the news agency reported.  An attorney representing Shapovalov told the news agency
that Microsoft’s claim to the “Windows” mark is unclear.  ‘Big Ginger’ Trademark Suit Against Pernod-Ricard Settled  A trademark infringement suit against  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI)  has
been settled, according to a Feb. 21 court filing.  The suit, filed by a  Minnesota  company that promotes its
proprietary brand of Irish whiskey, was related to a cocktail
developed to expand the range of consumers for the product.  According to the complaint filed Feb. 15 in federal court
in Minnesota, the  Big Ginger  cocktail, comprised of Irish
whiskey, ginger ale, lemon and lime, was designed to extend the
appeal of Irish whiskey beyond its usual drinkers -- middle-aged
and older men who drank whiskey in the colder months.  Big Ginger made the product “accessible and inviting to
all types of consumers and allows for a new perception of a
spirit that is traditionally thought of as solely masculine,
extreme/harsh,” Minneapolis-based A Kieran Collective LLC said
in its complaint.  The cocktail, originally made with Pernod-Ricard’s  Jameson
Irish whiskey , proved to be so successful that the pub where it
was invented became the single largest on-premise seller of
Jameson’s in the world, from 2006 through 2011, according to
court papers.  After the “Big Ginger” trademark was issued,
Pernod-Ricard made an offer to buy it for $200,000, which was
rejected by the brand owner.  The brand owner then went on to develop and import its own
proprietary Irish whiskey, for which it uses the “2 Gingers”
mark. At the pub where the cocktail was developed,  2 Gingers  is
now used instead of Jameson’s, and the drink is poured in 2
Gingers-branded glasses, according to court papers.  The suit was filed after Pernod-Ricard’s Jameson unit began
providing Minnesota restaurants promotional material for “Big
Jameson Ginger.” Jameson was accused of trying to benefit from
the fame created by “Big Ginger.” The brand owner claimed in
the complaint that Paris-based Pernod-Ricard appeared to be
promoting “Big Jameson Ginger” in order to drive sales of
Jameson’s in the weeks leading to St. Patrick’s Day March 17,
which is the busiest period in the year for sales of Irish
whiskey.  The parties in the case reached an amicable settlement of
the dispute, according to a letter from lawyers for the brand
owner that was filed with the court Feb. 21. They asked that a
hearing on their motion for a restraining order against Pernod-
Ricard be canceled, and said they expect to dismiss the case
next week. No terms of the settlement were disclosed.  The case is A Kieran Collection LLC v. Irish Distillers
Ltd., 0:12-cv-00395-MJD-TNL, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Paramount Pictures Sues Puzo Estate Over ‘Godfather’ Sequels  Paramount Pictures Corp. (0001184D)  sued Anthony Puzo, the son and
executor of the estate of author Mario Puzo, to prevent the
publication of a new sequel novel to “The Godfather.”  Paramount, which says it bought the copyright to Puzo’s
novel in 1969, is trying “protect the integrity and reputation
of The Godfather trilogy,” according to a complaint filed Feb.
17 in federal court in  Manhattan .  Paramount claimed that, after Puzo’s death in 1999, the
company agreed to allow  Bertelsmann AG (BTG) ’s Random House unit to
publish a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” in
2004. The estate published another novel, “The Godfather’s
Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, according to
the complaint.  “Far from properly honoring the legacy of ‘The Godfather,’
the unauthorized ‘The Godfather’s Revenge’ tarnished, and in the
process, also misled consumers into believing that ‘The
Godfather’s Revenge’ was authorized by Paramount,” Paramount, a
unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc. (VIAM) , said in the complaint.  Paramount is seeking damages and an order barring the Puzo
estate from publishing the third sequel novel, “The Family
Corleone,” this year.  Bertram Fields, a Los Angeles lawyer who represented the
Puzo estate in an earlier lawsuit against Paramount, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  Paramount claims that the Puzo estate infringed its
copyright and trademarks, which the company has used in films,
video games, software, clothing and prints. The trademark
consists of the words The Godfather and a hand holding puppet
strings. Paramount said the Puzo estate plans to use the
trademarks without authorization to promote the new sequel.  The first Godfather film was released in 1972 and won
Academy Awards for best picture, actor and adapted screenplay.
Puzo shared credit for the screenplay. Francis Ford Coppola
directed the three Godfather movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures Corp. v. Puzo, 12-CV-1268,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Two Canadian Schools Sign Far-Reaching Copyright Agreement  Two Canadian universities signed an agreement with  Canada ’s
copyright licensing agency that defines e-mailing hyperlinks as
equivalent to making a photocopy, the Bulletin of the Canadian
Association of University Teachers  reported .  The agreement with Access Copyright, signed by the
University of Western Ontario and the  University of Toronto ,
also permits surveillance of academic staff e-mail and requires
an annual fee of C$27.50 ($27.58) for every full-time equivalent
student, according to the Bulletin.  Many other Canadian universities have refused to sign the
agreement, the Bulletin reported.  James Turk, CAUT’s executive director, said better
alternatives to the agreement are available, and his group is
working with library organizations, copyright officers and
academic staff associations “to protect academic rights to the
fair use of copyrighted material, according to the Bulletin.  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 