-- RBA’s Ellis Sees No Reason Australia to Follow U.S.-Style House Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/rba-s-ellis-says-australian-housing-will-probably-avoid-u-s-style-slump.html
Australia ’s housing market will
probably avoid a U.S.-style slump because lending standards are
higher and borrowers are able to pay down debt faster than
required, a  Reserve Bank  of Australia official said.  “Unlike in the  United States , in Australia most mortgage
lending is done by firms that are prudentially regulated,”  Luci Ellis , head of financial stability at the RBA, said in the text
of a speech in Sydney today. “Another important mainstay
against a U.S.-style outcome is that many Australian households
actually pay their mortgages down, often quite quickly.”  Ellis, who didn’t address monetary policy in her prepared
remarks, said because property prices are growing slower than
incomes, unlike in the 1990s and early 2000s, “soft periods in
the housing market could now be more likely to involve falling
housing prices.”  Australian  house prices  plunged by the most on record in
2011 as global economic uncertainty and concerns about its
impact at home kept a lid on demand. An index measuring the
weighted average of prices for established houses in eight major
cities slid 4.8 percent from a year earlier, a government report
showed Feb. 1, the biggest calendar-year drop since the data
began in March 2002.  Ellis said there’s “no reason” Australia housing market
will go from boom to bust like the U.S. did, and she urged
mortgage lenders to “refrain from easing lending standards” as
some American institutions did.  Rate Cuts  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the benchmark borrowing
cost by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6
as inflation pressures eased and asset-prices declined, before
keeping the rate unchanged at 4.25 percent this month. Australia
recorded its worst annual job growth in 19 years in 2011, as
consumers boosted savings, even as mining investment fueled by
Chinese demand intensified.  Australia, as in many other countries, doesn’t have the
ingredients needed to create an outcome like that in the U.S.,
Ellis said, while sounding a note of caution.  “Housing lending is a larger fraction of the balance
sheets of Australian banking institutions than for their U.S.
counterparts,” she said. “So in the unlikely event a U.S.-
style bust did happen, it would be harmful to financial
stability in Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  