-- Treasury 7-Year Special Repo Status May Fade After $29 Billion Auction
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-22T15:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/treasury-7-year-special-repo-status-may-fade-after-29-billion-auction.html
Treasury seven-year notes may become
less coveted in the short-term market for borrowing and lending
securities after the government auctions more of the debt.  Traders have been willing to pay to borrow the securities
in exchange for loaning cash for the most actively traded seven-
year note, which is the 1.25 percent security that matures in
January 2019. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on
those loans, represented by a positive repurchase agreement, or
repo, rate. Many times traders short, or sell securities they’ve
borrowed in the repo market, ahead a Treasury sale to profit if
prices of the securities fall after the auction.  The overnight repo rate for the current seven-year note
opened at negative 1.9 percent and traded at negative 2.5
percent at 9 a.m.  New York  time before closing at negative 2.02
percent, according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate closed at 0.12 percent.  “This tends to happen ahead of the auction,” said  Brian Smedley , a strategist in New York at Bank of America Corp. The
degree of specialness “is somewhat indicative of a short base
in the fast-money community in the seven-year. Oftentimes it
just takes getting through the auction process and getting the
new collateral to settle” to normalize the repo rate.  On Special  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate, which is in a
range of zero to 0.25  percent, are called general collateral.
Those in highest demand have lower rates and are called
“special.”  The government will sell $29 billion of seven-year notes
tomorrow, after auctioning $35 billion in five-year debt today.  The Fed has been purchasing Treasuries due in six- to 30-
years since it became extending the average maturity of its
debt, in a program that has become known as Operation Twist. The
program, where the Fed began replacing $400 billion of short-
term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
October, is scheduled to end in June.  The Fed has acquired $68.7 billion in Treasuries with
maturities between six and eight years as of Feb. 21 through the
purchases, or 59 percent of the gross issuance of those
securities, according to Fed data tracked by Barclays Plc.  “The seven-year note being on special may be in part due
to the fact that there is an upcoming auction of these
securities,” said  George Goncalves  and Stanley Sun, strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, in an e-mailed note. “The
Fed does own a decent amount of the current seven-year note,
since when the Fed buys securities in the intermediate sector as
part of its Operation Twist, they have tended to lean toward the
seven-year because the 10-year area is so rich.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  