-- Treasuries Gain for First Time in Four Days Amid Greek Debt Plan Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-22T17:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/treasuries-snap-decline-on-concern-greece-respite-from-crisis-is-temporary.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in four days amid speculation  Europe ’s rescue package for  Greece 
won’t resolve the region’s debt crisis.  U.S. 10-year notes yields  fell  from a four-week high as the
Treasury is scheduled to auction $35 billion of five-year debt
today in the second of three note offerings totaling $99
billion. Fitch Ratings lowered Greece’s credit rating and said a
default is highly likely. The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.84
billion of longer-maturity Treasuries today.  “A combination of Greece, better buyers, weaker equities
and the Fed buyback has caused appreciation in price,” said
Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “People are hoping the
market backs up into the supply, but as of now, we’re seeing
better buyers.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.01 percent at 12:14 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent securities due in February 2022 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 29/32. Yields touched 2.08 percent,
the highest level since Jan. 24.  Investors have increased bets on inflation to a six-month
high. The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices during the life of the debt,
widened to 2.33 percentage points today, the most since Aug. 11.
The 10-year average is 2.14 percentage points.  Bond Bearish  Investing in U.S. government bonds is the least attractive
investment in a world of “financial repression,” said Leon Cooperman, chief executive officer of Omega Advisors Inc.  “With a 2 percent government bond, if we’re talking about
marginal tax rates, you’re keeping 60 percent of your 2 percent
-- you’re keeping 1.2 percent,” Cooperman said in an interview
with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”
“The rate of inflation is somewhere in the range of 2 to 3
percent, so your capital is being confiscated. It makes no
sense.”  Treasuries fell yesterday as the approval of the Greek
bailout package reduced demand at the U.S. government’s auction
of $35 billion in two-year securities. Investors bid for 3.54
times the amount of available debt, versus 3.75 in January.  Early Trading  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 0.91 percent in
pre-auction trading, versus 0.899 percent at the previous
offering on Jan. 25. The record low for the monthly sales was
0.88 percent in December.  Investors  bid  for 3.17 times the amount offered in January,
the most since May. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying
for their own accounts, purchased 15.1 percent, the most in 14
months.  Indirect bidders,  the category of investors that
includes foreign central banks, bought 43.4 percent.  The U.S. sold $40 billion in four-week bills today at a
rate of 0.060 percent, lower than the 0.110 percent rate at the
Feb. 14 auction. The bid-to-cover ratio climbed to 4.11 from
3.97 at the previous auction. Indirect bidders purchased 20.3
percent of the auction compared with 40.4 percent at the
previous sale, while direct bidders purchased 11.5 percent of
the auction compared with 7 percent at the previous sale.  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses rose in January to
the highest level since May 2010, adding to signs the housing
market is regaining its footing. Purchases climbed 4.3 percent
to a 4.57 million annual rate, less than forecast, from a
revised 4.38 million pace in December that was slower than
previously estimated, a report from National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington .  Fed Moves  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  The central bank acquired securities due from February 2036
to August 2041 today under the program, according to the New
York Fed’s  website .  Europe is still struggling to avoid the threat of default
as investors warn Greece will soon risk violating the terms of
the second bailout it was granted yesterday. Even with investors
and central bankers helping relieve the debt burden, economists
from Citigroup Inc. to Commerzbank AG concluded Greece may again
fail to deliver amid a fifth year of recession.  Greece’s downgrade by  Fitch Ratings  to C from CCC is the
first in a series of ratings cuts that the nation can expect
after it negotiated the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history.  “Treasuries have a modest bid because of growing cynicism
regarding the impact of the Greek bailout deal,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It is unclear that the agreement will
be executed in its current form.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  