-- Treasuries Remain Higher as Five-Year Note Auction Yield Trails Forecast
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-22T22:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/treasuries-remain-higher-as-five-year-note-auction-yield-trails-forecast.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in four days on speculation Europe’s rescue package for  Greece 
won’t resolve the region’s debt crisis and as the U.S. sold $35
billion of five-year notes.  U.S. 10-year notes yields  fell  from a four-week high as
 Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s credit rating and said a default
is highly likely. The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.84 billion of
longer-maturity Treasuries today. The U.S. will sell $29 billion
in seven-year notes tomorrow, the final of three auctions this
week totaling $99 billion.  “The focus has been on what’s going on in Greece; The
agreement that made news yesterday didn’t represent a final
solution to the problem,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New
York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney. “ The five-year auction was reasonably well bid and
we’re seeing the afterglow.”  The  yield  on the current five-year note fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.86 percent, at 4:59 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
0.875 percent securities maturing in January 2017 rose 7/32, or
$2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  fell six basis
points to 2 percent after touching 2.08 percent, the most since
Jan. 24.  Note Sale  The five-year notes sold today drew a yield of 0.900
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.901 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s primary dealers. The
 bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.89, compared with
an average of 2.9 for the previous 10 sales.  “The auction was nothing really special -- it was ham-on-
rye,” said Thomas Roth, senior trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities USA Inc.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 41.8 percent of the notes, the least
since July, and compared with an average of 43.8 percent for the
past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 12.9 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 11.7 percent at the last
10 auctions.  “The five-year note auctions of late have all gone fairly
well, and this auction performed in line,” said Thomas Simons,
a government debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
a primary dealer. “It came and went and was decent.”  Debt Returns  Five-year notes have lost 0.1 percent so far this year,
compared with a 0.7 percent loss for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
of yesterday.  Seven-year notes may become less coveted in the short-term
market for borrowing and lending securities after the government
auctions more of the debt.  The overnight repo rate for the current seven-year note
opened at negative 1.9 percent and traded at negative 2.5
percent at 9 a.m. before closing at negative 2.02 percent,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate closed at 0.12 percent.  Traders have been willing to pay to borrow the securities
in exchange for loaning cash for the most actively traded seven-
year note, which is the 1.25 percent security that matures in
January 2019.  Repo Market  Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those loans,
represented by a positive repurchase agreement, or repo, rate.
Many times traders short, or sell securities they’ve borrowed in
the repo market, ahead of a Treasury sale to profit if prices of
the securities fall after the auction.  The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year debt yesterday
and will sell seven-year notes tomorrow.  This week’s note auctions and last week’s sale of $9
billion of 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities will
raise $47.8 billion of new cash as maturing securities held by
the public total $60.2 billion.  Investing in U.S. government bonds is the least attractive
investment in a world of “financial repression,” said Leon Cooperman, chief executive officer of Omega Advisors Inc.  No Value  “With a 2 percent government bond, if we’re talking about
marginal tax rates, you’re keeping 60 percent of your 2 percent
-- you’re keeping 1.2 percent,” Cooperman said in an interview
with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”
“The rate of inflation is somewhere in the range of 2 to 3
percent, so your capital is being confiscated. It makes no
sense.”  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses rose in January to
the highest level since May 2010, adding to signs the housing
market is regaining its footing. Purchases climbed 4.3 percent
to a 4.57 million annual rate, less than forecast, from a
revised 4.38 million pace in December that was slower than
previously estimated, a report from National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington .  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  Fed Buys  The central bank bought $1.84 billion securities due from
February 2036 to August 2041 today under the program, according
to the New York Fed’s  website .  Europe  is still struggling to avoid the threat of default
as investors warn Greece will soon risk violating the terms of
the second bailout it was granted yesterday. Even with investors
and central bankers helping relieve the debt burden, economists
from Citigroup Inc. to Commerzbank AG concluded Greece may again
fail to deliver amid a fifth year of recession.  Greece’s downgrade by Fitch Ratings to C from CCC is the
first in a series of ratings cuts that the nation can expect
after it negotiated the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history.  “There’s no optimism and that’s why Treasuries are being
bid,” said Roth of Mitsubishi. The Greece agreement is
“discounted a bit because people believe it may turn into
another debacle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ; or
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  