-- Record Farmland Values Fueled by Profits, Low Interest Rates, USDA Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-02-22T21:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/record-farmland-values-fueled-by-profits-low-rates-usda-says.html
Low  interest rates  and surging
agricultural income have helped send U.S. farmland prices to a
record, a government report showed.  While “a speculative bubble forming in farmland markets
cannot be ruled out,” the gain in value during the past two
years has been supported by fundamental growth in farm income,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a  report .  “Historically-low interest rates are likely a significant
contributor to farming’s current ability to support higher land
values,” USDA Economic Research Service analysts including
Cynthia Nickerson said in the report. “Increases in interest
rates would likely put downward pressure on farmland values.”  Net farm income at record levels has helped agricultural
land weather the real-estate crisis that has hammered urban
values, the analysts said.  “Trends in farm incomes, cash rents and interest rates
suggest that farmland values were supported by farm earnings,”
the analysts wrote. “But there have been periods of imbalances
in the recent past.”  The average  value  of an acre of U.S. farmland reached a
record $2,350 in  2011 , the USDA said in August. Midwest prices
measured by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  rose  22 percent 
last year, the biggest annual increase since 1976, while the
Kansas City Fed said cropland in its region rose 25 percent and
ranchland gained 14 percent, according to reports released
earlier this month.  Farmland values in  Iowa , the biggest producer of corn and
soybeans, surged 32 percent to a record average of $6,708 last
year, according to an Iowa State University survey of real-
estate transactions released in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  