-- Record Nickel Supply Expanding Glut Thwarts Bull Market Rally: Commodities
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-02-22T15:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/record-nickel-supply-expanding-glut-thwarts-bull-market-rally-commodities.html
Mining companies and refineries are
producing more nickel than at any time in history, expanding a
glut that threatens to reverse this year’s rally.  Production will exceed demand by 45,000 metric tons, a 73
percent jump from 2011,  Barclays Capital  estimates. That’s equal
to 46 percent of stockpiles tracked by the  London  Metal
Exchange. Refined output will rise 12 percent, the most in at
least eight years, according to Morgan Stanley. Prices, which
rose 7.8 percent to $20,170 a ton this year, may fall as much as
13 percent to $17,630 a ton by Dec. 31, the median of 11 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Metals have returned to a bull market from a 22 percent
slump last year on an improving outlook for global growth with
manufacturing in the U.S. capping the biggest two-month increase
in more than two years in January and unexpectedly gaining in
China. With new supply expected from  Australia  to Madagascar to
 Brazil , consumption still won’t expand fast enough to absorb the
extra metal. Most markets for stainless steel, accounting for 76
percent of nickel demand, remain “depressed,” Deutsche Bank AG
said in a report Feb. 15.  “We’ll get more and more supply over the course of the
year,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “We expect huge surpluses for nickel not only this
year, but next year, and probably in 2014. It’s mainly due to an
increase in supply, but on the other side the stainless  steel
industry  is facing a tough time.”  Metals Rebound  The LMEX gauge of six industrial metals rose 11 percent
this year, as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities
added 8.6 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 10 percent and Treasuries lost 0.7 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index showed.  Refined  production  will reach almost 1.77 million tons this
year as demand increases 10 percent to 1.72 million tons,
providing surpluses for at least two more years, Morgan Stanley
estimates. Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the LME rose 17
percent to 97,308 tons since Nov. 9, bourse data show. Orders to
withdraw metal from inventories declined 58 percent since
reaching a seven-year high in August.  Additional supply will come this year from  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s Onca-
Puma and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Barro Alto mines in Brazil and
Glencore International Plc.’s Murrin Murrin and First Quantum
Minerals Ltd.’s Raventhorpe in Australia, according to Morgan
Stanley. Projects by Vale in New Caledonia and  Sherritt
International Corp. (S)  in Madagascar will take total production
from new operations to 117,000 tons in 2012, the bank estimates.  Behind Schedule  That production may arrive more slowly than the market is
anticipating because mines are using extraction processes that
previously fell behind schedule,  Daniel Brebner  and Xiao Fu,
analysts at Deutsche Bank in London, wrote in a Feb. 15 report.
The bank raised its forecast for this year’s average price by 21
percent to $22,500.  Some mines are curbing output.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s third-largest producer, said Feb. 1 it will reduce rates
at its Mount Keith mine in Western Australia by 30 percent for
about a year because of lower prices and gains in the Australian
dollar. The Melbourne-based company pays costs in the local
currency and sells its metal in U.S. dollars, which has
depreciated about 16 percent in the past two years.  Accelerating growth may mean demand exceeds analysts’
expectations. U.S. manufacturing grew in December and January at
the fastest back-to-back pace since 2009, Federal Reserve data
Feb. 15 showed. Factory output in China, the biggest nickel
user, unexpectedly expanded in January, the country’s statistics
bureau and logistics federation reported Feb. 1. Manufacturing
in the U.K. jumped in December by five times as much as
economists forecast, the government said Feb. 9.  Replenish Inventories  Pig iron, a substitute made from lower-grade ores mined in
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines  and processed in  China , may also
act as a regulator on nickel prices as demand for stainless
steel increases. The slump in 2011 made so-called primary nickel
cheaper than pig iron, as steelmakers used more of the refined
nickel substitute. That in turn spurred steelmakers to use more
refined nickel, driving cuts in pig-iron production, according
to Morgan Stanley. The trend could be reversed should nickel
prices keep rebounding.  There are signs that demand for stainless steel may be
strengthening, according to MEPS (International) Ltd. The
Sheffield, England-based industry consultant predicts a 5.8
percent gain in global stainless-steel output to a record 33.9
million tons in 2012.  Biggest Producer  Lower prices may hurt earnings of producers. OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel, the biggest producer, will report a 5.8 percent
decline in net income this year to $4.49 billion, according to
the mean of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Nickel accounted for 53 percent of its sales last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Norilsk expects nickel to average $19,000 in its 2012
budget, two people with knowledge of the matter said last month,
down 17 percent from the LME’s benchmark three-month contract
average of $22,865 last year.  Japan , the second-biggest consumer of the metal, contracted
an annualized 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, more than
economists estimated, the Cabinet Office said Feb. 13. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 growth forecast on Jan.
24 to 3.3 percent from 4 percent and warned that  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatened to derail the world economy. Europe will
account for 23 percent of global nickel demand this year,
according to Morgan Stanley.  “This will be a difficult year,” said Nick Trevethan, a
senior commodities strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  