-- Colonoscopy Can Lower Rate of Cancer Deaths by Half, Researchers Find
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/removing-polyps-cuts-colon-cancer-deaths-by-half-study-finds.html
Colonoscopy saves lives, according
to a study that provides the first direct evidence that the
procedure keeps people from dying of  colon cancer , reducing that
risk by half.  The research, reported yesterday in the  New England Journal
of Medicine , found that removing precancerous polyps spotted
during a colonoscopy, a standard procedure today, dramatically
cuts the chance of dying from the disease. The study followed
2,602 patients who had the suspicious growths removed during the
test over a median of 15.8 years.  “It is a strong study that reiterates what many of us in
the field had suspected,” said  Scott Kopetz , a colon cancer
specialist at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
in Houston, who was not involved with the study. “It is one of
the first that gives us an estimate on the amount that the death
rate has been reduced.”  Colonoscopy, in which a tube with a camera is slid up the
rectum so a doctor can visualize the colon, is one of colon
cancer screening several tests recommended by the  American
Cancer Society  and other groups. Polyps found can be removed
during the procedure. Many people avoid colonoscopy because it
requires an unpleasant preparation to clean out the bowel.  The finding could help doctors convince more people to come
in for colon cancer screening, Kopetz said.  “It can be very difficult” to get patients to do it, said
Kopetz, in a telephone interview. “There is the embarrassment
barrier, there is the, ‘I don’t want anyone sticking a probe in
my rectum’ barrier. There are a lot of social taboos around
it.” Even family members of his patients with colon cancer
sometimes won’t get tested, he said.  Worth the Effort  The new result “is very helpful in continuing to make the
argument” that colonoscopies are worth the effort, he said.  While the latest research doesn’t prove colonoscopies save
lives in the general population, it supports colon cancer
screening guidelines, said  Ann Zauber , a biostatistician at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York  and the
report’s lead author, in a telephone interview.  “We are really reducing colon cancer deaths remarkably,”
said Zauber. “It is a very strong effect long term.”  The  American Cancer Society   recommends  that men and women
get a colonoscopy or another colon cancer screening test such as
fecal occult blood test starting at age 50, according to its
website. Colonoscopy should be done every ten years, it
recommends.  U.S.-Sponsored Study  In the study, sponsored by the  National Cancer Institute ,
the 2,602 patients who got precancerous adenomas removed were 62
on average when they started the study between 1980 and 1990, in
an era where colonoscopy was not generally used as a screening
exam in the healthy population. The patients were then followed
for as long as 23 years.  Through the end of 2003, 1,246 of the patients who had
adenomas removed had died. Only 12 of those deaths were from
colon cancer, far lower than the 25.4 colon cancer deaths that
would have been expected in otherwise similar patients in the
general population, according to the study results.  Death rates from colon cancer were very low in a second
group of 773 patients who were found to have harmless colon
polyps during their colonoscopy. Only 1 of those patients died
from colon cancer during the follow-up period.  The finding suggests that an initial screening could be
used to separate patients into high risk and low risk groups,
said  Michael Bretthauer , a gastroenterologist who co-wrote an
editorial accompanying the study. High risk patients, those with
precancerous polyps, benefited from getting repeated
colonoscopies afterwards, he said.  When no precancerous polyps are found in a patient “you
can just forget about them, send them home,” said Bretthauer,
at Oslo University Hospital Rikshospitalet in  Norway , in a
telephone interview. “They are at very low risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 