-- Riverstone Approaches $3 Billion in Energy Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-02-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/riverstone-approaches-3-billion-in-energy-fund.html
Riverstone Holdings LLC, the firm
raising money without joint-venture partner  Carlyle Group (CG)  for
the first time, plans to close on about half of its $6 billion
energy fund by March, said two people briefed on the matter.  Riverstone Global Energy & Power Fund V LP is seeking the
same amount that its prior investment fund gathered in 2009,
according to the people, who asked not to be named because the
fund is private.  The private equity firm, based in New York, started talking
to investors about the fund in the second half of last year. An
outside spokesman for Riverstone declined to comment.  Riverstone and Carlyle’s joint venture, entered into in
2000, allowed either firm the option of ending the partnership
at the start of each fundraising cycle. Riverstone took the
option when it started marketing the fifth fund last year. The
Riverstone team has been signaling its move toward independence
for several years, with its name appearing before Carlyle’s for
the first time in the fourth fund’s title in 2007.  Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment on the new fund.  The joint venture was involved in a 2009 investigation of
so-called pay-to-play corruption at the  New York  State Common
Retirement Fund.  Riverstone paid $30 million and Washington-based Carlyle
$20 million to resolve their involvement in the probe. David Leuschen, Riverstone’s co-founder who put $100,000 into a low-
budget film produced by the brother of the pension’s then-chief
investment officer, paid $20 million.  The prior fund, Riverstone/Carlyle Global Energy & Power
Fund IV LP, was generating a 1.6 times invested capital as of
Sept. 30, according to the two people. The third fund, raised in
2006, was producing a 1.8 multiple.  Cobalt Surges  Deep-water oil explorer  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) 
has been a strong performer for the firm. Cobalt, in which
Riverstone held a 19 percent stake as of Jan. 1, has seen its
stock more than double this year through yesterday after the
company struck oil off the coast of  Angola  in December.  Early this month, Riverstone and Carlyle agreed to sell
Dynamic Offshore Resources LLC to  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  for
$1.28 billion.  Riverstone invests in the midstream, exploration and
production, oil-field services, refining and power segments of
the  energy industry . The firm participates in deals including
management buyouts, growth financing and strategic joint
ventures.  The firm was founded in 2000 by Leuschen and Pierre Lapeyre, who previously worked as executives in the global
energy and power group of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  