-- Rogers Compares Myanmar Reforms to China Opening
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-02-22T03:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/rogers-compares-myanmar-reforms-to-china-opening.html
Investor  Jim Rogers , the chairman of
Rogers Holdings who predicted a global commodities rally in 1999,
said that Myanmar may be embracing reform as  China  did decades
earlier and he’s optimistic about the nation’s prospects.  “If I could put all of my money into Myanmar, I would,”
Rogers said at a conference in Singapore today. “Myanmar is
in the same place China was in early 1979, when  Deng Xiaoping 
said we have to do something new. Myanmar is now opening up.”  Rogers’s comments highlight increased investor interest in
the economy that may be  Asia ’s “next economic frontier,”
according to the  International Monetary Fund . The IMF is pushing
for an overhaul of Myanmar’s finances as President Thein Sein
releases dissidents and engages with opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  in moves that have prompted the U.S. and  Europe  to
reassess sanctions against the former military dictatorship.  “It’s right between China and India, 60 million people,
massive natural resources, agriculture,” Rogers said at the
gathering organized by New York-based INTL FCStone Inc. “You
could feed much of Asia, they have metals, they have energy,
they have everything.”  China’s Deng introduced capitalist reforms in the late
1970s, lifting more than 200 million people out of poverty and
transforming the nation into the world’s second-largest economy
and its biggest consumer of steel, copper and coal.  ‘Richest Country’  “In 1962 Myanmar was the single richest country in Asia,”
said Rogers, referring to the year that marked the start of
military rule. “Now it’s the poorest because it’s been so badly
managed in the past 50 years. But they are changing that now.”  Myanmar may grow 5.5 percent in 2011-2012 and 6 percent in
2012-2013 on commodity exports and higher investment, the IMF
said last month. The country “could become the next economic
frontier in Asia” if it takes advantage of its natural resources,
young  labor force  and proximity to China and India, according to
Meral Karasulu, who led an IMF mission to the country in January.  Rice exports from Myanmar, formerly the world’s largest
shipper, may more than double to 1.5 million metric tons this
year, the Myanmar Rice Industry Association forecast last month.
Sales totaled 700,000 tons in 2011.  China and India share more than 3,600 kilometers (2,200
miles) of border with Myanmar, whose 64 million people earn an
average of just $2.25 per day, according to IMF estimates. Both
nations have sought increased access to the nation’s reserves of
natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  