-- Romney as Audit Chair Saw Marriott Son of BOSS Shelter Defy IRS
-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/romney-as-auditing-chairman-saw-marriott-son-of-boss-tax-shelter-defy-irs.html
Mitt Romney has long had close ties
to hotel operator  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  The candidate for
the Republican presidential nomination, whose full name is
Willard Mitt Romney, was named after the chain’s founder, J. Willard Marriott, a friend of his father. He joined the
company’s board in 1993, and has served on it for 11 of the past
19 years, including six as chairman of the audit committee.  During Romney’s tenure as a Marriott director, the company
repeatedly utilized complex tax-avoidance maneuvers, prompting
at least two tangles with the  Internal Revenue Service , records
show. In 1994, while he headed the audit committee, Marriott
used a tax shelter known to attorneys by its nickname: “Son of
BOSS.”  A federal appeals court invalidated the maneuver in a 2009
ruling, siding with the  U.S. Department of Justice , which called
Marriott’s transaction and attempted tax benefits
“fictitious,” “artificial,” “spectral,” an “illusion”
and a “scheme.” Marriott had argued the plan predated
government efforts to close such shelters.  Employing another strategy, Marriott legally avoided
hundreds of millions of dollars in income taxes thanks to a
federal tax-credit program criticized and allowed to expire by
Congress. Marriott has also shifted profits to a Luxembourg
shell company. During Romney’s years on the board, Marriott’s
effective tax rate dipped as low as 6.8 percent, compared with
the federal corporate statutory rate of 35 percent.  Oversight Role  Romney’s business experience is the cornerstone of his
presidential campaign. Opponents have focused on his leadership
of the investment company Bain Capital LLC and his personal
income tax rate of 13.9 percent. As a Marriott director, his
responsibilities included oversight over the tax planning
conducted by management, according to a company statement.  Romney’s position as chairman of the board’s  audit
committee  for six years gave him and the other members
responsibility to review financial reporting, according to
Marriott’s annual proxy filings. Members of that committee
review “the results of internal and external audits, the
accounting principles applied in financial reporting, and
financial and operational controls,” according to the company
proxy filed covering his first year heading that committee.  Romney, 64, regularly attended the meetings of the audit
committee and board, said Gilbert M. Grosvenor, who overlapped
with Romney for more than nine years on the Marriott board and
also sat on the audit committee.  ‘Accurate and Fair’  As the committee chairman, Romney examined the financial
statements, “certainly deeper than we did as members,”
recalled Grosvenor, a former president and chairman of the board
of the National Geographic Society. Romney was “trying as much
as possible to make sure they were accurate and fair.”  The audit committee “would have been certainly informed”
of the IRS dispute stemming from the Son of BOSS transaction,
said Grosvenor, 80, who lives in  Virginia . “It certainly came
before the board, that’s for sure.”  Such transactions can have a direct impact on the company’s
financial results, putting them squarely in the purview of the
audit committee, said Lynn E. Turner, former chief accountant of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a managing
director at LitiNomics Inc., an economic and forensic consulting
firm. “You have responsibility to oversee financial reporting
and that includes getting into tax aspects. If you’re not
compliant with the IRS, that also turns out to be a financial
reporting issue,” he said.  ‘Accordance’ With Code  Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, declined to
answer written questions about Romney’s role at Marriott. “For
details of Marriott’s tax planning, we refer you to Marriott,”
she said.  “Tax planning is conducted by the company’s management and
is, like all aspects of our business, subject to board
oversight,” said Thomas O. Marder, a Marriott spokesman.
“Marriott only engages in transactions that we believe are in
accordance with the  tax code  and that we think will create
 shareholder value .”  In 2004, Marriott’s tax planning drew the ire of Senator
 John McCain .  Marriott received hundreds of millions of dollars
in federal tax credits meant to promote so-called synthetic fuel
through a business purchased by Marriott in 2001 while Romney
sat on the board’s audit committee.  “One of the greatest beneficiaries of this tax shelter --
and that is all that it is, a tax shelter -- is a very
profitable hotel chain: Marriott,” McCain said at the time. He
called the program an “expensive hoax” and a “scam.”
Congress let the subsidy expire in 2007 because of perceived
abuses. McCain, a Republican, endorsed Romney in January.  Campaigning for Cuts  During the presidential campaign, Romney has called for
lower taxes almost across the board. He wants to reduce the
corporate  tax rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent; end the estate
tax; end taxes on corporate profits reported offshore; cut the
top personal income tax rate to 28 percent and eliminate taxes
on investment income for people with adjusted gross income below
$200,000.  In its “ Believe in America ” jobs plan released last year,
the Romney campaign criticized federal policy for fostering
corporate tax avoidance: “Corporations, for their part, are
subject to rules and regulations that all too often encourage
tax gamesmanship while discouraging reinvestment in the American
economy.”  Son of BOSS  Romney’s first stint on Marriott’s board lasted from 1993
to 2002, when he stepped down before running for and serving as
Massachusetts governor. For all but the last year he was a
member of the audit committee, which he headed from 1993 to
1998. During his time on the committee, Marriott implemented the
Son of BOSS shelter attacked by the  Department of Justice ,
bought a synthetic fuels business reliant on tax credits
criticized by Congress as a tax shelter and took deductions that
eventually led to a $220 million settlement with the IRS on
another issue.  He rejoined in 2009 and left again early last year. He
earned $380,788 from Marriott in those final two years, during
which the board met in person eight times.  Restore our Future, a political action committee raising
money to support Romney’s campaign, has received $1.5 million in
contributions from J.W. Marriott Jr., the company’s chief
executive officer and son of the founder, and his brother
Richard, making them among the so-called Super PAC’s biggest
contributors. The brothers hosted a Romney fundraiser last year.  In his 2010 book, “No Apology” (St. Martin’s Press, 336
pages, $25.99), Romney lauded J.W. Marriott Jr.’s leadership.  Friends, Family  “For many years, as a friend and as a Marriott
International board member, I’ve watched J.W. ‘Bill’ Marriott
lead his company,” he wrote. “He personally visits as many as
250 hotels a year and knows a remarkable number of his longest-
serving employees by name -- and not just hotel managers, but
doormen, telephone operators and cleaning staff as well. He
doesn’t just call them associates, he considers them such, and
among the company’s corporate management ranks are people who
began their Marriott careers as hourly workers.”  In late 1992, Romney joined the board of the company’s
precursor, Marriott Corp. He had recently left the private
equity firm he helped found,  Bain Capital , to rescue and run the
firm where he once worked, Bain & Co. Marriott was almost like a
family company: his father,  George Romney , and J. Willard
Marriott were friends, according to “The Real Romney,” a 2012
biography by Michael Kranish and Scott Helman (Harper, 416
pages, $27.99).  At various points during his Marriott tenure, Romney also
served on  the board ’s compensation and finance committees.  Triggering a Loss  In January 1994, an investment banker faxed a presentation
to a longtime Marriott tax-department executive, according to a
court filing. The proposal laid out how the company could use a
series of newly created partnerships to trigger a tax loss
without any real economic harm.  This so-called Son of BOSS shelter helped a Marriott
subsidiary sell about $81 million of mortgage notes and yet
report a roughly $71 million tax loss. After the IRS challenged
the benefit, Marriott sued the government.  In 2008, a U.S. Federal Court of Claims judge ruled against
Marriott. The company appealed and, in 2009, lost again in
federal appellate court.  Marriott attorneys said in court filings that the company
was using a legitimate tax-reduction strategy.  “This is pretty much the poster child for those classic
early tax shelters: you use a hyper-technical reading of the tax
law to obtain what are, by any standard, unwarranted tax
benefits,” said  Robert Willens , a tax-accounting analyst in  New
York  who advises investors.  A version of that same strategy got others in bigger
trouble. Partners at KPMG LLP counseled their clients on Son of
BOSS structures, leading to a $456 million deferred prosecution
agreement with the Department of Justice and causing the
indictment of several former partners there, along with partners
at Ernst & Young LLP. (The nickname is derived from an acronym
for an earlier version of the shelter -- Bond Options Sales
Strategy.)  IRS Challenged Deductions  Marriott clashed with the IRS on another issue. In 2000,
2001 and 2002 the company took $1 billion of deductions related
to an employee stock ownership program from the forgiveness of
principal and interest on a loan, Marriott securities filings
show. The IRS challenged the deductions and, in 2007, Marriott
agreed to pay about $220 million in income taxes, excise taxes
and interest to the Treasury and various states.  Marriott has no outstanding disputes with the IRS, said
Marder, the company spokesman.  Synthetic Fuels  “All years through 2009 have been closed,” he said. “The
IRS is in the process of finishing its 2010 audit and has raised
no new issues that have not been resolved.”  Another  tax-avoidance  strategy that prompted criticism took
advantage of a federal tax credit for synthetic fuels. The
government offered companies the opportunity to claim
potentially lucrative subsidies for attempts to turn coal into
unconventional fuel.  In 2001, Marriott bought four synthetic fuel plants to use
the credit. Companies could get the benefit by producing fuel
after they sprayed coal with various substances, regardless of
environmental improvement from the procedure. The process gave
rise to a derisive nickname for the subsidy: “Spray and pray.”  Such credits cut Marriott’s tax bill sharply. In 2002, its
first year receiving the benefit, Marriott legally claimed $159
million of such credits, cutting its effective tax rate to 6.8
percent. That’s far below the U.S. federal statutory corporate
rate of 35 percent. The following year, the tax credits more
than eliminated Marriott’s federal income-tax provision and
helped the company report a negative income-tax rate.  Luxembourg Subsidiary  Faced with criticism from McCain and others, Congress let
that tax credit expire at the end of 2007.  Marriott has also cut its taxes by legally sending profits
overseas, in part through a Luxembourg subsidiary created in
2008 called Global Hospitality Licensing S.à.r.l., which
reported having a single employee.  The unit collected $229 million in revenue in 2009,
primarily from royalty, licensing and franchise fees letting
hotel owners and operators use various Marriott brand names. It
also owns rights to license the brand name for Ritz-Carlton,
owned by Marriott. These transactions help Marriott attribute
profits from those brands to the offshore subsidiary instead of
to the U.S. parent company, where they would be taxed at the 35
percent federal income-tax rate.  The profit generated by the offshore unit is unclear
because the page containing its income statement is missing for
its only two public annual reports from 2009 and 2008, according
to the Luxembourg corporate registry.  In 2010, foreign operations cut 3.7 percentage points off
Marriott’s effective tax rate. In 2011, they cut just under a
percentage point off the rate, according the company’s annual
report. As of the end of 2011, the company had $451 million in
offshore earnings on which it hadn’t paid any U.S. federal
income tax. Multinationals have been lobbying Congress and the
White House for a tax holiday to return such profits to the U.S.
Until companies bring those profits home, the taxes are deferred
indefinitely.  Romney has said he wants to end altogether the federal
income-tax obligation for such offshore profits, a change his
campaign promises will begin on day one of his administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Golden at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net  