-- Roofed Rover Dogs Romney’s Humanization Drive: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-02-22T00:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/roof-rover-dogs-romney-humanization-drive-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Mitt Romney’s enduring problem is
that we don’t know what lies beneath the eager-to-please
demeanor that leads him to emit impenetrable lines like the one
this weekend about loving  Michigan  because its “trees are the
right height.”  This creates a vacuum that inevitably gets filled with
morsels of insight like the old story about his onetime dog,
Seamus. In a web  ad  deployed last month during the South
Carolina primary,  Newt Gingrich  resurrected a 2007 Boston Globe
article telling the tale of how Romney strapped the family’s
Irish setter to the roof of the car for a 12-hour drive to
 Canada . According to the candidate’s son Tagg, stops were
carefully calculated to allow the hound to answer the call of
nature, but Seamus didn’t get the memo. Dad calmly pulled into a
gas station, hosed down the dog, the car and the crate, and the
terrifying ride resumed.  The son apparently shared the anecdote as an illustration
of his father’s gifts as an emotion-free crisis manager. But
grace under pressure isn’t the image of the former Massachusetts
governor that emerged with the retelling. Much in the same way
 John Edwards  came to rue his $400 haircut, and  John McCain  had
trouble living down his inability to count the number of houses
he owned, Seamus dogs Romney.  Late-Night Fodder  The story has at least four legs. “Saturday Night Live”
recently featured Seamus in a skit; it’s a running joke on  David Letterman ’s late-night show; and a parked car with a big stuffed
dog on top routinely shows up at the candidate’s rallies. Fox
News’ Chris Wallace joined the New York Times columnist Gail Collins in expressing incredulity. “I have a yellow Lab named
Winston,”  Wallace said  to Romney. “I would no sooner put him
in a kennel on the roof of my car than I would one of my
children.”  Romney insists Seamus loved his crate and appreciated fresh
air, even at 60 miles per hour. That hasn’t appeased  Dogs
Against Romney , a group whose human founder, Scott Crider, is
trying to get word out to the country’s 43 million dog owners,
who represent all political breeds. Dogs Against Romney, which
had more than 1 million visitors to its website in its first 10
days, recently organized an anti-Romney protest at the
Westminster dog show. It also awarded a congratulatory “ woof ”
to Lanny Davis, a former special counsel to President  Bill Clinton , who wrote in The Hill newspaper that a man who would
insist his dog enjoyed such abuse is unfit to be president.  Although Romney says Seamus lived happily ever after on a
farm,  New York Observer  blogger Hunter Walker reported that two
of the Romney sons had said the dog ran away upon reaching
Canada. This tale of seeking asylum with our good neighbor makes
sense when you consider the possibility that Seamus may have
picked up some French from his master, who performed more than
two years of Mormon missionary service in  France  as a young man.  Zut alors! It was only a matter of time before the Obama
re-election campaign saw a puppy in the manure. A few weeks ago,
the chief strategist,  David Axelrod , put a picture on Twitter of
the president scratching the neck of his dog, Bo, who was
sitting in the plush back seat of the presidential limo. The
caption: “How loving owners transport their dogs.”  The  White House website  is a shrine to all things Bo
(“Meet Bo,” “Bo’s First Month,” “Bo: The Photo Gallery”)
and he makes the perfect campaign surrogate. With a dog, there’s
no risk of evoking the kind of complicated family tableau that
appears when Gingrich’s daughters from his first marriage defend
him against accusations the second wife has made about the
third.  Silent Partner  Nor is a dog about to blunder like Foster Friess, the
fundraiser whose comments added fuel to the furor over  Rick Santorum ’s controversial views on insurance coverage for
contraceptives. It took days for Santorum to stop the snickers
after Friess told NBC’s Andrea Mitchell that in his day an
aspirin squeezed between the legs served as cheap and accessible
birth control.  Santorum has his own canine problem -- his comments
comparing homosexuality to “man on dog” still get more
attention than the legislation he sponsored in the Senate to
regulate scandalous puppy mills -- and he shouldn’t try to go
paw to paw with Bo. The cuddly Portuguese waterdog is never
going to make a bad joke. He has no record to explain, no
earmarks to disavow, no insider status to hide because much of
his business takes place outdoors, even if he does live in the
White House.  Bo’s Everycanine is better at humanizing a candidate than
props such as Joe the Plumber, who ruined things as soon as he
opened his mouth. The First Hound isn’t the least bit aloof and
has no intellectual pretentions.  Seamus is another story. His travails resonate because,
despite all the debates, position papers and campaigning, voters
don’t know much about Romney. He comes to us largely in gauzy
ads, protected by a cocoon of advisers whose greatest fear is
that he might reveal himself. There are so many things that
might humanize the candidate and that he won’t discuss: How
being a Mormon shapes his worldview; how it felt to close
businesses while at Bain Capital LLC; what it was like for a
Republican to govern a state as blue as  Massachusetts ; what he
feels when a maid without health insurance is cleaning his hotel
room; what movies make him laugh or cry.  As long as we’re left to guess about so much, it’s easy to
fill the void about what’s inside the man with the story of the
dog he left outside.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at  mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 