-- Rudd Quits Gillard Cabinet on Speculation He’ll Seek Australia Leadership
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-22T10:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/rudd-quits-gillard-cabinet-on-speculation-he-ll-seek-australia-leadership.html
Kevin Rudd  resigned as Australian
foreign minister, increasing speculation he will challenge Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  for the nation’s top job as support for
her government hovers near a record low.  “There is one overriding question for my colleagues and
that is who is best placed to defeat  Tony Abbott ,” Rudd said in
Washington, referring to the leader of the Liberal-National
opposition who is favorite to win elections due in 2013. Rudd,
54, told reporters he will return home to consult on his future
and make another statement before parliament resumes next week.  Rudd’s move follows an escalation of tension in the ruling
Labor party in the past 10 days that featured one Cabinet member
telling him to “put up or shut up” and a lawmaker calling for
the resignation of 50-year-old Gillard. The country’s first
female leader, who herself ousted Rudd in a June 2010 party
coup, has seen her minority government slide in opinion polls as
she struggles to win public support for planned taxes on  carbon
emissions  and mining profits.  Gillard said Rudd hadn’t contacted her to discuss his
resignation. “I am disappointed that the concerns that Mr. Rudd
has publicly expressed this evening were never raised with me,”
she said in an e-mailed statement, adding she plans to hold a
press conference tomorrow. Sky News reported that Gillard will
tomorrow announce a leadership ballot to be held Feb. 27,
without citing its source.  Abbott ‘On Track’  Australia’s dollar fetched $1.0681 as of 6:27 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0663 yesterday in  New York . Ten-year government
 bond yields  were little changed after Rudd’s announcement at
4.10 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Abbott “does not have the temperament or the experience”
to become prime minister, Rudd told reporters in  Washington .
“But at present, and for a long time now, he has been on track,
to do just that.”  The opposition leader, a former amateur boxer who studied
for the priesthood in the 1980s, leads Gillard as preferred
prime minister among voters, with 40 percent support to her 37
percent, according to a Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12.
Labor’s primary vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind
Abbott’s coalition on 46 percent. The survey of 1,141 people had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  ‘Deeply Demeaning Attitude’  Rudd is “throwing down the gauntlet,” said Norman Abjorensen,  a Canberra-based political analyst at the
 Australian National University . “His resignation speech looked
like a leadership policy speech. He’s making a very high-profile
campaign for the leadership.”  If Rudd challenges, he would need the support of 52 of the
103 lawmakers in the  Labor party  to beat Gillard and return to
the top job. He was ousted by his own party when he couldn’t
muster enough support to contest a challenge by Gillard amid
criticism of his autocratic style and poor poll ratings.  Rudd has the backing of 40 lawmakers in the party caucus,
the Australian newspaper reported Feb. 18, without saying where
it obtained the information. Gillard’s backers estimate she has
45 votes, with the rest undecided, the paper said.  “The party has given Kevin Rudd all the opportunities in
the world and he wasted them with his dysfunctional decision
making and his deeply demeaning attitude towards other people
including our caucus colleagues,” Deputy Prime Minister and
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement. “He sought
to tear down the 2010 campaign, deliberately risking an Abbott
prime ministership, and now he undermines the government at
every turn.”  Closest Election  A Feb. 2-4 Nielsen poll revealed 57 percent of voters
surveyed preferred Rudd as Labor leader, compared with 35
percent for Gillard. The survey of 1,400 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Rudd, who was in Washington for meetings with U.S.
officials after attending a Group of 20 forum in  Mexico , said
Gillard failed to repudiate lawmakers’ suggestions this week
that he was being disloyal to the party.  “I can only reluctantly conclude that I cannot continue to
serve as foreign minister if I do not have the prime minister’s
support,” Rudd said. “I therefore believe the only honorable
thing and the only honorable course of action is for me to
resign.”  After the nation’s closest election in seven decades in
August 2010, Gillard was forced to cobble together a minority
government with the backing of independent lawmakers and the
Greens, giving her a majority of one in the lower house of
parliament. Labor risks triggering the collapse of that
arrangement if Rudd takes the helm, according to independent
lawmaker  Tony Windsor .  ‘All Bets Are Off’  “I did a deal with the current prime minister,” Windsor
told  Sky News  today after Rudd’s resignation. “If the Labor
party suddenly wants to change arrangements in the middle of the
stream, all bets are off.”  The renewed bout of wrangling over the leadership came
after the Australian Broadcasting Corp. aired a documentary on
Feb. 13 questioning Gillard’s version of when she decided to
challenge Rudd for the party leadership in 2010. The ABC, citing
unidentified Labor sources, said her staff prepared a victory
speech two weeks before the coup. Gillard has maintained she
decided on the day to mount a challenge.  Both have flagged achievements during their tenures as
prime minister in public appearances in recent days. Rudd, a
Mandarin speaking former diplomat, highlighted in an interview
with Sky News broadcast Feb. 19 that as leader from 2007 to
2010,  Australia  stayed out of recession during the global
financial crisis and his government prevented “mass
unemployment.”  Labor Lawyer  The prime minister, a former labor lawyer, said her record
includes “nation-changing reform” through the carbon levy and
mining-tax legislation. Companies including BHP Billiton Ltd.
have warned the measures risk hurting investment and job growth.  Australia’s A$1.4 trillion economy averaged a 2 percent
expansion last year, the central bank estimated Feb. 10. Gross
domestic product is predicted to increase 3.5 percent this year,
it said.  Abbott has said Australians can’t afford the carbon tax and
highlighted that last year the nation recorded its worst jobs
growth in 19 years as currency appreciation made manufacturers
uncompetitive. The Australian dollar has strengthened more than
65 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three years.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet.com.au, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$1.33 on every A$1 bet that Gillard will win a
leadership contest, and A$3.15 for Rudd.  Soap Opera  Rudd likened the constant leadership speculation to a soap
opera and said it was distracting from the business of
government.  “I also believe it’s affecting the business community,”
he said. “It is important that business confidence is
maintained in Australia, the economy and jobs are core to what
any responsible government is about.”  “The challenge has been laid down now,” said  Andrew
Hughes , who conducts research in political marketing at the
Australian National University. “I don’t think Rudd will win
this time, but he may by the end of the year. The risk for him
is if he get’s thrashed next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  