-- Russia Seeks ‘Foothold’ in Asian Wheat Market to Rival U.S.
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-02-22T09:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/russia-seeks-foothold-in-asian-wheat-market-to-challenge-u-s-australia.html
Russia , set to be the third-largest
wheat shipper, aims to secure a “foothold” among buyers in
Asia, increasing competition for U.S. and Australian supplies.  “One of the new and promising directions for Russian grain
exports is the Asia-Pacific region,” Andrey Klepach, the deputy
minister of economic development, said in a message to delegates
at a conference in Singapore. The segment “is now rapidly
evolving and Russia has all the chances to gain a foothold.”  Futures dropped 20 percent in the past year as global crops
and stockpiles headed for records and  trade  rose to the second-
highest level in at least in five decades. The U.S., the biggest
exporter, has already lost market share to Russia in North
Africa and the  Middle East  and faces competition from record
Australian shipments in Asia. More supply may curb food costs
the  United Nations  says climbed the most in 11 months in January.  Southeast Asian importers rely on supplies from  Australia (US46EXAU) ,
the U.S., Canada and  India , according to the Russian Grain Union.
Import demand in the region, the third biggest after North
Africa and the Middle East, climbed almost 40 percent to 15.85
million metric tons in the past four years, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture  estimates.   Indonesia  is the largest buyer.  The U.S. is already selling less to North Africa and the
Middle East because of Russia, the USDA says. Shipments to  Egypt ,
the top buyer, slumped to 246,739 tons from June 1 to Feb. 9
compared with 2.44 million tons a year earlier when drought
prompted Russia to ban exports, U.S. government  data  show.  ‘Grain Corridor’  Exports from  Russia (US46EXRU)  will climb fivefold to a record 20.5
million tons this year, said the U.S. agency.  Russia plans the “the creation of the Far East grain
corridor” allowing exports to Southeast Asia, said Agriculture
Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  in a conference message. The Russian
Grain Union, hosting the conference, is seeking to “attract
interest to the agro-industrial sector of Siberia and Far East,
modernization of storage, processing and transshipment
infrastructure,” said Arkady Zlochevsky, group president.  While shipments are limited by infrastructure, exports to
 Asia  are expanding “very fast” and may total 1 million tons
this year, said Zlochevsky. The country will probably maintain
overall sales at 22 million tons in 2012-2013, he said.  U.S. (US46EXUS)  exports may contract 24 percent to 26.5 million tons
this year, the most since the season ended 1986, USDA data show.
Australian exports are poised to jump 20 percent to an all-time
high, says the country’s government forecaster.  Australia has a record harvest and will sell its grain into
Asian markets “ahead of anywhere else,” said Alan Winney,
chairman of Emerald Group Australia Pty, the nation’s fifth-
largest grain handler, in an interview this week.  Wheat for May delivery declined 0.3 percent to $6.35 a
bushel in  Chicago  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  