-- Russia, Nations Agree on Retaliation to EU Airline CO2 Trade
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-22T13:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/russia-nations-agree-on-retaliation-to-eu-airline-co2-trade-1-.html
Russia  is considering limits on
European flights over Siberia as countries approve possible
retaliatory measures against the European Union’s move to force
airlines to pay for  carbon emissions .  Officials from 29 nations signed a declaration in protest
against the EU law, Russia’s Deputy Transportation Minister
Valery Okulov said today in Moscow during a two-day meeting of
the opponents. The countries agreed on steps they may choose to
take to protest the EU measures that came into effect this year.  “We intend to get the EU’s carbon trading measures either
canceled or postponed,” said Okulov, who was previously chief
executive officer of OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline.  The 27-nation EU won’t abandon the expansion of its
emissions trading system into international aviation in the face
of opposition from nations outside the region, Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said Feb. 17. The first expansion
of the EU emissions cap-and-trade program abroad has drawn fire
from countries including  China , the U.S., and  Japan . Those
countries, as well as Russia, signed the declaration today,
Okulov said.  “Unfortunately, our question for Moscow meeting
participants remains unanswered: what’s your concrete,
constructive alternative?” Hedegaard said today on her Twitter
Inc. account.  Siberian Airspace  Nations might challenge EU carbon trading under article 84
of the 1944 Chicago Convention, which governs international
aviation, according to a Russian government statement
distributed to reporters today.  Russia reserves the right to reject requests from EU
carriers that seek to increase flights through Siberian
airspace, giving preference to Asian airlines, Okulov said.
Russia has heard the EU may limit flights of airlines that don’t
pay for emission credits and allowances, he said.  “Undoubtedly, such a threat exists,” Okulov said. “The
EU is considering serious sanctions, fines for aviation
companies that don’t pay” for allowances, he said. “But common
sense should prevail.”  Airlines have until the end of April 2013 to submit
allowances to cover their 2012 discharges before facing possible
fines or bans under the EU law. “We hope that this very last
resort will never need to be applied,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, EU
climate spokesman, said at a news conference today in Brussels.  ‘Completely Sure’  Russian airlines may have to pay 20 million euros to 25
million euros a year under the EU measure, Okulov said. The
protesting nations that signed today’s declaration also include
 Brazil ,  India ,  Argentina ,  South Korea ,  Thailand  and  Saudi
Arabia , he said.  The EU will defend its legislation through the  United
Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization  and is
“completely sure” its rules are in line with international
law, including the ICAO’s principles, Valero-Ladron said.  Countries should continue to work with the UN aviation body
to start a global program to cut emissions from airlines,
Valero-Ladron said. The bloc will revise its emissions-trading
rules and scrap curbs on aviation once there’s a global deal to
cover emissions from the industry, according to the EU law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  