-- S. Africa Considers $78 Billion Nuclear-, Coal-Power Spend
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-02-22T13:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/s-africa-considers-78-billion-nuclear-coal-power-spend-1-.html
South Africa  is considering spending
more than 600 billion rand ($78 billion) on nuclear plants,
another coal-fired plant and a hydropower project in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo to stave off power shortages in
 Africa ’s largest economy.  Proposals to spend 300 billion rand on nuclear plants with
the capacity to generate 9,600 megawatts of energy by 2029 are
in the “final stages of consideration,” the National Treasury
said in the 2012 budget statement today. The government may also
build a 111 billion-rand coal-fired plant, in addition to the
Medupi and Kusile plants under construction by state-owned
utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.  The Treasury has allocated 844.5 billion rand to energy,
transport, housing, telecommunications and water projects in the
three years through March 2015. It lists 43 infrastructure
programs worth a total of 3.2 trillion rand that are in progress
or under consideration for implementation by 2020.  “No good project will be short of funding,” Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told lawmakers in his budget speech in
 Cape Town . “South Africa has deep and liquid capital markets
through which long-term capital can be raised at competitive
rates.”  Power Shortages  President  Jacob Zuma  announced plans for a “massive”
infrastructure drive in his Feb. 9 state-of-the-nation speech to
help spur investment and support growth in the continent’s
biggest economy.  South Africa is expanding its electricity generation base
to avoid a repeat of power shortages that halted mines for at
least five days in January 2008. It’s looking to nuclear and
hydropower to help reduce its reliance on coal to reduce
negative effects on the environment.  Areva SA, EDF SA, Toshiba Corp.’s Westinghouse Electric
Corp. unit, China Guangdong Nuclear Power Holding Corp., Korea
Electric Power Corp. and Rosatom Corp. are potential bidders for
nuclear plants, the Johannesburg-based Mail & Guardian newspaper
reported Oct. 7.  An investment of 200 billion rand in Congo’s 40,000-
megawatt Grand Inga hydropower project is at the “assessment
stage,” while a study into a 200 billion-rand solar park is due
for completion this year.  Grand Inga  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, on
Feb. 15 said it shelved plans to build an aluminum smelter that
would have underpinned the Inga III plant in Congo.  Transportation projects being considered include a 37
billion-rand upgrade of Transnet SOC Ltd.’s rail line
transporting coal from the eastern Mpumalanga province to the
port of  Richards Bay . A 300 billion-rand high-speed rail line
between Johannesburg and the eastern port of Durban is still at
a conceptual stage, the Treasury said.  The government is also considering a proposal for state
petroleum company PetroSA to build a 200 billion-rand, 360,000
barrel-per-day refinery at the eastern port of Coega.  Public-sector borrowing will start “rapidly rising” after
2015 as infrastructure investment accelerates, Gordhan said.  The government has been struggling to implement capital
projects, spending just 68 percent of the 260 billion rand
allocated in the year through March 2011, Gordhan said.  “In addition to long delays, we have often experienced
significant cost overruns,” he said. “We shall step up the
quality of planning, costing and project management so that
infrastructure is delivered on time and on budget.”  The government is reviewing its investment in a number of
state-owned companies and may sell non-priority assets, the
Treasury said.  New regulators may also be established to oversee the water
and transport industries, to ensure the services they provide
are correctly priced, while the  Department of Energy  is
reviewing of its power-pricing policy, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  