-- SAC’s Cohen Hid $5.5 Million From Ex-Wife in 1990 Divorce, Lawyer Argues
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-22T17:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sac-s-cohen-hid-5-5-million-from-ex-wife-lawyer-says-in-lawsuit-appeal.html
Steven Cohen , the billionaire
founder of SAC Capital Advisors LP, hid $5.5 million from his
ex-wife during their 1990 divorce, her lawyer argued before a
federal appeals panel in a bid to reinstate her lawsuit.  Howard Foster, a Chicago-based lawyer for Patricia Cohen,
said Steven Cohen didn’t include the money, which Foster said
Steven received as part of a settlement of a real-estate
dispute, on his 1989 financial statement.  “The financial statement was wrong and deceptive,” Foster
today told the panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan.
Martin Klotz, a lawyer for Steven Cohen, denied his client hid
money.  In March, U.S. District Richard Holwell in  New York 
dismissed  Patricia Cohen ’s suit, ruling she took too long to
bring the case, which was filed in 2009. The judge said Cohen
made similar claims in a 1991 lawsuit in which she accused her
ex-husband of hiding assets and misrepresenting the value of his
investments.  Foster said today that his client didn’t know about the
alleged deception until 2008.  “I don’t accept for a minute that he had $5.5 million,”
Klotz, of Willkie, Farr & Gallagher LLP in New York, told the
three-judge panel. “Mr. Cohen’s statements about the mortgages
are completely true.”  18 Months Earlier  Circuit Judge Pierre Leval asked Klotz why it wasn’t enough
for the case to continue that Patricia Cohen said in her
complaint that her ex-husband left off from the statement “5.5
million bucks” he received 18 months earlier.  Klotz said Holwell dismissed the complaint in part because
it didn’t meet a plausibility test and there were other possible
explanations such as Cohen not having the money at that point.  “Simply saying he got $5.5 million in 1986 and January
1987 says nothing,” Klotz said.  Foster said that as part of the settlement, Cohen received
$5.5 million in cash and a $3 million mortgage. Klotz disagreed,
saying Cohen got mortgages that eventually went into bankruptcy.  “He is a hugely successful trader,” Foster told the
judges. “He didn’t just lose that $5.5 million. He kept it off
the statement.”  Cohen, 55, started SAC in 1992 with about $25 million and
the hedge fund firm now has about $14 billion under management.  ‘Good Job’  “I feel my attorney did a good job,” Patricia Cohen said
after the oral argument. “I think they really understood the
facts that Mr. Foster laid out.”  “I am cautiously optimistic there’s going to be a
reversal,” her lawyer said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Cohen, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the proceedings.  Patricia Cohen said in her lawsuit that SAC Capital was
“the product of an ongoing racketeering scheme” that has
engaged in  insider trading , bank fraud,  money laundering  and
other misconduct.  She also claimed she was entitled to at least half of his
business, saying it was developed in part with $1 million that
she earned from a real estate business.  Steven Cohen said the couple had $17 million in marital
assets in the divorce, and Patricia Cohen accepted a $3.5
million settlement, $2.5 million of which was an apartment,
according to the complaint.  Clients of  Willkie Farr (1179L)  include Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News.  The case is Cohen v. Cohen, 11-1390, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan), and 09-cv-10230, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 