-- Benioff, Emanuel, Daley Join Obama Campaign as Co-Chairmen
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-22T12:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/salesforce-com-ceo-benioff-to-join-obama-campaign-as-co-chairman.html
President  Barack Obama  named 35 co-
chairmen to his presidential campaign, tapping business leaders,
elected officials, veterans and volunteers to advise the
campaign and help it raise money.  “The president’s national co-chairs will be tremendous
assets on the ground as we build the biggest grassroots campaign
in history,”  Jim Messina , the Obama for America campaign
manager, said in an e-mail. “They each share the president’s
vision for a future where every American can have a fair shot at
success, where hard work pays off and responsibility is
rewarded.”  Among those named as co-chairmen are Marc R. Benioff, the
chief executive officer of Salesforce.com;  Rahm Emanuel , the
former White House chief of staff and current mayor of  Chicago ;
Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of  Los Angeles ; Ted Strickland,
the former governor of Ohio; and Alan Solow, a partner at DLA
Piper LLP and a former chairman of the Conference of Presidents
of Major American Jewish Organizations.  Presidential campaigns appoint co-chairmen to help with
fundraising and serve as ambassadors on the campaign trail.
Messina said they will also advise Obama on policy issues and
help organize the campaign in all 50 states.  ‘Job Number One’  Benioff, who donated to Republican candidates as recently
as November, said in an interview that the campaign must
concentrate on Obama’s drive to create jobs and help the economy
recover.  “The president must stay focused on jobs and the
economy,” he said. “That’s job number one.”  Some of the elected officials, including Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller  and California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , played a role in reaching a $25 billion settlement with
Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and three other U.S.
banks to end a probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming
from the collapse of the housing bubble.  “Since taking office, the president has worked tirelessly
to provide relief for struggling middle-class families and to
lay a foundation for a strong economy that’s built to last,”
Harris said in a statement e-mailed from the campaign. “The
president’s leadership and vision for the future will continue
to move the country forward, rather than taking us back to the
failed policies of the past.”  Political Background  Some of the co-chairmen, including Massachusetts Governor
Deval Patrick, U.S. Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of Illinois,
former White House House Chief of Staff Bill Daley and former
U.S. Senator  Russ Feingold  of Wisconsin, have long histories in
Democratic politics.  Salesforce.com (CRM) ’s Benioff has a less heterodox background.
In 2008, he contributed to the presidential campaign of Senator
 John McCain  of Arizona, the Republican candidate, as well as to
Obama, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Three
months ago, he donated $7,500 to Republican Linda Lingle, who is
running to represent Obama’s home state of Hawaii in the U.S.
Senate. In April 2011, he hosted a fundraiser for Obama, and he
has collected more than $500,000 for the campaign.  That financial support for Obama hasn’t stopped him from
criticizing the president’s attention to job creation.  “That message and communication and focus on jobs that he
has today was not as dominant in the first two years that he was
president,” Benioff said. “If the president has any failings
with the business community, it’s that he doesn’t message well
to the business community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  