-- Erdogan Taps Samurai in Record Borrowing: Turkey Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-24T14:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/samurai-extends-record-foreign-bond-sales-as-yields-slide-turkey-credit.html
(Corrects yield on previous yen bond in second paragraph
in story dated yesterday.)  Having borrowed a record $2.5
billion in U.S. currency,  Turkey  is now aiming to raise funds in
yen as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government takes
advantage of resurgent  demand for its debt .  The  Treasury  plans to sell $1 billion of so-called Samurai
bonds as soon as March 8, said a person with knowledge of the
issue who declined to be identified. It last tapped  Japan ’s
market in March 2011, selling 180 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of
10-year bonds at a yield 187 basis points, or 1.87 percentage
point, which was equivalent to 48 basis points more than the
benchmark yen swap rate. Since then, the spread has climbed to a
peak of 263 basis points in January before dropping to 235 basis
points, or 2.35 percentage points, today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg for the privately placed securities.  “We’ve been waiting for Turkey’s offering,”  Toshiaki Takahashi , who manages 350 billion yen at Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance, said in a phone interview from  Tokyo  on Feb. 21.
While the credit crisis in Europe means Turkey will need to pay
more because 42 percent of its exports go to the European Union,
the sale will be “positive,” he said.  Turkey’s international bonds are rallying this year on
confidence the world’s second-fastest growing major economy
behind China last year will keep expanding after cuts in
 interest rates  reversed a policy of monetary tightening. Rate
increases in the third quarter had led  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to warn of a possible
recession as Turkish bonds and the lira tumbled.  Yields Slide  The yield on  Turkey’s (JPSYGTR)  bonds denominated in dollars fell by
an average 77 basis points since Jan. 9 to 5.41 percent on Feb.
21, the biggest decline since November 2010,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index shows .  Emerging-market yields  fell 47
basis points in the same period as improved U.S. economic
indicators and loans from the  European Central Bank  to prevent
bank failures in the euro region boosted investor demand for
higher yielding, riskier assets.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci, 45, who adopted a
discretionary policy in October of using more than one rate in
an attempt to control inflation without slowing the economy,
helped restore investor confidence by resuming lending at the
lower rate of 5.75 percent Jan. 6 and cutting the maximum level
to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent Feb. 21.  Goldman Sachs boosted its forecast for 2012  economic growth 
to 2.5 percent from 0.8 percent on Feb. 10, citing an improving
world economy and unlimited three-year loans to banks by the
European Central Bank.  Second to China  Erdogan, 57, is forecasting Turkey’s economy, the eighth
biggest in Europe at $735 billion, will grow at least 4 percent
this year. Gross domestic product expanded by 9.6 percent in the
first nine months of 2011, second only to  China  among the Group
of 20 nations.  “Risk appetite is on the rise,  Asia  is recovering and
investors are on a buying spree,” Suha Yaygin, deputy chief of
emerging markets trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank in London,
said in e-mailed comments. “The Japanese are looking for
emerging-market assets.”  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps was little changed at 247 basis
points yesterday, compared with a spread of 203 for  Russia ,
which is rated three levels higher by  Standard & Poor’s , and 210
for  Poland , rated five levels higher, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately-negotiated market.  Turkish contracts cost 27 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bond Returns  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkey Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, with a “positive” outlook. S&P also rates
Turkey at two levels below investment grade at BB.  Turkey’s local currency government bonds have returned 13
percent in dollar terms so far this year, more than any other
emerging-market debt, according to the JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Index.
Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  in liras rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.05 today, closing at the
highest level since Feb. 20. The lira declined 0.2 percent to
1.7625 per dollar, depreciating for a third day.  Daiwa, Nomura  Turkey’s existing Samurai bonds are 95 percent guaranteed
by the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation . The JBIC will
also guarantee Turkey’s next samurai issue, the Treasury said in
a statement on its website Feb. 20. The government said Feb. 20
it hired Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. Ltd.,  Nomura
Securities Co. (NCLJ)  Ltd. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. to prepare
the sale. The bonds may be priced March 8, said a person with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the information is private.  The sales are part of a foreign borrowing program to raise
9.5 billion liras ($5.4 billion) this year to help finance a
 budget deficit  equal to 1.5 percent of GDP and a  current-account
deficit  that hit $77 billion in 2011, the highest in the 34-
nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
after the U.S. and  Italy .  Turkey needs to repay $3.4 billion in capital and interest
on external debt in the first quarter out of a total $10.5
billion for the whole year, according the Treasury’s debt-
management report published last month.  The government sold $1 billion of dollar bonds due 2022 at
a yield of 5.75 percent on Feb. 8, three weeks after issuing
$1.5 billion of the same debt at 6.35 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield has since fallen to 5.3 percent.  Other Clients  Turkey plans to issue Islamic bonds, or sukuk, this year
after completing the necessary legislation, Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan said at a capital markets conference in
Istanbul Jan. 31.  The government is “exploring another pocket of clients, a
pocket of demand,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “The message they got
from the market for this last dollar deal was not super rosy.”  Turkey, whose next yen-denominated issue matures in 2021,
will probably swap the yen it borrows into dollars, Citigroup’s
Costa said by phone on Feb. 20.  While the yield on the existing Samurai bond has tripled to
about 3.18 percent from a low of 1.1 percent on Sept. 5, the
rate is lower than the 4.97 percent for Turkey’s dollar bonds
due the same year and 5.36 percent for euro debt maturing in
2020, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It is definitely cheaper for them to issue in yen given
the European uncertainties and lesser appetite of investors for
emerging-market local bonds,” Guillaume Tresca, emerging market
strategist at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said in e-mailed
comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  