-- Santorum’s Consistency Shines in Oddball Race: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/santorum-s-consistency-shines-in-oddball-race-michael-kinsley.html
Maybe anyone who voluntarily runs
the gantlet we call our presidential election process must be
mentally imbalanced in some respect, but this year’s crop of
Republican candidates has been especially odd.  Of the four who remain viable, only  Mitt Romney  can even
pass as normal -- and he has that eerie, Stepford-wife quality
of being so normal it’s weird.  Upon first exposure, it doesn’t take long to identify  Ron Paul  as a charming old crank, or  Newt Gingrich  as an egomaniac
who imagines that the voices he hears in his head are the calls
of destiny.  Rick Santorum  is, at first, harder to characterize.  Along with Paul, he ranks high on the sincerity scale. But
whereas Paul has an appealing innocence that takes the form of
true puzzlement at why everyone doesn’t agree with him, Santorum
is generally solemn, almost sad-looking, and usually humorless.
When complaining about some Obama administration betrayal of all
human decency, he comes off sounding more like a sulky teenager
arguing some irritating point of principle than the tribune of
the working class that he would like to be.  Remarkably Mild-Mannered  For a man going after  Pat Buchanan ’s old constituency,
Santorum is remarkably mild-mannered. The worst you can say
about his public personality is that he’s cute when he’s mad.
Buchanan, who was fired last week by  MSNBC , isn’t. (Apparently,
the network discovered, after using him as a commentator for a
decade, that Buchanan is an unacceptably extreme right-winger
with controversial racial and ethnic views.)  Perhaps Santorum will inherit Buchanan’s seat as token
conservative at the network that recently gave Al Sharpton a
show. For a long time after Santorum announced his candidacy for
president, nobody paid him much attention, under the assumption
that his real goal was his own TV show, or at least higher fees
for public speaking, when he inevitably dropped out of the race.  After all, his most recent political achievement was losing
his Senate seat in  Pennsylvania  to a Democrat by 17 points six
years ago. If everyone with a political record no better than
this had to be taken seriously when he or she announced a run
for president, the field would be crowded indeed.  But it turns out the little voice that tells some of the
most unlikely people, “You know, you could be elected
president,” was telling Rick Santorum the truth. In  some polls ,
he is leading Romney in Romney’s native state of  Michigan ,
though the gap is narrowing. So the news media are only now
discovering that Santorum is more than just another ugly face.  Metaphorically, that is: Physically, he is boyishly
pleasant-looking, though not handsome in the Romney central-
casting way. Frankly, he looks less like the president than any
of his remaining Republican rivals. The coating of gravitas that
automatically gets applied to those who hold the job will have
to be applied especially thick if Santorum should win.  Unlike Romney, Santorum is a man of principle. But what
principles! He’s an absolutist on abortion, wanting it banned
even in cases of rape and incest. Over the weekend he said that
not just the federal government but also state governments
should keep their noses out of public education. Same-sex
marriage? Guess.  Santorum has been best known for his stark right-wing views
on social issues and his unyieldingly pugnacious legislative
style when he was in office. Now people are looking into his
economic views. The noteworthy thing about these is how little
he bends the standard right-wing pro-business litany to
accommodate his special sympathy for the working stiff. He
favors new tax breaks for everything from small business to
large families. He promises to cut a trillion dollars from
federal spending every year for the next five years. Details
still to come, of course, except that he would freeze
entitlement spending.  Like most politicians who talk a good capitalist game,
Santorum is a free trader in theory and a protectionist in
practice. But, oddly, so is Romney. In fact, the need to rein in
 China  -- that is, to stop Americans from buying Chinese products
they wish to buy at prices they wish to pay -- is just about the
only subject that brings out seemingly real passion in Romney.  A Brazen Appeal  The Michigan primary, coming Feb. 28, will tell us whether
Romney is invincible or all too vincible. Both Santorum and
Romney say they wouldn’t have bailed out the  auto industry .
Santorum told the  Detroit Economic Club  last week that the
difference between him and Romney is that he wouldn’t have
bailed out the finance industry either. (Romney supported the
bank bailout.) Perhaps it’s just schadenfreude, and auto workers
don’t mind being laid off as long as bankers are laid off too.  But this brazen appeal to logical consistency -- not
normally a big vote getter in American politics -- surprisingly
seems to be working.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 