-- Poll: Santorum Leads Romney, Both Come Close to Obama
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-02-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/santorum-leads-romney-nationally-as-both-come-close-to-obama.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  leads  Mitt Romney  nationally in the party’s
nomination race and both pose a threat to President Barack Obama’s re-election, according to the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute.  Santorum won the support of 35 percent of registered
Republicans and independents who lean toward the party, while 26
percent backed Romney in a Feb. 14-20 survey by the institute
released today.  Obama would beat Santorum, 47 percent to 44 percent, in a
hypothetical matchup, while topping Romney 46 percent to 44
percent, the poll shows.  The results reflect a boost for Santorum after he swept the
Feb. 7 contests in Colorado, Missouri and Minnesota. They also
show that the attacks being exchanged between the two campaigns
aren’t hurting either candidate’s standing against Obama, said
 Peter Brown , assistant director of the institute.  “Romney and Santorum still do very well against the
president,” Brown said in an interview. “It does not appear in
the general election to be hurting them to a sizable degree.”  Santorum’s standing nationwide will change based on whether
the former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania can pull off victories
in the Feb. 28 primaries in Arizona and  Michigan (BEESMI) , Brown said.
Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, was born in Michigan
and a Santorum win there would shake up the race again, he said.  Following States  “National polls tend to follow state voting,” Brown said.  In the survey from Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac,
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has the support of 14
percent of Republican-leaning voters and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas gets 11 percent.  With those two removed from the race, the poll finds
Santorum’s lead grows over Romney, 50 percent to 37 percent.  Santorum’s standing is “built on the votes of Republican
men, Tea Party supporters and white evangelical Christians,”
Brown said in a statement released in conjunction with the poll.  The prospect of no candidate locking down the nomination
before the party’s national convention convenes Aug. 27 in
Tampa,  Florida , is viewed negatively by the Republican-inclined
voters, 48 percent to 37 percent.  If delegates had to pick a candidate not now in the race at
the convention, those polled prefer New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie . He gets 32 percent support in that scenario, compared
with 20 percent each for former Governors Sarah Palin of Alaska
and  Jeb Bush  of Florida and 15 percent for Indiana Governor
 Mitch Daniels .  The poll has an error margin of plus-or-minus 2.9
percentage points for the 1,124 voters questioned on the
Republican race and 1.9 points for the entire sample of 2,605
voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  