-- Saudi Shares Rise to 3-Year High on Bets Bourse May Allow Overseas Funds
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-22T13:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/saudi-shares-rise-to-3-year-high-on-bets-bourse-may-allow-overseas-funds.html
Saudi Arabia’s stock index advanced
to the highest level in more than three years on investor
speculation the Arab world’s biggest stock market may this year
open up to foreign investors.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, gained to the highest level since August.
 Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , Saudi Arabia’s largest publicly traded lender by
market value, rose 1.3 percent. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
climbed 0.9 percent to 7,031.26, the highest since September
2008, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, bringing its increase
this week to 3.2 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  added 0.5
percent.  “Some investors in regional markets are putting money into
Saudi Arabia with the view that the bourse may soon open up to
direct foreign ownership,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital. “Volumes have been going up in Saudi
Arabia but are generally muted in regional bourses.”  Saudi Arabia ’s Capital Market Authority is in discussions
with international banks to open the country’s stock exchange to
foreign investors early 2012, three bankers familiar with the
matter said in October. Foreign, non-Persian Gulf investors
currently can’t directly invest in Saudi shares. The kingdom
hasn’t set a timeline for opening its market to foreigners,
stock exchange Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Al-Suweilmy said
in December.  Swap Agreement  The stock exchange will directly link swap-agreement
portfolios to primary beneficiaries in coordination with the
market regulator and brokerages, a statement on the Saudi bourse
said yesterday. This will replace the previous process of
combining beneficiaries under the name of authorized persons.  In a growing sign of openness, the market regulator said in
January it will allow overseas companies to list securities on
the bourse.  Non-resident foreigners are permitted to trade through
share-swap transactions and exchange-traded funds, with the
market regulator approving the first ETF in March 2010. The
government allowed citizens of neighboring Gulf countries to buy
and sell local shares in 2007.  About  417 million shares  were traded in Saudi Arabia today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 228 million shares. In
Qatar, about 6.8  million shares  were traded today, compared with
the past year’s daily average of 7.1 million shares.  Crude Exporter  “With such significant increase in volumes along with a
rising trend, this indicates that the Saudi stock market is
setting up to break through a three-year consolidation range
since September 2009 to date, and a firewall resistance at
7,000,” Musa Haddad, head trader at the  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC ’s asset-management group, said in a note to investors
yesterday. “Such breakout on high volumes sets the stage for a
long-term uptrend towards 8,000 - 10,000 levels.”  Oil earlier today traded near a nine-month high after
United Nations inspectors in Iran were denied access to a
suspected nuclear site, raising concern that tensions between
OPEC’s second-biggest producer and Western nations may escalate.
Oil for April delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose
as much as 16 cents to $106.41 a barrel before trading 0.4
percent lower at $105.82 at 1:51 p.m. in  London .  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, depended
on oil for 93 percent of its revenue in 2011.  Sabic advanced 1.3 percent to 100.5 riyals, the highest
since Aug. 3. Al Rajhi Bank gained to 75.5 riyals, the highest
since July 11.  Oman’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.1
percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  and Bahrain’s  BB All Share
Index (BHSEASI)  advanced 0.8 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
increased 0.3 percent, while Kuwait’s  gauge  fell 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  