-- HSBC to Withdraw From Japan Consumer Banking, Close Branches
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-23T01:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/hsbc-to-close-consumer-bank-in-japan-four-years-after-start.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, will withdraw from consumer banking in Japan, closing down
six branches four years after starting the business.  HSBC will stop selling new investment products, including
mutual funds, from March 8, and it will end operations in its
branches in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya by July 31, the London-based
bank said in the memo e-mailed to its customers yesterday and
obtained by Bloomberg News. A spokesman in  London  confirmed the
details of the e-mail.  The U.K. lender is scaling back in parts of  Asia , including
Japan,  South Korea  and Thailand, as Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Gulliver cuts costs and prepares for tighter capital
rules. HSBC last month agreed to sell operations in  Costa Rica ,
El Salvador and Honduras to Colombia’s Banco Davivienda SA for
$801 million to focus on bigger markets in  Latin America .  “I am writing to you today to inform you with regret that
we will be discontinuing our HSBC Premier service in  Japan ,”
Gifford Nakajima, head of retail banking and wealth management,
Japan HSBC Premier, said in the memo. “This follows a global
strategic review of our business, and means that we will be
undertaking a phased withdrawal of our HSBC Premier service, in
line with existing contractual obligations.”  The bank will assist customers in finding alternative
banking arrangements and transfer their assets to another bank
free of charge, the notice said.  Seeking Buyers  The bank was seeking buyers for its Premier unit, which
targets wealthy individuals in Japan, three people familiar with
the matter said on Jan. 25. The London-based bank started an
auction, with the option of shutting the division if offers
weren’t attractive enough, two of the people said. HSBC Premier
was started in 2008.  HSBC opened its first Japanese branch in the port city of
Yokohama in 1866. It started services for “mass-affluent”
customers, people with savings of at least 10 million yen
($125,000), in Tokyo in 2008.  The company in 2010 added retail offices in Osaka and
Nagoya, the second- and third-largest metropolitan areas,
bringing the total to six. HSBC’s three Tokyo branches are in
the Marunouchi financial district, as well as Hiroo and Akasaka.  HSBC and lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Standard
Chartered Plc have been competing with Japanese banks for a
share of household financial assets that totaled 1,471 trillion
yen as of Sept. 30, according to central bank figures.  HSBC retains securities and asset management operations in
Japan. The lender in December agreed to sell its Japanese
private banking business to Credit Suisse Group AG. The sale of
the unit, which managed assets of $2.7 billion as of Oct. 31, is
expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2012, HSBC
said in a statement in December, without disclosing the price.  The bank last month named Kaber McLean as its chief
executive officer for Japan, replacing Stuart Milne, who will
remain at HSBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  