-- SEC Sues China-based Executives Over Theft of Company Assets
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-23T04:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sec-sues-china-based-executives-over-theft-of-company-assets.html
Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA) ’s chairman cheated
U.S. investors by secretly transferring control of the company’s
sole source of revenue to himself and turning Puda into an empty
shell company before selling shares to the public, securities
regulators alleged in a lawsuit.  The fraud by Chairman Ming Zhao and former Puda chief
executive officer Liping Zhu, who was also sued, caused hundreds
of millions of dollars in investor losses after the company’s
shares dropped to pennies from a high of almost $17 a share,
George Canellos, New York regional director of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said in a civil complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  The SEC cautioned investors last year about buying stakes
in companies that gain listings on U.S. exchanges through so-
called reverse mergers, saying they may be prone to fraud.  Zhao, 39, a Chinese national, took over Puda’s 90 percent
stake in Chinese coal mining company Shanxi Puda Coal Group Co.
Ltd. in September 2009, just weeks before Taiyuan, China-based
Puda announced that Shanxi had received a highly lucrative
government deal, the complaint says. Zhao later transferred
almost half of the coal business to a fund controlled by  Citic
Group (CITIC) ,  China ’s largest state-owned investment firm, the SEC
said. The coal business was Puda’s main corporate asset, the
agency said.  ‘90 Percent Stake’  “At the same time that Citic Trust was effectively selling
interests in Shanxi Coal to Chinese investors, the defendants
were still telling U.S. investors that Puda owned a 90 percent
stake in the company,” Canellos said in the lawsuit.  Zhu, 55, also a Chinese national, knew of the scheme and
forged a letter falsely saying Citic claimed no interest in the
coal business, according to the complaint. Zhao had his U.S.
lawyers give the letter to SEC staff investigating the company.
Zhu resigned after the letter was exposed as a forgery.  The transactions weren’t approved by Puda Coal’s board or
shareholders and weren’t disclosed in public filings, according
to the SEC.  The complaint alleges violations of U.S. securities laws.
The SEC is seeking court orders for Zhao and Zhu to disgorge
ill-gotten gains and pay unspecified civil fines.  Puda Coal’s common stock was listed and traded on the New
York Stock Exchange from September 2009 to August 2011 after
entering U.S. capital markets through a reverse merger in July
2005, the SEC said. The SEC has focused recently on China-based
companies that list on U.S. exchanges through reverse mergers,
in which closely held firms buy shell companies that allow them
to sell shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that would
surround a public offering.  ‘Highlights the Risks’  “It really highlights the risks that are a concern to U.S.
regulators about Chinese companies,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a
former SEC lawyer now with Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker
PA in Potomac,  Maryland . “To bring civil charges, even if they
cannot service these officials with the lawsuit and bring them
into U.S. courts, it still is a strong message.”  Crocker Coulson, an outside investor relations
representative for Puda, declined to comment on the SEC suit.  The allegations that Zhao had sold the company’s Chinese
operating entity to Citic emerged last April in a report by the
anonymous short selling web site Alfred Little, setting off a 51
percent slide in the shares that month.  Ji Feng of Citic Group said the company isn’t immediately
able to comment on the SEC case.  “What is really amazing is it’s not involving Chinese
entrepreneurs only, it’s involving one of the largest
corporations in China,” said Umberto Vitiello, chief executive
officer of Milan-based money manager Realty Partners, who
estimates he owns about 1 percent of Puda’s shares through a
family office.  When allegations first emerged, “I was very surprised and
believed it was manipulation, so I didn’t take the chance to
sell,” he said. “I would have never imagined that something
like that could have ever happened in regulated markets like
those in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  