-- SEC Seeks Testimony of Ex-IKB Employee in Lawsuit Against Goldman’s Tourre
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-02-22T22:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sec-seeks-testimony-of-ex-ikb-employee-in-suit-against-goldman-s-tourre.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission wants to question a former employee of  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG (IKB)  in its lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
trader Fabrice Tourre, court records show.  The SEC today asked a federal judge in New York to issue a
so-called letter of request that would allow the agency to take
testimony from Jorg Zimmerman, a resident of  Germany .  The agency sued Tourre in 2010, saying he defrauded
investors by not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
pick the underlying securities for a collateralized debt
obligation, known as Abacus, and planned to bet against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-
based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company “substantial assistance” as it
misled investors. The SEC said IKB wouldn’t have invested if it
had known of Paulson’s involvement in the portfolio selection.  “Tourre personally spoke with IKB employee Jorg Zimmerman
to solicit interest in ABACUS 2007-ACI securities,” the SEC
said in its filing.  The agency said its lawyers want to ask Zimmerman about
IKB’s decision to invest, the representations that Tourre and
Goldman Sachs made to the bank, “and the importance of the
facts omitted by Tourre” and Goldman Sachs.  Jersey Firms  Zimmerman isn’t a defendant in the case. Tourre has denied
wrongdoing in the lawsuit.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer for Tourre, said in an
interview that today’s request is a corrected version of an  SEC
filing  from several weeks ago, and that she has also asked the
German court to order testimony.  Tourre has said in court that the $150 million investment
was actually made by two Jersey-based firms in the  Channel
Islands , and not by Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB.  “We have to finish up discovery in Germany,” Chepiga
said. Discovery is the gathering and sharing of evidence before
a trial.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in  Manhattan  last year
refused to dismiss the case while narrowing some of the claims
against Tourre. She said the SEC had met its burden for pursuing
a claim that Tourre violated a law designed to prevent
fraudulent sales of securities and should stand trial.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 