-- SEC’s Schapiro Says Money Funds’ Makeup Makes Them Run-Prone
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-22T17:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sec-s-schapiro-says-money-funds-makeup-makes-them-run-prone-1-.html
Money market fund regulations need
to be revamped quickly to fix the funds’ inherent vulnerability
to runs, said U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
 Mary Schapiro .  “I do feel a sense of urgency about the structural
weaknesses that exist in  money market funds ,” Schapiro said
today at a  Washington  breakfast with reporters sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor. The SEC has been working on two
possibilities to change aspects of the $2.6 trillion money funds
industry that make them “prone to runs,” she said, with the
agency considering either a departure from the traditional $1
share price or mandating capital cushions.  Regulators have debated how to make the funds more stable
since the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, which triggered an industrywide run by clients that helped
freeze global credit markets. The agency enacted changes two
years later in an attempt to prevent runs, including new
liquidity requirements, shorter maturity limits and enhanced
disclosure mandates.  Schapiro said in a November speech that the agency would
soon propose revamping fund rules. The commission hasn’t yet
voted on a proposal. Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher
has stated that the agency should hold off on such an overhaul.  When asked today whether more than 16,000 comment letters
will force regulators to re-propose the so-called Volcker rule’s
ban against banks’ proprietary trading, Schapiro said it depends
on “how much the rule changes.” The statute is set to go into
effect in July, and Schapiro said she doesn’t know whether the
rulemaking will be complete by then.  Equity Market Changes  The agency has also been working on structural changes to
the equity markets in the wake of the May 6, 2010, crash that
erased $862 billion from equities in less than 20 minutes before
rebounding. Schapiro said the overhaul, which saw the addition
of exchange circuit breakers, is now awaiting a better
understanding of market activity.  “We don’t have enough data yet to really be able to
justify significant additional steps at this point,” Schapiro
said. The new system instituted by the SEC to track the trading
of the most active market participants should collect
information that will “be critical to our ability to justify
further changes,” she said.  Schapiro also said today that she expected 85 percent of
failed brokerage  MF Global Inc. (MF) ’s former securities customers
will be “paid in full.” The liquidation of the bankrupt New
York-based firm should return most of those funds from about 320
securities accounts, she said, which represented a fraction of
the brokerage’s commodities-focused business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 