-- Serbia’s EU Bid Looks Remote Amid Kosovo Talks, President Says a
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-02-22T15:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/serbia-s-eu-bid-looks-remote-amid-kosovo-talks-president-says-a.html
Serbian President  Boris Tadic  isn’t
“optimistic” his country will become a candidate for  European
Union membership next month and said success of the bid
ultimately depends on the will of citizens in its former
province of Kosovo.  The Western Balkan nation launched a new round of talks
with officials from Pristina today under the auspices of the EU.  “Today we are a bit farther away from the solution than we
were last night,” Tadic told reporters in Belgrade.  Serbia’s failure to make substantial progress in EU-
mediated talks with Kosovo over trade, border control and mutual
recognition of documents led to a delay in December on awarding
the country candidate status. It is also needs to agree to a
nameplate for  Kosovo  in regional events.  “I cannot express any optimism about gaining the
candidacy” next month and “I can only remind you that the
status doesn’t depend on us only, it depends on every EU member
state and on Kosovo, which is not even an EU member and which is
a state only in bilateral relations,” he said at an event for
 NCR Corp. (NCR)  in the Serbian capital.  Problems in the current round of talks relate to the
“Pristina delegation proposing solutions which have nothing to
do with reality,” he said, referring to demands for Belgrade to
agree to a nameplate for Kosovo in regional events.  Kosovo, recognized by 82 countries including 22 EU members
and the U.S., wants  Serbia  to recognize its independence,
unilaterally declared in 2008. Serbia has vowed never to
recognize the secession and instead wants a broad political
agreement with Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  