-- Shell Bids $1.6 Billion for African Oil Explorer Cove Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-22T16:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/shell-offers-to-buy-cove-energy-for-1-6b.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, offered to buy African explorer  Cove Energy
Plc (COV)  for 992.4 million pounds ($1.6 billion) to gain a foothold
in Mozambique.  Shell is offering 195 pence for each Cove share, a 26
percent premium to the closing price of the London-based company
yesterday, according to a statement. Cove’s board separately
said it expected to recommend the proposed acquisition.  Cove put itself up for sale last month after reporting one
of the world’s largest gas discoveries in a decade off
Mozambique. Cove has an 8.5 percent stake in Rovuma Area 1,
which holds 15 trillion to 30 trillion cubic feet of recoverable
gas, enough to justify production of liquefied natural gas for
Asian markets. The find is operated by  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   “This is a much better price than the market anticipated
and will likely not see” another bidder, said Stuart Joyner, an
analyst at Investec Securities in London.  Cove jumped 39.5 pence, or 26 percent, to a record 194
pence in London. Other oil and gas companies active in Africa
also advanced, with Ophir Energy Plc climbing 7.3 percent and
Afren Plc gaining 5.9 percent.  ‘Assessing Opportunities’  Shell is “assessing opportunities” to expand further in
Mozambique, according to Jonathan French, a London-based
spokesman.  Anadarko and Eni SpA are leading two different groups of
investors, which between them have found about 70 trillion cubic
feet of gas off Mozambique. Both operators have said they are
ready to sell stakes to share costs and reduce risks.  “The involvement in gas for potential LNG fits into
Shell’s dominant LNG portfolio,” said Peter Hutton, an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets in London.  The premium on the proposed takeover compares with the 22
percent average premium paid in oil and gas deals last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Based on mean recoverable resource estimates, the deal
would value Cove at $4.1 per barrel of oil equivalent, according
to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Boost Spending  Cove has already been working with  Total SA (FP)  and  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  to explore off the coast of Kenya. Last year, it joined
 Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  to bid for exploration licenses off Lebanon.  Shell, which joined forces with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  of
Brazil last year to search for oil and gas off Tanzania, has
been unsuccessful so far in  East Africa . It plans to increase
spending on exploration 35 percent to about $5 billion this
year.  In 2002, Shell bid for four exploration blocks off the
islands of Zanzibar and Pemba, part of the semi-autonomous
nation on an archipelago in the  Indian Ocean  which has a
political union with Tanzania. The oil company has been in talks
with both to finalize the licenses.  Cove has received “a lot of serious interest” from
national and international oil companies, John Martin, a
managing director at Standard Chartered Bank, which is advising
Cove on the sale, said yesterday. Morgan Stanley is acting for
Shell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  