-- Shell’s Director Brinded Steps Down to Be Replaced by Brown
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-02-22T14:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/shell-s-e-p-director-brinded-steps-down-to-be-replaced-by-brown.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said  Malcolm
Brinded , a 37-year veteran at the company, will step down as
exploration and production director and be replaced by  Andrew
Brown , currently Shell’s Qatar chairman.  Brinded, 58, who worked as an  executive director  for almost
10 years, will leave the company after April, said Jon French, a
London-based spokesman.  Brown  has been promoted to join the
executive committee as an exploration director after overseeing
at least $21 billion of Shell’s investment in Qatar.  “Malcolm after a very distinguished career of 37 years is
stepping down,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said in an
interview in The Hague today. “He’s replaced by Andy. who
delivered two out of three flagship projects in Qatar. He will
drive the upstream international strategy forward.”  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, saw production fall 3
percent to 3.2 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year
after rising in 2010 to end eight years of decline. The Anglo-
Dutch company’s projects in Qatar will prop up extraction and
help to generate surplus cash with oil above $100 a barrel.  The directors have “decided to initiate change in the
leadership to take the upstream business forward to the next
stage of its growth and development,” French said by phone.  Cove Bid  Shell today announced a $1.6 billion plan to bid for Cove
Energy Plc., which is focusing on East Africa exploration. Cove
and partners have discovered as much as 30 trillion cubic feet
of recoverable gas in  Mozambique , which would be enough to make
liquefied natural gas to supply Asia. Shell’s Qatargas 4 was the
latest completed LNG plant with the company also investing in
the fuel projects in Australia.  The expansion of Shell in Mozambique “may raise questions
on the extent of Shell’s exposure in Australia, where it is
involved in some eight projects,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “Such questions are likely to
be given additional focus given the announcement” about the
exploration leadership changes.  In 2008, Brinded was seen by analysts as a possible
candidate for the top job at The Hague-based Shell. He lost to
Swiss-born ex-Chief Financial Officer  Peter Voser  who became
chief executive officer in 2009 succeeding Jeroen van der Veer.  Brinded, born in 1953, joined Shell after graduating from
 Cambridge University  and served as the U.K. chairman in the
three years to 2002, when he joined the executive board.  Brown oversaw construction of the  Pearl gas-to-liquids 
plant also in Qatar, which makes fuels from natural gas. The
world’s largest facility of its kind has enough capacity to fuel
160,000 cars a day with diesel and employed 52,000 workers at
the peak of construction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  