-- Shire Wins EU Backing for U.S. Plant to Ease Drug Shortage
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-22T14:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/shire-wins-eu-backing-for-u-s-plant-to-ease-drug-shortage-1-.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  won European Union health-
regulator approval for a new U.S. factory that would boost
output of medicines for rare genetic disorders, potentially
hurting sales of rival treatments from Sanofi’s Genzyme unit.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use cleared the Lexington, Massachusetts,
facility to manufacture Vpriv to treat Gaucher disease, Dublin-
based Shire said today in a statement. The decision must be
ratified by the European Commission before Shire can start sales
in the EU of Vpriv made at the factory, and that’s expected
imminently, the company said.  Shire gained sales and market share after manufacturing
glitches at Genzyme in 2009 resulted in a shortage of the
treatments Fabrazyme for Fabry disease and Cerezyme for Gaucher.
As patients struggled with limited dosing schedules, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  allowed Shire to give its
medicines, Replagal and Vpriv, away for free in the U.S., even
though the drugs weren’t approved there.  The U.S. agency cleared Vpriv for sale in February 2010 and
Shire expects an FDA decision on Replagal in May. The company
anticipates FDA approval of the Lexington plant in the first
quarter, Jessica Mann, a spokeswoman, said by phone today. Sales
of all four drugs brought in about $1.5 billion for  Sanofi (SAN)  and
Shire last year.  Shire plans to shift manufacturing of Vpriv to the
Lexington facility, freeing up an existing plant to make more
Replagal. Shire will ramp up production and be able to meet
global demand for both of the drugs by the end of this year,
Chief Executive Officer Angus Russell said on a Feb. 9
conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  