-- Singapore Air Slashes Freighter Capacity 20% on Demand Slump
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-02-23T13:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/singapore-air-slashes-freighter-capacity-20-on-demand-slump.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest carrier by market value, cut freighter capacity
by 20 percent because of slumping demand and higher fuel prices.  The cuts took effect recently and will continue into the
next operating season, which starts in late March, the carrier
said in a statement yesterday. The reductions mainly affect
long-haul routes, it said without elaboration.  The airline, which has a fleet of 13 Boeing Co. 747-400
freighters, is paring services as the European debt crisis saps
demand for electronics, auto parts and other goods made in  China .
The carrier filled 58.5 percent of  cargo space  last month, the
lowest amount since April 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s good to see excess capacity being removed from the
sector,” said Robert Bruce, head of Singapore research at CLSA
Ltd. Still, it “can be turned on again very quickly” as the
carrier isn’t parking or retiring planes, he said.  Singapore Air fell 1.7 percent to S$10.76. in trading in
the city-state today. The carrier has slumped 22 percent in the
past year, compared with a 14 percent decline for Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. in Hong Kong.  China Airlines  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) ,  Taiwan ’s biggest carrier, is planning
to park a third Boeing 747 freighter because of the demand slump,
Chairman Chang Chia-Juch said in Taipei today. The carrier has
20 of the cargo planes, according to its  website .  “There’s an oversupply, so we’re adjusting our cargo
capacity,” Chang said. “The global cargo market is weak.”  Singapore Air (SIA) , which generates about 20 percent of sales
from freight, had a S$40 million ($32 million) operating loss in
its cargo unit in the quarter ended December. The unit filled
64.7 percent of capacity in the quarter, compared with the 69.2
percent needed to cover its costs.  The break-even target was 8 percentage points higher than a
year earlier because of lower rates and higher fuel costs, the
airline said in a Feb. 2 statement. The price of jet fuel has
jumped 9.1 percent in the past year in Singapore trading.  “The depressed demand that we are seeing across all
markets gives us little reason to be optimistic about the near-
term outlook,” SIA Cargo President Tan Kai Ping said in
yesterday’s announcement. The carrier doesn’t expect any
improvement in the first half, he said.  Cathay Pacific has been “cutting capacity aggressively”
on  North America  and European routes, it said this month. The
carrier expects the cargo slump to extend into the second half,
Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said Feb. 13.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month in
February, according to index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. A measure of export orders also fell to an eight-
month low, the report said.  iPad 3 Pickup?  The “challenging conditions” in the air-cargo market will
probably continue in the near term because of overcapacity, said
Corrine Png, a analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Air-cargo demand
may revive later in the year helped by the expected introduction
on the Apple Inc.’s iPad 3 and restocking of other technology
products, she said.  Singapore Air’s cargo tonnage fell 6.5 percent last month
to 87.4 million tons. Comparisons with a year earlier are
distorted by the earlier lunar New Year holidays in China.  Global international air-cargo traffic, as measured by
volumes multiplied by distance, fell 0.8 percent last year,
compared with a 4.5 percent increase in capacity, according to
the  International Air Transport Association . Load factors fell
to 45.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  