-- Sloan-Kettering Chief Is Sued by University of Pennsylvania Over Startup
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-22T21:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sloan-kettering-cancer-center-chief-is-sued-by-university-of-pennsylvania.html
The head of  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  was sued by the University of Pennsylvania for
breaching his fiduciary duty to the school by using research he
helped develop there to start his own company.  The lawsuit against Dr. Craig Thompson, filed today in
 Manhattan  federal court, follows a Dec. 13 complaint against him
by the Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute at the Philadelphia-based school. Today’s suit also
names the company Thompson formed, Agios Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Thompson breached his duty “by failing to disclose to the
university research and discoveries that he instead provided to
a for-profit corporation and ultimately publicly disclosed in
international journal publications, both to the detriment of the
university,” according to the complaint.  Thompson studied cancer metabolism while he was scientific
director of the institute, which was created by a $100 million
donation from the Abramson family foundation to the university,
according to the suits against him. Without telling the
university, Thompson formed Agios to exploit the research, the
complaints say.  Thompson’s lawyer, Allan J. Arffa, and John Evans, a
spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Agios, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment on today’s breach-of-
contract and breach-of-duty lawsuit.  The suit doesn’t name Memorial Sloan-Kettering.  The cases are Trustees of the  University of Pennsylvania  v.
Thompson, 12-cv-1330, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan), and Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family
Cancer Research Institute v. Thompson, 11-09108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  