-- Germany Plans Solar Aid Policy After Ministers Debate Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-02-23T10:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/solar-subsidies-cut-in-germany-may-come-three-months-earlier.html
Germany , the world’s biggest market
for solar power, today will make a statement about subsidies for
the technology after ministers debated whether to accelerate the
pace of reductions.  Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen and Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler will detail support for  energy efficiency  and
the solar business at an event at 12:30 p.m. Berlin time,
Bundespressekonferenz e.V. said yesterday in a statement.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is working to curtail
a boom in solar installations that outpaced targets for
renewable energy, which ministers are encouraging as a
replacement for nuclear power that’s being phased out by 2022.  The ministers have been considering a cut to subsidies as
early as April 1, said Klaus Breil, a lawmaker with Roesler’s
Free Democratic Party, the junior coalition partner in
government. The next reduction is scheduled for July 1.  Aid should be lowered “between 25 percent and 35 percent
as we need to contain what has become a financial investment
vehicle,” Breil, the party’s energy policy spokesman, said in a
phone interview. “I don’t think a hard installation cap will be
introduced as there was no majority for that in the coalition’s
working group.”  Shares Fall  Solar stocks in  Asia  and Europe dropped on the news.
Chinese panel makers Yingli Green Energy Holding Co and Trina
Solar Ltd closed down 9.8 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively.
In Europe, SMA Solar Technology AG, Germany’s largest solar
company by market value, was down 4.3 percent and  Solarworld AG (SWV) 
was down 5.5 percent at 11:15 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  “Even if it’s good news that there’s no cap, stocks are
down because the cuts will drag module prices down and squeeze
margins,” Henning Wicht, lead solar analyst for IHS iSuppli,
said today from Munich. “If these cuts are confirmed, module
prices in Germany will have to come down at least 10 percent.”  Companies don’t see any signal that the German market will
stay as strong this year, he said.  Roettgen and Roesler are aiming to adjust the feed-in
tariff granting above-market rates for solar power after 7.5
gigawatts of the panels were installed in 2011. That was more
than double the government’s goal and equal to the capacity of
more than six atomic plants.  More Cuts  Breil said the officials may introduce more frequent
revisions to the subsidy as well as bringing forward the date of
the next reduction.  Officials responsible for setting subsidy levels across
 Europe  have struggled to keep up as the price of solar equipment
tumbled in recent years. Panel prices fell about 46 percent last
year, driving installations even as subsidies fell.  Roesler has previously called for limiting solar
installations to about 1 gigawatt per year. Roettgen, whose
ministry is responsible for the subsidy law, is seeking to
increase the frequency of subsidy cuts but has in the past
opposed a fixed limit.  Subsidies for large, ground-based plants may be cut by as
much as 30 percent while aid for rooftop systems may be lowered
by 20 percent, Handelsblatt reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people close to the government.  Companies Threatened  Such cuts may threaten German solar companies such as  Q-
Cells SE (QCE)  and  Conergy AG (CGYK) , which are already struggling with
rising competition from  China  where the world’s three largest
panel makers are based.  A total of 50 companies including Solarworld AG and  SMA
Solar Technology AG (S92)  will protest tomorrow against what the
industry fears will be “drastic” cuts to solar subsidies, an
industry group said.  Company employees will symbolically down tools in several
German cities amid fears that the government caps yearly
installations to a “fraction” of the level seen in the past
year, the BSW solar lobby said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Merkel’s cabinet may decide on the subsidies as early as
Feb. 29, BSW said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  