-- Solyndra Ex-Workers Denied Bid to Challenge Lender Releases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-02-22T18:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/solyndra-ex-workers-denied-bid-to-challenge-lender-releases-1-.html
Fired employees of  Solyndra LLC (SOLY) , the
failed solar-panel maker backed by government loan guarantees,
lost their request to challenge so-called releases from
potential lawsuits given to the company’s lenders, including
Argonaut Ventures LLC, under the company’s bankruptcy financing.  “I have to deny the motion” because Solyndra has already
given standing to bring potential lawsuits to the official
committee of unsecured creditors, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath said at a hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware.  “The committee is doing its job” and is “onboard and
actively pursuing” these potential claims, so an additional
investigation isn’t necessary, Walrath said.  Solyndra also will seek court approval at today’s hearing
to pay as much as $368,500 in bonuses to some of its remaining
employees as incentives for reaching certain milestones in the
bankruptcy case.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter
11 protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation. The solar-panel maker
listed about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faces a probe by
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire-Obama
fundraiser George Kaiser’s charitable organization, holds almost
39 percent of Solyndra’s parent,  360 Solar Degree Holdings Inc. (SOLY)   The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  