-- Solyndra Wins Approval to Pay Bonuses to Remaining Employees
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-02-23T00:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/solyndra-wins-approval-to-pay-bonuses-to-remaining-employees.html
Solyndra LLC (SOLY) , the failed solar-panel
maker that got $535 million in government loan guarantees before
filing for bankruptcy, won court approval to pay some of its
remaining workers as much as $368,500 in bonuses.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath granted the company
approval to pay the bonuses to 20 employees if they can achieve
certain milestones during the bankruptcy case.  Walrath overruled objections from Solyndra’s fired workers,
who argued the bonuses are for company insiders and aren’t
needed for a company that’s liquidating.  “These are rank-and-file people,” and there is no
evidence that any of the bonus recipients are insiders, Solyndra
attorney Bruce Grohsgal told Walrath. The bonuses, the largest
of which is $30,000, cover 13 engineers, five accounting and
compliance employees, and two information technology
specialists.  Solyndra scaled back its original bonus proposal of
$500,000 after negotiating with the committee of unsecured
creditors.  The workers getting bonuses “provide an absolutely
essential task” and hiring contractors or consultants would be
“much, much more expensive than keeping the current
employees,” Chief Restructuring Officer R. Todd Neilson
testified today. “I think we’ll lose some people” if the
bonuses aren’t there as incentives for them to stay, he said.  ‘I’m Shocked’  Scott Leonhardt, a lawyer representing Solyndra’s fired
workers, argued the bonuses should be denied because Solyndra
failed to disclose that some of the covered employees received
large pay increases after seeking bankruptcy. One of the workers
eligible for a bonus got raise of 70 percent after the company
went bankrupt, he said.  “If that’s happening in bankruptcy cases, I’m shocked,”
declared Walrath. The post-bankruptcy salary increases should
have been divulged, she said. “I don’t think that’s ordinary
course,” referring to actions bankrupt companies take in the
ordinary course of business.  The boost in pay was to compensate workers “commensurate
with the levels of responsibility that they took on” after the
majority of the workforce was fired, Grohsgal told Walrath.  June 30 Deadline  Auctions of the company’s assets, excluding real estate and
intellectual property, must be completed by June 30 for some
employees to receive their bonuses and a bankruptcy exit plan
must be filed by March 31 for others to earn their payments.  Solyndra was to begin a piecemeal auction of its core
assets today after canceling an auction last month that could
have resurrected some jobs for its former employees, when it
failed to draw any acceptable offers to continue operating the
company. Debra Grassgreen, a lawyer for Solyndra, didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the auction.  Sale proceeds “probably would range from $70 million to
$120 million,” Neilson said under questioning from Leonhardt.  “I can safely say it will not be $600 million,” Neilson
said, referring to a rough estimate of secured debt, including
government funds, which would have to be repaid before unsecured
creditors could see a recovery. He said the company is still
negotiating with buyers for a going concern sale.  FBI Raid  The company, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter
11 protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation. The solar-panel maker
listed about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faces a probe by
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  Earlier today Walrath denied a request from the group of
Solyndra’s former employees to challenge so-called releases
given to lenders, including Argonaut Ventures LLC, under the
company’s bankruptcy financing.  The unsecured creditors committee has standing to bring
potential lawsuits and is “onboard and actively pursuing”
those potential claims, so an additional investigation isn’t
necessary, Walrath said.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire-Obama
fundraiser George Kaiser’s charitable organization, holds almost
39 percent of Solyndra’s parent,  360 Solar Degree Holdings Inc. (SOLY)   The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  