-- Sony Goes Hardcore With New PlayStation Vita: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-02-22T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sony-goes-hardcore-with-new-playstation-vita-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The first clue that  Sony (6758) ’s new
PlayStation Vita is something more than kid stuff is the quick-
start guide. It’s more than two feet long, with detailed
instructions printed on both sides.  The Vita has higher ambitions than just keeping Junior
occupied in the back seat for an hour or two. He may find
himself competing with Dad for use of this gigantic, handheld
game player/entertainment viewer/Web-access device.  The  PlayStation Vita , which went on sale in the U.S.
yesterday, is the successor to Sony’s seven-year-old PlayStation
Portable, and faces a vastly changed digital landscape. These
days, smartphones and tablets are where the action is in
handheld gaming. So the first question a dedicated device has to
answer is: “What can you do that my  iPhone  can’t?”  For  Nintendo (7974) ’s 3DS last year, it was three-dimensional
gaming. Sony’s answer is to stuff the Vita with every kind of
technology, controller and capability that might conceivably
keep you amused. The result is a powerful companion for the
hardcore -- and overkill for everyone else.  The Vita, which in the U.S. costs $249 for a Wi-Fi-only
model and $299 for one equipped with AT&T 3G data service, isn’t
designed for the small of hand. It measures about seven inches
by three inches, and weighs a little more than nine ounces.  Buttons Galore  Another sign of its mature target audience is the variety
and complexity of controls. The Vita features, in addition to
the four iconic PlayStation buttons, the following: two
joysticks, a directional control pad, left- and right-shoulder
buttons, a six-axis motion detection system, front- and rear-
facing cameras and a bright five-inch touchscreen.  Oh, and did I mention that the back of the Vita is a
touchpad, too? Some games have you moving and tapping the back,
which cuts down on the potential fatigue factor of holding the
Vita with one hand while using the front touch screen.  Any game-playing device will rise or fall on the quality of
the software available to take advantage of its capabilities.
Vita games are available both on physical media and as downloads
from the online PlayStation Store, and the early titles
certainly seem promising.  Mad Tilting  I spent time with Sony’s “Uncharted: Golden Abyss” ($50)
admiring the richly detailed jungle-temple graphics and smooth,
fast gameplay even as I was madly tilting the Vita so my alter
ego Nathan Drake could take aim and blast away at bad guys.  The small size of the on-screen players in  Electronic
Arts (EA) ’s “FIFA Soccer” ($40) added to the challenge for these
myopic eyes, but I was able to score occasionally, which will
astonish anyone who’s ever played against me. (The PlayStation
Vita is also compatible with the legions of games already
available for the PlayStation Portable.)  Games aren’t all you can do with the PlayStation Vita. It
includes a Web browser, as well as access to thousands of movies
and TV episodes through the Sony Entertainment Network. Be aware
that the video content is downloaded to and stored on the
device, not streamed as with  Netflix (NFLX) , so if you’re connecting
over the air, don’t expect to start watching anything quickly.
It took 2 1/2 hours to download “ Green Lantern ” over Wi-Fi.  Pricey Memory  Speaking of storage, Sony has opted to use a proprietary
memory card for the Vita, and it isn’t cheap: $100 for 32
gigabytes. Further adding to the potential expense are the  AT&T (T) 
data plans for the 3G model: $15 a month for 250 megabytes of
data, and $30 for three gigabytes.  Luckily for the storage-challenged -- not to mention the
impatient -- a Netflix app is promised for the Vita, as are
Facebook, Twitter and Skype, though none is available yet.  Battery life will vary significantly depending on what you
happen to be doing on the Vita. Intensive gamers may find
themselves looking for a power outlet in as little as three
hours, though I managed more than five with a combination of
tasks, including moderate gaming, a little Web surfing and
downloading and watching the movie.  If you’re like most people, there are many simpler, cheaper
ways to electronically amuse yourself. The PlayStation Vita is
for those who think digital fun is serious business.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 