-- South African Inflation Exceeds Target for Third Month at 6.3% for January
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-22T10:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/south-african-inflation-exceeds-target-for-third-month-at-6-3-for-january.html
South Africa ’s inflation rate rose
to 6.3 percent in January, remaining outside the central bank’s
target range for a third month and limiting the space Governor
Gill Marcus has to stimulate the economy.  Inflation accelerated from 6.1 percent in December,
Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its website
today. The median estimate of 10 economists was 6.2 percent.
Prices rose 0.6 percent from a month earlier.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Marcus, has kept the
benchmark repurchase rate at 5.5 percent since November 2010.
Marcus said on Jan. 19 the inflation rate will probably remain
above the 3 percent to 6 percent target range this year.  “The  Reserve Bank  will keep the repo rate steady at 5.5%
until the first half of 2013,” Adenaan Hardien, an economist at
Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset Management, said in an e-mailed
note. “We expect a gradual rate hiking cycle thereafter.”  The economy expanded an annualized 1.4 percent in the third
quarter, close to a two-year low, as mining and manufacturing
contracted. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Jan. 26 the
economy will probably expand less than 3 percent this year, down
from an earlier projection of 3.4 percent. Gordhan is due to
give revised growth forecasts in his budget speech at 2 p.m.
today.  Domestic Spending  Rising food, fuel and administrative prices, as well as a
weaker rand later in the year, will keep inflation “elevated,”
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  said in e-mailed note to clients today.
“These stresses will be partly offset by softer domestic
spending and excess production capacity.”  While inflation is outside the central bank’s target rate,
it’s slower than previously expected, Alastair Sellick, the head
of fixed interest at PSG Asset Management (Pty) Ltd., said in an
interview from  Cape Town . “If anything, it gives it more
ammunition to cut rates in the future as some people were
predicting an inflation rate of 6.7 percent earlier in the
year.”  The rand reversed gains against the dollar after the data
was announced. The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 7.7369 at
11:10 a.m. in Johannesburg trading. The yield on the R157
government bond increased 2 basis points to 6.26 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  