-- Spain May Limit Renewable Energy Plant Earnings, S&P, BBVA Say
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-02-22T11:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/spain-may-limit-renewable-energy-plant-earnings-s-p-bbva-say.html
The Spanish government may impose
temporary taxes or caps on earnings on renewable energy plants
as it tries to reduce state spending, according to  Standard &
Poor’s  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   The country, which halted subsidies for new renewable
energy projects on Jan. 27, could take “adverse” regulatory
action against existing plants including taxes if the economy
deteriorates further, the ratings company said yesterday in a
note to investors.  Spain is reviewing the rules governing its  energy industry 
to rein in 24 billion euros ($31 billion) in power-system
borrowings backed by the state and curb its  budget deficit  as it
grapples with an economic crisis. The debt is compounded in part
by the more than 7 billion euros paid each year since 2010 in
premiums to clean energy producers.  Spain’s second-biggest bank expects the government to take
additional steps to restrict profits for the renewable industry
on top of the moratorium on state funding for projects not
already approved.  “We expect further measures to be included in the final
regulatory review,” Isidoro del Alamo and Daniel Ortea
Hernandez, utility analysts at the Madrid-based bank, said in a
note last week. “We think some retroactive measures could be
applied even if the principle of reasonable remuneration - that
allows some profitability - is honored.”  Measures are likely to include making projects opt for
fixed tariffs instead of premiums on top of wholesale prices,
they said, a move that would limit potential earnings.  Solar thermal power plants could see their subsidized hours
of operation capped for about five years, according to the bank.
The cap would be compensated by an extension to subsidized years
so overall profitability would not be affected.  In January 2011,  Spain  approved a similar temporary cap for
photovoltaic plants built from October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  