-- Spring Lambing in U.K. Turns Deadly as New Virus Kills Young
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-22T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/spring-lambing-in-u-k-turns-deadly-as-new-virus-kills-young.html
Spring lambing in the U.K.,  Europe ’s
biggest sheep-meat producer, has taken a deadly turn as a
livestock virus, which causes stillbirths and deformed lambs
that die soon after birth, spread to the country’s flocks.  The Schmallenberg virus, named after the German city near
where it was first identified in November, has been found in
seven European Union countries. It was probably spread by biting
midges last year, infecting pregnant sheep, cows and goats,
according to Germany’s Federal Research Institute for Animal
Health, which discovered it.  The impact of the disease on livestock births is becoming
clear now because sheep gestate for five months and cattle for
nine months, said Toby Kemble, a veterinarian at Wensum Valley
Veterinary Surgeons in Fakenham, England who saw cases of
Schmallenberg virus on farms in his practice this month.  “It could be the tip of the iceberg,” Kemble said by
phone yesterday. “We don’t know when the peak is going to be.”  The U.K. is the world’s fifth-biggest producer of sheep
meat after  China ,  Australia ,  New Zealand  and  Iran , according to
data from the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization .
The country had 14.9 million breeding ewes as of June 2011 with
16.5 million lambs under one year, government data show.  Of the 10 sheep farms in Kemble’s practice where lambing
has started, eight had cases of Schmallenberg virus, with
average infection rates of about 5 percent and one instance
where 25 percent of  lambs  were born dead or deformed.  Midges Moving  The virus has been identified in samples from 58 farms in
England, including 55 on sheep farms and three in cattle, the
U.K. Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency  reported 
two days ago. The virus may have been spread by midges blown
over the  English Channel , according to the agency.  The virus is unlikely to cause disease in humans, though it
cannot be excluded, the European Centre for Disease Prevention
and Control wrote in a Dec. 22 report.  France  confirmed 29 cases of the disease to the World
Organisation for  Animal Health  on Jan. 31. There are now at
least 200 to 250 infected sheep farms in the country, as well as
about 40 cases of cows with the virus, according to Serge
Preveraud, president of France’s sheep-growers lobby  Federation
Nationale Ovine .  “This number is rising every day,” Preveraud said by
phone from Paris yesterday. “Obviously the livestock breeders
are worried. When there’s an epidemic and you don’t know when
it’s going to stop, you’re worried.”  Infection rates on French farms with the virus vary from 5
percent to 30 percent, according to the FNO president.
Complications during lambing due to deformed young are also
causing some ewes to die, Preveraud said.  Missing $132  French sheep farmers are missing out on about 100 euros
($132) per dead lamb, according to Preveraud. In  England , where
lambs are typically sold at heavier weights, the selling price
is about 100 pounds ($158) per lamb, according to Kemble.  “It’s still an appreciable amount,” Kemble said. “You’ll
have fed a ewe for 12 months to raise those lambs and then
you’re not going to get any money back.”  The U.K. produced 289,300 metric tons of lamb meat last
year, up from 277,400 tons in 2010, according to data from the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. Lamb retail
prices have climbed 16 percent in the past year, according to
inflation data from the U.K.’s  Office for National Statistics .  In Germany, 601 sheep farms, 36 cattle holdings and 31 goat
farms have tested positive for the virus, according to the
animal-health institute, known as the Friedrich-Loeffler-
Institut. The Netherlands, which first found it in December, on
Feb. 9 reported confirmed cases at 88 sheep farms, five goat
farms and three cattle farms.  Germany and the Netherlands  Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut scientists  discovered  the virus
in the blood of cattle in  Germany  and the Netherlands that
suffered from fever, reduced milk production and diarrhea in the
summer of 2011.  The scientists who  isolated the virus  in November have
provided it to vaccine makers, Franz Conraths, head of
epidemiology at the institute, wrote in an online discussion
organized by Farmers Guardian on Feb. 10. Any prototype vaccine
will take “several months,” followed by safety and efficacy
testing, according to the institute.  Experimental infection of cattle showed animals “rapidly”
produced antibodies to neutralize the virus, meaning livestock
may become immune after exposure, according to Conraths.  Italy was the most recent EU country to report an outbreak
of Schmallenberg virus on Feb. 20, with cases in five goats and
one in a cow.  “If we’re going to see more problems now it could be in
the cattle,” said Kemble. “With regards to cattle, we’re only
going to see a peak three or four months after the sheep peak.
We’ve not had many cows that have calved, because there hasn’t
been enough time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  