-- Stanford Fraud Trial Resumes Following Illness Interruption
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-22T19:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/stanford-fraud-trial-resumes-following-illness-interruption.html
R. Allen Stanford’s criminal fraud
trial resumed today after testimony was halted yesterday
afternoon when the defendant became ill.  Stanford, 61, reoccupied his place at the defense table in
federal court in Houston, coughing frequently and deeply. The
financier’s coughing worsened by midday, when the jury broke for
lunch. The trial is in its fifth week.  Stanford is fighting charges he swindled investors of more
than $7 billion through what prosecutors claim was a  Ponzi
scheme  built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. He has been
incarcerated as a flight risk since being indicted in June 2009.  This week, jurors are hearing from expert witnesses
testifying on Stanford’s behalf.  John Mezzanotte, who has conducted dozens of feasibility
studies for Caribbean resorts, told jurors that the
billionaires-only resort Stanford was developing on Antigua had
been started years earlier by a Chinese multimillionaire. The
other developer lost his funding in 2003, and later sold the
property to Stanford.  Inflating the Value  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of inflating the value of that
island property by more than 5,000 percent to make it appear he
was recapitalizing his bank in late 2008. U.S. securities
regulators found more than $5 billion missing from the bank’s
investment accounts when Stanford’s operations were seized on
suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  Mezzanotte described the property Stanford selected for the
resort as unique for its beauty, pristine nature and protected
harbor.  “There are only a couple of them in the Caribbean,” he
testified.  Under questioning by prosecutors, Mezzanotte said
Stanford’s island resort had no paved roads, utilities or
buildings when he last saw it.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  