-- Google Privacy Policy Criticized by State Attorneys General
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-22T22:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/state-attorneys-general-tell-google-privacy-policy-is-a-concern.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s new privacy policy was
criticized by the National Association of  Attorneys General  as
failing to give consumers choices about pooling their data.  In a letter to Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , the group said the policy, scheduled to go into effect
March 1, invades consumer privacy by automatically sharing
personal information that users input for one Google service
across all of the company’s products.  “The new policy forces consumers to allow information
across all of Google’s products to be shared without giving them
the proper ability to opt out,” the association said in the
letter, which 36 attorneys general signed. The officials, who
are both Republicans and Democrats, asked to meet with Page to
address their privacy concerns.  Google, the world’s most-popular search engine, announced
plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for products
including YouTube videos and Android software for mobile phones,
saying it will simplify conditions users agree to.  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail
that the new policy will make privacy practices easier to
understand and Google’s services easier to use.  Notification Effort  “We’ve undertaken the most extensive notification effort
in Google’s history,” he said. “We’re continuing to offer
choice and control over how people use our services.”  The change means Google will be able to pull together
everything it knows about users from its disparate products. A
consumer’s YouTube viewing history can be used to tailor results
in  Google Search  while an individual’s search history will
enable more relevant ads across Google products, Gaither said.  The letter from the Attorneys General follows a complaint
filed with the FTC earlier today by  Jeff Chester , executive
director of the Center for Digital Democracy, who said the plan
to streamline privacy settings for about 60 different services
and products is deceptive and primarily aimed at targeting users
with advertising keyed to their interests, not to making Google
easier to use.  “Google fails to tell users in its principal privacy-
change communications how such data collection, profiling, and
targeting practices impact -- and potentially harm -- their
privacy,” Chester wrote in the complaint. “Google presents the
information in a deceptive way that suggests consumers will
benefit from the new policy.”  Privacy Issues  Chester’s group, which has also urged the FTC to address
privacy issues at Facebook Inc. and other online marketers,
asked the FTC to sue Google to stop the policy change and to
fine the company. The FTC can levy fines of $16,000 per day, per
violation, for breaches of consent decrees.  Claudia Bourne Farrell, a spokeswoman for the FTC, said the
agency had received the complaint and declined to comment
further.  Another privacy group, the  Electronic Privacy Information
Center , or EPIC, sued the FTC in federal court Feb. 8 seeking to
force the agency to act against Google’s new privacy policy. A
judge is weighing a U.S. motion to dismiss the case.  The agency’s settlement with Google last year, which barred
sharing user data outside the company without clear permission,
stemmed from a complaint EPIC filed in 2010.  Under the consent decree announced March 30,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google agreed it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies when it introduced its Buzz
social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles information and obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  Google’s new privacy policy is also under review by data-
protection agencies in  Europe , which have asked the company to
delay introducing the new policy pending that review. Google has
said it doesn’t intend to suspend the new policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 