-- Steinhoff Chief Markus Jooste Plans $2 Billion European Furniture-Unit IPO
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-02-23T15:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/steinhoff-chief-markus-jooste-plans-2-billion-eruopean-furniture-unit-ipo.html
Steinhoff International Holdings
Ltd. (SHF)  plans an initial public offering of its European unit that
may raise 1.5 billion euros ($1.99 billion) to repay debt as
 Africa ’s biggest furniture maker considers expanding in  Latin
America  and eastern Europe.  The company would be able to cover all its debts should it
sell 25 percent of the estimated value of its European business,
Chief Executive Officer Markus Jooste, 51, said in an interview
in Johannesburg on Feb. 20. “We’re in no hurry. We have no debt
repayments or anything pressing us, so the beauty is we can time
it for when the market is right.”  The  listing  will be in London, Paris or  Frankfurt  and may
take 12 to 18 months to meet legal requirements. Steinhoff last
year bought Conforama from Paris-based  PPR SA (PP)  for 1.21 billion
euros to become Europe’s second-largest household goods retailer
after  Sweden ’s  Ikea Group (IKEA) . The transaction boosted liabilities
to 18.8 billion rand ($2.45 billion) by the end of June, giving
Steinhoff a debt-to-equity ratio of 46 percent, the highest
since it started trading its shares in 1998, although within its
50 percent threshold.  “A European listing would pay down inter-group debt and
provide a representative market value for these assets,” said
Mark Hodgson, an analyst at Avior Research (Pty) Ltd. in  Cape
Town , who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “Retaining
approximately 75 percent control may limit investor appetite for
the IPO and inhibit a full value unlock.”  Shares Gain  Steinhoff  gained  4.6 percent to a record 26.43 rand at the
close in Johannesburg. Earnings per share in the six months
ended Dec. 31 increased as much as 50 percent from a year
earlier, boosted by the inclusion of Conforama, the company said
yesterday after the market closed for trading.  “Debt has been one of the main reasons this share has been
so cheap,” Wayne McCurrie, a  fund manager  at Johannesburg-based
RMB Asset Management, said by phone today. Steinhoff trades at
10.6 times earnings, compared with 18.8 times for the 26-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Industrial 25 Index (INDI25) .  Steinhoff is looking to  South America  and eastern  Europe ,
Jooste said, as acquisition targets in the west of the continent
dry up in the wake of the credit crisis. The company will grow
in eastern Europe by buying small retailers, with countries such
as Romania and Turkey offering opportunities.  Acquisitions Peak  The acquisition of Conforama means there is “nothing of
significant size left to buy in Europe,” Jooste said. Economic
conditions in the region signals that “the height of
acquisitions and takeovers in Europe is done.”  Steinhoff’s African unit will make the decision on when to
enter Latin America, he said, without specifying which business
areas the company will target.  Steinhoff owns stakes in companies that produce and source
materials such as timber, foam and bed springs, manufacturing
facilities that make and assemble furniture and retail outlets
that sell the products. It also owns the transport companies
that move the goods.  Steinhoff seeks to hold majority stakes without having to
take the day-to-day responsibilities of the units. Steinhoff
also aims to own the properties on which its businesses operate.  “Our job is to be the glue,” Jooste said, adding that
Steinhoff prefers to provide funding and focus on ensuring
subsidiaries benefit from being linked.  ‘African Dream’  The company is completing a series of transactions in  South
Africa  to gain control of  JD Group Ltd. (JDG) , a furniture and
household goods retailer, and  KAP International Holdings Ltd. (KAP) , a
maker of textiles, clothing and automotive components.  It plans to grow KAP International’s diversified industrial
businesses, including timber operator PG Bison, Steinhoff Raw
Materials and Unitrans Supply Chain Solutions, in the rest of
Africa, Jooste said.  “We’ll use KAP to live out the African dream of a large
industrial company,” he said. Jooste, who has led Steinhoff
since 2000, lives near Cape Town in Stellenbosch, where he
completed an accounting degree in 1982.  JD Group (JDG)  will lead Steinhoff’s retail expansion in Africa.
The furniture and appliance dealer will open its first Zambian
store in April and expand into Ghana and  Mozambique  within 18
months, Chief Executive Officer Grattan Kirk said Feb. 20.  Steinhoff also sees potential links between JD Group, which
offers store credit cards, and  PSG Group Ltd. (PSG) ’s  Capitec Bank
Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , which provides unsecured loans. Steinhoff owns 20
percent of PSG, which owns 34.6 percent of Stellenbosch-based
Capitec.  JD Group and Capitec haven’t yet decided on how they can
cooperate, Jooste said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  