-- Stelios to Invest $500 Million in Low-Cost West Africa Airline
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-02-22T12:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/stelios-to-invest-500-million-in-low-cost-west-africa-airline.html
Stelios Haji-Ioannou , the founder of
discount carrier EasyJet Plc, plans to invest $500 million in a
low-cost African airline with  Ghana ’s capital, Accra, as its
regional hub.  “We could link Ghana to 10 or 15 different countries in
West Africa,” said Ed Winter, former chief operating officer of
EasyJet and a member of the management team of Stelios, who goes
by his first name. They are in Ghana to conduct studies into
starting the airline, he said in an interview in Accra Feb. 20.
“We are looking at 15 aircraft with an investment value of
$500 million.”  Ghana’s economy, the second-biggest in West Africa at $31
billion, has attracted interest from airlines since the 2007
discovery of oil for export at the Jubilee field.  United
Airlines  and Turkish Airlines began flights in 2010, while TAP
of  Portugal  started flying last year.  The low-cost airline, called Fastjet, would carry 5 million
passengers each year in the region, White said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  West Africa is “so underserved” by airlines, said
Geoffrey White, chief executive officer of  Lonrho Plc (LONR) , in an
interview in Accra Feb. 20. Lonrho operates Fly540, a low-cost
airline that operates in East Africa and runs domestic flights in
Ghana and Angola. It is looking to “potentially partner
Stelios” in its African operations, White said.  High aviation taxes are barriers to operating in West
Africa, said Winter. “We could start with five aircrafts in the
first year and add the 10 aircraft well within two years, but
that relies very much on bringing tax levels in West Africa down
to the same levels we see in Europe and  Asia ,” he said.  Winter and other officials with Stelios’s group plan to
meet with officials of Ghana’s aviation, transport and trade
ministries to discuss the need to lower tariffs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  