-- Strauss-Kahn Held by Police a Second Day
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-22T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/strauss-kahn-held-by-police-a-second-day.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the International Monetary Fund, should be released by
French prosecutors investigating a prostitution ring tomorrow
unless they find he played a significant role in the operation.  Strauss-Kahn turned himself in to Lille police
investigating the case yesterday morning, a spokeswoman for the
prosecutors said. It would be unlikely for authorities to hold
Strauss-Kahn longer than 48 hours, said Emmanuel Moyne, a lawyer
at Linklaters LLP in Paris.  An additional 48 hours of detention “is possible for cases
of aggravated procurement of prostitutes” which doesn’t appear
to be the case, said Moyne, who isn’t involved in the probe.
Otherwise Strauss-Kahn “must be freed or presented to the judges
investigating the affair to be charged.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, gave up his post as managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund  last year after being arrested
in  New York  for sexually assaulting a hotel maid. Prosecutors
dropped the case because of concerns about the woman’s
credibility, and Strauss-Kahn returned to France, where he faced
separate accusations of attempted rape, which were also dropped.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers in Paris and Lille didn’t return
calls for comment today.  Eiffage Complaint  French builder  Eiffage SA (FRG)  filed an embezzlement complaint
after an internal probe found an employee spent as much as
50,000 euros ($66,000) to pay for women to travel as far as
 Washington  to have sex with Strauss-Kahn. Investigators want to
determine whether Strauss-Kahn knew the women were prostitutes
and if so, how they were paid.  He is also being questioned on whether he helped arrange
for women to attend sex parties, or otherwise aided in
organizing them while knowing they were prostitutes.
Prostitution and paying for sex are legal in  France , while
procuring prostitutes for another is not.  Strauss-Kahn has denied wrongdoing in relation to the
investigation and said in a Nov. 11 statement from his lawyers
that he wanted to be questioned, “to put an end to the
dangerous and spiteful insinuations” in the media.  Interrogations in police custody can last 96 hours in
“exceptional” cases involving terrorism or organized
prostitution rings, said Judge Xavier Gadrat, an official in the
French judges’ union, the Paris-based Syndicat de la
Magistrature. As Strauss-Kahn is suspected just of aiding in the
procurement of prostitutes, he would probably not be eligible
for the 96-hour term, Gadrat and Moyne said.  The Lille investigation has led to charges against eight
people, including local hotel officials and a local police
chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  