-- Sunday Times Reporter Marie Colvin Killed With French Photographer in Homs
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-22T14:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/sunday-times-journalist-colvin-is-killed-in-syria-with-french-photographer.html
An American reporter working for the
U.K.’s Sunday Times and a French photographer were killed in the
besieged Syrian city of Homs when shells hit them while they
were reporting from the city, French officials said.  The journalists were Marie Colvin and photographer Remi
Ochlik, Valerie Pecresse, budget minister and spokeswoman for
France’s government, told journalists in Paris. They were killed
during a bombardment of the Baba Amr residential neighborhood of
the city by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, the U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Syria has come under mounting international pressure as a
result of Assad’s crackdown on protesters, which is nearing its
one-year mark. Government forces have intensified efforts to
stamp out the rebellion by using mortars, artillery and tanks.
Ministers from the U.S.,  Europe  and Arab nations will attend a
summit in  Tunisia  this week to discuss how to assist the
struggle to oust Assad.  The latest deaths show that “this is enough now, this
regime must go,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told
reporters near his election campaign headquarters in Paris, AFP
reported. “There’s no reason why Syrians shouldn’t have the
right to live their lives, to choose their destiny freely.”  Dialogue ‘Pointless’  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah told Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  today there was no point in discussing events in Syria
after Russia blocked a resolution on the issue in the  United
Nations Security Council  earlier this month.  “The Russian friends should have coordinated with the
Arabs before Russia used their right to veto in the  Security
Council ,” the king told Medvedev, the official Saudi Press
Agency reported in its account of a telephone conversation
between the two leaders today. “Now any dialogue about what
happened is pointless.”  The UN estimates more than 5,400 Syrians died last year as
loyalist forces cracked down on protests that began in March.
More than 8,500 people have been killed during the conflict,
Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone from Damascus today.  At least 13 people were killed today in Homs after Assad’s
forces resumed pounding Baba Amr this morning, while two other
people were killed in the northern province of Idlib, the
observatory said.  Syria ’s assault on rebels in Homs and other
strongholds including Idlib left more than 100 dead yesterday,
according to Merei and the Local Coordination Committees, an
opposition group with a network of activists in the country.  Cease-Fire Plea  “Water and food are scarce, the situation is very dire in
the Baba Amr neighborhood,” Merei said. He said families from
Homs were trying to negotiate a temporary cease-fire with the
government to be able to tend and evacuate the wounded, and
collect and bury the dead.  “The killing of these well-known journalists is an
important and sad issue which attracts much more international
attention to this ongoing dilemma in Syria,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.  Edith Bouvier, reporter for Le Figaro, William Daniels and
Paul Conroy, also of the Sunday Times, were injured in the
attack that killed Colvin and Ochlik, Syrian activists said.
Agence  France  Presse also reported on Bouvier’s injury, citing
Philippe Gelie, head of Figaro’s foreign desk.  ‘Starving Civilians’  Colvin was reporting from Homs at the time of her death.
She described the death of a young boy at a medical clinic in
the city on CNN’s Anderson Cooper 360 yesterday.  The video footage broadcast during Colvin’s phone interview
showed a young child breathing heavily before dying of a
shrapnel injury to the chest after his house was shelled.
“Every civilian house on the street has been hit,” she said.
“The top floor of the building I am in has been hit, in fact
totally destroyed. There are no military targets here. The
Syrian army is simply shelling a city of cold, starving
civilians.”  With explosions in the background, another video of a scene
posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube shows a man holding a child,
stroking his face and chest and vowing to take revenge. The
authenticity of the video couldn’t be independently verified by
Bloomberg News.  Several foreign reporters have died during the conflict
this year. State television channel France 2 journalist Gilles
Jacquier was killed in January while reporting from Homs, the
press office of the Paris-based channel said on Jan. 11. Anthony Shadid, a double winner of the Pulitzer Prize, died last week in
Syria from an apparent asthma attack while on assignment, the
New York Times reported.  ‘Intolerable’ Behaviour  “I am asking the Syrian government for an immediate end to
the attacks and for respect for humanitarian rules,” French
Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said after the death of the two
journalists today. Syria’s ambassador to France will be told
that his government’s behavior is “intolerable,” Juppe said in
an e-mailed statement.  European Union governments are moving toward stiffer
sanctions on Syria and considering trade restrictions and a
freeze on central bank assets. The  Arab League  has already
suspended Syria and imposed economic sanctions.  Russia  and  China 
blocked a resolution at the Security Council this month,
supported by the U.S., EU and Arab League, calling on Assad to
step down in favor of an interim government that would hold
elections.  ‘Explosive Situation’  Assad accused unidentified foreign interests of providing
weapons and financial support to “armed terrorist groups” as
they seek to destabilize Syria, the official  Syrian Arab News
Agency  reported Feb. 20.  About 40,000 members of Syria’s 270,000-strong security
forces have defected, according to Turkish Foreign Ministry
estimates.  “There’s an explosive situation that could drag on for a
long time,” Anthony Skinner, director responsible for the
 Middle East  and North Africa at Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft,
global risk advisory, said in a telephone interview. “At the
moment there’s no one decisive driver that would tip the balance
in favor of one side or another.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  