-- Swan Says Rudd Undermining Australia’s Labor Government: Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-22T09:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/swan-says-rudd-undermining-australia-s-labor-government-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of an e-mailed statement by Australian Deputy Prime
Minister  Wayne Swan  on the announcement by  Kevin Rudd  of his
resignation as foreign minister, released by his office.  “Prime Minister Gillard and I and the overwhelming majority
of our colleagues have been applying our Labor values to the
policy challenges in front of us and we’re succeeding despite
tremendous political obstacles.  For the sake of the labour movement, the Government and the
Australians which it represents, we have refrained from
criticism to date.  However for too long, Kevin Rudd has been putting his own
self-interest ahead of the interests of the broader labour
movement and the country as a whole, and that needs to stop.  The Party has given Kevin Rudd all the opportunities in the
world and he wasted them with his dysfunctional decision making
and his deeply demeaning attitude towards other people including
our caucus colleagues.  He sought to tear down the 2010 campaign,
deliberately risking an Abbott Prime Ministership, and now he
undermines the Government at every turn.  He was the Party’s biggest beneficiary then its biggest
critic; but never a loyal or selfless example of its values and
objectives.  For the interests of the labour movement and of working
people, there is too much at stake in our economy and in the
political debate for the interests of the labour movement and
working people to be damaged by somebody who does not hold any
Labor values.  Julia has the overwhelming support of our colleagues. She
is tough, determined, forward-looking, and has a good Labor
heart.  She has a consultative, respectful relationship with
caucus while Kevin Rudd demeaned them.  She’s cleaned up a lot
of the mess he left her and has established a good, Labor agenda.
She’s delivering major reforms, and getting things done that her
predecessor could not.  Colleagues are sick of Kevin Rudd
driving the vote down by sabotaging policy announcements and
undermining our substantial economic successes.  The  Labor Party  is not about a person, it’s about a purpose.
That’s something Prime Minister Gillard has always known in her
heart but something Kevin Rudd has never understood.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  