-- U.K.’s Ofgem Plans to Force Electricity Sales to Boost Competition
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-22T13:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/u-k-may-force-big-six-utilities-to-auction-more-electricity.html
Ofgem, the U.K.’s power and natural-
gas market regulator, may force the nation’s six biggest
utilities to sell 25 percent of their generated electricity in
auctions to boost competition.  The watchdog proposed mandatory sales of power for delivery
from three months to three years ahead to help smaller companies
buy and sell the contracts, Ofgem said today in an e-mailed
 statement .  EON AG,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , SSE Plc, Electricite de France SA,
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , collectively known as the “big six,”
supply 99 percent of the nation’s power and gas. That makes it
harder for smaller companies such as Intergen NV,  Drax Group
Plc (DRX) , First Utility Ltd. and Ovo Energy Ltd. to compete. EON,
Iberdrola and SSE have said they will increase power sales in
the day-ahead market operated by the N2EX exchange.  “Ofgem is proposing to introduce mandatory auctions to
force the pace of change and increase transparency,” Andrew
Wright, senior partner for markets at Ofgem in  London , said in
the statement. The proposal doesn’t inhibit utilities from
increasing trade on their own accord, Ofgem said.  Trading Volumes Slump  Traders and analysts forecast a 2 percent rise in traded
volumes of U.K. power this year, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey last month. That’s after
the amount of electricity bought and sold slumped in the 12
months through July to its lowest in six years, according to
Financial Services Authority data compiled by Bloomberg.
Britain’s power market is vertically integrated, meaning the six
biggest companies generate and supply electricity, so have
little need to trade.  “If they’re trying to encourage liquidity then it’s a very
effective and simple measure to do so,”  James Cox , an analyst
at energy consultant Poyry in Oxford said by telephone today.
“There are more deep-seated issues which come back to the
vertically integrated nature of the U.K. market.”  Thatcher's Legacy  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  broke open the
nation’s energy industry more than two decades ago in an effort
to attract investment and drive efficient pricing. While that
allowed the U.K. to enjoy some of the lowest power prices in
Europe, it sapped trading as utilities sought profit.  The proposals, which are open for comment until May 8, are
part of Ofgem’s biggest reform of the industry to help drive
competition since Thatcher’s privatization. The plans aim to
ensure the market delivers enough contracts to help traders
hedge price risks, has trusted reference prices for future
contracts and that the near-term market provides the right
signals to switch on power stations, according to  documents
published  on the regulators website.  Ofgem Decision  Ofgem plans to publish its final decision later this year,
which may include establishing monthly auctions of electricity
via an approved exchange by 2013, Chris Lock, a spokesman for
the regulator, said by telephone from London. The government is
looking at ways to give Ofgem more authority, Secretary of State
for Energy Edward Davey said in a separate e-mail.  Most of Britain’s power trading is done via brokers
including Spectron Group Ltd., Tullett Prebon Plc and ICAP Plc.
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Nord Pool Spot AS’s N2EX exchange
holds a daily auction of electricity. APX-Endex Holding BV
allows trading via a power cable to the Netherlands. ICE Futures
 Europe  handled 160 percent more power futures last month than a
year earlier, according to a Feb. 14 report.  Ofgem may pick one exchange to handle the volumes or
utilities can propose multiple exchanges, Lock said. The
measures would ensure 49.2 terawatt-hours of generation were
sold for future delivery each year across baseload and peak
contracts, the Ofgem documents show. U.K. power stations
provided 381 terawatt-hours in 2010, according to the Department
of Energy and Climate Change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  