-- U.S. to Raise Nuclear Issue in First North Korean Talks Since Kim’s Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T01:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/u-s-sees-positive-signs-in-first-n-korea-talks-since-kim-death.html
The U.S. is “cautiously
optimistic” about talks in Beijing today with  North Korea , the
first such meeting since  Kim Jong Il  died in December and his
son inherited leadership of the isolated, nuclear-armed country.  The U.S. special representative for North Korea policy,
Glyn Davies, told reporters in Beijing he will hold two sessions
with his North Korean counterpart Kim Kye Gwan today. He said he
will raise humanitarian issues and nuclear nonproliferation.  “We’re always, I think, cautiously optimistic,” Mark
Toner, deputy State Department spokesman, said at a briefing
yesterday. He wouldn’t say if the U.S. and North Korea would
discuss a food aid deal, referring to the meeting as
“exploratory talks.”  Today’s meetings are the third since the U.S. resumed
direct talks with North Korea in efforts to bring the country
back to negotiations aimed at persuading the regime to abandon
its nuclear weapons program. The U.S. seeks to gauge the
country’s intentions since the younger Kim took over and ease
tension between South and North Korea, analyst John Park said.  “The proposition is that by engaging North Koreans in
talks, negotiations, this is an effective means by which the
U.S. side can hopefully prevent future provocations by North
Korea against  South Korea ,” Park, a fellow at Harvard
University’s  Belfer Center  for Science and International
Affairs, told Bloomberg TV today.  Nuclear Negotiations  In a briefing yesterday, Davies said the possibility of
restarting six-party talks over the North’s nuclear weapons
program is up to Pyongyang. The North backed out of the talks,
which include  Russia ,  China , the U.S.,  Japan  and the two Koreas,
in April 2009 and has shown no sign since Kim Jong Un took over
that it’s willing to resume them.  Also yesterday, Japanese six-party talks negotiator
Shinsuke Sugiyama met his Chinese counterpart Wu Dawei in
Beijing to discuss the negotiations, China’s Foreign Ministry
said on its website.  Last October, Kim Jong Il said North  Korea  is ready to
restart the talks as long as they occur without preconditions.
The U.S. State Department said in August that North Korea must
refrain from nuclear testing and missile launches and meet other
conditions before the talks can resume. The North revealed a
secret uranium-enrichment program in 2010.  “Positive Sign”  “I find it a positive sign that relatively soon after the
beginning of the transition in North Korea, the DPRK has chosen
to get back to the table with us,” Davies said yesterday,
referring to  North Korea (EFRAKP)  by its formal name, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea. “I think that’s a good thing.”  Davies will head to South Korea on Feb. 25 to meet his
counterpart there, Lim Sung Nam. Speaking at a news conference
yesterday, South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said North Korea
can use the leadership change to transform itself, adding that
he is open to resuming dialogue provided the regime is genuinely
interested.  Seoul will host a nuclear security summit on March 26-27 to
discuss preventing nuclear terrorism. North Korea’s state-run
KCNA news agency released a report yesterday quoting government
officials denouncing the planned gathering.  “We will never pardon the  United States  and the Lee Myung
Bak regime, which push the situation of the Korean peninsula to
the brink of war by taking issue with the DPRK’s self-defensive
nuclear deterrent,” KCNA quoted Pak Song Il, deputy director of
the Secretariat of the North Headquarters of the Pan-National
Alliance for Korea’s Reunification, as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  