-- U.S. Should Consider an Earlier Exit From Afghanistan: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/u-s-should-consider-an-earlier-exit-from-afghanistan-view.html
One week ago, Afghans marked
Liberation Day, the 23rd anniversary of the  Soviet withdrawal 
from  Afghanistan  on Feb. 15, 1989. Recent developments are
hastening another liberation -- that of the U.S. from
Afghanistan.  We think the return of most U.S. troops -- and the
transition of the remainder from a combat to a support role --
can and should happen before the end of 2014, the deadline that
President  Barack Obama  has  set .  France ’s surprise  announcement  on Jan. 27 that its troops
would move from a combat to a training role this March, and
would withdraw by the end of 2013, has had a catalyzing effect.
Days later U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta   said  U.S. troops
would be in a “training, advise and assist role” by “the mid to
latter part of 2013.” Meanwhile, the U.S., the Taliban, and the
government of Afghan president  Hamid Karzai  have stepped up
their awkward  pas de trois  over direct peace negotiations. If
all goes well, the U.S. hopes that such talks will be under way
in time for the  NATO summit  in  Chicago  this May, when members of
the coalition will discuss the future of the military mission in
Afghanistan.  Consensus Needed  The first thing on NATO’s agenda should be establishing a
clear consensus on actual conditions within Afghanistan. The
recent flurry of conflicting assessments brings to mind what
President  John F. Kennedy   said  in 1963, when a Marine general
and a State Department official who had recently returned from
 Vietnam  delivered night-and-day accounts of conditions there:
“You both went to the same country?”  A classified National Intelligence Estimate and other U.S.
reports belie the upbeat assessments recently delivered by Obama
and his senior officials, while the  United Nations   asserts  that
2011 was the deadliest year for Afghan civilians since the war
started, with 3,021 killed. Asked about the more pessimistic
intelligence estimate, Panetta  said  that it assumed “we would
have no presence beyond 2014, which is not going to be the
case.”  Before making such a continuing commitment, NATO needs to
have an honest discussion about its merits. Start with the
Taliban, which despite the gains of the U.S. troop surge,
remains a resilient force. If the coalition is not willing or
able to muster the forces needed to extirpate the Taliban from
the battlefield, some kind of political negotiation seems to be
the only viable path forward. Yet as seasoned observers have
 noted , why would the Taliban agree to a settlement that allows
for a foreign military presence intended to keep them in check?
In other words, you can have political reconciliation, or you
can have an effective coalition presence, but it will be very
difficult to have both.  The other argument for keeping a robust U.S. presence in
Afghanistan is to have a base from which to strike insurgents
and terrorists in  Pakistan . That ignores the vulnerability of
coalition supply lines through Pakistan, whose military has
demonstrated time and again that it is a frenemy at best. To
improve the stability of Afghanistan and the region, the U.S.
would be wise to end any kind of reliance on Pakistan, cut
military aid to that country except for official exchanges and
training, and simultaneously expand its development assistance
(including trade preferences) to the Pakistani people.  Afghanistan is still a long way from having a democratic
and accountable government. But establishing such a government
was never part of Operation Enduring Freedom, which began as an
effort, President  George W. Bush   said , “to disrupt the use of
Afghanistan as a terrorist base of operations, and to attack the
military capability of the Taliban regime.” Nor was democracy-
building part of the subsequently established  International
Security Assistance Force ’s original mission, which the UN
Security Council  said  was “to assist the Afghan Interim
Authority in the maintenance of security in Kabul and its
surrounding areas” for six months.  Lives Improved  The good news about the mission creep that followed is
that, in just about every sphere of human activity, it led to a
vast  improvement  in the quality of life for Afghan men, women
and children. The bad news is that neither the Bush nor the
Obama administrations has ever defined clear strategic goals for
the U.S. presence in Afghanistan, which has already led to the
deaths of nearly 2,000 U.S. military personnel and the  wounding 
of more than 15,000 -- a number that excludes hundreds of
casualties among civilian contractors as well.  Are we there just to militarily defeat the Taliban? To
establish a Jeffersonian democracy? To prevent a resurgence of
the 19th century’s Great Game? Meanwhile, the coalition’s
Brobdingnagian presence -- by some  yardsticks , outside money
accounts for more than 90 percent of Afghanistan’s  gross
domestic product  -- has distorted the development of the
country’s political and economic institutions and fostered a
climate of corruption.  More broadly, the conflict has distracted the U.S. from
other priorities. The more than  $500 billion  the U.S. has spent
on the war in Afghanistan over the last decade, for example,
easily represents 500 times what it has devoted to combating
drug gangs from Mexico and Central America. The almost  $90
billion  in assistance that the U.S. has committed to
Afghanistan’s population of  34.4  million is almost double the
 amount  of U.S. economic aid from 2001 to 2010 to the 48
countries and 1 billion-plus people of sub-Saharan  Africa .  The rule of holes -- when you’re in one, stop digging --
may not be the most elegant theory of foreign relations, but in
this case it makes sense. The U.S. should stick to the Panetta
2013 timeline and depart next year. In a worst-case scenario,
that could result in a reversal of many of the gains that the
Afghan people have made. But the abiding U.S. interest in
Afghanistan is to prevent its use as a base for terrorist
attacks against the U.S. and its allies. With the killing of
 Osama bin Laden  and many members of al-Qaeda’s leadership, the
U.S. military has achieved much of what it set out to do, and it
would have more than a year to build on that progress.  Over the last decade the U.S. has made an enduring point:
Any nation that allows a terrorist attack on the U.S. from its
soil faces a response that will be swift, brutal and relentless.
Isn’t that enough?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 