-- U.S. Finishes Rules for States Seeking to Opt Out of Obama’s Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-22T17:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/u-s-finishes-rules-for-states-seeking-to-opt-out-of-obama-s-health-law.html
States such as  Vermont  will be able
to use an escape clause in U.S. rules issued today to set up
their own government-run medical systems and avoid federal
mandates in the 2010 health-care law.  The rules allow states to dodge provisions that have
sparked debate, such as a mandate that most Americans purchase
insurance, if they match or exceed the law’s expansion of
health-care coverage and maintain consumer protections.  Vermont’s governor, Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, has said
that he plans for the state to insure all of its residents,
creating a single-payer system that would put private health
plans such as those run by  Cigna (CI)  Inc. out of business.  Oregon ’s
governor, John Kitzhaber, also a Democrat, has said he wants his
state to run a health plan that would compete with private
insurers.  The clause “provides states with additional flexibility to
improve health care for their citizens in a way that works for
them while retaining the basic protections” of the federal law,
the U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services  said in a
statement.  The law requires states to set up new marketplaces called
exchanges to sell private insurance at subsidized rates
beginning in 2014. It allows states opt out of the exchanges in
2017, if they come up with a replacement plan that will cover as
many people at no greater cost.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration proposed rules last
March outlining how states would apply to get out of the law.
Final rules issued today contain only one significant change, a
requirement that states submit time lines for implementation of
their proposed replacement plans.  Democratic Senators from Vermont, Oregon and  Massachusetts 
have proposed legislation that would let states opt out of the
health law in 2014, when the exchanges are due to open, instead
of 2017. The Obama administration supports the change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  