-- Ailing Tymoshenko to Get Doctors’ Report
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/ukraine-s-jailed-ex-premier-to-get-german-doctors-health-report.html
Ukraine’s jailed former Prime
Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  will receive a preliminary health
report from German doctors in the coming days after her daughter
said the politician’s condition is deteriorating.  Tymoshenko is “seriously ill,”  Der Spiegel  reported,
citing a report by doctors from Berlin’s  Charité hospital  who
examined the former prime minister last week. Charité confirmed
the visit in a statement, though declined to say what the
assessment of Tymoshenko’s health is.  Ukrainian authorities moved 51-year-old Tymoshenko to a
penal colony in the Kharkiv region in eastern Ukraine on Dec.
30, a week after a court upheld her seven-year prison term for
signing a gas contract with Russia in 2009. A verdict last year
that found Tymoshenko had abused her authority by signing the
agreement when she was premier drew condemnation from the
European Union, the U.S. as well as  Russia .  If “things continue the way they are and she is not given
medical care, she will need an operation,” Eugenia Tymoshenko,
her daughter, said in a statement on her  mother’s website .
“This operation can’t be done in the prison.” The German
doctors found that Tymoshenko, who is confined to bed and can’t
sleep because of back pain, has a herniated disc, she said.  The team of doctors from Berlin, including neurologist Karl
Max Einhaeupl and physician Norbert Haas, will complete a
preliminary report in the next few days after coordinating with
an independent visit by Canadian doctors on Dec. 15, the Charité
clinic said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Unhindered Access  The German doctors were given “unhindered” access to
Tymoshenko and performed their examination for “several hours”
in the presence of a prison doctor on Feb. 14, Charité said in
the statement. They rejected unspecified “speculation” about
Tymoshenko’s health in the Ukrainian media based on their
assessment.  Tymoshenko is “ill, in constant pain” and requires
laboratory testing, the Financial Times cited Canadian doctor
Peter Kujtan as saying. Kujtan’s team was limited in its
examination because of a lack of privacy, he said, according to
the newspaper.  Tymoshenko has denied the accusations against her and said
President  Viktor Yanukovych  orchestrated the trial to sideline
competitors in parliamentary elections this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  