-- Turkish Lira Falls 2nd Day on Bets of More Central Bank Funding
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-22T15:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/turkish-yields-fall-4th-day-on-bets-of-more-central-bank-funding.html
The lira retreated for a second day,
heading for the weakest level in almost a week, on bets the
central bank will increase its funding after unexpectedly
cutting the highest lending rates.  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.7584 per dollar at
5:06 a.m. in Istanbul, poised for the lowest close since Feb.
16.  Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark bonds were unchanged at 9
percent after falling as much as 12 basis points, according to
the Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index.  The  central bank  reduced the maximum  interest rate  charged
for overnight lending to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent
yesterday, saying it was taking into account monetary easing in
other economies. It also reduced the repo rate for market making
by a similar amount to 11 percent. The bank lent 5 billion liras
today at 5.75 percent, its lowest benchmark lending rate.  The decision “indicates a loose monetary policy for the
future and expectations have emerged that the central bank will
raise the funding amount,” said  Emre Balkeser , head of trading
at Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Governor Erdem Basci introduced the interest-rate corridor
in October, allowing him to vary rates on a daily basis to
manage  money supply  and credit growth. Since mid-January he has
made more funding available at the lowest end of this band even
as inflation at 10.6 percent was at a three-year high in
January. Cheaper money supports the government in keeping the
economy ticking amid a slowdown in  Europe , Turkey’s main export
destination.  The lira sank 18 percent last year in the worst performance
worldwide and hit a record low of 1.9224 per dollar on Dec. 28.
Yields soared 390 basis points last year in the biggest rise in
three years as investors reduced positions in  Turkey  on account
of its large  current-account deficit .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  