-- UVA Murder Jury Weighs Charges Against Huguely in Death of Fellow Student
-- B y   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-22T22:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/uva-murder-jury-weighs-charges-against-huguely-in-death-of-fellow-student.html
A jury in Virginia began
deliberating whether former  University of Virginia  lacrosse
player George W. Huguely V is guilty of murder in the death of
Yeardley Love, his ex-girlfriend.  After a 10-day trial, the jury of seven men and five women
today in state court in Charlottesville were given the case and
within minutes requested the video of Huguely’s interview with
police and other exhibits.  This afternoon, the jury asked to see a handwritten letter
Huguely wrote Love in February 2010 apologizing for putting her
in a choke hold.  In the letter, found by police with her belongings after
Love’s death, Huguely wrote: “Alcohol is ruining my life. I’m
scared to know that I can get drunk to the point where I can’t
control how I act.”  During closing arguments, Huguely’s lawyer, Francis
Lawrence, read the letter to jurors while asking them to return
a verdict of manslaughter rather than murder.  Throughout the day, jurors asked two questions pertaining
to the instructions they were given by the judge to decide the
case. One involved whether there was a contradiction between
instructions on determining intent and cause.  Alternate Jurors  Circuit Judge Edward Hogshire ordered two alternate jurors
to remain in the courthouse during the deliberations, saying
“there’s still a possibility you may be called.”  Huguely, 24, is charged with first-degree murder, robbery,
burglary, breaking and entering, grand larceny and murder in the
commission of a robbery. Love’s badly bruised body was
discovered by a friend and teammate who went to the 22-year-old
victim’s room in her apartment at about 2 a.m. on May 3, 2010,
finding her face down in a pool of blood on her pillow.  Huguely faces a possible life sentence if convicted.  The case is Commonwealth of  Virginia  v. Huguely, 11-00102,
Virginia Circuit Court (Charlottesville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bonnie V.  Winston in Virginia Circuit Court in Charlottesville
at   bvwinston@yahoo.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  