-- War Vets Should Get Tax Break on Foreclosures, Fed’s Peach Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-22T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/vets-should-get-tax-break-on-foreclosures-peach.html
The U.S. government should provide a
tax credit to military veterans to buy foreclosed properties
owned by government mortgage financiers, according to Richard
Peach, a Federal Reserve Bank of New York economist.  This would help clear the supply of seized homes and result
in “some firming” of real estate prices, Peach wrote in a Feb.
22 blog posted on the bank’s website. It would be “an
expression of the nation’s gratitude for a significant sacrifice
while at the same time speeding the onset of a more robust
recovery of the economy,” Peach wrote. The program would apply
to homes owned by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac , The  Federal Housing
Administration  and the Department of Veteran Affairs.  William Dudley , the bank’s president, has pushed the U.S.
government to take steps to revive the housing market, after
 home prices  declined 33 percent from the 2006 peak. He mentioned
the tax credit for veterans as one possible solution and called
it “Homes for Heroes,” in a speech last month. Owners of an
estimated 8 million homes will lose their properties to
foreclosure or through distressed sales in the next five years,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Distressed properties expected to come onto the market in
2012 will further stall the U.S. recovery and put downward
pressure on home values, according to Peach. Extending the tax
credit to the 2.5 million veterans that have served in the U.S.
armed forces since September 2001 would create more demand and
help stabilize prices, he wrote.  An incentive for veterans would be similar to the homebuyer
tax credit enacted in 2009, according to Peach, which boosted
home sales to the highest since the start of the financial
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  