-- Vivus Obesity Pill Wins FDA Panel Nod; NeuroSearch Surges
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-23T21:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/vivus-weight-loss-pill-qnexa-wins-backing-of-fda-advisory-panel.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  gained the most in 12
years after the company’s pill Qnexa won the backing of a
regulatory panel, moving the drug a step closer to gaining U.S.
approval as the first new obesity treatment in 13 years.  Vivus jumped 78 percent to $18.73 at the close of New York
trading, its biggest single-day increase since December 1999.
Competitor Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. also rose after the  Food
and Drug Administration  advisers voted 20-2 yesterday that
Qnexa’s benefits outweigh its risks.  While the FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s
recommendation, it often does. Several panel members said Qnexa
would be prescribed for millions “if not tens of millions” of
people, wrote Christopher James, a New York-based analyst for
MLV & Co., in a note to investors today.  Qnexa “has the highest efficacy in terms of  weight loss ,”
compared with other obesity drugs, said Sanjay Kaul, a professor
in the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA Cedar Sinai
Medical Center and a panel member, during yesterday’s meeting.
“That shifts the balance in terms of requiring a post-approval
study rather than a pre-approval study.”  Patients that took Qnexa in studies lost 10 percent of
their body weight on average, Vivus said on its website.  Once approved, Qnexa carries the potential to become “the
next Lipitor,” MLV’s James wrote. Lipitor, made by  New York- 
based Pfizer Inc., is a cholesterol pill that had $10.7 billion
in sales in 2010 before losing patent protection last year.  One of Three  Qnexa is one of three medications vying for the first U.S.
approval of a prescription weight-loss treatment since Swiss
drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in 1999.  The FDA plans to have advisers discuss in March the
possibility of requiring heart-risk studies for all weight-loss
drugs. Panel members yesterday discussed whether Vivus should
conduct such a study before or after approval. The FDA is due to
decide on Qnexa, which it rejected in 2010, by April 17.  Orexigen, which is developing Contrave for obesity, rose 14
percent to $3.66 and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) , testing
lorcaserin for the same ailment, fell 1.7 percent to $1.78.
 NeuroSearch A/S (NEUR)  and  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , Danish companies
developing obesity drugs, also gained.  Trading in Vivus stock was halted yesterday before the FDA
panel vote. NeuroSearch, which is developing tesofensine for
obesity, climbed 5.6 percent to 17 kroner and Novo Nordisk,
which is studying its Victoza diabetes drug as a weight-loss
treatment, climbed 1.5 percent to 796.50 kroner in Copenhagen.  Attractive Target  Vivus may be a more attractive target for a partnership and
acquisition, wrote Steve Yoo, an analyst for Leerink Swann in
 New York , in a note to investors. Vivus has been looking to sell
the rights to its erectile dysfunction drug Avanafil, and “it
would not be too much of a stretch to convert those discussions
into a more wide-ranging discussion,” he wrote.  Regulators raised concerns that Qnexa may contribute to a
greater risk of heart ailments and  birth defects . The medicine
combines the appetite suppressant phentermine with topiramate,
an antiseizure and migraine drug. The  Mountain View , California-
based company has proposed a post-approval trial to assess Qnexa
in reducing major heart complications in obese, at-risk
patients. The trial would involve 11,300 patients and take four
and a-half years.  Analysts say the drug, if approved, may generate $448
million in sales in 2015.  Topiramate  Topiramate is the active ingredient in  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Topamax. The anticonvulsant is also associated with confusion,
difficulty with concentration and memory loss.  Vivus’s analysis of heart risks for Qnexa was “somewhat
reassuring,” though the significance of an observed increase in
 heart rate  was “uncertain,” FDA staff said Feb. 17 in a
 report .  More than one-third of U.S. adults are obese, and another
third are overweight, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . The obesity rate among adults has more
than doubled since 1980 to 72 million people.  Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and
stroke, and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a
year in medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the
Atlanta-based CDC.  Orexigen (OREX) , based in  La Jolla ,  California , and San Diego-
based Arena also are seeking approval for their obesity
medicines, which the FDA refused to approve without more data on
safety risks.  Claims Data  Vivus examined medical claims data and found five oral
clefts in a group of 1,740 children whose mothers had taken
topiramate alone in the first trimester of pregnancy, for a
prevalence rate of 0.29 percent, the company said Dec. 21 in a
statement. That compared with a rate of 0.16 percent in the
group whose mothers had taken antiseizure drugs, including
topiramate, before pregnancy.  Vivus plans to finish the results in the third quarter of
this year, after the April 17 deadline for the FDA to decide
whether to approve the drug. The risk of oral clefts hasn’t been
fully answered by the interim data, FDA staff said.  The FDA asked Vivus in January to remove wording from
Qnexa’s proposed prescribing label advising women with the
potential to become pregnant against taking it. The FDA staff
said in the Feb. 17 report severely restricting Qnexa isn’t
practical because topiramate also treats other serious
conditions.  Restrictions Considered  Panel members, meeting yesterday at FDA headquarters in
 Silver Spring ,  Maryland , suggested the agency should consider
restricting topiramate used for seizures and migraines for women
of childbearing age.  “I just can’t get my mind around why it would be
different,” said Lamont Weide, chief of diabetes and
endocrinology at the Truman Medical Centers Diabetes Center in
 Kansas City  and a member of the panel.  Russell Katz, director of FDA’s neurology products
division, said the agency hasn’t considered restricting the drug
because there aren’t many options for migraine prevention.  Vivus has suggested restricting distribution of Qnexa to
less than 10 large mail-order pharmacies with pharmacists
trained in dispensing the drug, Barbara Troupin, senior director
of global medical affairs at the company, said.  In addition to Roche’s Xenical, London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Alli, a half-dose version of Xenical’s
active ingredient, won FDA clearance in 2007 as the first diet
drug available without a prescription.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  