-- Warner Music Said to Continue Chase for EMI as Vivendi Deal Faces Scrutiny
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/warner-said-to-continue-emi-chase-as-universal-music-deal-faces-scrutiny.html
Len Blavatnik, the billionaire owner
of  Warner Music Group (WMG) , hasn’t given up pursuing  EMI Group (EMI) ’s
recorded music unit as its sale to  Vivendi SA (VIV)  is scrutinized by
regulators, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Warner Music  will seek to buy EMI’s recorded-music business
outright if its lobbying offensive succeeds in convincing the
European Commission and the Federal Trade Commission in the U.S.
to block the 1.2 billion-pound ($1.9 billion) deal, said the
people, who declined to be named as the plans are private.
Warner would also be interested in buying major parts of EMI if
the sale to Vivendi’s  Universal Music Group  is approved with the
requirement to sell some assets, said the people.  EMI’s recorded music assets would give Blavatnik, who
acquired Warner Music in May 2011 for about $3.3 billion, rights
to songs of artists such as Coldplay, Katy Perry and the
Beatles. Warner Music has held discussions with Impala, a group
that represents independent musicians and also opposes the
combination of  Universal Music  and EMI, two of the people said.  Impala won a 2006 court ruling overturning the European
Union’s approval of Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG’s agreement to
form the Sony BMG record label. Impala has said it expects an
“outright rejection” of Universal’s EMI deal.  Universal Music hasn’t been given any indication that
either regulatory group will reject the deal, a person close to
the process said.  Vivendi spokesman Simon Gillham said Vivendi and Universal
“continue to follow the regulatory course and are confident
that their arguments will be heard.” Warner spokesman Will Tanous declined to comment on the regulatory process.  Lobbying Offensive  Blavatnik has said that the acquisition of EMI would allow
Universal Music to squash competition while Vivendi Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  has argued the deal would
ultimately be good for the industry and musicians. Universal’s
holdings account for 27 percent of the recorded music market,
while EMI represents 9.7 percent, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi . Warner Music accounts for 12
percent.  Blavatnik might try to force as many regulatory concessions
as possible, pushing Vivendi to abandon the acquisition even
without a formal rejection, two of the people said.  Universal Music agreed to buy EMI’s recorded music
operations, which develop artists and profit from recorded
songs, in November. Warner Music made an offer of about $1.5
billion to $1.6 billion, two people with knowledge of the
process said at the time. The other half of EMI, the publishing
business, which profits from musical scores and lyrics, was sold
to an investor group led by Sony for $2.2 billion.  The European Commission has set an initial deadline of
March 23 to rule on the EMI deal. Universal Music said Feb. 20
it will work closely with the commission and is “confident of
securing clearance.”  Abbey Road, Beatles  The breakup of EMI, owner of Abbey Road Studios, the rights
to the Beatles albums and songs written by the late  Amy Winehouse , ended a nine-month struggle over the future of the
114-year-old music company.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last year seized
London-based EMI from investor  Guy Hands , who lost almost a
third of his firm’s 5.4 billion-euro buyout fund on the company.  Blavatnik acquired Warner Music in May 2011 for about $3.3
billion, including $1.99 billion in debt. Warner had worked on a
possible offer for EMI before it was seized by Citigroup, a
person familiar with the plan said then.  The rise of legitimate music-streaming services such as
Spotify and Pandora are reviving sales in the  music industry ,
which has struggled to offset declining album sales. Digital
sales now account for more than half of revenues in the U.S.
industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net  