-- Washington State Can’t Force Pharmacies to Sell Contraceptive, Judge Rules
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-22T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/washington-state-can-t-force-pharmacies-to-sell-contraceptive-judge-rules.html
Washington  state can’t compel
pharmacies to sell emergency contraceptives such as Plan B when
such an action violates religious beliefs of the pharmacists, a
federal judge ruled today.  U.S. District Judge Ronald Leighton said that regulations
by the Washington State Board of Pharmacy requiring pharmacies
to sell prescribed medicines or face the possible loss of a
license are unconstitutional, according to the opinion filed in
Tacoma, Washington.  The board’s rules were designed to “force religious
objectors to dispense Plan B, and they sought to do so despite
the fact that refusals to deliver for all sorts of secular
reasons were permitted,” Leighton wrote in his opinion.  The pharmacy board enacted the regulations requiring the
sale of the drugs under pressure from state officials and from
the birth control organization  Planned Parenthood , according to
the opinion. The filing states that the pharmacists who filed
the suit refused to sell emergency contraceptives to test
shoppers from Planned Parenthood.  The plaintiffs, who filed the suit in 2007, are two
individual pharmacists and a company,  Stormans Inc. (0084658D) , that
operates two grocery stores, one of which has a pharmacy. It’s
the pharmacists’ religious belief that life begins when the egg
is fertilized by the sperm, the filing states.  Plan B, Ella  The drugs in question,  Plan B  and Ella, are contraceptives
taken after unprotected sex. They can prevent the fertilized egg
from becoming implanted on the wall of the uterus and developing
into an embryo.  “We’re reading through the judge’s decision,” Joyce
Roper, the senior assistant attorney general of Washington, said
in a telephone interview. “We will be talking with our clients
and then make a decision about what our next step will be.” The
clients are the pharmacy board and the state Department of
Health.  “Today’s decision sends a very clear message: No
individual can be forced out of her profession solely because of
her religious beliefs,” Luke Goodrich, a litigation director at
the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, said in a press release.
The Becket Fund represented the plaintiffs in the case.  According to the Becket Fund, one of the plaintiffs, Margo
Thelen, lost her job because of the board’s regulations.  The case is Stormans Inc. v. Selecky, 07-05374, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Tacoma).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  