-- Weight Watchers Bets NYSE Can Slim Like Jennifer Hudson: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/weight-watchers-lures-companies-seeking-to-trim-costs.html
Barbara “B.J.” Buckingham only
joined  Weight Watchers (WTW)  because her employer, the  Cleveland
Clinic , offered it for free. The reimbursement analyst has since
shed 30 pounds and is halfway to her 168-pound goal.  “If my employer is going to go these lengths, I’m
committed,” said Buckingham, 61.  After years of targeting individuals, diet companies are
focusing on employers looking to cut health-care costs by
slimming down workers. Weight Watchers International Inc.
persuaded  American Express (AXP)  Co. and NYSE Euronext to offer
subsidized weight-loss programs for employees.  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Jenny
Craig and  Nutrisystem Inc. (NTRI)  have programs that lured companies
such as AT&T Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co.  “CEOs get it,” Weight Watchers Chief Executive Officer
David Kirchhoff said during an investor conference last month.
“They are tired of watching their health-care premiums go up 8
percent a year.”  The U.S. weight-loss industry may increase 4.5 percent to
$65 billion this year, according to Tampa, Florida-based
researcher Marketdata Enterprises Inc. Nearly half of the U.S.
adult population is on some sort of diet, Marketdata estimates.
More than one-third of Americans are considered obese, according
to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.  Weight Watchers, which boosted  revenue  25 percent to $1.82
billion last year, saw its share price jump 47 percent in 2011.
Nutrisystem fell 39 percent.  Potential Sales  While corporate clients present potential sales in the long
term, any increase in revenue will be small until more
businesses get on board, said Kurt Frederick, a San Francisco-
based analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  Weight Watchers, founded half a century ago by overweight
housewife Jean Nidetch, centers around  meetings  led by trained
staff. Dieters use a point system for eating, with foods rich in
protein and fiber counting less toward their daily limit, while
fats and carbohydrates take up more.  Weight Watchers struggled through the recession, with
revenue declining 8.9 percent in 2009. In 2011, the New York-
based company boosted sales and profit using celebrities, such
as  Jennifer Hudson , to tout its programs.  Revenue from diet sessions has stagnated for three years as
customers shifted to the cheaper online version, which more than
doubled its sales during the same time. An online membership
costs $18.95 a month, less than half the $42.95 for a monthly
unlimited meetings pass.  At Work  While Weight Watchers first began holding meetings at
worksites in the 1980s, last year it began “in earnest” to
sell corporate programs, Kirchhoff said during a conference call
this month. In 2011, the company’s so-called At Work business
accounted for about 12 percent of its North American meeting
attendance. The company holds 45,000 weekly weight-loss meetings
worldwide.  Weight Watchers touts health-care cost statistics from
other clients and tries to get companies to start programs at
their headquarters and enlist their satellite offices later, Tom
Futch, vice president of health care solutions at Weight
Watchers, said in a telephone interview. It also advertises in
HR Magazine and sets up at trade shows to sell its programs, he
said.  Jenny Craig, which started its corporate wellness program
in 2004, said it gives discounts to employees of some of these
clients, which include AT&T, Wells Fargo,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  It sells its program as being
personal -- providing weekly one-on-one consultations. About 8
percent to 10 percent of its client base are corporate accounts.  Nutrisystem Meals  Nutrisystem gives people “perfectly portioned” meals
without having to count points, calories or attend meetings,
Meredith Bandy, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. She
declined to name specific corporate clients or say how much
revenue that part of the business accounts for.  Starting this year, American Express began paying for its
employees to join Weight Watchers for one year. In the past, it
only offered a discounted program. So far, more than 5,200
workers have signed up in 2012, compared with fewer than 2,000
last year, said David Kasiarz, senior vice president of global
compensation and benefits.  “We wanted to have something with broad appeal,” Kasiarz
said.  Charles Barkley  has advertised Weight Watchers men’s
program with the tagline “Lose Like a Man.”  Getting employees to sign up takes gentle persuasion.
Hudson’s Weight Watchers counselor, Liz Josefsberg, gave a pep
talk at American Express’s employee Weight Watchers fete on Feb.
2. Nutrisystem recently signed  Janet Jackson  to promote its
diets, while Jenny Craig is using  Mariah Carey .  Gaining Weight Back  Most dieters gain the weight back, which may not bode well
for companies looking to reduce health-care costs over time.  “The question is, ‘Are the people who sign up for the
program actually going to use it and lose weight?’” said
Frederick, the Wedbush analyst.  It may be better if companies don’t cover 100 percent of
the costs for workers to join diet programs, he said.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  is paying half of the cost for its employees to join.
When people have to pay for at least some of it themselves,
they’re more likely to stick with it because they “have some
skin in the game,” Frederick said.  Weight Watchers declined to say how many corporate clients
it has signed up, though it is fielding daily phone calls from
interested companies, Futch said.  “It makes a lot of sense that they look at this channel,”
said  Mitchell Pinheiro , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. Having corporate clients may even lend some
credence to the weight-loss programs, he said.  “It creates better credibility,” he said. “You know this
isn’t the celebrity bathing-suit diet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  