-- Wen Seen Paring China’s 8% Growth Target on Rise in Inequality: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T03:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/wen-seen-paring-china-growth-goal-in-state-of-the-union-on-inequality-rise.html
China ’s Premier Wen Jiabao is seen
signaling next month that curbing pollution, inequality and the
risk of financial instability eclipse the benefits of faster
economic growth, a survey of analysts indicated.  Wen will target an expansion of less than 8 percent in his
report to the National People’s Congress in Beijing on March 5,
the equivalent of the U.S. President’s State of the Union
address, according to 8 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The median estimate of 7.5 percent compares with the 8
percent goal maintained from 2005 to 2011, even amid the 2008-09
world recession.  A cut may indicate policy makers are prepared to tolerate a
 slower expansion  as they move the economy’s drivers to
consumption from exports and investment, a shift that may
address global imbalances blamed for the last financial crisis.
The survey results tally with state economist  Fan Jianping ’s
prediction last week that a reduced goal will be set to send a
message to local officials bent on chasing growth.  “A lower target should be seen more as a signal that
there’s more emphasis on economic transformation and quality of
growth over speed rather than a real goal,” said Ding Shuang, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc., who previously
worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and China’s central
bank. “Slower growth could provide more room to proceed with
reforms that are required for rebalancing.”  Stocks Fall  Asian stocks today fell the most in a week and the
Australian dollar weakened as reports signaled slowing global
growth and Hewlett-Packard Co. forecast profit that missed
estimates. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent as of
11:47 a.m. in Tokyo after dropping as much as 0.6 percent, while
the Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.3 percent at 10:48 a.m.  Average annual growth of 10 percent in the past three
decades turned China into the world’s biggest emitter of carbon
dioxide in addition to the second-largest economy and top
exporter. The nation overtook the U.S. in 2009 to become the
biggest energy consumer, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency , a description China rejected.  As the Communist Party prepares for President  Hu Jintao  and
Wen to hand over to a younger generation of leaders, officials
aim to limit discontent over home costs, land seizures and the
gap between rich and poor.  Gross domestic product expanded 9.2 percent in 2011 from
10.4 percent the previous year, as the government wound back
stimulus measures and cracked down on property speculation. The
nation’s five-year plan running through 2015 targets an average
7 percent expansion. Such goals are routinely exceeded and
growth reached 14 percent as recently as 2007, according to the
statistics bureau.  ‘Didn’t Translate’  “For most people in China, the stellar double-digit growth
rates of a few years ago didn’t translate into equivalent
increases in income or spending,” said  Mark Williams , a London-
based economist at Capital Economics Ltd. who formerly advised
the U.K. Treasury on China. Benefits would flow through “if the
balance of the economy shifted towards services, light
manufacturing and other areas that create a lot of jobs,” he
said.  Elsewhere in the region,  Taiwan ’s  industrial output 
probably fell a third month in January, with the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey predicting a 15.3 percent
decline in a report due later today.  Hong Kong ’s trade deficit may have narrowed to HK$29.9
billion (US$3.86 billion) in January from HK$48.9 billion in
December, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.
Singapore’s consumer prices probably rose 4.7 percent in January
from a year earlier, a survey of 15 economists shows, easing
from a 5.5 percent pace the prior month.  U.S. Jobless Claims  U.S. initial  jobless claims  rose by 7,000 to 355,000 in the
week ended Feb. 18, according to a Bloomberg survey of 47
economists, ticking up from a four-year low the previous week.
December home prices rose 0.1 percent from the previous month,
according to a survey of 18 economists.  In  Europe , German business confidence probably rose to the
highest in seven months in February as progress in taming
Europe’s debt crisis tempered the risk of a recession. The Ifo
institute’s business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, climbed to 108.8 from 108.3 in January, according to
the median of 38 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That
would be the fourth straight gain and the highest value since
July.  An index of factory orders in the U.K. probably rose to
minus 13 in February from minus 16 in January, the Confederation
of British Industry will say, according to a Bloomberg survey of
11 economists.  Unstable Model  China’s Premier Wen has described the country’s growth
model as unstable, unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable,
a phrase echoed by Jin Qi, an assistant governor of the central
bank, as recently as last week. In last year’s work report, the
premier highlighted resource and environmental constraints, an
imbalance between  investment  and consumption, the wealth gap,
and uneven development of urban and rural areas.  Signs of unrest have included December’s two-week blockade
of the village of Wukan in Guangdong, linked to residents
protesting disputed land sales and the death of a local man in
police custody.  A high-speed rail crash last July killed 40 people,
prompting the People’s Daily, a Communist Party mouthpiece, to
call for economic development that is not “stained with
blood.” Pollution incidents this year include a cadmium spill
in Guangxi province that threatened the drinking water of
millions of people.  Income Distribution  China’s Gini coefficient, an income-distribution gauge used
by economists, has climbed to near 0.5 from less than 0.3 a
quarter century ago, according to Li Shi, a professor of
economics at the School of Economics and Business at Beijing
Normal University. The measure ranges from 0 to 1, and the 0.4
mark is used as a predictor by analysts for social unrest.  So-called mass incidents, including strikes, riots and
other disturbances, doubled to at least 180,000 in 2010 from
2006, according to Sun Liping, a sociology professor at
Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  “What’s sustainable is growth that’s more inclusive, less
energy intensive and less polluting,” Murtaza Syed, the IMF’s
resident representative in Beijing, said in an interview
yesterday. “You can keep growth very high by investing a lot
but you create a problem in the medium term that could actually
lead to a slowdown that’s very, very severe over the next 10 to
15-year horizon.”  Rural Poor  The government’s efforts to help the worst-off citizens
have included raising the rural poverty line so 128 million
people are eligible for subsidies, and pledging to build 36
million units of low-cost housing from 2011 to 2015.  Fan, the chief economist at the State Information Center,
said this year’s growth target may be 7 or 7.5 percent to “act
as guidance for local authorities to not focus on chasing
speed.” In other forecasts from the survey of analysts, a
majority said the nation’s  inflation  target will be set at 4
percent, the same as last year.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan and Rina Chandran
in  Singapore  and Victoria Ruan and Nerys Avery in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman,  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  