-- West Africa Rails Rebuilt With Iron Ore Boom’s Proceeds: Freight
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/west-africa-rails-rebuilt-with-iron-ore-boom-s-proceeds-freight.html
Sierra Leoneans hadn’t seen a
functioning locomotive engine in 30 years until  African Minerals (AMI) 
Ltd. rebuilt the rail network to export iron ore in November,
almost a decade after civil war ended.  An iron-ore boom in West  Africa , which may have deposits to
rival Australia’s ore-rich Pilbara region, is motivating African
Minerals, as well as miners  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and ArcelorMittal, to
spend $25 billion on 3,170 miles of new and rebuilt railways and
11 new ports in West Africa, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  African Minerals is already benefiting, with its stock
gaining 25 percent this year. More is to come: Nations including
Guinea,  Sierra Leone , Liberia and Republic of Congo may supply
250 million tons, or 9 percent of global  iron ore  output, by
2020, according to mining researcher Raw Materials Group.  “The standout development is African Minerals,” according
to Matt Fernley, an analyst at GMP Securities Ltd. in  London  who
said the stock is his “top pick in the sector. If you’re in
Africa in iron ore, you want a world-class deposit and you want
control over your own infrastructure. They have both.”  Most of Sierra Leone’s transport network was destroyed or
left to ruin during the civil war that ended in 2002. Only 8.9
percent of the West African nation’s 11,555 kilometers (7,200
miles) of roads is paved and the main port, Pepel, has an annual
capacity of just 16 million tons.  Sierra Leone was ranked third-lowest of 155 countries on
the  World Bank ’s 2010 logistics performance index, a measure of
the quality, cost and efficiency of transport networks.  Fastest-Growing Economy  Iron ore exports from African Minerals’ Tonkolili and
 London Mining Plc (LOND) ’s Marampa mines are set to boost Sierra
Leone’s economy by 51 percent this year, the fastest projected
pace of any nation in the world, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Guernsey, U.K.-based African Minerals is spending
$1.2 billion on rails and ports and developing a mine in the
first phase of its Tonkolili project.  In Guinea, where two coups have ousted presidents since the
mid-1980s, Rio Tinto is spending $1 billion on the first phase
of its Simandou project, which is estimated to produce 95
million tons of ore by 2015. London-based Rio plans to invest
more than $10 billion on an iron-ore mine, 650 kilometers of
industrial railway, 21 kilometers of tunnels and a new deep-
water port south of the capital, Conakry.  ‘Hugely Beneficial’  “It’s amazing for our country,”  Guinea ’s Mines Minister,
Mohamed Lamine Fofana, said in a Feb. 7 interview in  Cape Town .
“The direct impact is hugely beneficial to the population:
about 10,000 jobs, local sales, subcontracting. And indirectly,
we get a lot of taxes.”  African Minerals said in an e-mail yesterday that starting
shipments last year “would not have been possible without the
support of our investors who have funded this $1.5 billion
project and the Government of Sierra Leone who have created a
positive investment climate for mining in the country.”  Shares in London Mining, which also has development
projects in  Greenland  and  Saudi Arabia , have lost 1.4 percent
this year. That’s mainly from uncertainty about “access to
funding, slower pace of production ramp-up, smaller development
scale and slightly lower quality infrastructure links,” Seth Rosenfeld, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in London who has
a “buy” recommendation on the stock, said in an e-mail.  China ’s steelmakers are driving the boom in iron ore, with
imports set to increase 1.25 billion tons over the next decade,
from 679 million tons last year, according to Raw Materials
Group, based near  Stockholm . Global iron ore exports amounted to
1.1 billion tons last year, from 504 million tons in 2001.  Deposit Handover  Prices for iron ore delivered to China have more than
doubled in the past three years. The cash price of the benchmark
62 percent-iron ore arriving at China’s Tianjin port surged to
$135.40 a ton by Feb. 21 from $59.50 on Nov. 21, 2008, when data
became available, according to the Steel Index, a London-based
independent provider of prices.  Investing in West Africa doesn’t come without risks, as  Rio
Tinto  and ArcelorMittal have experienced. Guinea’s government
ordered Rio Tinto to hand over two blocks of its Simandou
deposit in 2008 to BSG Resources Ltd., the Guernsey-based
company controlled by Israeli diamond investor Beny Steinmetz.
While exporting through Liberia would be a cheaper and shorter
route, Guinea has pushed Rio Tinto to build the railway to
support the country’s development.  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, will only
decide at the end of the year whether to go ahead with its plan
to develop a mine with BSG at Simandou after assessing mining
rules in the West African nation, the company said on Feb. 16.  Greater Slice  Senegal  took  ArcelorMittal (MT)  to the  International Chamber of
Commerce  in Paris last year, accusing the company of reneging on
an agreement to begin production at its Faleme deposit in line
with a mining license awarded in 2007. ArcelorMittal has
“consistently met our commitments in Senegal” and will defend
itself against the charge, Lynn Robbroeckx, a spokeswoman for
ArcelorMittal in London, said in an e-mail.  “These newly empowered governments are intent on capturing
a greater slice of its natural resource wealth, increasing the
risk of resource nationalism,” Tom Wilson, a senior consultant
at  africapractice , a business advisory firm, said in a phone
interview from London. “The challenge is for mining companies
on how to engage with governments around this.”  Still, in Liberia, ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, invested $800 million to refurbish an iron ore mine,
port and railways to produce the nation’s first exports in about
20 years in September. The Luxembourg-based company renovated
240 kilometers of rail lines, rebuilt bridges and roads and
installed a new drainage system in the first phase of the
project’s development.  “With the iron ore mines located hundreds of kilometers
from the coast, the newly renovated railway line linking Tokadeh
mine with the sea port at Buchanan is a crucial part of our
operations,” Robbroeckx said. “ArcelorMittal’s investment and
commitment to Liberia is a huge sign of confidence in the
region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  