-- Whitney Sees ‘Danger Zone’ After Failed Default Forecast
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-22T16:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/whitney-says-munis-remain-danger-zone-even-after-failed-default-forecast.html
Meredith Whitney , the banking
analyst who incorrectly predicted that “hundreds of billions of
dollars” of municipal-bond defaults would occur in 2011, said
the tax-exempt market is still a “danger zone” for investors.  The reaction to her December 2010 forecast on CBS Corp.’s
“60 Minutes” television program was “surprising,” Whitney
said today on CNBC’s “Squawk Box.” About $23 billion was
withdrawn from tax-exempt-bond funds in the four months after
her statement, according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “Clearly, this is something people see in their
communities and can relate to and see on an anecdotal basis
every day,” Whitney said. “If it was just taking my word for
it, I don’t think you would have seen a reaction that strong.”  Defaults involving missed payments totaled $2.6 billion in
2011 out of $3.7 trillion of outstanding municipal bonds,
according to Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  State and local securities earned 14 percent through
yesterday since Whitney’s Dec. 20, 2010, “60 Minutes”
interview, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
tracking prices and interest payments. That’s more than the 9.4
percent for Treasuries, 10 percent for company bonds and 9.2
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500  stock index .  Writing a Book  Whitney plans to write a book about the municipal market
titled “Downgraded: Why the Next Economic Crisis Will Be
Local,” according to a statement today from Portfolio, a
Penguin Group imprint. It is scheduled to be published in
November.  The book “will reveal why America’s cities and states are
in deeper trouble than is commonly realized, with far-reaching
and potentially disastrous consequences,” according to the
statement.  Whitney said today that state and local finance “shapes
the future of the American economy and shapes the future of
migration in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  