-- Wilmar Shares Slump as Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates: Singapore Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-22T09:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/wilmar-international-4th-quarter-profit-gains-57-on-higher-sales-sugar.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s biggest palm-oil processing company, fell the most in
Singapore trading in more than three years after reporting
quarterly profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The  shares  slumped 11 percent to S$5.22, their largest
decline since Oct. 6, 2008, compared with a 1 percent drop in
the benchmark Straits Times Index. Wilmar reported net income of
$500 million in the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with
the $519.8 million average estimate of six analysts in a survey
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wilmar’s palm and laurics business posted a 32 percent drop
in pre-tax profit as demand from  China ,  India  and Europe
weakened and margins contracted because of “unfavorable market
conditions” in  Asia ’s two fastest-growing major economies, the
company said in its earnings statement today. Returns from
crushing oilseeds and grains in China remained “challenging.”  “We had expected some improvement from the China business,
but it apparently did not,” said  Ben Santoso , an analyst with
DBS Vickers Securities in Singapore. “The crushing margin in
China is probably not going to improve markedly this quarter.”  Wilmar sold 8 percent less palm and laurics products in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier even as revenue rose 6
percent, according to the statement. Margins were higher in
Indonesia because of a change in the country’s export duty
structure, the company said.  The maximum export tax for refined, bleached and deodorized
palm oil was reduced to 10 percent from 23 percent and the rate
for RBD palm olein, the processed product used as cooking oil,
was cut to 13 percent from 25 percent, effective Oct. 1.  Plantations, Mills  Net income gained 57 percent from $318.6 million in the
fourth quarter of 2010, according to the statement. Profit
increased 21 percent last year to $1.6 billion.  Wilmar’s plantation and palm oil mills business reported a
1 percent drop in pre-tax profit in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier because of lower crude palm oil prices. Unit
production costs also rose as the company spent more on labor,
fertilizer, fuel and repairs and maintenance.  Excluding a $262.7 million gain in a revaluation of
Wilmar’s palm oil plantations, the segment’s profit before tax
was $113.4 million, down 12.5 percent, the according to the
statement.  “Last quarter, anyone who made money should be happy,”
Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said at a briefing in
 Singapore  today.  Oilseeds, Grains, Sugar  Wilmar’s oilseeds and grains business rebounded from a loss
in the fourth quarter of 2010 as sales volumes grew 30 percent.
While margins in China continued to be a challenge, the quarter
was “a sharp recovery” from a year earlier because of
increased demand from the livestock industry and higher sales of
flour and rice, the company said.  “I don’t see a big improvement this year, but we have big
efficient plants,” in China, Kuok said. “Long term, we should
have an edge over our competitors.”  Earnings from sugar were dragged down by lower quality
sugar cane from the last season, resulting in a low extraction
rate, Wilmar said.  Prices of sugar also declined in the fourth quarter, which
eroded earnings, DBS’s Santoso said. Wilmar, which buys raw
sugar and processes it, “just has to manage in a way to
minimize the losses if prices were to decline again,” he said.  The Singapore-based company completed the A$1.8 billion
($1.9 billion)  purchase  of Sucrogen Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest
sugar producer, in December 2010 to help meet demand in
 Indonesia  and India and rely less on China’s cooking oil market.
Wilmar’s sugar business contributed 7.6 percent to sales in the
fourth quarter.  Archer Daniels Midland  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , a rival to Wilmar, said sugar
production may be in surplus again next season, which may
depress prices further. Raw sugar traded in  New York  slumped 27
percent last year, the most in a decade. “Trading conditions
would probably be a little more volatile” in the second half,
Olam’s CEO Sunny Verghese said Feb. 15.  Wilmar said today it signed a memorandum of understanding
with  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the world’s largest grain
processor, to cooperate in fertilizer distribution, freight
operations and tropical oil refining in  Europe . “On shipping,
Wilmar and ADM can share information and cargoes” to drive
efficiency, Kuok said.  About 7 percent of Wilmar’s debt is from European banks,
Chief Financial Officer Ho Kiam Kong said at the briefing. “The
cost of funding has stabilized this year after going up in the
fourth quarter.”  Wilmar cancelled its plan to list its China unit in Hong
Kong in 2010 after its financial adviser told the company the
shares will fetch a lower price-to-earnings ratio than planned.  “If Wilmar were to list our Chinese unit, we’d do it in
China for better valuations,” CEO Kuok said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 