-- Wimbledon Chief Ritchie Wants Tax Break for Top Players at London Finals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-22T00:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/wimbledon-chief-ritchie-wants-tax-break-for-top-players-at-london-finals.html
Tennis’s  ATP World Tour Finals 
should be given a similar tax waiver in the U.K. as soccer’s
 Champions League , Wimbledon’s outgoing head said.  Ten-time Grand Slam champion  Rafael Nadal  won’t be
preparing for Wimbledon at the grass courts of Queens in London
this year because a U.K. tax on earnings of foreign athletes and
entertainers working in the country would make him “lose
money,” the Spaniard said last year. Team sports such as soccer
are exempt from the tax, just like athletes visiting the country
for the 2012 Olympics.  “The most important immediate thing is that the ATP World
Tour Finals should be given an exemption,” Wimbledon Chief
Executive Officer Ian Ritchie said in an interview at his
office, which has a view of No. 2 Court at the All  England  Club
in southwest  London . “Because it’s a nomadic event that could
go anywhere else in the world.”  The Tour Finals, traditionally held in November, are in the
fourth year of a five-year contract at London’s O2 arena. It
hasn’t been decided where the tournament will be held after
that. The ATP Finals, played by the world’s top eight singles
players and doubles pairs, was won by Grand Slam record holder
 Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  last year.  “It’s been a huge success, 250,000 people every year in a
great venue,” Ritchie said. “Everybody recognizes it’s going
very well. Here is a situation where in order to keep that in
London, we need to apply for a dispensation and I hope the
government would look favorably on that. That’s within the
established rules.”  Soccer Exemption  Foreign soccer players competing in the 2011 Champions
League final at London’s Wembley Stadium between  Barcelona  and
 Manchester United  were given a tax waiver by the U.K. government
in 2010.  Ritchie, who has been in charge of the world’s only grass-
court Grand Slam event since 2005, leaves the All England Club
in two days’ time to become the new head of England’s Rugby
Football Union.  Tennis is dealing with growing player dissatisfaction over
an overcrowded calendar and distribution of prize money at the
four Grand Slam tournaments. There was talk of a possible strike
by players including Britain’s  Andy Murray  during last year’s
 U.S. Open .  The players’ total prize money accounts for between 12 to
16 percent of revenue at the Australian, French and U.S. opens.
Wimbledon doesn’t disclose its revenue.  “The facts show that we haven’t been stingy with the prize
money,” Ritchie said.  Increased Prizes  During Ritchie’s first full year in charge at Wimbledon in
2006, prize money for the male champion was set at 655,000
pounds ($1.03 million). Equal prize money was introduced in 2007
and last year champions  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia and Czech Petra Kvitova took home 1.1 million pounds each. The total pot of
prize money jumped to 14.6 million pounds from 10.3 million
pounds during the same period.  “You look at the increases since 2006, and anybody looking
at that would find it difficult to say those weren’t -- in quite
difficult economic times -- perfectly reasonable increases,”
Ritchie said.  Ritchie played down “speculation” of possible strike
action later on in the season.  “The thing I would certainly hope and believe -- and I can
only talk about Wimbledon -- is that the relationship with the
players has always been strong and good,” he said. “No reason
to doubt that’s not going to continue.”  Soccer, Rugby  The 58-year-old has more than three decades experience in
business, media and sport. He was appointed to the board of
English soccer’s Football League in 2004 as its first
independent director, and he is also a director for Wembley
Stadium Ltd.  Ritchie said his experience with Wimbledon’s long-term
commercial strategy -- it has agreements in place with sponsors
including Slazenger dating back to as long as 100 years ago --
will help at the RFU.  English rugby has had a difficult year.  Martin Johnson  quit
as national rugby team coach on Nov. 16 after his squad was
knocked out of the quarterfinals of the  World Cup  in  New
Zealand . Johnson also had to deal with off-field incidents
involving players and staff.  “A lot of people in a lot of businesses are forced to look
at short-term gain rather than worrying about what’s the long
term brand,” Ritchie said. “The beauty of Wimbledon has been
those long-term partnerships and associations, how do you build
those over the years? That’s not been an accident here, it’s
been a similar policy for decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the
London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 