-- Woodside Increases Gas Estimates at Browse as It Assesses Stake Sale
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-22T01:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/woodside-increases-gas-estimates-at-browse-as-it-assesses-stake-sale.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, increased the estimate for its
natural gas resources in the Browse Basin as it considers the
sale of a stake in a venture to liquefy the fuel for export.  The estimate was raised by 17 percent to 15.5 trillion
cubic feet (439 billion cubic meters) of gas, the Perth-based
company said today in a presentation after reporting a 4 percent
drop in full-year profit. Woodside shares rose to the highest in
more than three months in Sydney trading.  Woodside has delayed a final  investment decision  on its
proposed Browse liquefied natural gas venture in  Western
Australia  as costs climb. The company, which owns a 46 percent
stake in the project, said last month it’s assessing the
potential sale of a “minority portion” of its holding.  “It’s always nice to have more gas, but what it doesn’t
change is the cost of building this or the economics of what we
see today,”  Andrew Williams , a Melbourne-based analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , said by telephone today. “The economics look
pretty marginal.”  Woodside Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  faces rising
costs and competition from rival gas producers in  North America 
as he seeks to develop more than $70 billion in LNG projects,
including the proposed Browse venture. The project may cost $36
billion to build, compared with an earlier estimate of $30
billion, Credit Suisse said in November.  The company expects a final investment decision on Browse
in the first half of 2013, according to today’s statement.
Woodside could fetch $1.6 billion selling 16 percent of Browse,
Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote in a report last month.  The estimate for condensates was increased by 16 percent,
according to Woodside.  Pluto Venture  The  shares  rose 0.7 percent to A$36.21 as of 12:34 p.m.
local time, the highest since Nov. 15, while the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index fell 0.3 percent.  Net income dropped to $1.51 billion in the 12 months ended
Dec. 31 from $1.58 billion a year earlier, including expenses
for the delay of its Pluto project in Western  Australia ,
Woodside said today. Excluding one-time charges, profit rose 17
percent to $1.66 billion, according to the company.  The A$14.9 billion ($15.9 billion) Pluto venture is among
eight LNG projects under development in Australia. Woodside
found more gas at the Ragnar-1 well to support an expansion of
the project, the company said today. Pluto is nearing
completion, with no “material change” to its previous
expectation for exports to begin in March, according to
Woodside.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 