-- Myanmar Karen Rebels Want Troops to Withdraw Before Talks
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-02-22T09:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/myanmar-karen-rebels-want-troops-to-withdraw-before-talks-1-.html
Myanmar’s largest armed rebel group
called for President Thein Sein to withdraw troops near areas it
controls and cease military operations against ethnic minorities
before it begins talks on a lasting peace.  The  Karen National Union , which signed a preliminary
ceasefire with the government last month, also wants Karen
political prisoners released before engaging in political
dialogue, the group said in a statement today. These “concrete
measures” are a prerequisite for negotiations, it said.  “Ethnic nationalities want a peace based on national
equality and the right to self-determination,” Naw Zipporah
Sein, the KNU’s General Secretary, told reporters at a briefing
inside Myanmar today, according to the statement. “Previous
ceasefires were not successful because they did not address the
political aspirations of the ethnic nationality peoples.”  Striking peace deals with more than 30 ethnic armies is key
to President Thein Sein’s efforts to stabilize Myanmar’s
politics and boost ties with Western nations. U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  during her December visit cited improved
ties with ethnic groups as a condition for easing sanctions that
have been in place for more than two decades.  The Karen National Union, founded in 1947, says it
represents about a tenth of Myanmar’s 62 million people. It’s
seeking to retain the ability to carry weapons in a federal
system that includes self-determination for the Karen people,
according to its website.  The group’s four-step peace roadmap includes a preliminary
ceasefire, a durable ceasefire, an initial political dialogue
and political participation, according to the statement.  Myanmar’s army is still fighting with ethnic groups
including the Kachin Independence Army, a conflict that has
displaced 50,000 ethnic Kachin since last June,  Human Rights
Watch  said on Dec. 21. Kachin, bordering China and  India , is the
northernmost of Myanmar’s 14 provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  