-- Yemen Car Dealers Embrace Post-Saleh Security as Challenges Loom
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-22T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-22/yemen-car-dealers-embrace-post-saleh-security-as-challenges-loom.html
Auto-sellers in Yemen’s capital,
Sana’a, are putting their shiny new cars back on display after
months of hiding them from burglars and stray artillery shells.  Wael Issa, manager of a Sana’a dealership, says most sales
last year were  pickup trucks  -- favoured by tribal opponents of
former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, as they could be mounted
with machine-guns and used to carry fighters. Issa says his
customer profile will be a test of the accord, aimed at ending a
yearlong uprising, that saw Saleh replaced by Abdurabu Mansur Hadi this week. “Once we start selling small sedans that
Yemenis with office jobs use, you can say things are better.”  Hadi was elected unopposed on Feb. 21 as part of an
internationally backed transition plan. He inherits an economy
that was one of the world’s three worst last year, with  Greece 
and  Ivory Coast , as rebel attacks on oil pipelines hurt exports.
Political challenges include secessionist movements in the north
and south, street protesters demanding more fundamental change,
and al-Qaeda militants who have used Yemen as a base to attack
targets in neighboring Saudi Arabia and the U.S.  “Saleh’s departure is clearly a first, baby step toward
answering Yemen’s multiple problems,” said  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis. “Curing Yemen’s ills will take at
least a decade” and require a national dialogue with the
secessionists, he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Shrinking Economy  The $40 billion economy shrank by at least 5 percent last
year, Saadaldeen Talib, industry and trade minister in the
interim government that took over in December, said in a Feb. 17
interview in Sana’a. Only Greece and Ivory Coast endured
comparable contractions, according to International Monetary
Fund estimates. The attacks on pipelines caused local shortages
as well as hurting foreign-currency earnings.  Oil producers in Yemen include  France ’s Total SA, which
said last week that output from the Masila field in Yemen was
disrupted by a strike. Austria’s OMV AG said yesterday that
halts in Yemen helped depress its output last year.  Yemen produced about 264,000 barrels a day in 2010,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy. Current
daily production capacity is about 120,000 barrels following the
pipeline attacks, according to Oil Minister Hisham Sharaf.  “I’m very optimistic about oil and gas and minerals in
this country,” Sharaf said in an interview. “It has a lot of
wealth underground. It needs at this time assistance from the
world to establish security and stability.”  Transition Plan  Yemen’s oil-rich Gulf neighbors brokered the two-year
transition plan, due to end with a new parliament and
constitution. They will probably back up that diplomacy with
enough cash to ward off further economic collapse, said Robert Powell, a  Middle East  and North Africa analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit. He forecasts a rebound with gross domestic
product increasing 4.4 percent this year.  Still, “it’s not an answer just to keep the country on a
drip,” Powell said by phone from  New York . Without security and
political stability, Yemen won’t see the significant increase in
foreign investment that it needs to spur economic growth, Powell
said.  The agreement that led to Saleh’s departure has restored
life to the capital, which saw some of the worst violence in the
past year.  Last weekend, young men were decorating bridal cars with
white tulle and red rosebuds, for wedding parties that were rare
last year. A park closed during the fighting was packed with
children on swings and families picnicking. In the old city,
whose distinctive architecture has been likened to gingerbread
houses, activity is returning to the jewelery, handicraft and
spice stores lining its narrow, twisting streets.  Unrest, Violence  The rest of the country is still troubled by violence.
Secessionists in the south and northern Houthi rebels refuse to
recognize the post-Saleh government. At least four people were
killed in election-day attacks on polling stations in southern
provinces, the state-run Saba news agency said.  “Foreign investment is discouraged by the security
situation, which is still very difficult in most of the
country,” the U.K.’s ambassador to Yemen, Nicholas Hopton, said
in an interview at the embassy. While there’s potential to
develop industries such as fishing and tourism, progress won’t
come until “it’s safer for people to operate here, which simply
isn’t the case at the moment.”  Divided Loyalties  The army at Hadi’s disposal to tackle those security
challenges was riven by divisions between Saleh supporters and
opponents last year, with senior officers defecting to the
rebels. There are similar splits inside government institutions,
while many of the Yemenis who spent the past year calling for
Saleh’s departure feel cheated by an accord that sees his party
retain power, via Hadi, and half the seats in Cabinet.  At the demonstrators’ main camp in central Sana’a, Talal
al-Sadri warned that replacing Saleh with Hadi isn’t enough, and
said activists will remain vigilant.  The transition plan fell “way below our expectations,”
al-Sadri said, likening it to anti-virus software installed to
protect a system that should have been wiped clean instead. “We
wanted a complete regime change,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  