-- 
’Desperate’ Haven Rush to Boost Norway Krone, Deutsche Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-08T09:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/-desperate-haven-rush-to-boost-norway-krone.html
Norway’s krone will gain further as
investors “desperate” for protection against a deepening
European debt crisis turn to one of the few haven markets that
isn’t overvalued, said Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader.  The krone rose more than any other major currency against
the franc on Sept. 6, when the Swiss National Bank said it will
defend a target of 1.2 against the euro with “utmost
determination.” As Swiss efforts to shut the door on franc
appreciation force investors to turn elsewhere, the krone will
be one of the currencies to fill the vacuum, said Henrik Gullberg, a London-based strategist at Deutsche Bank.  “There is a desperate need for safe havens and the krone
is an obvious candidate,” Gullberg said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The krone is not significantly overvalued, which is
another thing that is attractive.”  The currency has lured investors drawn to Norway’s 10.5
percent budget surplus of gross domestic product last year, the
biggest of all AAA rated sovereigns. Norway boasts Europe’s
lowest unemployment rate and has been shielded from the worst of
the global economic crisis thanks to its oil output. Income from
the energy industry is stored in the country’s $540 billion oil
fund, helping support the world’s lowest risk of default, as
measured by credit default swaps.  The central bank today warned it would act to limit the
currency’s strength.  “A krone that is too strong can over time result in
inflation that is too low and growth that is too weak,” Governor
Oeystein Olsen said today in a speech at the University of Oslo.
“In that case, monetary policy measures will be taken. In
Norway, the key policy rate is the relevant instrument.”  Best Performer  The krone is the best performing major currency against the
dollar, the euro and the yen since Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5
downgrade of the U.S. deepened a global market sell-off. The
krone rose as much as 2.3 percent to the euro after the Swiss
National Bank announced its cap this week, and surged 10.2
percent against the franc. It gained 1.1 percent versus the euro
yesterday before trading down about 0.3 percent at 7.5927.  The krone strengthened 0.2 percent to 7.5746 per euro as of
11:25 a.m. It was little changed against the dollar at 5.3839.  Norwegian government bonds rose yesterday, driving 10-year
debt higher for the fifth straight day, as investors sought the
relative safety of top-rated government debt. Two-year yields
fell to a record low, with 10-year yields less than three basis
points from an all-time low.  While Norway’s central bank and government have signaled
they will adapt policy to avoid stoking krone gains that hamper
exports, they have steered clear of any measures reminiscent of
the interventions that the Swiss and Japanese have deployed.
Policy makers have less reason to interfere with the Norwegian
krone, as the currency hasn’t appreciated far beyond its fair
value, Gullberg said.  Prepared for Fluctuations  “We have to be prepared for fluctuations in the krone
exchange rate” amid “volatile” financial markets, Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday, after the krone reached its highest level
against the euro since February 2003.  “There is less caution in terms of buying the krone over
the longer-term horizon because valuation is not really a
danger,” Gullberg said. “If you look at the Aussie dollar for
example, it’s massively overvalued while this is obviously not
the case for the krone.”  According to Copenhagen-based Danske Bank A/S, “the
obvious safe-haven choice” among the Scandinavian currencies
“is the Norwegian krone and a move well below 7.50 is certainly
likely in EUR/NOK this month,” Senior Analysts Kasper Kirkegaard and Christin Kyrme Tuxen wrote in a note yesterday.  Rates Option  “We doubt Norges Bank will do anything active to mitigate
the flows for now, other than verbally trying to intervene in
the market,” the two wrote. “Actual intervention has not been
used since 1999 and if push comes to shove, policy rates will be
lowered as the first option.”  The Oslo-based central bank on Aug. 10 abandoned a planned
increase in interest rates and left its benchmark at 2.25
percent, citing a “flare-up” in global market turmoil and
weaker recovery outlook.  Still, Norway’s economy is growing “at a robust pace,”
the bank said last month, suggesting “that the key policy rate
should be raised further.”  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and shipping
output, will expand 3 percent this year and 3.75 percent next
year, the central bank forecast in June.  “The market is looking for a few currencies which are
backed up by strong fundamentals, state finances which are
reasonably credible and ideally also an external surplus and
that obviously is true for the krone,” Gullberg said.  Less Liquid  There are some potential drawbacks. Norway’s currency
market is less liquid than other havens, depriving it of a
“fully-fledged safe haven” status, Gullberg said. “It’s a
small, illiquid currency and safe havens typically are much more
liquid.”  Trading in Norway’s krone accounted for 0.7 percent of
global currency market turnover in 2010, compared with 3.2
percent for the Swiss franc, according to Danske Bank.  A lack of liquidity will prevent the krone from becoming a
true haven, according to Elsa Lignos, a London-based senior
currency strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London.  In terms of liquidity, the krone “is almost like an
emerging-market currency,” Lignos said in a phone interview.
“When you think about what role a safe haven serves, the idea
that you could pile huge flows into a currency where liquidity
is limited is challenging,” she said.  Still, according to Danske Bank’s Kirkegaard and Tuxen,
some investors and analysts “might underestimate the kind of
amounts we could potentially see flowing into the krone if the
European debt crisis evolves further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  