-- 
’TechStars’ Debuts on Bloomberg TV on Sept. 13 at 9:00PM

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-08T13:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/-techstars-debuts-on-bloomberg-tv-on-sept-13-at-9-00pm.html

Press Release  Bloomberg Offers a Rare, Behind-the-Scenes Look into What it
Really Takes to Launch a Hot New, Innovative Product in Today’s
Marketplace; Series Features Fred Wilson of Union Square
Ventures, David Tisch and  David Cohen  of TechStars, and Dennis
Crowley of Foursquare  NEW YORK -- Across the U.S., a new generation of entrepreneurs
is working tirelessly to build the next Google, Apple or
Facebook.   As investors sift through thousands of pitches and
venture capital money keeps pouring in, start-ups are struggling
to execute their ideas and locate the money to fund their
business dreams and goals.  Beginning next Tuesday, Sept. 13 (9:00 PM, ET/PT), Bloomberg
Television takes viewers inside one of the world’s most elite
tech incubators in the half hour, non-scripted reality series,
“TechStars,” to see what it really takes to make it in today’s
marketplace.  Each week the program documents the high stakes
pressure, growing pains and financial rewards of participating
in the boot camp for start ups. Bloomberg Television’s board of
judges, including TechStars founder David Cohen and  New York 
managing director David Tisch, as well as top venture
capitalists, rank the participants and offer praise and no-
holds-barred criticism on the founders’ ideas, products and
execution.  The six companies featured in “TechStars” include: Immersive
Labs, Onswipe, To Vie For, Shelby (formerly HomeField), Veri
(formerly SocratED), and Nestio (formerly UrbanApt).  TechStars mentors include venture capitalist Alan Patricof;
Dennis Crowley of Foursquare; Fred Wilson, founder of Union
Square Ventures; Gilt Groupe founder Alexandra Wilkis Wilson;
Ben Lerer, co-founder and CEO of Thrillist; David Karp, founder
of Tumblr; Rob Wiesenthal, Executive Vice President & CFO of
Sony Corporation of America, and many more.  For the six-part series culminating in a live, hour-long finale
on October 18th, Bloomberg Television tracks the first class of
 New York  City-based TechStars entrepreneurs as they work around
the clock from a Union Square loft. The program captures the
long hours, the tension-filled meetings, creative energy and the
breakthrough moments.  Along the way, viewers will get to see
companies undergo disruptive change and what it really takes to
launch a hot new technology successfully.  “TechStars is proud to partner with Bloomberg Television to show
what it’s really like to be involved in a startup with amazing
potential,” said David Cohen, founder and CEO of TechStars. “We
think that the show will help demystify what it’s like to be an
entrepreneur, a mentor, or an investor in startups that aim to
change the world.”  “The credit here goes to the entrepreneurs that were part of the
first group in TechStars NYC. They came in day one, worked
incredibly hard, made challenging decisions and started to build
very interesting companies. The progress they made during the
program was incredible. To do that all while being filmed, while
being on TV, amazing. The show gives a real insight into the
challenges the entrepreneurs faced on a daily basis as they
started their companies. I’m very excited to watch that all
unfold on Bloomberg this fall.”  “With the debut of ‘TechStars,’ Bloomberg TV continues to expand
our primetime programming and illustrate our commitment to the
wave of innovation and technology that is changing the way we
live, work and do business,” said Andrew Morse, Head of U.S.
Television for Bloomberg.  Follow Bloomberg Television on Facebook at
Facebook.com/BloombergTelevision, on Twitter @BloombergTV and
tweet with us about TechStars using the hashtag #TechStarsBTV.  To find the local channel in your area, please go to:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/shows/ .  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television, currently available in  more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of  household income ,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York,  London 
and  Hong Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage
of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
Programming includes “InsideTrack with Erik Schatzker and
Deirdre Bolton” (6-8 AM/ET), “In the Loop with Betty Liu” (8-10
AM/ET),“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” (10AM-12PM/ET) and
“Surveillance Midday” with host  Tom Keene  (12-1 PM/ET).  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in New York,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  About TechStars  TechStars is a mentorship-driven seed stage investment program.
It runs a three month long program in  Boston  (MA), Boulder (CO),
 New York City  (NY) and  Seattle  (WA) once each year.  Hundreds of
companies apply and they only take about ten companies per city.
These companies get seed funding, three months of intensive  top-
notch mentorship , and the chance to pitch to angel investors and
venture capitalists at the end of the program. Learn more about
TechStars at  http://www.TechStars.com .  Contact:  Jenny Tartikoff, Rubenstein Communications, +1 212-843-8496,
 jtartikoff@rubenstein.com   Heather Resnicoff, Rubenstein Communications, +1 212-843-8497,
 hresnicoff@rubenstein.com 
