-- 
A Layman’s Guide to the President’s Jobs Speech: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-09-08T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/a-layman-s-guide-to-the-president-s-jobs-speech-caroline-baum.html
Let’s face it: If the president had
a plan to create jobs, he wouldn’t have kept it under wraps
until now. Why take flak from Republicans and heat from the
 public  if you have what it takes to turn the economy and labor
market around?  Barack Obama  doesn’t have a plan to create jobs. Nor is
that his job. The government’s role is to provide an environment
in which the private sector will create them. That should be his
goal.  For weeks, the White House has been hyping the president’s
speech to a joint session of Congress. I suspect it will be full
of pomp and circumstance  signifying nothing  (with apologies to
Will Shakespeare). Obama will offer some warmed-over
“stimulus,” including aid to the states, extended  unemployment
benefits , temporary tax breaks and infrastructure spending;
mortgage relief for homeowners; and perhaps regulatory relief
for business. The price tag, according to those briefed on the
speech: $300 billion.  For those of you who don’t follow the Washington play-by-
play, here are some things to watch for this evening to help you
determine whether the president is offering more of the same or
has discovered an elixir for job growth.  1. A temporary solution, a permanently bad idea  The president is expected to ask Congress to extend the
payroll tax holiday for employees beyond Jan. 1 and include
employers in the game. Other temporary incentives to encourage
hiring are also on the table.  Why would any company respond to a one-time tax credit for
adding employees when it has to assume a long-term expense --
salary and benefits -- in the process? Answer: It wouldn’t,
unless that company were planning to hire anyway.  Sure, if there’s an incentive with no cost attached people
will jump on it. Take a look at a graph of auto sales and home
sales to see how consumers responded when Cash for Clunkers and
the homebuyers’ tax credit were introduced in 2009.  The two programs pulled demand forward. It collapsed when
the programs ended. Both new and existing home sales plumbed new
depths after the credit expired.  If Obama’s jobs speech is filled with more temporary
measures, you can hit the mute button and take a quick nap
before the NFL kickoff.  2. The ghost of  George W. Bush   We know it’s Bush’s fault: the housing bubble, the bust,
the financial crisis, the recession, the anemic recovery, the
trillion-dollar annual deficits, everything. Almost three years
into his first term, Obama needs to move on. Unless he accepts
responsibility for something, anything, you’ll know that this is
just another campaign speech.  The same goes for his chronic finger-pointing at the
 Republican Party . The Obama-appointed National Commission on
Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (aka the Simpson-Bowles
Commission) issued a full  report  in December 2010 with
recommendations to reduce the deficit, stabilize the debt and
put Social Security on sound footing. The commission proposed
spending cuts and real  tax reform  that would raise revenue by
eliminating loopholes and tax breaks: the kind of “balanced”
approach Obama now touts.  When the report came out, the president thanked the
commission for its effort and filed it in the bottom drawer. If
he had any thoughts about a grand bargain on deficit reduction,
he kept them to himself until the debt-ceiling debate last
month.  If Obama starts pointing fingers this evening, you’ll know
he’s going for theatrics. For my money, there’s greater
entertainment value in listening to  John McEnroe  and Mary Carillo chat it up at the U.S. Open tennis tournament.  3. No entitlements, no beef  The White House, in an attempt to lower expectations for
tonight’s address after fanning them for three weeks, said Obama
would unveil a separate deficit-reduction plan sometime after
the jobs speech. No doubt the president wants to avoid being
seen as an advocate for spending money to save money.  The problem is, the U.S. keeps spending and spending while
the saving is elusive. At some point -- and we are fast
approaching it -- repeated short-run attempts to alleviate
unemployment will result in bigger long-run problems and higher
unemployment via the ballooning debt.  The president has to demonstrate this evening that he’s
serious about  deficit reduction , even if he plays hide-and-seek
with his plan. If he advocates short-term fixes and avoids
mentioning the need to reform programs like Medicare and Social
Security before they go broke, pour yourself a glass of wine.
Maybe you won’t remember what he said in the morning.  4. Banking on infrastructure  No one would deny that the nation’s roads, bridges, transit
systems and schools are in bad shape. The American Society of
Civil Engineers gave the U.S. a “D” on its 2009  infrastructure
report card  and estimated that it would take a $2.2 trillion
investment over five years to address the state of disrepair.  The concept of an  infrastructure bank  has been kicking
around for a while. It’s an idea whose time has come, is long
overdue or is another one of those public-private partnerships
that sounds better on paper than in practice.  The problem with infrastructure spending isn’t the policy.
It’s the politics and red tape. When asked about the lackluster
results of the $830 billion stimulus enacted in 2009, Obama was
forced to admit that “shovel-ready was not as shovel-ready as
we expected.”  Before you bank on public-works projects absorbing all
those unemployed construction workers ahead of the 2012
election, pay attention to what the president says about the
permitting process and execution. The devil is always in the
details.  5. Class warfare  Although economic growth is a prerequisite for employment,
jobs start with employers. It’s axiomatic that if you want
businesses to hire, you can’t vilify them.  The same goes for entrepreneurs, those “millionaires and
billionaires” Obama loves to dis. It turns out that business
startups are the sole source of  job creation  in the U.S.,
according to a 2010  study  by the Kauffman Foundation in  Kansas
City , Mo., based on the Census Bureau’s  Business Dynamics
Statistics .  Obama has yet to grasp this concept. If he continues to
portray business as an enemy of the people, he’ll be a hero to
the labor unions. But they aren’t about to vote Republican
anyway.  Last week, the federal government sued 17 big banks for
 mortgage fraud : Many of the same banks it rescued with the
Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008. Actions speak louder than
words.  Obama isn’t the only one touting an economic plan this
week. On Tuesday, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
unveiled his 59 points in a 160-page book. The other candidates
are sure to follow.  I confess I’m a less-is-more kind of gal. I’d settle for
one big idea, as long as it’s a good one.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  