-- 
Abbas Says Mideast Envoy Blair ‘Cooking Something’ to Stop Statehood Bid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 
2011-09-08T21:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/abbas-says-mideast-envoy-blair-cooking-something-to-stop-statehood-bid.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  vowed to move forward with a campaign for full
membership in the  United Nations , offering a slim possibility of
halting the bid in the face of U.S. objections.  Middle East envoy Tony Blair is still working on a deal to
restart peace talks with Israel and derail a vote on Palestinian
statehood when the UN General Assembly meets later this month,
Abbas told a group of reporters yesterday. He said the package
would have to be based on the West Bank’s 1967 borders with
agreed-upon land swaps and include a freeze on Jewish settlement
construction, which Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
has rejected.  “They are cooking something,” Abbas said in the interview
at his office in the West Bank city of Ramallah. “ Tony Blair 
told us that he is working with the Quartet to produce
something. If he brings this, we are ready to look at it
seriously.”  President  Barack Obama ’s Middle East envoy, David Hale,
failed to persuade Abbas to drop the UN bid at a meeting this
week. The so-called Quartet comprises the U.S., European Union,
 Russia  and the United Nations, which tapped Blair after he
stepped down as U.K. prime minister in 2007 as its
representative to help resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Abbas, 76, said he will “complain to the world” when he
addresses the UN General Assembly Sept. 23 that peace talks with
Israel have not led to statehood and that the Palestinian people
must plot an independent course.  ’Under Occupation’  “We know that many countries do not agree with us, do not
like this idea, but we will go there,” Abbas said. “We will
tell the world that we are a state under occupation. Help us get
rid of this occupation.”  The Palestinian leader pledged that his security services
will make sure that rallies in the  West Bank  in support of
independence don’t turn violent. The Israeli army has given
special training to its West Bank troops and to settlement
leaders in the event that confrontations break out.  “I assure you that nothing will happen here,” Abbas said.
“Even during the demonstrations, no clashes, no frictions
between the Palestinians and the Israelis.”  Referring to television coverage of the army training
exercises, he said, “We are afraid that the Israelis will send
the settlers and the dogs to attack the Palestinians.”  If the Palestinians apply for full UN membership status at
the  Security Council , the U.S. would veto the resolution, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. Israel,
the U.S. and several European countries say UN membership should
only come after the Palestinians and  Israel  reach a negotiated
peace agreement.  Palestinian Recognition  About 140 countries are likely to support the Palestinian
bid for statehood recognition at the UN General Assembly,
Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath  said Sept. 4. The General
Assembly could recognize  Palestine  as a non-member state, the
status that the Vatican carries at the world body.  Peace talks broke down last September when Netanyahu
refused to extend a partial 10-month construction freeze in West
Bank settlements and the Palestinians said they wouldn’t resume
talks as long as building continued.  The Palestine Liberation Organization’s Executive Committee
officially endorsed the statehood bid yesterday. The committee’s
secretary-general, Yasser Abed Rabbo, told reporters that it is
calling on Palestinians to hold “peaceful demonstrations” in
support of the move. Abbas is chairman of the PLO, which
formally oversees the  Palestinian Authority  and has been
responsible for conducting the peace talks with Israel.  In the interview, Abbas repeated that he will not accept
Netanyahu’s challenge to recognize Israel as a Jewish state,
which the Israeli leader said would make him more flexible in
any new peace talks. He said the PLO’s recognition of Israel
under the 1993 Oslo accords should suffice, noting neither Egypt
nor Jordan took such a step when they signed peace treaties.  “We recognized Israel and they recognized the PLO and
that’s it,” Abbas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ramallah through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net   Fadwa Hodali in  Ramallah  through the Tel Aviv newsroom at 
   fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  