-- 
HSBC, GE, EMI, Barclays, Goldman, TCW, J&J in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/madoff-ge-emi-barclays-news-corp-j-j-in-court-news.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s proposed $62.5
million settlement with investors in an Irish fund that lost
their money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme was rejected by a
U.S. judge.  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan said at a
hearing yesterday that he won’t grant tentative approval to the
settlement, announced in June, saying it’s “not fair,
reasonable or adequate, even at this preliminary stage,” for
the investors in Thema International Fund Plc. Thema acted as a
so-called feeder-fund steering money to Madoff’s firm.  The investors sued Thema and other defendants, including
London-based HSBC, which acted as Thema’s custodian, in January
2009. The plaintiffs are seeking to represent all Thema
investors who lost money when Madoff’s scheme was exposed in
December 2008. They claim HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, should
have known Madoff was a fraud.  Among the “obvious deficiencies” Berman identified in
denying approval was a provision setting aside $10 million to
pay the fees and expenses of the investors’ lawyers in pursuing
claims against non-settling defendants outside the U.S.  Lisa Sodeika, an HSBC spokeswoman, didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment on the ruling.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s in a
federal prison in North Carolina, serving a 150-year sentence.  The case is In re Herald, Primeo and Thema Securities
Litigation, 09-CV-289, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  New York Life, Insurers Fault Madoff Trustee’s Tremont Deal  New York Life Insurance Co. and six other insurance
companies assailed the $1 billion settlement the trustee
liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm forged with Tremont Group
Holdings Inc., saying it didn’t treat all of Tremont’s funds
equally.  As limited partners of the hedge fund’s Opportunity III
fund, they said they stand to lose if a court rules that trustee
Irving Picard erred in denying compensation to the Ponzi
scheme’s so-called net winners. While Picard’s deal with Tremont
protects the hedge fund’s other funds by letting them
recalculate claims in event of such a ruling, it doesn’t protect
the insurance companies, they said in a bankruptcy court filing
yesterday in New York.  “The agreement contains an ambiguity that may be used by
the trustee to refuse to recalculate,” they said.  A group of Madoff’s investors last week asked a U.S.
appeals court to review its Aug. 16 ruling that bars them from
calculating losses based on their account statements. The
court’s “general approval” of Picard’s method of calculating
who gets compensated may be “modified,” the insurers said.  As part of the Tremont deal, its funds will be allowed to
make claims on the Madoff estate of about $3 billion. The
insurers said the trustee needs to clarify their status in the
arrangement.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the insurers’ complaint.  The Tremont case is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
10-5310, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  GE Says FHFA Filed Mortgage-Security Suit Without Warning  General Electric Co. (GE)  said it was sued “without any prior
discussion” by the federal agency that controls Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac over $549 million in mortgage-backed securities and
will fight the suit.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency sued 17 financial
institutions including GE on Sept. 2, alleging that they made
inaccurate statements about the quality of loans underlying the
securities, including those issued in 2005 by WMC Mortgage
Corp., which GE sold in 2007.  “These securities have since paid down to around $66
million in remaining principal,” Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE said in a  statement  on its website. The FHFA’s suit was filed
in New York state court in Manhattan.  The FHFA also sued Ally Financial Inc., Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Morgan Stanley in New York state court. The
agency filed similar complaints in Manhattan federal court
against Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Merrill Lynch
& Co., Barclays Plc, Nomura Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc,
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and First Horizon National Corp. It sued Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in federal court in Connecticut.  The FHFA suit against GE was brought the same day U.S. Bank
NA, a unit of Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, sued WMC and
EquiFirst Corp. over a pool of more than $550 million in
mortgage-backed securities.  The companies originated the loans and failed to repurchase
them, in violation of a 2006 agreement with securities holders,
U.S. Bank said in the lawsuit, filed in Minneapolis federal
court. U.S. Bank asked the court to force WMC and EquiFirst to
buy back all defective loans.  The FHFA case is FHFA v. General Electric Co., New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  The U.S. Bank case is MASTR Asset Backed Securities Trust
2006-HE3, 11-02542, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  Hands Said to Seek EMI Valuation Documents From Citigroup, PWC  Guy Hands is seeking to recover documents about reductions
to EMI Group Ltd.’s debt in a move to review the deal that led
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  to seize control of the music label, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Lawyers for Hands’s private-equity firm, Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which was
EMI’s administrator in the restructuring process, met yesterday
in a London court at a so-called pre-action disclosure hearing,
said two of the people, who declined to comment because the
matter is private. Terra Firma will formally present a request
to the High Court by December to obtain the valuation documents
used as the basis of the EMI debt deal, they said.  Citigroup gained control of EMI in February as the record
label struggled to meet the terms of 3.4 billion pounds ($5.4
billion) in loans used to finance its takeover by Terra Firma in
2007. New York-based Citigroup has since initiated a process to
sell the 114-year-old British company.  The U.S. lender ended up owning all of EMI after the debt-
for-equity swap reduced EMI’s debt by 65 percent to 1.2 billion
pounds, EMI said in a statement then.  Officials at Citigroup, Terra Firma, EMI and
PricewaterhouseCoopers declined to comment yesterday.  Pre-action disclosure in the U.K. allows claimants to
obtain copies of documents before a possible lawsuit.  For more, click here.  Lehman’s Bonus Claims Against Barclays Challenged by Judge  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s bankruptcy judge said he
doesn’t see how the failed investment bank was damaged by what
Lehman says is  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s failure to pay $500 million in
employee bonuses.  Lehman says Barclays was required to pay $2 billion in
bonuses and paid only $1.5 billion as part of its purchase of
Lehman operations in 2008. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said
at a hearing yesterday that the amount for bonuses was an
estimate and that the transaction was intended to protect Lehman
from employee claims for compensation.  “I don’t see how Lehman was damaged,” Peck said.  The dispute stems from the purchase by Barclays of Lehman’s
North American broker-dealer in the days following the
investment bank’s September 2008 bankruptcy filing. Lehman lost
a bid to recover what it said was an $11 billion windfall that
went to London-based Barclays.  Lehman says it should be awarded $500 million in damages
resulting from Barclays’s failure to meet its obligation to pay
the full bonus amount. The bonus payments were part of the
consideration in the sale, and Lehman is owed $500 million, said
the bankrupt firm’s lawyer, Robert Gaffey.  “Lehman is entitled to all the sale consideration paid for
the assets it has indisputably delivered to Barclays,” he told
Peck. “Assets were given to Barclays, and Barclays didn’t pay
for them.”  Peck said Lehman employees were the ones entitled to
payment. Barclays assumed those liabilities from Lehman,
providing a benefit to Lehman even if the bonus payments turned
out to be less than estimated, the judge said. He didn’t say
when he would rule on the dispute.  “If the liability, whatever it is, is off the books how
can there be a damage claim?” Peck said.  Barclays asked Peck to reject Lehman’s claim. It says the
$2 billion was an estimate of the exposure assumed for all
compensation, which wasn’t limited to bonuses. The bank said in
court papers that it paid $1.95 billion in bonus, severance and
related tax payments.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman v. Barclays, 09-01731, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Omnicare Sues PharMerica and Board Over $440 Million Offer  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  sued  PharMerica Corp. (PMC)  in an attempt to force
PharMerica directors to seriously consider Omnicare’s $440
million purchase offer and to rescind a poison pill anti-
takeover defense.  Omnicare sued the directors after they rejected an Aug. 23
offer of $15 a share, 37 percent higher than PharMerica’s
previous closing price on Aug. 22, according to the complaint
filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The director defendants’ actions have made clear that
they intend to protect their own individual positions even if
this deprives PharMerica’s stockholders of their right to decide
for themselves whether to realize an extremely valuable
opportunity,” Omnicare said in the lawsuit.  PharMerica directors “will review the offer to determine
the course of action that it believes is in the best interests
of the company and its stockholders,” the Louisville, Kentucky-
based company said in a statement yesterday.  Thomas Caneris, PharMerica general counsel, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Omnicare Inc. v. PharMerica Corp., CA6841,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  London Police Said to Arrest Times Journalist in Hacking Case  London police probing phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
operations arrested a journalist who has worked at the Times and
Evening Standard in London, a person familiar with the matter
said.  The arrested man is Raoul Simons, a sports editor for News
Corp.’s  Times newspaper , who was put on leave last year,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak about the case. Simons was
suspended after an audio recording emerged in which a private
investigator told him how to hack into mobile-phone voice mails,
the person said.  Simons, who joined the Times in August 2009 from the London
 Evening Standard , is the 16th person arrested since the
 Metropolitan Police  began a new probe of hacking at News Corp.’s
News of the World tabloid in January. The  Guardian  newspaper
separately said its reporter, Amelia Hill, who has written
extensively about phone hacking, was questioned recently by
police investigating leaks inside the force.  “Journalists would no doubt be concerned if the police
sought to criminalize conversations between off-record sources
and reporters,” the Guardian said in an e-mailed statement.  The police, who didn’t confirm the identity of the arrested
35-year-old man, said yesterday he was detained on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept voice-mail messages. He was later
released on bail.  Oliver Lloyd, a spokesman for the Daily Mail and General
Trust Plc, which owned the Evening Standard when Simons worked
there, declined to comment.  Andrew Mullins, the managing director of the Evening
Standard, declined to comment. The paper is now majority-owned
by Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Goldman Sachs’s Pay Plan Hurts Shareholders, Lawyer Contends  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s compensation plan, which almost
doubled top executive Lloyd Blankfein’s pay last year, unfairly
rewards the investment bank’s employees at shareholders’
expense, a lawyer for investors said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
lost $50 billion in market value since 1999 while the company
has paid out billions in compensation to the firm’s 31,000
employees, including Blankfein, its chairman and chief executive
officer, John Harnes, an attorney for investors who have sued
over the pay plan, argued yesterday.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, “is being run for the
benefit of employees rather than shareholders,” Harnes told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III. The judge heard
arguments on whether shareholders’ suits seeking to recoup
executive compensation should be thrown out and said he’d rule
later.  The firm, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007, was
pilloried by politicians and labor unions for its compensation
practices after getting taxpayer aid during the financial
crisis. In July, Goldman Sachs officials set aside $8.44 billion
for the company’s compensation pool in the first six months of
this year, according to its website. That was 9 percent less
than in the same period in 2010 as revenue tumbled 11 percent.  Blankfein’s $19 million compensation for 2010, which
included a $5.4 million cash bonus, was almost double the prior
year’s award even as Goldman Sach’s profits fell. Blankfein and
other firm executives agreed to forgo cash bonuses in 2009 and
take restricted stock grants as compensation to mute criticism
of the firm’s pay practices.  Lawyers for the  Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority , a Goldman Sachs shareholder, argue the firm’s
lucrative compensation system is wasteful and rewards employees
for taking risks that hurt the firm’s stock price.  Harness noted Goldman officials received billions in pay
and bonuses last year while the firm settled claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that executives misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime
mortgages.  The firm agreed to pay $550 million, the largest penalty
ever levied by the SEC against a Wall Street firm, to resolve
regulators’ claims that marketing materials about the
investments had “incomplete information.”  Gregory Varallo, Goldman Sachs’s lawyer, countered
investors haven’t provided any evidence that directors engaged
in wrongdoing by creating the pay plan or encouraged excessive
risk-taking by the firm’s traders and bankers.  Shareholder court filings seek to paint the investment bank
as some kind of “vast criminal enterprise,” Varallo told
Glasscock. Yet, investors can’t point to one illegal act
committed by a Goldman Sachs director or employee, he said.  The case is In re the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Shareholder
Litigation, 5215, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Gundlach Says TCW Contracts Protected Him Against Firing  Jeffrey Gundlach testified in a trial against TCW Group
Inc. over his 2009 firing that he had negotiated in contracts
going back to 1992 specific conditions under which the firm
could terminate him “for cause.”  “I wanted to make sure I couldn’t be fired out of the
blue,” Gundlach told jurors yesterday in state court in Los
Angeles. He also said that his contracts allowed him to take
care of an alleged breach of his employment agreement within a
fixed time period and that, since 1989, he’s been entitled to
accrued compensation if he was fired by TCW.  Gundlach, who last month testified for four days during
TCW’s case against him, was a witness yesterday in support of
his counterclaims. He said he wouldn’t have set up TCW’s
distressed-asset funds in 2007 and 2008 if he hadn’t thought he
was protected against getting terminated before the funds
started generating performance fees in 2010 and 2011.  “You don’t want to create a lot of forward value and not
be there to earn it,” he said.  Gundlach, 51, who worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006, claims
the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA fired him to
avoid having to pay management and performance fees for the
distressed-asset funds his group managed and that went “through
the roof.” Gundlach seeks about $500 million.  Ten days after he was fired, Gundlach started his own money
management firm, DoubleLine Capital LP. TCW sued in January 2010
alleging that Gundlach and three other former employees stole
TCW’s trade secrets to start DoubleLine.  TCW’s damages expert testified that the company suffered
$344 million in damages from Gundlach’s alleged interference
with contracts and $222 million from a claimed breach of
fiduciary duty.  Gundlach said under questioning from DoubleLine’s lawyer,
Mark Helm, that the distressed-asset funds were set up to take
advantage of the collapsing market for mortgage-backed
securities. A profit-sharing agreement with TCW entitled
Gundlach and his fixed-income group to 60 percent of the
performance fees.  In December 2009, when TCW fired him, Gundlach expected the
funds to double in value and generate about $1 billion in fees
for TCW, he said. Gundlach said Bob Beyer, a former TCW chief
executive officer, told him in 2007 that the $64 million that he
could make yearly from the funds under an “ultra dream”
scenario “could be a problem with Paris.”  TCW has said that Gundlach was an at-will employee because
he never signed the five-year contract that was negotiated in
2007. Gundlach testified he “absolutely” thought he had a
valid agreement about how much he got paid, the term for which
he would be paid, and the reasons TCW could stop paying him.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  J&J Vaginal Mesh Faces FDA Panel as Number of Lawsuits Rise  Marci Sutin Levin says U.S. regulators failed her by not
requiring extensive testing before allowing  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  to
sell the type of surgical mesh implanted in her in 2007.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration used an abbreviated
process known as 510(k) to clear the mesh, which supports
weakened muscles that can’t hold a woman’s pelvic organs in
place. Levin, a 65-year-old New York marketing executive,
endures pain so intense that she can’t work, sleep through the
night or have sex with her husband, she said. Levin said the
endless pain hurts worse than natural childbirth.  “The pain of childbirth was finite, and you’re delivering
a child,” Levin said in an interview. “This was very, very
different. It’s relentless, and it’s untenable. And it doesn’t
lead to anything.”  Levin filed one of about 270 lawsuits pending against J&J,
based in New Brunswick, New Jersey. C.R. Bard Inc., of Murray
Hill, New Jersey, and other mesh makers also face litigation
around the U.S. About 75,000 women a year have the devices
inserted vaginally to treat pelvic organs that bulge, or
prolapse.  The FDA  warned  July 13 of a rise in injuries related to the
mesh, and it said last month the devices should be reclassified
from moderate risk to high risk, a change that would typically
require new clinical data.  A panel of outside FDA advisers begins a  two-day hearing 
today on whether transvaginal mesh for pelvic organ prolapse, or
POP, is safe and effective, and whether makers must submit more
safety data to keep their products on the market. The panel also
will discuss mesh used for stress urinary incontinence.  An industry working group disputes the FDA’s suggestion
that the devices should be reclassified. Its members include
mesh makers J&J; Bard;  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  of Natick,
Massachusetts; and American Medical Systems, acquired in June by
 Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP)  of Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania.
The Advanced Medical Technology Association, the manufacturers’
lobbying arm in Washington, is also a member.  Adam Slater, the New Jersey attorney who represents Levin
and about 100 other women who have sued J&J or Bard in New
Jersey state court, said the agency is “at an important
crossroads” over how to protect patients.  A spokesman for J&J, Matthew Johnson, declined comment on
the litigation. Bard spokesman Scott Lowry declined to comment
on about 190 lawsuits it faces over its Avaulta pelvic mesh.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Primary Global Networker Chu Gets Two Years of Probation  Don Ching Trang Chu, a former consultant at  Primary Global
Research LLC , was sentenced to two years of probation for
passing confidential information to the expert-networking firm’s
hedge fund clients.  Chu, 57, pleaded guilty in June to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. He was the
Taiwan liaison for Mountain View, California-based Primary
Global, which links investors with industry experts at public
companies, before he was arrested in November.  Chu, who is cooperating with prosecutors, admitted to being
present at meetings between Primary Global’s clients and
technology-company employees who moonlighted as consultants for
the firm. In the meetings, the consultants disclosed material,
non-public information, Chu said during his guilty plea.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said during yesterday’s
sentencing in Manhattan that jail wasn’t warranted for Chu
because of his “minimal” role in the scheme. Chu had faced as
long as six months in prison.  “Your honor, I am extremely sorry for what I have done,”
Chu told Rakoff before being sentencing. “I have had nightmares
since last November. I will make sure I don’t repeat the same
mistakes and ask you honor to forgive me.”  Chu had said the inside information he disclosed was shared
with former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Noah
Freeman and Sam Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP.
Both have pleaded guilty. Chu said he knew fund managers
intended to use the secret tips to buy securities.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 1:11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-TSMC Manager Deserves 46-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says  A former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. manager who
pleaded guilty to being part of an insider-trading scheme
involving  Primary Global Research LLC  deserves a prison term of
as long as three years and 10 months, the U.S. said.  Manosha Karunatilaka, of Marlborough, Massachusetts, who
worked as an account manager for Taiwan Semiconductor, pleaded
guilty in May to accepting about $35,000 to pass material,
nonpublic information about the company’s orders while also
working as a consultant for Primary Global.  An analyst at an unnamed New York-based hedge fund which
used Primary Global’s services spoke to Karunatilaka frequently
from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers filed
yesterday. In May 2009, acting on a recommendation from
Karunatilaka to bet that Taiwan Semiconductor shares would fall,
the fund made a profit of about $1.7 million, the U.S. said.  “For tens of thousands of dollars, he cheated the system
and provided sophisticated stock traders with an unfair
advantage over the average investor,” Manhattan assistant U.S.
attorneys Antonia Apps and David Leibowitz said in the papers.  While Karunatilaka has cooperated with the U.S. and
accepted responsibility for his crimes, prosecutors said he
deserves a prison term ranging from 37 to 46 months “to deter
Karunatilaka and other corporate employees from engaging in
insider trading.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan set sentencing
for Sept. 15.  Brad Bailey, Karunatilaka’s lawyer, didn’t return a voice-
mail message left at his office seeking comment on the
prosecutors’ filing.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Finra Chief Counsel Riefberg Joins Fried, Frank Law Firm  Former Finra Chief Counsel Linda Riefberg joined law firm
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP’s enforcement and
investigations practice in New York.  Riefberg, 52, oversaw a broad range of investigations and
disciplinary actions while at the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s department of enforcement. She was a lawyer in the
enforcement division of the New York Stock Exchange, which
merged in 2007 with the National Association of Securities
Dealers to form Finra, the law firm said yesterday in a
statement.  “Linda’s wealth of knowledge coupled with her Finra and
NYSE expertise will be tremendously valuable to our clients,”
Carmen J. Lawrence and Dixie Johnson, co-chairs of Fried Frank’s
enforcement practice, said in the statement.  Finra is the largest independent securities regulator in
the U.S., overseeing more than 4,000 firms and more than 633,000
registered securities representatives, according to its website.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  