-- 
Afghan Funds Oversight Isn’t Adequate, State Department IG Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-08T20:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/afghan-funds-oversight-isn-t-adequate-state-department-ig-says.html
The State Department has had
inadequate oversight of $1.7 billion spent to boost the number
of U.S. government civilians conducting training and other tasks
in Afghanistan.  The finding, published today in a report by the State
Department’s Inspector General and the  Special Inspector General
for Afghanistan Reconstruction , said the agency must ensure that
funds given to other federal agencies are used for their
intended purpose.  The two auditing bodies found that the State Department has
shouldered most of the $1.7 billion cost to nearly triple the
number of government civilians in Afghanistan since 2009 -- a
central part of President Barack Obama’s strategy to withdraw
the military from the country by 2014. A “civilian surge” of
Americans is being sent to help Afghans train police, build
irrigation systems and plan roads and air travel systems.  “We found that State had neither established formal
mechanisms with other agencies regarding their use of civilian
uplift funds nor monitored how agencies spent funds and instead
relies on informal communications such as e-mails and
meetings,” the report said.  In one case, the Department of Transportation didn’t know
whether $3.5 million transferred from the State Department was
for training or other purposes and, as a result, officials there
canceled their plans to use the funding, the report said.  State Department officials have agreed to implement formal
agreements with other agencies receiving funds requiring that
the agencies report how the money is used and return any unused
funds. The $3.5 million given to the Department of
Transportation will be returned to the U.S. Treasury, the report
said.  The cost to the State Department of overseeing the civilian
surge will only increase, the report said. The Obama
administration plans to have the civilian-led surge build up
Afghan governing capacity at all levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  