-- 
Thai Government Backs Royal Pardon to Get Thaksin Home

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/thai-government-backs-royal-pardon-to-get-thaksin-home-correct-.html
Thailand ’s government will submit a
petition to  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  asking him to grant a royal
pardon to exiled former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , risking
renewed conflict a month after his sister became prime minister.  The government will revive a 2009 petition from Thaksin’s
supporters as part of efforts to bring him back into the
country, Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung said today in
Bangkok. Thaksin, ousted in a coup five years ago, has lived
overseas since fleeing a 2008 jail sentence for abuse of power.  “Without Thaksin, we wouldn’t win a landslide in the
election,” Chalerm said in comments broadcast on TNN cable
television network. “If we have an opportunity, we will try
everything to return fairness to Mr. Thaksin and bring him back
home.”  The petition could trigger protests, which erupted in 2008
when Thaksin’s opponents seized airports and government
buildings to help oust his allies the last time they held power.
The military cited a threat to the monarchy when toppling
Thaksin in 2006.  “A strategy that involves a petition to the king is
inevitably very provocative,”  Michael Montesano , a visiting
research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in
 Singapore , said by phone. “This will certainly enrage the
enemies of the government.”  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index has gained 2.4 percent since
Yingluck Shinawatra led her party to victory on July 3, the
third-best performer in  Asia  after  Vietnam  and  Sri Lanka . The
baht has gained 2.4 percent against the dollar in that time, the
best among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
Japanese yen.  ‘Normal Process’  Thaksin backers submitted a petition in August 2009 seeking
a pardon from the king for the fugitive billionaire. Chalerm
said former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva blocked the
initiative.  The request “was shelved by the previous government,”
Chalerm said. “What this government will do is just bring this
petition back to the normal process.”  Yingluck led her Pheu Thai party to a majority win in July
two months after emerging on the political scene. Thaksin-backed
parties have won the past five elections in Thailand dating back
to 2001.  Thaksin told reporters in  Tokyo  last month that he doesn’t
plan to return home immediately and would only do so once rifts
within  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy had been healed.
In addition to the jail sentence, last year a court seized more
than $1 billion from Thaksin in proceeds from his family’s 2006
sale of the telecommunications company he founded.  Royal Tradition  Petitioning the monarch for justice is a tradition that
dates back to the 13th century, when a bell was hung outside the
palace for citizens to ring if they had a grievance, according
to the Ministry of Culture. The king has the prerogative to
grant pardons, according to the constitution.  King Bhumibol, 83, has seen nine coups and more than 20
prime ministers since taking the throne in 1946. Defaming,
insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir apparent or
regent carries a jail sentence of as much as 15 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  