-- 
Thailand’s Inflation May Quicken on Government Policies

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-08T08:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/thailand-s-inflation-may-accelerate-on-government-policies-atchana-says.html
Thailand ’s inflation may quicken as
government policies cushion the economy from slowing global
growth, Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said,
signaling there is scope for interest rates to rise further.  “There is a high probability we may see high pressure on
inflation,” Atchana said in an interview today at her office in
Bangkok. The government’s economic policies “will take care of
some of the downside risks to growth, so monetary policy is not
necessary to boost the economy but to make sure that the
inflation rate is not increasing.”  Asia  faces a growing dilemma as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
slowing U.S. recovery hurt the outlook for exports, adding
pressure to protect expansion. Thailand’s real interest rates
remain negative, unlike most economies in the region, Atchana
said, as nations from  Malaysia  to the Philippines pause after
raising rates earlier this year.  “The new government’s economic policies on wage increases,
higher salary and rice purchases will further trigger higher
prices,” said Pongtharin Sapayanon, the Bangkok-based head of
fixed income for Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages
about $298 billion of global assets. “So that would prompt the
central bank to raise its key rate one more time this year.”  The benchmark SET Index of stocks dropped 0.5 percent as of
3:15 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The baht fell 0.1 percent at 30.03 per dollar.  Rates Close to ‘Normal’  The Bank of Thailand lifted the benchmark  interest rate  to
3.5 percent on Aug. 24, the ninth increase since the start of
July 2010, and said current rates are close to “normal
levels.” Atchana won’t attend the next policy meeting on Oct.
19 because she is due to retire this month.  The central bank “can afford” negative real interest
rates if the economy is “very weak,” Atchana said. Negative
real rates aren’t “necessary” when the economy returns to
normal growth, which is expected this year and next, she said.  Central banks in  South Korea ,  Indonesia  and the Philippines
today left their benchmark interest rates unchanged, and  Bank
Negara Malaysia  will probably follow suit later today, according
to a survey of economists by Bloomberg.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to
boost the daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht ($10), almost double
the current level in some parts of the country, and buy rice
from farmers at as much as 40 percent above market rates,
spurring concern inflation will quicken. Cabinet this week
approved the government’s plan to spend 15.2 trillion baht over
the next four years, including money needed for policies aimed
at boosting economic growth.  ‘Tough Call’  “The next meeting will be a tough call for the central
bank,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Inflation risks are immediate in
the near term, while growth risks are more imminent. The central
bank will also need to think carefully about the impact from the
new government’s policy.” Santitarn predicts the bank will
boost its policy rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.75
percent by the end of the year.  Thailand joined regional peers including Malaysia and
 Taiwan  in reporting slower expansion in the second quarter after
 Japan ’s earthquake caused supply chain disruptions. Gross
domestic product increased 2.6 percent, the least since the
three-month period that ended in September 2009, after growing a
revised 3.2 percent in the first quarter of this year, official
data showed on Aug. 22.  Economy ‘Resilient’  Economic growth in the third quarter should be higher than
the previous three months as the impact of Japan’s temblor eased,
Atchana said. Export growth is expected to remain strong and is
unlikely to fall to single-digits even as global demand weakens,
she said.  “With the unstable government for the past four or five
years and the economy doing this well, and with the global
financial crisis and the Thai economy doing this well, I think
we are quite resilient,” Atchana said.  The central bank doesn’t use the  exchange rate  to manage
inflation, Atchana said. A stronger currency helps curb price
gains by lowering the value of imported goods. The baht has
weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar this year after
strengthening 11 percent last year, according to Bloomberg data.  The Bank of Thailand intervenes in the currency only to curb
volatility in the baht, Atchana said, adding that the bank
hasn’t stepped in to the market lately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  