-- 
Airline Debit-Card Fees Being Investigated by U.K. Regulator

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T15:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/airline-debit-card-fees-being-investigated-by-u-k-regulator-1-.html
Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading 
opened a formal probe into airlines that ignored a request to
increase transparency of the fees they charge for using debit
and credit cards to buy tickets online.  The OFT requested information about surcharge practices
from “a number of airlines” to determine whether they’re
complying with consumer protection legislation, the London-based
competition watchdog said on its  website  today.  The probe was opened in response to a complaint filed with
the OFT in March by  Which? , a U.K. consumer-rights group that
singled out retailers, taxi services and low-cost airlines such
as  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)  The association argued that many fees
exceed the cost of processing card payments.  “Since Ryanair don’t levy either credit card or debit card
fees, we do not believe that this investigation or its outcome
will have any effect on us,” the Dublin-based airline said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The OFT said in June, following an informal probe of the
practice, that debit-card fees should be included in the posted
prices of airline tickets and credit-card fees should be more
transparent. The formal probe involves airlines that haven’t met
those minimum requirements.  12-Pound ‘Administration Fee’  Ryanair, which charges 12 pounds ($19.30) for using a debit
card to buy a return ticket online, calls the levies
“administration fees.” The airline says they cover costs for
its booking system, not just payment processing, and can be
avoided by using a pre-paid MasterCard instead of a regular
credit or debit card.  U.K. consumers spent 300 million pounds in 2009 on such
charges, the OFT has said. If companies involved in such probes
don’t offer concessions, the regulator can take the dispute to
court, where judges can impose unlimited fines.  The investigation is part of the regulator’s “intention to
tackle those individual retailers whose practices it considers
are causing significant consumer detriment,” according to the
OFT website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  