-- 
Alan ‘Ace’ Greenberg on Bear Stearns, James Cayne

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 4 9 0 4 9 ]   B r a d   W i e n e r s   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-08T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/alan-ace-greenberg-on-bear-stearns-james-cayne.html
     Sept. 8 (Bloomberg Businessweek) -- It was 2001 when I said
to Jimmy Cayne, the chief executive, that I wanted to retire as
chairman of Bear Stearns. My exact words were, “I want to quit
on top.” And he said, “I don’t want you to.”  Should I have left entirely? He felt it was very important
that I stay. I was 73 years old, but I didn’t consider myself
old. So I said, “Well, I’ll be chairman of the executive
committee.”  A few years later, Bear Stearns was having problems. I did
the best I could to voice my concern about what they were doing
and got nowhere. Look, you do the best you can, and you can’t
worry about it. I was chairman of the executive committee, but
not everything came to the executive committee. There were areas
I wasn’t even allowed to stick my nose in, certain fiefdoms.  I didn’t think Jimmy was going to turn into somebody you
couldn’t talk to, or an absolute demagogue. Meetings were
horrible. Whatever I said, Jimmy Cayne would say the opposite,
no matter what it was. He had this problem. If I said,
“Tomorrow’s Tuesday,” he’d say, “No, it’s Wednesday.” There
was no way to handle it. If you say, “We shouldn’t buy our
stock back, it’s stupid,” he says, “We’re going to buy our
stock back.”  Relationship Ends  I don’t know what his problem was, maybe it was jealousy.
He resented that people said I’d built Bear Stearns. And I
relinquished control. My relationship with Jimmy ended one or
two years before the collapse.  The way he conducted himself during the crisis? Just
horrible. He didn’t study the books, didn’t know what we owned,
didn’t call people in and ask. I couldn’t, I didn’t have the
power.  Another disadvantage was I only owned 10,000 shares at that
point. I even told Jimmy, “You ought to diversify.” Then he
used to say, “The trouble with you is you don’t own enough
stock in Bear Stearns.” And I said, “The trouble with you is
you own too much. That’s all you do, watch the tape and see
where it’s selling.” And then of course he really resented the
fact I didn’t own any stock when it started getting in trouble.  And then it all went poof.  I’m thankful that JPMorgan Chase gave me the opportunity to
work here (as vice chairman emeritus at asset management), and
I’m very happy. There have been a lot of forks in the road, and
when I look back, every fork in the road I took was right. It
really was. 