-- 
Alaska Plans to Delay State Oil-Leases Auction Until December

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/alaska-plans-to-delay-state-oil-leases-auction-until-december.html
The state of Alaska plans to delay
an oil and natural gas lease sale to December from late October
to add land for exploration and increase promotion of the
auction,  Natural Resources Commissioner  Dan Sullivan said.  “We haven’t given a definitive date yet, but it will
probably be at the beginning of December,” Sullivan said
yesterday in an interview at his Anchorage office. “We have the
potential to gain back some more leases that either have expired
or have come out of litigation, and we want to be able to get as
many leases into that lease sale as possible.”  The auction of 14.7 million acres in the Beaufort Sea, on
the North Slope and in the North Slope foothills was scheduled
for Oct. 26. The state wants to boost production and increase
the flow of crude through the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, the
state’s oil and gas division said on June 9.  Alaska’s production has declined every year since 2002,
according to the U.S.  Energy  Department, as less oil is pumped
from fields including Prudhoe Bay, operated by  BP Plc (BP/) , and
Kuparuk, run by  ConocoPhillips. (COP)  August production averaged
549,268 barrels a day, down from 555,006 a year earlier,
according to the  Alaska Tax Division .  The 800-mile (1,287-kilometer) pipeline is scheduled to
operate until 2035 and may close after that as production wanes,
Richard Newell, head of the Energy Information Administration,
said on Feb. 3. The Trans Alaska Pipeline runs from Prudhoe Bay
on the North Slope to Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in
the U.S.  Oil producers without a presence in the state have
expressed interest in the sale, Sullivan said yesterday, without
identifying any companies.  The Obama administration plans to sell oil and natural-gas
leases in Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve by the end of the
year, the Interior Department said on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Anchorage at  kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  