-- 
All Blacks May End Rugby World Cup Title Drought With Help

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-09T12:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/all-blacks-may-end-rugby-world-cup-title-drought-with-help-of-home-support.html
New Zealand  opened the seventh Rugby
World Cup today rated the team to beat by bookmakers and former
winners as the host nation seeks to end a 24-year title drought.  The  top-ranked  All Blacks beat Tonga 41-10 at Auckland’s
 Eden Park  in the first of 48 games at the 20-team tournament,
which ends Oct. 23 with the award of the Webb Ellis Cup. Four
countries dominated the previous editions of the four-yearly
global championship.  New Zealand, which has won three-quarters of its 477 Test
matches since 1903, hasn’t lifted the trophy since the inaugural
event in 1987 and enters the tournament following losses to
South Africa and Australia, both two-time world champions. Past
failures to live up to their billing as favorites haven’t
stopped the All Blacks from assuming the mantle again.  “If I had to put my house on a team it would definitely be
on the All Blacks,” Nick Farr-Jones, who captained  Australia  to
World Cup victory in 1991, said in an interview. “They’re going
to be close to untouchable.”  Oddsmakers in Australia, New Zealand and the U.K. all rate
an All Blacks team spearheaded by playmaker  Dan Carter  and
captain  Richie McCaw , the only three-time winner of the
International Player of the Year award, as the odds-on favorite
to win the tournament. William Hill Plc lists New Zealand as a
4-7 chance, meaning a successful $1 bet returns 57 cents plus
the original stake.  Knockout Failures  The All Blacks need to negotiate their five-team group and
win two knockout games to get to the championship match at Eden
Park, where they are  unbeaten since 1994 . Since winning in 1987,
New Zealand has lost a quarterfinal, three semifinals and was
runner-up once.  “You’ve got to put yourself in a position to get there but
the  World Cup  is all about winning the quarterfinal, semi and
final,” John Eales, a two-time World Cup winner with Australia,
said in an interview. “Usually the team that does that will be
a team that’s built to do that, it won’t be out of the box.”  The Wallabies, who beat New Zealand 13 days ago to secure
their first southern hemisphere Tri-Nations championship in a
decade, are the bookmakers’ second-favorites at 7-2 ahead of
defending champion South Africa, a 7-1 shot. England, the 2003
winner, is a 16-1 chance alongside France.  Eleven cities from Whangarei on the  North Island  to
Invercargill at the base of the  South Island  will host matches
over the 45-day tournament. Seven games were relocated from
Christchurch after a Feb. 22 earthquake damaged AMI Stadium in
New Zealand’s second-largest city. The temblor killed more than
180 people and wrecked many historic buildings and hotels.  “We just go and play somewhere else,”  England  manager
 Martin Johnson  said on a visit to Christchurch two days ago.
“For the people here it is home.”  Economic Boost  Local organizers expect 95,000 foreign visitors to attend
what the Dublin-based International Rugby Board says has become
the third-largest global sporting event behind soccer’s World
Cup and the  Summer Olympics . New Zealand’s central bank predicts
a boost totaling NZ$700 million ($585 million) to the $127
billion economy.  While the 1987 edition involving 16 invited teams attracted
about 300 million television viewers, the IRB forecasts a
cumulative worldwide audience of 4 billion this year.  “I never envisaged that it would become so big,” Nicholas Shehadie, the former Australian Rugby Union President who helped
get the World Cup concept off the ground, told reporters Aug. 31
in Sydney. “I was really surprised.”  The tournament’s growth isn’t reflected in the number of
potential champions beyond the usual contenders, Farr-Jones
said.  France  is the only nation other than the four former
winners to have reached the final.  ‘Realistic Chances’  “As we come into the seventh World Cup, just like the
other six, there’s probably only four or five realistic
chances,” Farr-Jones said.  No nation has successfully defended the trophy, with
Australia and England having gotten the closest by reaching
consecutive finals. The teams, which include first-time
qualifier and 5,000-1 outsider  Russia , compete in four groups of
five, with the top two advancing to the last eight.  Since slumping to their worst World Cup performance four
years ago with a quarterfinal loss to France, the All Blacks
have won 39 of their 48 Tests.  South Africa  and France are the
only teams to have won on New Zealand soil in that span.  “South Africa are always a threat,” said Eales, whose
1999 Australian squad inflicted one of the Springboks’ three
losses in 24 World Cup games.  Coping with domestic expectations in the rugby-mad nation
of 4.4 million people will be crucial to the All Blacks title
chances. Fly-half Carter, the leading scorer in Tests with 1,229
points, said the squad is used to carrying the hopes of the
country and welcomes the “excitement” among the local support.  “That’s the biggest pressure they’ve got, four million
people desperate for them to win and whether that translates
into being desperate themselves and getting that white-line
fever,” Farr-Jones said. “They need to get out there and
concentrate on the game at hand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 