-- 
California Lawmakers to Vote on 1-Year Amazon Tax Reprieve

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/amazon-reaches-tentative-ca-taxes-accord.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  would drop a quest
to exempt itself from collecting sales taxes in  California  and
the state would forfeit about $200 million under an agreement
that lawmakers must act on today if it’s to be adopted.  Seattle-based Amazon, the largest online retailer, agreed
to abandon its planned 2012 referendum on Internet-sales taxes
in exchange for a one-year break in levying the tax on purchases
by California residents, state Senator Loni Hancock said
yesterday.  The deal would cost California about $200 million in lost
tax revenue over the next year, based on Board of Equalization
estimates. It also may slice Amazon’s sales by about 5 percent
next year as consumers pare purchases to avoid paying the higher
tax, said Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co.  “It’s a classic compromise,” Hancock said from her office
in  Sacramento . “Amazon recognizes its obligation to collect and
remit sales taxes in California.”  Amazon has fought attempts by  New York ,  Texas ,  Rhode Island 
and  North Carolina  to force it to collect the same sales taxes
as brick-and-mortar stores, saying only the federal government
can regulate commerce among states. The California Assembly’s
budget office estimates the state loses $317 million a year when
residents fail to pay sales taxes for online purchases.  Amazon fell $2.64, or 1.2 percent, to $217.26 as of 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed
21 percent this year.  State Revenue Shortfall  Under the proposed compromise, Amazon and the state would
also work together to seek a uniform federal standard to assess
taxes on Internet commerce, Hancock said in a phone interview. A
federal law would supersede the state law.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to comment
on the possible deal with California leaders, as didNed
Wigglesworth, the spokesman for Amazon’s referendum campaign.  The loss of expected  tax revenue  from Amazon sales may
increase the likelihood of cuts to public education,
universities and social programs next year. In August, the state
Finance Department said revenue missed the projections in the
2011-12 budget by $541 million.  The estimated tax revenue never was a sure thing,
Assemblyman Charles Calderon said yesterday at the Capitol. He
noted that Amazon has spent at least $5.25 million to overturn
the June law requiring online retailers to collect sales taxes,
and also could challenge the law in court.  “The $200 million is an estimate based on a lot of
assumptions,” Calderon said.  Amazon Earnings Impact  Besides trimming Amazon’s sales, collecting the taxes may
also cut 2012 earnings by almost a third, Rice said. Income may
fall to $2.91 a share from his estimated $4.06 a share, he said.
That’s less than the average prediction of $3.20 by analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Amazon’s share price and results will suffer as more states
begin requiring the company to collect the taxes, he said.  “Ultimately they will have to collect  sales tax  across the
board,” Rice said. “The estimates would all have to come down
to reflect the potential impact of collecting sales tax.”  The tentative deal was struck Sept. 7 in a meeting with
legislative leaders, Amazon representatives and the California
Retailers Association, said Bill Dombrowski,  president of the
association .  “All of us expressed a desire to come to a legislative
solution,” Dombrowski said in a telephone interview.  Wal-Mart, Best Buy  He said the bill may come to a vote today, the last day of
the legislative session. If approved, the bill would need the
signature of Governor  Jerry Brown . Brown said yesterday that he
wasn’t familiar with the terms of the proposed deal.  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, have opposed the Amazon-led repeal effort,
calling it a campaign to preserve a tax “loophole.” Other
retailers, including Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy Co. and
New York-based Barnes & Noble Inc., also support the state’s
effort to collect sales taxes from Amazon.  “They are losing on this issue,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst
at BGC Partners LP in New York, said of Amazon. “States need
revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at  
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  