-- 
Lamborghini’s $400,000 Supercar Is Way Cooler, Faster Than Ever

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lamborghini-s-400-000-supercar-is-cooler-faster-than-ever-jason-harper.html
Forget the odd name, Aventador (Ah-
vent-ah-door). Dismiss the price, just under $400,000. Only a
deposit placed a long time ago would score one of the first 800
produced anyhow.  Focus instead on this: It’s the best Lamborghini ever made.  The Aventador’s exoticism hits you in the solar plexus, a
kung-fu chop of coolness. It’s a Hot Wheels toy out of pricy
carbon fiber, with scissor doors and a triple-bladed snout aimed
at knees and shins. This supercar goes all the way up to 11.  Lamborghinis are supposed to be outlandish fantasy
machines, which too often means that the thrill of the drive
itself is overpromised. All flash and no blast.  Witness the most beautiful Lambo, the 1960s Miura. When I
once asked legendary Lamborghini test driver Valentino Balboni
about the car, he told me in heavily accented English, “Very
pretty, but it didn’t drive so well. Poor balance.”  The Aventador replaces the Murcielago flagship, which
arrived in 2001 with its own exotic doors, all-wheel-drive and
mid-mounted V-12 engine. Over the next decade the car got much
better to drive, but it will never go into the handling hall of
fame. Bruce Wayne crashed his in the last Batman movie, “The
 Dark Knight .”  The Aventador LP700-4 is a contender. Executives say that
unlike previous flagships, handling was the designer’s first
priority, not top speed. Since the Aventador is capable of 217
miles per hour, that’s saying something.  Staggering Specs  The specifications are staggering. The mid-engine, 6.5-
liter, V-12 powerplant puts out 691 horsepower and 509 pound-
feet of torque. Married to the all-wheel-drive system, it
rockets to 60 mph in 2.8 seconds. And folks say $400,000 doesn’t
buy anything cool these days.  I got the Aventador on a racetrack. Just machine vs
asphalt. No speed traps or traffic lights to intervene.  Trying not to brain myself on the doors, I slipped inside.
Big car, tight seats. Unlike Lambos of yore, the air conditioner
works and it has a navigation system courtesy of Ingolstadt,
Germany-based sister company  Audi AG. (NSU)   Never mind all that. Start it up. That sound behind you is
like a battery of 12-gauge shotguns firing in tandem. Call it
the V-12 salute.  Pulling onto the track, I immediately moved from Strada
(street) to Sport mode, but hesitated to put it on the full-
blown, rear-wagging Corsa setting. When I did, after about eight
laps, I wondered why I’d waited so long. (Answer: Fear.)  Diabolo Detractors  The Aventador is not designed to kill you. Some enthusiasts
may complain about that, saying a 691-hp flagship should be
permanently terrifying, but those people have mostly spent the
past 20 years in wheelchairs after hurtling their purple 1990
Diablos off highway onramps.  Rather the Aventador displays a remarkable level of self
preservation. Tires will shriek and brakes will groan and the
driver’s adrenaline will spike, but truly mess up a corner and
the electronic stability controls will quickly muscle in,
straightening the car and decreasing speed. It might send your
lap times into the gutter, but it’ll keep your supercar out of
the actual drain.  Older Lamborghinis are horrendous in sharp slow corners.
Come in too fast, turn the wheel and you’d continue going
straight, pushing forward like a two-ton snow plow. That problem
is fixed.  Slow the Aventador down a bit, exhibit a little patience,
and it gamely slings through turns, with the all-wheel-drive
pulling it back up to speed ludicrously fast. It moves arguably
faster than your brain in fact. Oh, I’m at the next corner
already?  Hot Tires  Faster and faster I went around, and the mega-sized Pirelli
tires got hot and increasingly slidey, but even this was no
impediment to fun. I have looked fear in the eye and its name is
no longer Lamborghini.  How many of these cars will end up on the racetrack rather
than the nightclub VIP parking lot is up for debate. The first
batch of 800 or so will be split among  Asia ,  Europe  and  North
America , so if you’re looking for rarity, your wish is granted.  And except for the absolute lack of rear vision, it drives
just fine on the street. For jaunts between mansions, the seven-
speed automated manual transmission works well enough to keep
you from homicidal impulses in traffic jams.  A supercar for sure. But it’s the forward-thinking design
that propels me to christen it the best Lambo ever. The
Aventador’s designer, Filippo Perini, also penned the Alfa-Romeo
8C Competizione -- to my mind the most gorgeous car in the last
decade.  Side Scoops  If the Alfa’s signature is fulsome curves, the Aventador’s
is a radical use of negative space to create deep side scoops
and the startling shape of the rear bumpers. By carving away
rather than adding, Aventador looks unique and compelling.  Many an aesthete has taken digs at Lamborghini, and no
question the designs are more Versace than Valentino. The
Aventador dials down the Miami bombast for a bit of Miami Art
Basel. This is a fantasy which delivers.  The 2012 Lamborghini Aventador LP700-4 at a Glance  Engine: 6.5-liter V-12 with 691 horsepower and 509 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 in 2.8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 11 city, 17 highway.  Price as tested: Estimated $410,000.  Best features: Exoticism married to superior handling.  Worst features: Rarity and price; you’re not likely to even  see one on the street, let alone own.  Target buyer: Sheiks, playboys, Bruce Wayne.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 