-- 
American Accuses Sabre of Staging Bookings Boycott in Reservations Dispute

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T00:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/american-accuses-sabre-of-staging-a-flight-bookings-boycott-1-.html
American Airlines Inc. accused Sabre
Inc. of fueling a secret and collusive boycott of its business
in order to preserve the flight data listing service’s alleged
monopoly power.  The  AMR Corp. (AMR)  carrier made the allegation in a revised
complaint it filed against Sabre today in state court in Fort
Worth,  Texas . American in January added Sabre to a lawsuit it
first filed there in November against the flight data service
Travelport Ltd.  Sabre has used “secret collusive boycott agreements,”
anti-competitive contracts and punitive actions to dissuade
travel agencies and corporate travel departments from booking
American flights through Sabre’s system, according to the
filing.  “Sabre’s motive for its orchestrated attacks is clear,”
Fort Worth-based American said. “Sabre intends to coerce
American into abandoning its effort to modernize and streamline
the costly legacy system for distributing American’s travel
data.”  Claiming antitrust law violations, American sued Southlake,
Texas-based Sabre last year. The carrier alleged the data
service was interfering with its business, entitling the airline
to money damages.  Sabre, Travelocity.com  Once owned by American and now a unit of Sabre Holdings
Corp., Sabre is the largest U.S.-based global distributor of
fare data and the parent of online travel agent  Travelocity.com .
It is also the airline’s biggest non-direct source of bookings.  Sabre Holdings is owned by Sovereign Holdings Inc., TPG
Capital and Silver Lake Management LLC.  “Sabre denies the allegations and this is yet another
example of  American Airlines  distorting the facts and trying to
use the courts to negotiate a new contract,” Nancy St. Pierre,
a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. “We remain
willing and committed to negotiating a new distribution
agreement that meets the needs of all constituents whenever the
airline is ready.”  American Vice President for Global Sales Derek DeCross, in
a letter to travel agents and corporate travel managers on Aug.
30, said Sabre would continue distributing its flight data for
14 days after the legal dispute is resolved.  Portions of today’s American filing are blacked out,
concealing the identities of travel agents with whom Sabre is
allegedly conspiring.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc., 067-
249214-10, in the Judicial District of Tarrant County, Texas,
67th Judicial District ( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  