-- 
South African Manufacturing Shrinks 6%, Confidence Slumps

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-09-08T12:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/manufacturing-in-south-africa-plunges-6-after-strikes-curb-factory-output.html
South African manufacturing
contracted more than expected in July, while business confidence
slumped to a 15-month low last month, adding to pressure on the
central bank to keep its benchmark interest rate at a 30-year
low or cut it.  Production fell from a revised 0.8 percent expansion in
June, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a contraction of 0.5 percent. Output dropped a
seasonally adjusted 6 percent in the month, which saw hundreds
of thousands of factory workers go on strike.  The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry today
said its business confidence index fell to 98.6 in August from
99 the month before as a recovery in  Africa ’s largest economy
stalled. Growth slowed in the second quarter to an annualized
1.3 percent, the lowest in almost two years.  “Our view is that the South African  Reserve Bank  will not
raise rates until May next year, but the next move is still a
hike,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said in e-mailed comments. “Clearly,
the more weak data we see, the greater the risk that  interest
rates  are on hold for an extended period of time.”  Price Pressures  The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to help bolster the economy,
even as price pressures increased. On Aug. 23, Governor Gill Marcus said the bank will act “appropriately” if there’s a
sustained slowdown in the global economy, fueling speculation
the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee may lower rates again.  The rand fell to 7.1713 per dollar at 1:49 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from 7.1567 before the release of the
manufacturing data.  The slump in manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of
gross domestic product, came after petroleum, chemical,
engineering and packaging workers staged an 18-day strike for
higher wages and 320,000 metalworkers held a separate two-week
work stoppage.  Factory production may remain under pressure. ArcelorMittal
 South Africa  Ltd., Africa’s largest steelmaker, said an Aug. 5
structural failure at its plant in Newcastle will cut output by
400,000 metric tons. On Sept. 2, the company said it had secured
240,000 tons of steel to supply customers.  The Purchasing Managers Index, an indicator of factory
output, rose to 46.6 in August from a two-year low of 44.2 in
July, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said on Sept. 2. A reading below 50
indicates a contraction in manufacturing production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 