-- 
Laos to Start Building Mekong Dam This Year, Testing Neighbors

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T04:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/laos-to-start-building-mekong-dam-this-year-testing-neighbors.html
Laos  wants to start construction
this year on the $3.8 billion Thai-financed Xayaburi hydropower
plant on the Mekong River after changing the design to placate
neighboring countries opposed to the project.  Laos completed a review of the dam initiated in April to
ease concerns that it would harm rice production and fish
catches downstream, said Viraphonh Viravong, director-general of
the ministry of energy and mines’  Department of Electricity .
Vietnam earlier recommended a 10-year delay for all hydropower
projects on the river, which also runs through Myanmar,  Thailand 
and Cambodia from its source in  China ’s Tibetan plateau.  “We would like to start toward the end of this year when
the dry season comes,” Viraphonh said in an interview in  Hanoi 
yesterday. “We want to explain and make the other countries
comfortable. If they are still very negative about it, of course
we will spend some more time on it.”  The hydropower plant is the first among eight that Laos
plans to build on the Mekong to expand Southeast Asia’s  smallest
economy  by selling electricity to neighboring countries. The
landlocked nation may have about 38,000 megawatts of installed
capacity supply by 2020, about 15 times greater than its
domestic needs, according to a presentation by state-owned
Electricite du Laos at a conference in Hanoi yesterday.  Independent Review  Laos presented the project review conducted by Switzerland-
based Poyry Energy AG to Vietnam and plans to meet separately
with Thai and Cambodian officials to discuss recommendations,
Viraphonh said. The government can decide whether to proceed
with the project at any point.  In April, Laos proposed to end a review of Xayaburi called
for under a 1995 agreement between the Mekong countries
requiring prior consultations before building hydropower plants
on the river. Officials agreed then to hold a ministerial
meeting to discuss the project, a gathering that has yet to take
place.  “Laos has no right to go forward on the project by
itself,” said Ame Trandem,  Southeast Asia  program director for
International Rivers, a Berkeley, California-based nonprofit
group that aims to protect rivers and human rights. “By doing
so it will violate the 1995 Mekong agreement and the spirit of
regional cooperation.”  Meeting Guidelines  Poyry’s review found that Xayaburi’s design was in
accordance with the preliminary design guidelines from the
 Mekong River Commission , an intergovernmental body, and other
international design manuals, Viraphonh said in a presentation.
The company recommended improvements for sediment transport and
fish-passing facilities, he said.  Poyry is confident “any potential long-term trans-boundary
impacts on the downstream region would be insignificant” if the
recommended design changes are implemented, according to the
presentation.  “Look, this has been reviewed by an independent engineer,
very famous in the world,” Viraphonh said yesterday. “And if
they say ’yes, you can go ahead,’ why not?”  Thailand agreed in December to buy 95 percent of the
electricity from the plant, which will have a capacity of 1,285
megawatts. Ch. Karnchang Pcl, Thailand’s third-biggest
construction company by market value, owns a 57.5 percent stake
in Xayaburi.  Supamas Trivisvavet, an executive vice president at the
company, declined to comment when reached by phone today.  Clinton Concern  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest energy company, has a 25
percent stake, while Bangkok-based Electricity Generating Pcl
owns 12.5 percent, according to company filings. The 115 billion
baht ($3.8 billion) project is expected to start commercial
operations in January 2019, PTT told the Thai stock exchange on
March 1.  The proposed alterations would slightly increase the cost
of the project, Viraphonh said, without providing figures. The
plant would be able to meet its target completion date if work
started later this year, he said.  The Mekong and its tributaries provide food, water and
transportation to about 60 million people in the four countries.
In a July meeting with counterparts from Mekong nations in Bali,
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called for a pause in
construction of dams on the river “until we are all able to do
a better assessment of the likely consequences.”  Food Security   Vietnam  officials in January recommended delaying the
project and moving it to a Mekong tributary because it would
affect “the safety of water sources and food security for
Vietnam as well as for the whole world,” according to  notes  of
the meetings. Thailand and Cambodia also favored more studies on
the dam, the notes show.  A technical review in March by the Mekong River Commission
found that the dam may lead to the extinction of species like
the Mekong giant catfish and “gaps in knowledge” mean the full
extent of the downstream impact on fisheries is hard to
estimate. The dam “will not materially affect” the quantity
and timing of river flows to  Cambodia  and Vietnam, it said.  Laos has about six million people and a gross domestic
product of $5.6 billion, according to  statistics  from the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations . Hydropower and mining
projects are set to underpin GDP growth that may reach 7.7
percent this year, the  Asian Development Bank  said in an April 7
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  