-- 
Lashou Said to Plan U.S. IPO as Daily-Deal Site Seeks to Replace Advisers

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-09T00:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lashou-said-to-plan-u-s-ipo-as-daily-deal-site-seeks-to-replace-advisers.html
Lashou.com, a website that delivers
daily deals in  China , is planning an initial public offering in
the U.S., three people familiar with the matter said.  The company is looking for advisers to replace Morgan
Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which are also
underwriting the IPO for rival Groupon Inc., said two of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Lashou has retained at least one new bank and is
looking for more, one of the people said.  Lashou could become the first daily-deal startup to go
public in the U.S. now that Groupon, the biggest online coupon
company, postponed its planned $750 million IPO amid market
swings. Beijing-based Lashou would also test U.S. investor
appetite for coupon businesses in China, where many competitors
have sprung up to serve the largest Internet population.  Chinese Internet companies Renren Inc., a social network
similar to Facebook Inc., and video site Tudou Holdings Ltd.
have declined since their U.S. IPOs this year. Renren slumped
48.5 percent since its May debut through yesterday, while Tudou
lost 20 percent since it went public in August. The timing of
Lashou’s offering will vary based on stock-market volatility,
the people said.  Lashou Chief Executive Officer Wu Bo declined to comment,
as did Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley and  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs.  Groupon operates in China through Gaopeng.com, a joint
venture backed by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma.
While Groupon fired a large number of Gaopeng.com workers last
month, the site is financially viable and still hiring, a person
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Lashou raised $110 million in April from investors
including Beijing-based  GSR Ventures  in a funding round that
valued the company at about $1.1 billion. In December 2010, it
raised $50 million at a valuation of around $500 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  