-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rebounds on U.S. Jobless Claims

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-09-08T21:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rebounds-on-u-s-jobless-claims.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rebounds on Haven Demand as U.S. Jobless Claims Increase  Gold futures gained for the first time in three days after
an unexpected rise in U.S. jobless claims spurred demand for the
metal as a haven asset.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises for Second Day on Bets Obama Plan to Buoy Economy  Copper prices rose for the second straight day on bets a
stimulus proposal by President  Barack Obama  will bolster the
economy, supporting demand for the industrial metal.  MINING:  Usiminas Jumps on Report CSN Wants to Buy Further 26% Stake (2)  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, Brazil’s second-
largest steelmaker, gained in Sao Paulo trading after a news
report that Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA offered to buy an
additional 26 percent stake in its rival.  Glencore Jumps Most Since IPO After First Reserve Buys Stock (2)  Glencore International Plc jumped the most since its
initial public offering in  London  after First Reserve Corp. sold
convertible bonds in the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier and bought shares.  Impala Unit Favors Arbitration to End Zimbabwe Mine Dispute (2)  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.’s Zimbabwean unit proposed
that an independent arbitrator be approached to resolve a
dispute over ownership that could see the company lose its
license to mine in the country.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold’s Bull Market May Last Six More Years, Franco-Nevada Says  Franco-Nevada Corp., a Canadian company that gets its
income from mining royalties, said gold’s bull market will last
another four to six years as waning prospects for global growth
boost investor demand.  AGRICULTURE:  U.S. Cotton Output to Drop on Storm,  Texas  Drought, Survey Says  Cotton output in the U.S., the world’s top exporter, will
decline because of storm damage in the Southeast and a drought
in Texas, the biggest producing state, a Bloomberg News survey
of eight analysts showed.  Corn Drops on Slowing Feed Demand; Soybeans Fall on U.S. Rain  Corn fell for a third day, the longest slump in two months,
on speculation that this year’s rally in prices will encourage
livestock producers to switch to other grains in feed rations.
Soybeans also declined.  Cotton Rises to Two-Month High on  Pakistan , U.S. Crop Concerns  Cotton futures rose to a two-month high as rains in
Pakistan, the world’s fourth-biggest grower, added to supply
concerns following adverse weather in the Southeast of the U.S.,
the top exporter.  Wheat Falls to Three-Week Low as Supplies From Russia, EU Rise  Wheat fell to the lowest price in almost three weeks on
speculation that increasing supplies from Russia and  Europe  will
reduce demand for grain from the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter.  Hog Futures Climb on Rising Demand for U.S. Pork; Cattle Gain  Hog futures rallied for the second straight day on signs of
a rebound in demand for U.S. pork. Cattle also rose.  Sugar Gains on Imports; Coffee, Cocoa and Orange Juice Decline  Sugar capped the biggest gain in almost two weeks after a
report forecast a jump in Chinese imports. Coffee, cocoa and
orange juice declined.  SHIPPING:  Ore-Ship Hire Costs to Fall 27% by November, Forecaster MSI Says  Hire costs for capesize vessels that haul iron ore and coal
will fall 27 percent from current levels to average $18,000 a
day by November, Maritime Strategies International Ltd. said.  ECONOMIES:  Trichet Opens Way for More Steps After Growth Forecast Cut (3)  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
threats to the euro region have worsened and inflation risks
have eased, giving officials the option to take further action
should the debt crisis worsen.  U.S. Economy : Narrower Trade Gap Is a Bright Spot for Recovery  The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed more than forecast in July
as exports climbed to a record, offering a bright spot for an
economy at risk of a bigger slowdown.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Drop as Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Bernanke Remarks  U.S. stocks slid and commodities fell, while Treasuries and
the dollar rose, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
disappointed investors by not detailing new plans to boost
growth in the world’s largest economy.  Euro Falls on ‘Intensified Risks’; Dollar Gains After Bernanke  The euro fell the most in a month versus the dollar as
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
“downside risks” to the region’s economy have intensified,
damping the outlook for interest-rate increases.  Real Bulls Disappear as Rate Cut Hurts Confidence:  Brazil  Credit  Foreign investors are turning bearish on the Brazilian real
for the first time in eight months after a surprise rate cut
compounded government efforts aimed at weakening the currency.  European Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Home Retail Climbs  European stocks climbed, extending the Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s largest rally in three weeks, as oil producers and
retailers advanced.  SPORTS:  All Blacks May End Rugby World Cup Title Drought With Home Help  New Zealand  opens the seventh Rugby World Cup today rated
the team to beat by bookmakers and former winners as the host
nation seeks to end a 24-year title drought.  Australia Controls Opening Day of Second  Sri Lanka  Cricket Test  Australia  took control on the opening day of the second
cricket Test with Sri Lanka by bowling the host out for 174.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  