-- 
Asian Currencies Decline as Philippines, Indonesia, South Korea Hold Rates

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-08T09:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/asian-currencies-decline-as-philippines-indonesia-south-korea-hold-rates.html
The Philippine peso and South Korean
won led losses among Asian currencies as regional central banks
left borrowing costs unchanged amid signs the global economic
recovery is faltering.  The won extended the week’s decline as concern growth
around the world is stalling prompted the  Bank of Korea  to leave
the seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent. Bank  Indonesia 
and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept their benchmark  interest
rates  at 6.75 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively.  Malaysia  is
also expected to follow suit today as  Europe ’s escalating debt
crisis and the risk of a recession in the U.S. divert attention
away from the battle to contain inflation.  “Asian currencies will have a flat to weakening bias,”
said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.
Most traders were waiting for the Asian central bank meetings,
she said.  The Philippine peso dropped 0.5 percent to 42.465 per
dollar at the 4 p.m. close in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. The won slipped 0.3 percent to 1,075.13, after
erasing a gain of as much as 0.3 percent. Malaysia’s ringgit
fell 0.1 percent to 2.9905, while Indonesia’s rupiah held at
8,564.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares climbed 0.4 percent to
1,178.22 before today’s meetings of central bank officials in
the U.K. and European Union. President Barack Obama is also set
to address a joint session of Congress on proposals to speed up
job creation.  ‘Gloomy Picture’  An Australian government report today showing companies
unexpectedly cut workers for a second month in August also
“reinforces the basic gloomy picture on global growth,” said
Rao.  The peso fell the most in a month on speculation the
central bank will loosen restrictions on dollar purchases to
help stem appreciation in the local currency that poses a risk
to exports.  Policy makers may further liberalize currency rules,
including allowing companies with dollar requirements to buy
without obtaining prior approval from the regulator, Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said this week.
The measures will increase demand for the greenback and help
temper gains in the peso “to a certain extent,” he said.  “The market may be anticipating that the central bank will
issue some rules,” said Roland Avante, treasurer at Sterling
Bank of Asia in  Manila .  ‘Higher Uncertainty’  South Korea ’s won reversed early gains and the Kospi index
of shares pared its advance as the central bank said today it
will closely monitor financial and economic risk factors at home
and abroad for its future policy.  “The won reversed movements as the central bank made
comments that the global economy faces higher uncertainty,
making market players more cautious,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul .  Malaysia’s central bank will likely keep its policy rate at
3 percent today, according to all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Obama will call on Congress to offset the cost of the
short-term jobs measures by raising  tax revenue  in later years.
He plans to inject more than $300 billion into the economy next
year, mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and
direct aid to state and local governments.  ‘Some Cautiousness’  “Some people are focusing on Obama’s short-term fiscal
stimulus but other people are quite doubtful about the
possibility of the implementation,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in  Singapore .
“There is still some cautiousness among investors in the Asian
currency market, especially on the European fiscal problems.”  The yuan advanced, snapping a five-day drop, on speculation
policy makers will allow currency gains to tame the fastest
inflation in three years. The currency climbed 0.16 percent to
6.3840 per dollar, according to the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate 0.12
percent stronger at 6.3889.  Official data tomorrow may show consumer prices in China
climbed 6.2 percent from a year earlier in August after rising
6.5 percent the prior month, according to the median forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The increase in July was the
most since June 2008.  “Inflation is still hovering at a high level even if it’s
easing,” said Kenix Lai, a senior market analyst at Bank of
East  Asia  Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Yuan appreciation is a better
inflation-curbing tool than interest-rate hikes for China as the
global economic outlook remains unclear.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar and Thailand’s baht fell 0.1
percent to NT$29.150 and 30.03, respectively. Singapore’s dollar
dropped 0.1 percent to S$1.2101 and  India ’s rupee weakened 0.1
percent to 46.2350.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  