-- 
Asia Stocks Swing Between Gain, Loss as Share Sales Temper Stimulus Hopes

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-08T10:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-u-s-stimulus-optimism-european-debt.html
Asian stocks rose after swinging
between gains and losses for most of the day as job cuts in
 Australia , share sale concerns and a report  China  may raise
 interest rates  countered speculation the U.S. will do more to
stimulate economic growth.  Samsung Electronics Co., which counts America as its
second-biggest market, rose 3.2 percent in Seoul. Commonwealth
Bank of Australia slumped 0.6 percent in Sydney. Belle
International Holdings Ltd., a Chinese retailer of women’s
shoes, tumbled 8.5 percent after saying some staff may sell its
shares.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender by market value, fell 1 percent ahead of China’s
inflation data tomorrow and after the  Securities Times  reported
the country may raise rates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.3 percent to 122.01
at 7:52 p.m. in  Tokyo , having swung between a gain of 0.9
percent and a loss of 0.2 percent. The gauge slumped 8.6 percent
last month, the most since May 2010, amid concern global
economic growth is slowing as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
spreads and after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  “Markets are uncertain as to whether more U.S. stimulus
will give a meaningful catalyst to global growth,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “A lot will depend on any policy
initiatives that are announced over the next couple of weeks.”  Regional Benchmarks  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.3 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index swung between gains and losses
after a statistics bureau report showed the nation’s employers
unexpectedly cut workers for a second straight month in August.
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index dropped 0.7 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index swung between gains of 1.3
percent and losses of 0.4 percent after the central bank held
off on raising borrowing costs.  Vietnam’s Ho Chi Minh Stock index jumped 2.1 percent, the
biggest gain among regional benchmark indexes. The gauge has
risen for 10 days straight, its longest streak of advance since
August 2008.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed after swinging between a gain of 0.3 percent and a
retreat of 0.6 percent today. In  New York , the index rose 2.9
percent yesterday as President Barack Obama prepared to unveil
today a $300 billion program of tax cuts, infrastructure
spending and direct aid to state and local governments to spur
jobs growth.  Obama Plan  Equities were supported by speculation that Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will today signal that policy makers
will consider further stimulus measures to spur the economy.
Bernanke is scheduled to address the U.S. economic outlook at a
speech in  Minneapolis . Fed policymakers will meet for two days
from Sept. 20 to discuss the economy and appropriate responses.  Samsung Electronics gained 3.2 percent to 798,000 won in
 Seoul , the biggest support to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
 Hyundai Mobis , an automotive parts supplier which earns 62
percent of revenue from outside South Korea, increased 2.8
percent to 334,000 won in Seoul. Hanjin Heavy Industries &
Construction Co., a shipper that receives 45 percent of its
sales from offshore, surged 9.3 percent to 23,000 won.  HTC Corp., a Taiwanese maker of smartphones, increased 3.4
percent to NT$783 after the company filed an infringement claim
against Apple Inc. yesterday, using patents it bought from
Google Inc. last week.  Stocks in Australia swung between gains and losses after a
report showed the nation unexpectedly cut jobs. The number of
people employed fell by 9,700, after a revised 4,100 drop in
July, the statistics bureau said. That compared with economists’
median estimate for a gain of 10,000 workers.  Japan Machinery Orders  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  reversed a gain to decline
0.6 percent to A$47.22, the biggest drag on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index.  Fanuc Corp., a Japanese maker of industrial automation
equipment, led machinery makers lower after government data
showed the sector’s orders during July were less than estimated.
Fanuc slumped 3.4 percent to 11,610 yen.  Among other stocks that declined, Belle International, a
Chinese maker of women’s shoes, tumbled 8.5 percent to HK$14.88,
the biggest drag on the Hang Seng Index. The company said
managers, including Chief Executive Officer Sheng Baijiao, plan
to sell shares in the company.  Woori Investment  In Seoul, Woori Investment & Securities Co., a South Korean
brokerage, tumbled 15 percent to 11,100 won in Seoul, the
second-biggest drop on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Woori
Investment may sell new shares to raise 500 billion won this
year, Newstomato earlier reported, citing unidentified industry
officials. The company said it is considering various ways to
raise capital.  Also in South Korea, Daewoo Securities Co. plunged 15
percent to 11,700 won after it announced plans to sell 1.4
trillion won of new shares.  Stocks also declined after Chinese newspaper the Securities
Times reported the government may boost rates this month or
next, and ahead of data which may show China’s August consumer
price index, scheduled to be released tomorrow, may increase 6.2
percent from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China slid 1 percent to
HK$4.99 in Hong Kong.  Food Additives  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , a mainland meat supplier,
tumbled 16 percent to HK$13.94. Additives to stimulate the
growth of lean meat were found in some of the company’s
products, the National Business Daily reported, citing an
unidentified employee at Yurun’s unit in Henan province.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , which co-owns the Penglai 19-3 field with
ConocoPhillips which leaked oil, declined 1 percent to HK$14.06
after the Chinese government ordered a “thorough”
investigation into the leaks.  “Investors are waiting for the CPI data from China
tomorrow,” taking a wait-and-see approach, said Linus Yip,
chief strategist at First Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  