-- 
Atchana Says Thai Central Bank, Ministers Should Talk Internally

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-08T09:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/atchana-says-thai-central-bank-ministers-should-talk-internally.html
Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
Atchana Waiquamdee comments on discussions between the  finance
ministry  and the central bank over a proposal to create a
sovereign wealth fund. She spoke in an interview today in
Bangkok.  Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala has asked the
central bank to study a proposal to use part of the nation’s
foreign reserves to set up a sovereign fund.  The foreign reserves should be used to back bank-note
printing and as a cushion during a worst-case scenario of
significant capital outflows, Atchana said.  “The excess can be considered whether we should put it in
the sovereign wealth fund.”  “The first condition is that you need to bring from our
balance sheet both assets and liabilities not only assets,
because if the government does that it will set a precedent for
any governments in the future that may do the same thing -- take
something from the reserve.  Other conditions include a clear investment strategy and
good governance without any political interference, she said.  ‘‘We do not straightly object to setting up a sovereign
wealth fund. But you need to think thoroughly.  ‘‘One thing we shouldn’t do is use the reserve to build
infrastructure in the country because foreign reserves in the
form of foreign currency is set up to meet obligations of
foreigners, not for use internally. Otherwise, it will be like
printing money.’’  On the potential for conflict between the government and central
bank:  ‘‘In fact, the conflict is normal for the central bank and
the government because we have different KPI (Key Performance
Indicators). For the government, the KPI is only in the short
term. They look at it in terms of two years or six months, but
in our case we have to look at the long term because this is an
organization that has been assigned to take care of economic
stability.  ‘‘With different KPI, we have to understand each other and
try to sit down and talk in the room, not in the newspapers. We
should talk it over and get the thing that is best for the
country.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  