-- 
ATK Is Moving Headquarters to Virginia for Proximity to Pentagon

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/atk-is-moving-headquarters-to-virginia-for-proximity-to-pentagon.html
Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , the
largest supplier of rifle rounds to the U.S. military, will move
its headquarters from Minneapolis to Arlington, Virginia, to be
closer to the Defense Department and the U.S. Congress.  The relocation will take place Oct. 1, the company said
today in a news release.  ATK will expand existing office space in Arlington to
accommodate its executive management team. It will keep a
corporate staff of about 210 people in Minnesota. Altogether,
the company employs about 2,700 people in Minnesota and 3,500 in
Virginia, Maryland and West Virginia.  “The relocation of ATK’s headquarters to the Washington,
D.C., area will provide our company with opportunities for
increased engagement with our customers and Congress, as well as
with our aerospace and defense industry peers that already are
located in the region,” ATK’s president and chief executive
officer, Mark W. DeYoung, said in a statement today.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the maker of the Global Hawk drone,
moved its headquarters to the Washington area in August. It is
now based in  Falls Church , Virginia, which is also home to
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the manufacturer of the Abrams tanks and
Stryker combat vehicles.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the largest
defense contractor in the world, is based in nearby Bethesda,
Maryland.  The ATK headquarters move sends “a strong signal about how
important the Washington area is to the company,” said
spokesman Bryce Hallowell. It also will give ATK better access
to the international community, he said.  “Expanding our presence and visibility in the Washington
area will support our strategy of creating a more global,
diversified company,” DeYoung said in the statement.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Leslie Hoffecker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 