-- 
Australia Sets Rates Secretly as RBA Eschews Transparency in Making Policy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-09T06:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/australia-sets-rates-secretly-as-rba-eschews-transparency-in-making-policy.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens , with a pay level set more than four times that of
 Ben S. Bernanke  at the  Federal Reserve , oversees a bank that’s
less transparent than Poland’s in setting policy.  Stevens, who this week kept the RBA’s benchmark interest
rate at a developed-world high of 4.75 percent, makes the call
on adjusting borrowing costs without a publicly revealed vote of
the board -- an anomaly relative to the standard followed by
peers in nations from the U.S. to Japan to Poland. A lack of
accountability may undermine confidence in the RBA when
Australia’s economy turns, University of Cambridge economist
Petra Geraats said.  “Australia would be well-advised to strengthen its
monetary-policy making framework to be better equipped to
effectively respond when more challenging economic conditions
arrive,” said Geraats, who has published articles on
transparency and delivered presentations on the subject to
central banks from Africa to Asia.  At stake is managing an economy that has become
increasingly dependent on mining resources for growth, with
manufacturers including  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  forced to cut jobs
and production as they contend with the strongest  exchange rate 
in three decades. The local dollar has soared about 23 percent
the past two years as Stevens boosted rates to contain inflation.  Stevens’s Consensus  While the  Reserve Bank Act of 1959  says questions arising
at RBA board meetings “shall be decided by a majority of the
votes of the members present and voting,” Stevens has indicated
decisions are made by consensus, and no vote tallies are
released.  Public comment on monetary policy by board members is also
lacking, with Stevens allowing only himself and his deputy to
speak on the issue.  “The arrangement we have is that when the bank has to say
something about monetary policy, I or the deputy governor will
say it,” Stevens, 53, told lawmakers in a Feb. 11 hearing.  By contrast, Fed policy makers have publicly differed this
year on whether the U.S. central bank ought to consider
additional asset purchases to help pull down an  unemployment
rate  in excess of 9 percent. Germany’s Bundesbank has opposed
the  European Central Bank ’s purchases of bonds of euro-region
nations engulfed by the sovereign-debt crisis.  ‘Awkward’ Constraint  “I do find it awkward that the bank has to speak with one
voice,” said Bob Gregory, an economics professor at  Australian
National University  and an RBA board member from 1985 to 1995.
“The monetary policy debate is more subdued than it otherwise
would be if you had board members out there talking about the
decisions.”  One impediment to a more effective board is that non-career
RBA members don’t give up their outside jobs, another anomaly
when compared with peers. A majority of its members are drawn
from business. Current members include an executive vice
president of BG Group Plc, a U.K.-based energy company, and the
chairman of Fairfax Media Ltd., Australia’s second-largest
newspaper publisher.  “There’s always a potential conflict of interest” from
the arrangement, said  Warwick McKibbin , a member of the Reserve
Bank’s board until July 30, adding that he’s unaware of any
having materialized. McKibbin said a further difference with
other central banks is the presence of a Treasury official on
the board, giving the government a voice in policymaking.  ‘Expert Board’  “If you had an expert board, you could actually lay out
everybody’s issues on the table,” McKibbin, a professor at
Australian National University, said from Canberra. “If you
start with an expert board you don’t have this dilemma” of
revealing board members’ views that may put them in conflict
with their own constituents, he said.  While encouraging others to refrain from speaking, Stevens
also limits his own availability for comment on monetary policy.
He doesn’t hold news conferences like his counterparts at
central banks including those of the euro region, U.S.,  Japan ,
U.K.,  South Korea , Mexico, Chile, Peru, Colombia and Canada.  The RBA declined a request from Bloomberg News to speak
with Stevens on transparency.  Stevens, whose tenure as governor started five years ago
this month, has introduced some measures to enhance transparency.
The RBA in December 2007 said it will start releasing minutes of
board meetings and publish a statement after each monthly
gathering to explain its decisions. That was a change from the
previous practice of commenting only when rates were adjusted.  Parliamentary Hearings  Stevens testifies twice a year before parliament, and the
central bank releases quarterly forecasts on gross domestic
product and consumer prices. He typically takes audience
questions after speeches. Asked for comment on RBA transparency,
a spokeswoman for the bank referred to a 2007 speech in which
Stevens outlined reasons for deciding to publish minutes of
meetings and statements after rates were left unchanged. He also
explained his view on keeping some issues in house.  “There are limits to transparency,” Stevens said in the
address. “More is not always better, and because the decision
to disclose additional information is hard to reverse once made,
it should be made with care.”  Under his tenure,  Australia  was the only major developed
economy to avoid a recession in the aftermath of the collapse in
the U.S. mortgage-securities market.  “They should be judged on the basis that the Australian
economy, over a turbulent decade or two, has managed to come
through the period without a technical recession and average
inflation around the middle of the RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent
target band,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney.  Rate Surprise  Stevens’s steps on communication haven’t prevented private
economists from having difficulty predicting his decisions. In
his five years in office, his calls ran counter to the median of
economists’ forecasts nine of his 55 rate decisions. That was
more than double the four unexpected rate decisions by the RBA
governor during the previous five years.  Fixed-income markets have also been blindsided on occasion.
Cash-rate futures on Nov. 1, 2010, were pricing in a 76 percent
chance that Stevens would hold the cash rate at 4.50 percent,
instead of raising it to 4.75 percent as he did. A month earlier,
contracts on the  Sydney Futures Exchange  indicated a 60 percent
chance of an increase the day before the RBA held steady.  Among others not kept fully informed of RBA decisions is
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who wasn’t told until almost a year after
Stevens got a A$234,000 ($248,000) increase in pay in October
2008, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News under a
Freedom of Information Act request.  Higher Pay  That pay increase took Stevens’s total compensation to
A$1.05 million with a base salary of A$805,000, compared with
$199,700 for Bernanke and $516,627 for ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet . Stevens said last month at a parliamentary committee
hearing that “I do not set my own pay. The board set it.”  The RBA’s board is also out of step with much of the
country when it comes to women, who run the federal government,
largest city and second-biggest bank.  Three women, including members Jillian Broadbent since 1998
and Catherine Tanna since March, have served on the 51-year-old
RBA board, compared with 57 men. One of six assistant governors
at the RBA is a woman. Swan said in July that more can be done
on gender balance.  With both of the current female members being from outside
the RBA, they fall into Stevens’s category of having to refrain
from public comment on monetary policy. No woman has been either
governor or deputy governor.  Concentrating the role of communicating monetary policy in
one or two officials is “probably not the best arrangement,”
said  Allan Meltzer , a historian of the Fed and a professor at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh.  “Having an open public debate keeps people aware of the
differences in views and what the issues are -- and that’s a
good thing,” Meltzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  