-- 
Australian Employers Unexpectedly Cut Workers, Unemployment Rises to 5.3%

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-08T06:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/australian-employers-unexpectedly-cut-workers-sending-currency-tumbling.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
cut workers for a second month in August, sending the nation’s
currency and bond yields lower as investors added to bets the
central bank will reduce interest rates.  The number of people employed fell by 9,700, after a
revised 4,100 drop in July, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. That compares with economists’ median estimate for a gain
of 10,000 workers. The jobless rate rose to 5.3 percent, the
highest since October, from 5.1 percent.  The currency headed for its first weekly decline in a month
and bond yields their first weekly fall in three as traders
raised bets Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens will lower
borrowing costs to help spur hiring.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,
Qantas Airways Ltd. and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  announced plans
last month to trim workforces, and Stevens signaled yesterday he
is willing to extend a pause in rates as a rout in international
financial markets threatens the economy.  Concern about global growth weighed on business sentiment
and “we should be expecting further contractions in employment
over the next few months,” said Helen Kevans, an economist in
Sydney at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , whose firm was alone among the
24 survey respondents to predict a drop. The RBA is “very happy
to sit on the sidelines.”  Markets Fall  The Australian dollar fell after the report, trading at
$1.0591 at 4:16 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0640 before the data.
Two-year bond yields declined 11 basis points to 3.65 percent.  Traders are betting Stevens will need to lower borrowing
costs by almost 75 basis points by December, interbank cash-rate
futures show.  The number of full-time jobs declined by 12,600 in August,
and part-time employment rose by 2,900, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, which measures the labor force
as a percentage of the population over 15 years old, held at
65.6 percent in August, it showed.  The total number of unemployed Australians rose for a
fourth straight month, the longest advance since March 2009,
when the global economy was falling into a recession and Stevens
was slashing the nation’s benchmark rate to a half-century low
of 3 percent. The jobless ranks swelled to 636,800, the highest
since October, according to today’s report.  Gender Breakdown  The number of unemployed Australia men gained by 22,200
from a month earlier to 346,200, a 6.9 percent increase that was
the biggest since May 2009, the report showed. The number of
jobless women declined by 3,700 to 290,600, it showed.  While the jobs report spanned a period when Australia
conducted a census, that didn’t have an impact on the main
numbers, Kevans said. “Obviously, that employed a lot of
temporary workers that may or may not have been picked up in the
labor force survey so the impact of that is quite negligible,”
she said.  Retailers and factories are getting hurt by a 15 percent
gain in the currency in the past year that cuts export income
and the developed world’s highest borrowing costs, which Stevens
left unchanged at 4.75 percent this week.  BlueScope Steel last month said it will cut about 1,000
jobs because of a second-half loss due to high raw-material
costs and the currency.  U.S. Slowdown  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, according to a Sept. 2 report.  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” Stevens said in a speech yesterday in Perth.
“It is too soon to see much evidence of a concrete impact of
these events on the global economy.”  Australia’s economy is being driven by a resource bonanza
as China and India, two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population, increase demand for minerals
and energy. The nation’s economy expanded 1.2 percent in the
three months through June, the fastest pace in four years, as
growth rebounded from floods in the first quarter, a government
report showed yesterday.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects this year.  The RBA increased rates by 175 basis points from October
2009 through November 2010. In contrast, the U.S. Federal
Reserve has held its benchmark rate near zero since December
2008. That divergence contributed to a rise in the local dollar,
which reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  