-- 
Bank of England Resists Calls for More Monetary Stimulus to Boost Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-08T12:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bank-of-england-resists-calls-to-add-monetary-stimulus-to-u-k-economy.html
Bank of England  officials resisted
calls to extend economic stimulus as they attempt to navigate a
path between accelerating inflation and a faltering recovery.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by  Mervyn King , maintained the target of its bond program at 200 billion
pounds ($320 billion), as forecast by all but one of 41
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It also held the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent today, as
predicted by all 57 economists in a separate poll. The pound
rose against the dollar after the announcement.  Central banks are refocusing on bolstering growth, with the
 Bank of Canada  saying yesterday there is a “diminished” need
for it to raise rates and  Sweden ’s Riksbank abandoning a planned
tightening. While two U.K. policy makers who were calling for
rate increases dropped that position last month, the Bank of
England may be reluctant to do more so-called quantitative
easing with inflation more than double its target.  “With inflation elevated and expected to rise further, the
bar is relatively high to start another round of asset
purchases,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro Bank
NV in Amsterdam. “I think they want to wait for more incoming
data before making a real decision to do more QE.”  Stimulus Calls  The U.K. Institute of Directors said today the bank should
expand its asset-purchase plan by 50 billion pounds to prevent
the economy slipping back into a recession after reports showed
manufacturing and services weakened in August. The British
Chambers of Commerce is also pressuring the central bank to do
more to help the economy, saying there are “arguments” for
additional stimulus.  The pound rose as much as 0.5 percent against the dollar
after the central bank’s decision. It traded at $1.5997 as of
1:36 p.m. in London after earlier falling to $1.5913, the
weakest level since July 13.  The Bank of England will publish minutes of today’s policy
meeting Sept. 21. Beaumont said they will show “the discussion
has become more intense whether to do more QE or not.”  The European Central Bank today held its benchmark interest
rate at 1.5 percent, as forecast by all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Downside risks to the euro-area economy have
“intensified,” President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told reporters in
 Frankfurt .  G7 Measures  Morgan Stanley said yesterday that the Bank of England,
ECB,  Federal Reserve  and Bank of  Japan  may take concerted action
to tackle weak growth and falling equity prices as soon as this
week’s Group of Seven nations meeting.  “The negative feedback loop between weak growth and soggy
asset markets makes a coordinated monetary policy easing move
more likely,” economists including Joachim Fels said in a
research note.  Since the MPC’s August meeting, when some members said
there was a case for more stimulus, global stocks have fallen
amid fears of a renewed recession. Yields on the debt of Spain
and  Italy  rose as European leaders failed to restore investor
confidence in their ability to end the region’s debt crisis.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said yesterday the U.S.
central bank should consider adding “very significant amounts
of policy accommodation.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to
speak on the economy today and President  Barack Obama  will
address Congress on jobs.  Growth Slows  In the U.K., economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the
three months through August, the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research said yesterday, while the cost of insuring
British bank debt has risen to levels seen in September 2008,
when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  said yesterday that same-store sales fell
7 percent in the 12 weeks through July 23 and it scaled back
investment plans. Still, Chief Executive Officer John Browett
said revenue at the end of the period was “encouraging.”  “There are very serious headwinds that this economy and
other economies around the world are facing,” said Azad Zangana, an economist at Schroders Investment Management in
London. “Households need to continue to deleverage and that in
itself means consumption will remain subdued at best.”  Faster inflation is adding to pressure on the economy by
squeezing Britons’ spending power. Even with price growth
heading toward 5 percent, more than double the central bank’s 2
percent target, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. have
said that the Bank of  England  will resume asset purchases by
November.  Stimulus Barrier  Another barrier for the central bank doing more stimulus
stems from questions on what it would achieve. So far the bank
has acquired about 198 billion pounds of gilts to lower
borrowing costs, with the rest in corporate bonds and commercial
paper.  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  was at 2.33 percent
today, after falling to a record-low 2.24 percent last month.  “If data and financial markets remain weak, the MPC in the
next few weeks will prepare markets for more QE” in October or
November, London-based Citigroup Inc. economist  Michael Saunders 
said. “We believe the MPC will be prepared to accept the risk
that renewed easing will destabilise inflation expectations in
order to reduce the growing and costly risk of economic
disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  