-- 
Banking Crisis in Denmark Holds Lessons Europe’s Regulators Can’t Ignore

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/banking-crisis-in-denmark-holds-lessons-for-europe-s-regulators.html
European regulators weighing
measures to save taxpayers from paying the bill when banks go
bust can learn from the crisis in  Denmark , where an attempt to
share the burden with senior creditors backfired.  The Nordic country, with 5.6 million residents and about
120 lenders, enacted a law in October making it the first
European Union member to force senior bondholders to take losses
if a bank fails. When Copenhagen-based Amagerbanken A/S
collapsed four months later and those creditors took a hit,
international investors curbed funding to most of the nation’s
banks. The government is still trying to remedy the situation.  As regulators in the EU prepare similar rules to deal with
ailing lenders, bankers and analysts say there are lessons to
glean from Denmark’s experiment: Don’t impose burden-sharing
measures during a crisis, and don’t do it alone.  “The Danish authorities have perhaps been a bit too quick
to set up a resolution package,” Henrik Ramlau-Hansen, chief
financial officer of Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest bank,
said in an interview. “We fully support the idea that the banks
should be solid and that you should have strict  capital
requirements , but it’s extremely dangerous to have different
rules in different countries.”  Rewriting Rule Book  Regulators may be taking note. The EU is delaying proposals
for senior bondholders of failing banks to take losses in part
because the measures may spook investors at a time of market
turbulence, two people familiar with the situation said on Sept.
7.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
will introduce draft legislation on the measures in October at
the earliest, rather than this month, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because talks are continuing.  Global regulators are rewriting the rule book for banks
after the credit crunch of 2008 led to the collapse of  New York- 
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and forced governments and
central banks in the U.S. and  Europe  to rescue the financial
system at taxpayer expense.  The Basel-based Financial Stability Board, charged by the
Group of 20 nations to devise rules for too-big-to-fail banks,
is exploring models for dealing with troubled lenders “without
exposing the taxpayer to the risk of loss,” according to a July
19 consultation paper. The FSB will discuss responses from
national central banks and regulators at its Oct. 3 meeting and
plans to submit a final plan to G-20 leaders in Cannes in
November. A timeline for implementation hasn’t yet been set.  ‘Stable Times’  Jesper Berg, a senior vice president at Copenhagen-based
Nykredit A/S who helped write the Danish law while working at
the central bank, said the bill exacerbated the country’s
banking crisis in part because it was implemented while
financial markets were still stressed. The authors had envisaged
the rules taking effect only after calm was restored to
financial markets, he said.  “Experience shows it would have been better to implement
the bail-in package in more stable times,” he said. “The
expectation was also that before things got totally out of hand
people would be able to solve matters behind doors without
needing to resort to a bail-in. That turned out not to be the
case.”  Eleven banks have failed in Denmark since the global
financial crisis of 2008,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a July 28
report. Fifteen more are at risk of default in the next three
years, the rating company said.  ‘Grand Plans’  The same month that Amagerbanken failed, Spar Nord Bank A/S
-- Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender -- was forced to
cancel a bond sale as debt investors balked. The bank is now
selling about 7 billion kroner ($1.3 billion) in assets to raise
money while international funding markets remain closed. In
June, lender Fjordbank Mors A/S failed.  The cost to insure the debt of Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s
biggest lender, has almost doubled since February and is about
60 percent higher than Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB.  “It’s good to have grand plans, but if everything is
collapsing, what do you do?” said Jacques Delpla, an economic
adviser to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , in an interview.
Resorting to bail-ins before forcing banks to recapitalize risks
spreading panic and doesn’t address the fundamental problem of
too much debt, he said.  Danish lawmakers have since agreed on a package designed to
spur troubled lenders to combine and help them avoid resorting
to the country’s resolution bill.  ‘Poison’ to System  Berg at Nykredit said European plans to shift the burden to
senior creditors may cause the same disruptions as those
suffered in Denmark, as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis shows few
signs of abating and banks’ access to funds is already squeezed.  “As for Europe’s plans to implement similar legislation,
financial markets aren’t exactly calm right now,” Berg said.
“They’ve committed to pushing this, but it would be poison to
the financial system in the region to go ahead with something
like this now, given the difficult funding environment at
present.”  A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other
reached the highest level since April 2009 this week when the
difference between the three-month euro interbank offered rate,
or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, widened to 0.78
percentage point.  Denmark’s top financial regulator defended the tougher
rules for bank creditors, saying it protected taxpayers and
drove out the cheap international funding that led to poor
lending decisions and  bank failures .  Moral Hazard  Ulrik Noedgaard, director general of the Financial
Supervisory Authority, said forcing senior creditors to take
losses deals with “the moral hazard issue, that people who
provide credit to banks feel certain that they’ll get their
money back no matter how stupidly the bank behaves.” He would
like to see Europe follow Denmark, though acknowledged it’s a
“challenging time to introduce the idea of creditors taking a
loss.”  Denmark’s brush with burden-sharing shows financial
regulation seldom succeeds unless implemented globally, said
Henrik Christiansson, a London-based bank analyst at Citigroup
Global Markets.  “Any change that’s material needs to be applied at the
same time across all countries, or it moves the problem
elsewhere,” he said. “The markets are very global.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  