-- 
Asian Central Banks Hold Interest Rates Amid Threat of Slowdown in Exports

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o ,   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-08T12:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-for-third-month-on-risks-global-recovery-stalling.html
Four central banks in Asia held off
from raising borrowing costs today even as the region contends
with elevated inflation rates, forced into inaction by the
threat of a slump in exports as the global outlook dims.  The Bank of Korea held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25
percent, and the central banks of Indonesia and the Philippines
kept their rates at 6.75 percent and 4.5 percent, they said in
statements. Malaysia left its overnight policy rate at 3 percent.  Economic data in the region today showed an unexpected drop
in Australian payrolls and the biggest slide in machinery orders
in Japan in 10 months, adding to evidence of the toll from
receding confidence among consumers from Europe to the U.S.
Asian stocks were little changed as investors looked to remarks
by President Barack Obama and the central bank chiefs of the U.S.
and euro region for signs of additional stimulus measures.  “Asia’s starting to feel the chill from Europe and the U.S.
as export demand slows,” said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Inflation will
remain a worry in their minds. But for the time being, they can
take a stance of wait and watch to assess the impact of the
global slowdown on inflation and their economies.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to close today at 1,075.13 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.7 percent. The index
plunged 12 percent in August, the biggest monthly drop since the
global financial crisis in 2008. Indonesia’s rupiah was little
changed at 8,568 a dollar as of 4:29 p.m. in Jakarta today.  Zoellick Warning  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said this week the
world is “moving into a dangerous period” as stocks extended a
slump that wiped $6.6 trillion off global equity values in the
three months ended Sept. 5. Inflation may limit the scope for
stimulus in Asia as expansions slow from China to Malaysia.  Recent economic reports suggest that while overseas demand
for South Korean goods is holding up, corporate executives’
sentiment is worsening as the global economic outlook dims.  Exports continue to drive the Korean economy, expanding a
more-than-expected 27.1 percent in August, while industrial
production rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier in July, less
than analysts’ median estimate of 6.2 percent. Manufacturers’
confidence for September fell to a 21-month low, a Bank of Korea
report last month showed.  Governor Kim Choong Soo said the central bank may not be
able to resume raising interest rates until “external” factors
such as Europe’s debt crisis look to be under control.  ‘Can’t Move’  “The external situation is such that we see downside risks
to our economy as being larger than before,” he told reporters
after the policy decision. “We can’t move interest rates as
long as external conditions are unstable.”  Kim also said today’s decision wasn’t unanimous, without
elaborating. An interest-rate cut wasn’t discussed, he said.  Growth in vehicle sales at Hyundai Motor Co, South Korea’s
largest carmaker, slowed to 5.1 percent in August from a year
earlier after a 9.2 percent gain in July and a 13 percent
increase in June. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest
maker of televisions and flat-screen panels, reported an 18
percent drop in second-quarter profit on slumping TV and display
sales.  Inflation has accelerated even after policy makers boosted
borrowing costs three times this year and the government imposed
price controls. Consumer prices in South Korea rose 5.3 percent
last month from a year earlier, the biggest gain in three years.
Governor Kim said inflation may be higher than expected and the
central bank’s 4 percent target ceiling “may not be
achievable” this year.  Australian Jobs  Australia today reported employers cut 9,700 jobs in August,
underscoring the pressure on central bank Governor Glenn Stevens
to extend a pause in raising rates. The jobless rate rose to 5.3
percent, the highest since October, from 5.1 percent.  The Australian dollar headed for its first weekly decline
in a month and bond yields their first weekly fall in three as
traders raised bets the Reserve Bank will lower borrowing costs
to help spur hiring.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Qantas Airways Ltd.
and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  announced plans last month to trim
workforces.  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings” in policy, Stevens said in a speech yesterday
in Perth.  Philippines Not Urgent  The Philippine central bank sees “no urgency to change the
course” of its monetary policy stance Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told reporters today in Manila. Inflation is “less
of a concern” while growth is “more of a concern,” Guinigundo
said.  Inflation eased for a second month in August, with consumer
prices increasing 4.7 percent from a year earlier, according to
data from the National Statistics Office using 2006 as a base
year. Inflation was 4.3 percent using 2000 as a base year. The
central bank targets an average annual inflation rate of 3
percent to 5 percent this year and next, using the 2000 series.  While Indonesia’s inflation accelerated for the first time
in seven months in August, economic expansion has eased to about
6.5 percent in the first half of 2011 from 6.89 percent late
last year.  Indonesia’s Growth  “Bank Indonesia will be pro-growth at this time,” Norico
Gaman, head of research at PT BNI Securities in Jakarta. “As
long as the global uncertainty persists, BI will have to be very
careful in deciding rates. We need low interest rates to support
purchasing power as Indonesia’s growth is supported by
consumption.”  Bank Indonesia also today cut the lower limit for interbank
lending rates to 150 basis points below the central bank
benchmark interest rate from 100 basis points.  “It appears that credit creation in support of growth is
the primary consideration now, and BI has wriggled out a way to
do so without getting the attention that an outright policy rate
cut would have garnered, perhaps,” Wellian Wiranto, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a note.
“Overall, a dovish tone has tellingly prevailed.”  Malaysia, Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy, expanded
at the weakest pace since 2009 last quarter and a report today
showed export growth slowed in July as electronics sales fell.  ‘Downside Risks’  “The more challenging external environment has” increased
the “downside risks” to Malaysia’s economy, Bank Negara
Malaysia said in a statement today. “While inflation remains a
concern, the increased uncertainties on the global and domestic
economic growth prospects and their potential consequences could
have a moderating impact on inflation.”  In Japan, factory orders dropped 8.2 percent in July from
June, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. Orders, an
indicator of capital spending in three to six months, were
projected to decline by 4.2 percent, according to the median
forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Today’s report added to concern that a rising yen may
derail the nation’s recovery from the record March earthquake,
putting pressure on officials to take action to stem gains in
the currency. The Bank of Japan, which left monetary policy
unchanged yesterday, may ease further as early as this weekend
following a meeting of Group of Seven nation policy makers,
according to Morgan Stanley MUFG.  The measures will likely take the form of additional asset
purchases and may be part of coordinated efforts by central
banks, Morgan Stanley said in a research note dated today.
Further easing by the BOJ is expected by October at the latest,
according to the note.  “The rebound may have run its course” in Japan, Richard Jerram, chief economist at Bank of Singapore Ltd., who has
analyzed Asian economies for two decades. The strong yen “is
lowering profitability of companies, deterring them from making
investments,” he said.  Japan’s currency appreciated to a postwar high last month,
and has gained 19 percent against the dollar in the past two
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  