-- 
Bank of America Structured Notes Sales Drop as Buyers ‘Shy Away’

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bank-of-america-structured-notes-sales-drop-as-buyers-shy-away-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  structured
note sales dropped to the lowest level last month since at least
January 2010 as concern about the creditworthiness of the
nation’s largest lender deterred investors from buying the bank-
backed securities.  “When headline risk spikes, credit awareness spikes with
it,” said Mitchell Eichen, chief executive officer of the MDE
Group, an investment advisor that manages about $1.3 billion.
“There was substantial headline risk surrounding Bank of
America, so people will shy away.”  The bank posted its biggest loss in history in the second
quarter, shares have plummeted 44 percent this year through
yesterday and the cost to protect its debt surged. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is selling assets to comply
with international capital standards and offset mounting
obligations linked to soured home loans.  The lender’s structured note sales fell even as overall
issuance in the market reached its highest level since March.
The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company issued $62.7 million
of the securities in August, down 87 percent from its average
monthly offerings of $464 million this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deals in which Bank of America underwrote
notes issued itself or for other banks, declined 47 percent to
$526 million from a monthly average of $994 million so far this
year, Bloomberg data show.  “Given that August is generally quiet, a decision was made
in July to extend ticketing to the first two weeks of
September,” Selena Morris, a Bank of America spokeswoman said
in an e-mail. “In fact, our results for August are comparable
to other months,” she said, declining to elaborate.  Credit Swaps Rise  Credit-default swaps tied to Bank of America, which rise as
investor confidence deteriorates, jumped to 384 basis points on
Aug. 23, the highest level since April 2009, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  That means it would cost $384,000 annually to protect $10
million of Bank of America’s debt for five years. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  The swaps have declined to 323 basis points after Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett  agreed Aug. 25 to buy $5
billion in preferred equity and four days later the lender
announced a deal to sell almost half its stake in China
Construction Bank Corp., netting $3.3 billion. The price of the
swaps has increased from 127 basis points in April.  “Most people don’t assign a high probability that places
like Bank of America will actually fold,” Eichen, who doesn’t
own structured notes, said in a telephone interview from
Morristown,  New Jersey .  Credit Quality   Investors may be avoiding Bank of America notes because
structured products that have a perceived increased debt risk
trade for less than similarly structured securities issued by
banks with higher credit quality, he said.  Structured notes issued by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
became almost worthless when the company filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008. Investors holding the notes, which are tied to
specific indexes, had the same recourse as other debt investors
when the firm became insolvent, meaning they had to get in line
to be paid after more senior investors.  “For structured products, before Lehman, the reality was
that everyone focused on the structure itself,” said  Brian Jones , chief executive officer of SIP America LLC, which
distributes structured notes to registered investment advisors.  “It was a discussion that should have always been there,
but wasn’t on anybody’s radar,” he said.  Structured notes are bank bonds with embedded options sold
to individual investors for customized bets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 