-- 
Cycling’s Vuelta Race Comes Back to Spain’s Basque Region After 33 Years

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-09-09T17:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/basque-police-prepare-as-tour-of-spain-cycling-race-returns-after-33-years.html
Thousands of spectators turned out
to watch as  Spain ’s biggest cycling race returned to the Basque
region today for the first time since protesters seeking
independence blocked the route in 1978.  Riders competing in the  Vuelta a Espana , or Tour of Spain,
entered the northern territory just after 3 p.m. local time and
raced into Bilbao. Locals lined the route to cheer on Basque
team Euskaltel-Euskadi, with a few waving pro-independence
banners.  Igor Anton, a member of the team, won the stage that twice
traversed the Vivero hill overlooking Bilbao he regularly trains
on. Juanjo Cobo of Spain retained the lead in the overall
standing, 13 seconds ahead of the U.K.’s Chris Froome. The
2,050-mile race ends Sept. 11 in  Madrid .  “Everyone was there, they painted the whole climb” with
my name, Anton told reporters. “It gives you goose-bumps to be
supported like that.”  A few pro-separatists posted stickers on bus stops calling
for the race to “Go Home.” While the Basque region is more
tranquil since terror group ETA called a cease-fire in January,
some object to the Vuelta passing through because they don’t see
the semi-autonomous area as part of Spain, according to Gorka
Landaburu, director of magazine Cambio 16 who in 2001 was
wounded by a letter bomb sent by the organization. ETA has
killed more than 800 people over four decades in its quest for
an independent state.  Franco’s Dictatorship  “Things are much calmer and those of us who live with
bodyguards are much calmer” since the cease-fire was announced,
Landaburu said by telephone from San Sebastian.  ETA, whose initials stand for Basque Homeland and Freedom
in the Basque language, began its campaign in 1968, when Spain
was under Francisco Franco’s military dictatorship. In the years
after the transition to democracy following Franco’s death in
1975, as many as 100 politicians, journalists and police were
killed a year by ETA, Landaburu said.  On the last day of the 1978 Vuelta, separatists rolled
pine-tree logs into the path of riders near Bilbao, forcing
organizers to abandon the stage. They also confronted cyclists
of all nationalities, shouting abuse, according to Miguel
Madariaga, president of the  Euskaltel  team, who witnessed that
stage as a fan.  The three-week Vuelta, which began in Benidorm on Aug. 20,
is the last of the year’s Grand Tours after the Giro d’Italia
and Tour de France. All nine riders on the Euskaltel team, among
the 22 teams contesting the race, were born or raised in the
Basque region, Madariaga said.  In 2009, the Basque Parliament, governed by a coalition led
by Spain’s ruling Socialist party, approved a resolution to
invite Madrid-based Vuelta organizer Unipublic S.A. to return to
the Basque region. At the time, the government’s sports director
Patxi Mutiloa told reporters it was “another grain of sand in
this long road to normality.”  Soccer Invite  The coalition also invited Spain’s national soccer team to
play a home game in the territory for the first time since 1967.
The defending World Cup winner’s squad includes Basque
midfielder  Xabi Alonso .  “What we’re seeing today is that these people deserve” to
have the race back, Patxi Lopez, the leader of the Basque
regional parliament, told Television Espanola as spectators
thronged the streets of Bilbao in heat which reached 39 degrees
Centigrade (102 degrees Fahrenheit). “We’ve got some of the
best fans of this sport.”  The  Basque Nationalist Party , which wants independence,
doesn’t object to the cycling race passing through the area
provided the Socialists don’t use it as “a sign of
normalization,” according to a spokesman who declined to be
identified in line with party policy. He compared it to the
region hosting a stage of the 1992 Tour de  France .  A spokeswoman for Basque separatist party Bildu didn’t
provide a representative for comment.  Welcome Return  For Basque cycling fans, the race’s return to the area is
more than welcome, according to Madariaga, the Basque team
president. Every July, the team draws thousands of fans to the
Pyrenees to watch Tour de France stages.  Riding in the passenger seat of Euskaltel team’s car,
Madariaga yelled support at Anton as he closed on the stage
victory. Anton won by 41 seconds.  “We have the most devoted cycling fans in Spain,”
Madariaga said, adding it’s impossible to have everyone’s
support about the race’s return. “There will be arguments about
it but we can’t agree on everything in life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Bilbao, Spain at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net 
NI SPORTS
NI TDF
NI GEN
NI POL
NI CRIME
NI TERROR
NI CYCLING
NI SPORTBIZ
NI ITALY
NI SPAIN
NI FRA 