-- 
Bernanke Says Tighter Budgets May Hurt Recovery as Fed Considers Stimulus

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bernanke-fed-will-weigh-more-stimulus-at-next-meeting.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that quick deficit reduction may hurt the
recovery and said the central bank this month will consider
steps to bolster growth and spur hiring.  “A substantial fiscal consolidation in the shorter term
could add to the headwinds facing economic growth and hiring,”
Bernanke said in a speech yesterday in Minneapolis, repeating
many points in his address last month in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  The Fed chief, in a speech to economists, said policy
makers have measures at hand and are “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate.” As in Jackson Hole, he stopped short of
signaling what he believes is the central bank’s best option to
aid the economy, sending stocks lower.  Bernanke has previously said that possible steps include
buying more  government bonds  and lengthening the duration of
securities in its $1.65 trillion Treasury portfolio. Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  and a former
Fed economist, said policy makers at their Sept. 20-21 will
probably decide to extend the average maturity of the Fed’s bond
holdings.  Just hours after Bernanke’s speech, President  Barack Obama 
called on Congress to pass a jobs plan that would inject $447
billion into the economy through infrastructure spending, by
cutting in half the payroll taxes paid by workers and small-
business owners and by providing subsidies to local governments
to stem teacher layoffs.  Most of the economic impact from the infrastructure
spending would be next year, though some of it would come in
2013, an administration official said.  Housing Slump  Bernanke warned in his  Jackson Hole  speech that the Fed
alone can’t lift sagging home prices, mitigate a wave of home
foreclosures, or put 14 million unemployed Americans back to
work.  “He’s been pretty careful all along to argue for some
stimulus in the short run because of the need to get the economy
growing,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , a former Atlanta Fed research
director and now chief monetary economist at Cumberland Advisors
Inc. of Sarasota,  Florida .  “He would not want to see austerity put in place because
that would be counter to what he sees as important to the short-
run growth of the economy,” Eisenbeis said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent to
1,185.90 at 4 p.m. in  New York  as Bernanke disappointed
investors by refraining from detailing plans to boost growth.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries declined seven basis points to 1.98
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Fragile Economy  Bernanke said Obama and Congress must put the federal
government’s finances on a “sustainable trajectory” over the
long term, while warning that policy makers should not
“disregard the fragility of the economic recovery” by pushing
short-term fiscal austerity.  Answering audience questions, Bernanke didn’t say how much
the government should cut spending to put the country on a
stable fiscal path. He also didn’t detail how he believes the
U.S. should reduce long-term deficits.  On inflation, Bernanke said, “we see little indication
that the higher rate of inflation experienced so far this year
has become ingrained in the economy.”  The speech marks Bernanke’s first comments on the economy
since a government report last week showed that hiring
unexpectedly stalled in August and the  unemployment rate 
remained stuck at 9.1 percent.  “The weakness of the housing sector and continued
financial volatility are two key reasons for the frustratingly
slow pace of the recovery,” Bernanke said.  Budget Shortfalls  Other impediments to growth include cost-cutting by state
and local governments confronting budget shortfalls and waning
federal fiscal stimulus, he said.  The Fed at its September meeting will probably announce
plans to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in its portfolio
with long-term bonds in an effort to lower rates on everything
from mortgages to  car loans , according to economists at
Barclay’s Capital Inc., Wells Fargo & Co., and T. Rowe Price
Associates Inc.  “We see the relatively downbeat nature of the chairmen’s
comments on the growth outlook as confirming our view that the
FOMC is inclined to take further accommodative steps at its
September meeting,” said Gapen at Barclays.  Among its additional measures for easing, the Fed could cut
the 0.25 percent interest rate it pays banks on the $1.6
trillion in excess reserves they have parked at the Fed. It
could also pledge to keep record monetary stimulus in place
until unemployment drops to a certain level or inflation rises
to a specific threshold.  Reduce Unemployment  That’s similar to the suggestion made this week by Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  in a speech in  London . He said the
Fed’s commitment to low  interest rates  should be made contingent
on pushing down the unemployment rate to 7 percent or 7.5
percent, as long as inflation stays below 3 percent.  The  U.S. economy  is flagging more than two years after the
recession ended. The Fed reported Sept. 7 that the recovery
slowed in some regions of the country during July and August as
factories curbed production and consumers limited their spending.  The economy barely grew in the first six months of this
year. The 0.7 percent growth rate for that period was the
weakest stretch since the recovery began in June 2009.  Even though Bernanke said the Fed has lowered its
projection for economic growth over the coming quarters, policy
makers still expect the economy to “strengthen over time,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Minneapolis  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  