-- 
Bond Investors Consider Greek Debt Exchange as Budget Concerns Escalate

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-09T11:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bond-investors-consider-greek-debt-exchange-as-budget-concerns-escalate.html
Questions over  Greece ’s ability to
meet the terms of its first rescue package are dogging the
indebted nation as bondholders weigh whether to participate in a
debt exchange that’s crucial to a second bailout.  Greece is seeking preliminary responses today from bond
investors to the proposed debt swap, part of a 159 billion-euro
($220 billion) European Union rescue plan agreed upon in July.
Responses to the inquiry, which is not a formal offer, are
nonbinding and will be aggregated by regulators on a country-by-
country basis, according to the Greek government.  “We do not expect any official announcement today or in
the coming days regarding the investor submissions and level of
expected participation,” analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in
a research note. The analysts said that even if there are
indications of high interest, “we would see no reason for the
authorities to reveal the fact in order to keep the incentives
at play to minimize holdouts.”  The Greek government is still trying to show it can reach
budget-cutting targets required for the next 8 billion-euro
payment from a bailout engineered in 2010.  “There are a lot of optics to get exactly right, or
European bond investors are going to start trying to get out of
more than just their Greek bond holdings,” said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.
“This is about creating confidence in the markets that the euro
-- the currency and union -- is not going to fall apart at the
seams.”  Euro Falls  The euro slipped 0.4 percent to $1.3824, on course for its
biggest weekly decline since May. The yield on the two-year
German note dropped to as low as 0.385 percent, with the 10-year
bund yield sliding to 1.812 percent, also the lowest on record.  Greek two-year note yields added as much as 79 basis points
to 55.84 percent, a euro-era record. Credit-default swaps
insuring Greek sovereign bonds jumped 212 basis points to a
record 3,238, according to CMA. The five-year contracts signal
there’s a 92 percent probability the country won’t meet its debt
commitments.  Greece said this week it will accelerate further austerity
measures as pressure mounted from European partners before the
payment of the sixth tranche of bailout loans under last year’s
110 billion-euro loan package. A scheduled quarterly review of
Greece’s progress by the EU and the  International Monetary Fund 
was unexpectedly suspended for 10 days and won’t resume until
mid-month.  ‘Knife’s Edge’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece
won’t get its next bailout installment unless it meets goals
under the aid package. At a closed-door meeting this week, he
told lawmakers that the Greek government’s budget reforms are
failing, placing the country’s financial situation “on a
knife’s edge,” according to a report in parliament’s HIB
bulletin.  Greece needs to win approval of its next funding
installment to keep its follow-on bailout package on track. If
euro-area governments get spooked, they might not take necessary
action to keep the rescue program on course.  There are no talks on Greece potentially leaving the euro,
European Commission economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. Neither exit nor expulsion is
possible and euro-area membership is irrevocable, he said.  Participation Rate  Parliaments across the euro area must approve changes to
the European Union’s crisis fund for the bailout to proceed and
for investors to decide whether to participate in the debt swap,
said Hung Tran, deputy managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance . The Washington-based banking group is
working with regulators and the Greek authorities on the bond
exchange.  “We hope that different parliaments should move as quickly
as they could,” Tran said in a telephone interview. “The
expectation seems to be end of September, early October.”  IIF says 40 financial institutions have so far explicitly
lent their support to the debt exchange. Those companies own
about 70 billion euros in Greek government debt, or about 50
percent of the bonds eligible for the debt exchange.  ‘Small’ Losses  More banks have signed up behind the scenes. IIF estimates
that preliminary participation rates are between 60 percent and
70 percent, with more financial firms expected to sign on as
formal terms become available. Greece said this week that the
formal offers will be made in October.  Investors should take part in a proposed Greek bond
exchange because the deal offers “relatively small” losses and
needs full participation to succeed,  Barclays Capital  said in a
report.  For participants, the effective loss is likely to be about
5 percent on average in net present value, not the 21 percent
loss described in the proposal, the Barclays analysts said.
That’s based on a comparison of the old bonds’ projected cash
flows, in present value terms, with those of the new bonds.  If the bond swap fails, investors would likely recoup only
about 40 cents on the euro, the report said. If the bond
exchange succeeds, participating investors would likely recoup
74 cents.  “Our analysis suggests that investors should tender,” the
Barclays report said. “Most importantly, the alternative --
holding out -- would most likely result in a failed exchange and
a default.”  Nobel-prize winning economist  Robert Mundell , whose
research contributed to the creation of the euro, said yesterday
that a Greek default would trigger a run on banks of “monstrous
proportions.”  “This risk means that issues in Greece and the euro area
are an international problem,” Mundell told reporters in
Budapest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 