-- 
Botha Injury Concerns Springboks; 9/11 Tributes Planned: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-08T06:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/botha-injury-concerns-springboks-9-11-tributes-planned-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in  New Zealand .  Botha Ruled Out   South Africa  will be without lock  Bakkies Botha  for the
opening game of its World Cup title defense against  Wales  on
Sept. 11 because of an Achilles injury, Springboks assistant
coach Dick Muir said.  “He’s so important for us for the remainder of the
competition that we wouldn’t take any chances with Bakkies,”
Muir said today at a news conference in Wellington. “We’ll take
it week by week, but I think he’s going to be out this week
unfortunately.”  Springboks coach Peter de Villiers is scheduled to name his
team for the match in Wellington tomorrow.  ‘Give it to Them’  Tonga captain Finau Maka said his  12th-ranked  team is
determined to make an impact in tomorrow’s tournament opener
against  World Cup  favorite New Zealand in Auckland. The All
Blacks have won their three previous meetings by an average
margin of 74 points.  “We just don’t want to turn up and make up the numbers, we
want to go out there and show the world that Tonga does exist,”
Maka said in comments distributed by World Cup organizers.
“There’s no pressure on us, the pressure is on them. We’re just
going to go out there and give it to them and see if they can
handle it.”  Black Armbands  The U.S. and Ireland will honor the members of the rugby
community who died in the Sept. 11, 2011, attacks in their World
Cup match in three days, tournament organizers said.  Both teams will observe a minute’s silence prior to kickoff
and will wear black armbands in memory of those who lost their
lives. The Eagles will also attend a memorial service on the
morning of the match in New Plymouth.  “Obviously 9/11 is at the front of their minds, so it will
be emotional,” U.S. coach Eddie O’Sullivan said in comments
distributed by tournament organizers. “It will be nice,
especially with the guys being away from home.”  Eye Injury  Ireland prop Cian Healy won’t play against the U.S. because
he hasn’t recovered from an eye injury sustained against  England 
last month, team manager Paul McNaughton said. Sean O’Brien,
Gordon D’Arcy and Rob Kearney are all available for selection.  “We’re picking from a full deck other than Cian,”
McNaughton said at a press conference. “He won’t resume contact
until the weekend, so he won’t be available for the U.S. game,
but he will be available for the Australia game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  