-- 
Bovespa Index Advances to One-Week High on Steelmaker Rally, Rate Signal

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-08T20:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/bovespa-rises-as-brazil-central-bank-signals-further-rate-cuts.html
The Bovespa stock index rose for a
second day, reaching a one-week high, as steelmakers rallied on
acquisition prospects and Brazil’s central bank signaled it may
make further  interest-rate  cuts amid its outlook for slowing
inflation.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, surged the most in two weeks after a news
report said that Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA offered to buy a
26 percent stake in its rival. Lojas Renner SA and PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes led advances for retailers and
homebuilders.  The Bovespa climbed 1.8 percent to 57,623.63 at the 4:15
p.m. New York time close. Fifty-four stocks rose on the index
while 12 fell. The real lost 0.3 percent to 1.6614 per dollar.  “If the news is confirmed, it seems the strategy could
benefit CSN, and it ends up boosting the sector as a whole as it
had lagged a lot,” said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee
70 million reais ($42.3 million) at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis,  Brazil . “The market has priced in the central
bank’s new, less rigorous model. Because the market was closed
yesterday, we’re seeing some adjustments based on the gains in
global stocks.”  U.S. stocks rallied yesterday, when Sao Paulo markets were
shut for a national holiday, on speculation President  Barack Obama ’s expected plan to inject more than $300 billion into the
economy will bolster growth. American equities slid today as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  disappointed investors
by not detailing new plans to boost growth, leading the Bovespa
to pare an intraday jump of as much as 2.9 percent.  Usiminas Stake  CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch offered to
acquire the stake in Usiminas from Camargo Correa SA and
Votorantim Participacoes SA, O Estado de S. Paulo reported,
citing unidentified people involved in the process. Camargo and
Votorantim declined to comment, O Estado said. A CSN press
official in  Sao Paulo , who declined to be named when contacted
by Bloomberg News today citing corporate policy, said any
disclosure related to Usiminas would be made in a press release
or regulatory filing when appropriate.  Usiminas voting shares jumped 8 percent to 23.65 reais
while CSN gained 1.5 percent to 15.79 reais. Gerdau SA,  Latin
America ’s largest steelmaker, advanced 4.6 percent to 14.11
reais.  Brazil’s central bank said that “moderate adjustments” in
the benchmark interest rate are “consistent” with its goal of
bringing inflation to the 4.5 percent target in 2012, according
to the minutes of the bank’s August 30-31 meeting, which were
published today. That signals more rate cuts are on the way,
said  Tony Volpon , Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. Annual inflation reached 7.23 percent last
month, according to the national statistics agency.  Rate Cycle  “Buying the end of the rate cycle has worked
historically,” analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., including Ben Laidler, wrote in a note to clients. They expect the benchmark
Selic rate, which policy makers lowered by half a percentage
point to 12 percent last week, to fall to 11 percent by yearend,
boosting stocks that benefit from domestic demand.  PDG, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, advanced 4.8
percent to 8.30 reais. Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded clothing retailer, gained 4.1 percent to 63.00
reais.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge on Sept. 6 climbed the most
in three weeks after a measure of U.S. service industries rose
more than forecast.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. The measure
since extended that drop to 22 percent through Sept. 6 and
trades at 9.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.6 for
the Shanghai Composite Index, 5.9 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.4
for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  