-- 
Boy Scout Billionaire Donates $25 Million for 10,600-Acre Park

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/boy-scout-billionaire-gives-25-million-for-10-600-acres-of-jamboree-park.html
Jim Justice has fond memories of
exploring  West Virginia  as a Cub and Boy Scout.  “I have a real love for the outdoors,” said Justice, 60.
“And it began with my dad, with me waddling alongside him.”  Today, the chief executive officer of Justice Family Group
LLC will announce a $25 million gift to the Boy Scouts of
America, the largest single philanthropic donation he has made.  The money will support the creation of  the Summit Bechtel
Family National Scout Reserve , a 10,600-acre park near his home
in Lewisburg, West Virginia, that will host the organization’s
2013 National Scout Jamboree.  “I can’t think of an organization that has done more for
kids,” Justice said by phone, noting that the Boy Scouts of
America emphasizes character and citizenship. “If there’s
anything we need today, it’s that.”  Justice earned a golf scholarship to the University of
 Tennessee  and then transferred to Marshall University where he
excelled in the sport and earned bachelor’s and master’s
degrees.  He joined his father’s company, Blue Stone Industries, and
took over the business when his father died in 1993. Justice
expanded into agriculture, timber, cotton gins and Christmas
trees. Justice Family Farms LLC is one of the largest grain
producers on the East Coast, according to a company spokesman.  In 2008, he sold the unit Bluestone Coal Corp. to OAO
 Mechel (MTLR) , a Moscow-based metals and mining company, for $1.45
billion. The following year, Justice bought The Greenbrier, a
luxury resort in West Virginia’s Allegheny Mountains, for $20.1
million and rescued it from bankruptcy.  Other Gifts  Other philanthropists have made large gifts to support the
scout reserve, such as Bechtel Group Inc. Chairman Emeritus
Stephen D. Bechtel Jr., who gave $50 million, the largest
donation to fund the land purchase for the BSA project.  Walter Scott Jr. of  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  made a $25
million donation, and J. Brett Harvey, chairman and chief
executive officer of  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , chipped in $15 million.
The BSA has raised about $200 million for the project from
donors.  “The people who we track as donors are leaders in their
community,” Wayne Perry, president-elect of the Boy Scouts of
America, said by phone. “They remember the past, they see how
the youth of America need this program. Jim’s gone on to be an
unbelievable citizen.”  Justice, who will name one of the parks of the Scout
Reserve after his father, said he learned about the BSA project
during an elk-hunting trip in  Colorado  with Harvey.  “It was an easy call for me, but it was also a big, big
step,” Justice said about the size of his donation. “At the
same time, when you leave this life, it’s all about what you
left behind.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 