-- 
Brazil Rate Cut to Prevent Slowdown in Inflation, Macquarie’s Welch Says

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-09-08T21:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/brazil-rate-cut-to-prevent-slowdown-in-inflation-macquarie-s-welch-says.html
Brazil ’s interest-rate reduction
last week will prop up domestic demand and prevent inflation
from slowing from a six-year high, said John Welch, chief
emerging-markets strategist at Macquarie Capital Inc.  Welch, speaking at the Bloomberg Global Inflation Conference
in  New York , said the 50 basis-point rate cut to 12 percent on
Aug. 31 shows Brazilian policy makers are “betting” inflation
will slow before year-end. Annual inflation surged last month to
7.2 percent, the fastest rate since 2005, in Latin America’s
biggest economy.  “I don’t see any reason for inflation dropping,” Welch
said. “At the margin, it’s accelerating again.”  Brazil’s rate cut, which followed five consecutive
increases, surprised all 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who
expected rates to be left unchanged. The central bank signaled
it may reduce borrowing costs further on expectations the global
economic slowdown will help inflation slow in line with its 4.5
percent target next year, according to the minutes of the
meeting released today.  “They will rethink it,” said Welch, the former chief
 Latin America  economist at Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.  A rebound in the  U.S. dollar  would curb the increase in
global commodities, helping slow inflation in Brazil and support
the central bank’s rate move,  Steve Hanke , a professor of
applied economics Johns Hopkins University, told the conference.  ‘Winning Bet’  Most of the swings in emerging-market inflation are being
driven by the “weak” dollar as the  Federal Reserve  prints
money to spur growth, said Adam Lerrick, an economics professor
at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh.  “If there’s a flight back into the dollar, maybe what they
are doing is a winning bet,” Hanke said.  Interest-rate futures contracts indicate that traders are
anticipating the central bank will lower borrowing costs another
100 basis points in its final two policy meetings this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While industrial production fell in July, the labor market
remains tight with the  unemployment rate  declining to a seven-
month low of 6 percent in July. Bank lending expanded at a 20
percent annual pace while the minimum wage is set to increase 14
percent next year, according to a government formula.  A gauge of investors’ inflation expectations, known as the
breakeven rate, soared to a five-month high after the rate cut.
The yield gap between inflation-linked bonds and interest-rate
futures due in 2013 jumped to 6.21 percentage points on Sept. 2,
the highest level since April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The breakeven rate was 6.18 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  