-- 
Brown Reaches Deal With California Lawmakers to End a Business Tax Break

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-08T22:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/brown-reaches-deal-with-california-lawmakers-to-end-a-business-tax-break.html
California  Governor Jerry Brown and
Assembly leaders said they reached a deal to require businesses
to base their taxes solely on in-state sales, which will yield
$1 billion a year by eliminating an optional method of
calculation.  Brown and Assembly lawmakers of both parties outlined a
proposal to apply the single-sales factor to all enterprises,
with the additional revenue earmarked as tax relief for small
businesses, manufacturers and taxpayers.  The proposals are aimed at reducing California’s jobless
rate, which climbed to 12 percent in July, the second-highest in
the U.S. after  Nevada . The national rate that month was 9.1
percent. Senate Republicans, whose votes would be needed to
approve the plan, aren’t part of the agreement and the
legislative session is scheduled to end tomorrow.  “This eliminates a toxic loophole that favors people who
move jobs out of California and penalizes people who try to put
jobs in the state,” the Democratic governor said at a
Sacramento news conference.  Under current law, businesses engaged in agriculture,
mining and banking must base their corporate taxes equally on
payroll, property and sales in California, according to the
state Finance Department. Other companies may choose between a
formula in which 50 percent of taxes are based on California
sales and 25 percent are based on property and 25 percent on
other sales, and one in which 100 percent is based on sales.
Brown’s proposal would end that option.  Compromise With Republicans  As part of the compromise with Republicans, Brown wants to
cut the amount of sales taxes start-up companies pay on the
purchases of manufacturing equipment by 4 percent, while
lowering the levy by 1 percent for existing companies, according
to the governor’s office.  “What we are trying to do is put the money into the hands
of people who will spend it,” Assemblyman Nathan Fletcher, a
Republican, said at the news conference with Brown.  To aid small businesses, Brown would cut the  tax rate  by
half of a percentage point for the first $50,000 in taxable
income for most corporations to 8.34 percent from 8.84 percent
and provide a 10 percent exemption for the first $50,000 in
business income for personal income-tax payers. He also would
increase the standard deduction by $1,000 for individuals and
$2,000 for couples.  Senate Republican leader Bob Dutton responded by sending a
letter to Brown urging him to call a special session of the
Legislature.  “There is nothing more complex than  tax reform , and trying
to jam through proposal on the last day of session without
transparency or input from the public and tax experts is
irresponsible,” Dutton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  