-- 
Buy India Bank, Auto Stocks on Growth Outlook, Anand Rathi Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-08T10:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/buy-india-bank-auto-stocks-on-growth-outlook-anand-rathi-says.html
D.D. Sharma, senior vice-president
of research at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd., comments on
the outlook for Indian stocks. He spoke in a phone interview.  The BSE India Sensitive Index advanced for a third day,
gaining 0.6 percent to 17,165.54 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, the highest level in a month.  On markets:  “Inflation and interest rates are the basic concerns
affecting markets. Oil prices are also very high. If oil prices
or other commodities come down, then we are on a growth path.”  On interest rates:  “I expect the Reserve Bank of India to increase rate by 25
basis points. There are concerns about growth and investment in
the economy. Because of tightening, there is a slight drop in
the growth rate of 8 percent. If the RBI stops tightening now
and if commodity prices fall, then growth rate may pick up and
in that case we may end up with growth of above 8 percent.”  On investment strategy:  “The markets are close to effective valuations. The low of
two weeks ago could be the bottom. We can expect recovery in the
coming quarters.”  “Investors should buy into sectors like infrastructure,
automobiles and banking because the economy will continue to
grow. There could be slight drop in the growth rate because of
the tightening. I would avoid metals because we’re anticipating
a weak trend in commodities. Investors must also avoid software
stocks because developed markets are slowing down and budgets
for information-technology are falling. I recommend lenders --
ICICI Bank Ltd. and Axis Bank Ltd. -- and auto stock like
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. and Tata Motors Ltd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  