-- 
Buy India Consumer Goods, Durables, Auto Ancillary, Ambit Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-08T08:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/buy-india-consumer-goods-durables-auto-ancillary-ambit-says.html
Saurabh Mukherjea, director of
institutional equities at Ambit Capital Pvt, comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. Mukherjea spoke in a phone interview
from Mumbai.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index swung between gains and
losses and was 5.36 points lower at 17,059.64 at 1.38 p.m. local
time.  On markets:  “There are concerns in the market about high inflation.
Also, growth is decelerating and because of political
instability, there is little support from the government.
India’s growth process depends on what happens in the West,
especially the U.S. through the investment-demand conduit,
because India is a capital-scarce economy and depends on equity
inflows from the Western world. Given the  U.S. economy  is not in
the best shape, India equity inflows have weakened and that has
adversely affected capital in the country.”  On  interest rates :  “The  Reserve Bank  of India will increase rates by another
50 basis points. The key reason for this is despite weakness in
growth, inflationary data continues to remain punchy.”  The central bank has raised its repurchase rate 11 times
since the March 2010 and last increased it by 50 basis points on
July 26 to 8 percent to damp living costs that are rising the
fastest among the so-called BRICS nations. The bank meets for
its next policy review on Sept. 16.  On investment strategy:  “We are trading at a significant premium to other emerging
markets. Considering India’s inflation is higher than other
markets, with growth slowing down, the premium is not justified.
Markets will continue to grind lower and will reach 14,500
levels by December 2012 because this premium should come down
with long-term averages.  ‘‘Investors should look at stocks which are great in
profitability and immune to inflation and growth slowdowns. We
expect growth to be 7.1 percent in the fiscal year 2012 and
advise clients to buy  consumer goods , auto ancillary and
consumer durables stocks. These stocks will not be affected by
the growth rate. Investors should avoid financial services,
banking, auto, cement and construction stocks because these
sectors are most affected by a slowdown.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  