-- 
Buy Turkey Stocks on Valuation Near Cheapest Ever, Citi Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-08T08:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/buy-turkey-stocks-on-valuation-near-cheapest-ever-citi-says-1-.html
Investors should buy Turkish
equities as the country’s share index underperformed its peers
this year and relative valuations look nearly as cheap as ever,
Citigroup Inc. said.  Turkey “has underperformed with emerging markets and
valuations are looking nearly as cheap as they ever have,”
Citigroup analysts Andrew Howell and Maria Gratsova in London
said in an e-mailed report today. Investors have “reduced their
exposure significantly over the past year. We say buy it back.”  The Turkish market’s underperformance over the past year
has been partly due to the country’s currency weakening 13
percent over the course of the year, the analysts said, pushing
Turkish equities to their second-worst drop relative to the rest
of emerging markets in the past decade.  The underperformance nearly equals that of the “mini-panic
of 2006,” during which the lira was also weak and which was
followed by a “powerful two-year Turkish rally,” the analysts
said.  The stocks on Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  have lost
more than a quarter of their value this year, falling 27 percent
in dollar terms. The index rose 195.18, or 0.4 percent, to
55,433.40 at 10:55 a.m. today, gaining for a third day.  Citigroup said its “top picks” in Turkey were automaker
 Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO) , wholesale supermarket chain
Bizim Toptan Satis Magazalari AS, airport operator  TAV
Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , builder Tekfen Holding AS, and banks
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS.  ‘Not Risk-Free’  The “buy” recommendation for Turkish stocks is
“certainly not a risk-free” call, the analysts said, with
Turkey’s record current-account deficit being “the most
persuasive reason to avoid Turkish assets right now.”  The current-account gap, which reached a $72.5 billion
deficit in the 12 months through June, puts Turkey at a greater
risk of a slowdown in capital inflows and could lead to a
“disorderly further weakening of the lira,” the report said.  The resilience of Turkish bond markets, however, shows
there’s “no signs of capital flight” from Turkey, Citigroup
said. Turkish bonds strengthened over the past month, with
yields falling 11 basis points to 7.86 percent over the period.  “Taking all this into account, we still see Turkey as ‘the
place to be’” in emerging markets with Turkey offering “some
of the more attractive valuations we have seen in years,” the
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  