-- 
Apple, Oracle, Google, Eastman Kodak: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-08T11:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/htc-apple-oracle-google-eastman-kodak-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, filed infringement claims against Apple
Inc. yesterday, using patents obtained from Google Inc. last
week.  The nine patents originated with Palm Inc., Motorola Inc.
and Openwave Systems Inc., with Google taking ownership within
the past year, according to U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
records. Mountain View, California-based Google recorded
transfer of the patents to HTC on Sept. 1, according to the
agency’s website.  HTC sued Apple yesterday in federal court in  Delaware ,
claiming infringement of four of those patents that originally
were issued to Motorola. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC also amended
a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , alleging infringement of three patents first issued
to Openwave and two others originally owned by Palm.  Apple, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, has filed
patent cases against handset makers using Google’s Android
operating system, including Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC.  “We think competition is healthy, but competitors should
create their own original technology, not steal ours,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, said yesterday, reiterating a
statement Chairman Steve Jobs made last year when Apple sued
HTC.  HTC and Apple “have to sit down and figure it out,” HTC
Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in a July 26 telephone
interview. “We’re open to having discussions,” he said.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Communication Capabilities, Complaint No. 2841, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The earlier civil
case is HTC Corp. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 11-cv-715, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Patent  Oracle Says Talks to Resolve Google Patent Suit ‘Warranted’  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  said new settlement talks with Google Inc. to
resolve its patent- and copyright-infringement lawsuit against
the search engine company are “warranted” and proposed a
mediation session for this month.  “An additional attempt at settlement of the case through
mediation before a United States magistrate judge is
warranted,” Michael Jacobs, an Oracle attorney, said in a
filing yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco . “Oracle has
found previous efforts at settlement, including private
discussions between the parties, frustrating for lack of follow-
through, and believes that those efforts have not exhausted the
possibilities for resolving the case.”  Google doesn’t object to participating in mediation, the
 Mountain View , California-based company said yesterday in a
separate filing. The companies were responding to a judge’s
suggestion that they pursue settlement talks.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, sued Google
last year, claiming the Internet search-engine company didn’t
obtain a license for the patents that it says are infringed by
the Android operating system. Besides seeking billions of
dollars in damages, Oracle wants the court to order destruction
of all products that violate its copyrights.  Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, said the company didn’t
have any comment beyond the filing.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  A trial is scheduled to begin Oct. 31.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  Kodak’s Bondholders Seem Supportive of Plans to Sell Patents  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) ’s plan to sell patents is gaining
traction with bond investors after derivatives last month
suggested a 97 percent chance the 131-year-old camera maker
would fail within five years.  The implied five-year default probability on Kodak was 73
percent on Sept. 2, according to data provider CMA, which
compiles prices in the privately negotiated market. The
Rochester, New York-based company’s $250 million of 7.25 percent
debt due November 2013 yielded 14.7 percent on Aug. 31 after
jumping to as high as 19.8 percent on Aug. 10.  Kodak, headed for its sixth annual loss in seven years, is
following Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Nortel Networks
Corp. in marketing patents as the U.S. International Trade
Commission delays a ruling on the company’s attempts to win $1
billion in licensing fees for image-preview technology used in
cameras. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said Aug. 29 that
the company has signed confidentiality agreements with potential
buyers of more than 1,000 Kodak patents.  “This has helped investors feel more comfortable with the
name in that they know at least one of the two avenues the
company is seeking for cash may pay out,” said Jody Lurie, a
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“Investors have been scared about the company’s cash levels,
and as a result, any sort of good news that comes out about the
company has improved investors’ fears.”  The sale may raise $1.5 billion to $3 billion for Kodak,
giving the company between 18 and 24 months to improve its
inkjet printers and other digital businesses, said David Novosel, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago .  Christopher Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak, said the
company doesn’t comment on market movements in stocks or bonds.
In August, Perez, CEO since 2005, said he’s seeking patent deals
that give Kodak cash upfront as well as preserve licensing
rights to its technology.  Kodak is selling “the part of the portfolio that does not
apply to the core investments and the future of the company,”
said Perez, who declined to disclose potential bidders and
specifics of negotiations.  For more, click here.  Obama Agencies Try YouTube to IPad Hawking Patents in Job Push  President Barack Obama, stymied by his inability to
replenish jobs lost during the recession, may find hope in
retired Air Force General Klaus Schafer.  Schafer, partnering with DNA scientist Claude Tibbetts,
found the seeds of a new business among the government’s
thousands of patents. Zeroing in on research they were familiar
with to identify bacteria, they set up  TessArae LLC  and licensed
technology from the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory in 2007 to
help doctors detect communicable and foodborne diseases.  “We decided it was better to license this technology than
recreate it,” said Schafer, whose Potomac Falls, Virginia-based
company now has 14 employees and plans to add more.  It’s the kind of job creation that government agencies are
trying to foster -- turning for the first time to social media
sites like  Twitter  and  YouTube  to get the word out -- as they
heed Obama’s call to push more research into the hands of small
businesses. The U.S. government had  10,913 active licenses  for
its intellectual property in fiscal 2009 and spent  $114.5
billion  on research and development that year, including grants
and work done with universities, states and companies, according
to the latest government data.  “We’re trying to think creatively about how we structure
licenses, to reduce entry barriers and to provide incentives,”
said Mark Rohrbaugh, director of the National Institutes of
Health’s Office of Technology Transfer in Rockville, Maryland.
“The administration wants agencies to be creative and enhance
the way that we transfer technologies to the private sector, not
just to fulfill our mission of improving public health, which is
our primary mission, but to create jobs.”  “The effort is not so much to generate revenue from the
licensing as it is getting the technology out of the government
labs and creating more goods and services that can, in turn,
create jobs,” said Doug Comstock, director of the  Innovative
Partnerships Program  at  NASA .  The federal government has owned 35,056 patents in its
history, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. U.S.
agencies made $154.3 million from licensing in fiscal 2009,
according to the  National Institute of Standards and Technology ,
which compiles data on U.S. licensing programs.  For more, click here.  Copyright  FBI Proposes Expanding Use of Anti-Piracy Warning Seal  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is proposing a new
regulation that would allow all eligible copyright holders to
use its anti-piracy warning seal. The proposal was published
yesterday in the Federal Register.  The seal was first approved for use in 2003 as part of a
copyright anti-piracy awareness campaign. At the time, the FBI
implemented a pilot program with five entertainment and software
industry associations; members of these associations could
request approval to use the seal from the associations.  The new rule proposes to replace the pilot program with a
regulation allowing the seal to be downloaded for free on
eligible works.  For more, click here.  Trade Secrets  Gundlach Says TCW Contracts Protected Him Against Firing  Jeffrey Gundlach  testified in a trial against TCW Group
Inc. over his 2009 firing that he had negotiated in contracts
going back to 1992 specific conditions under which the firm
could terminate him “for cause.”  “I wanted to make sure I couldn’t be fired out of the
blue,” Gundlach told jurors yesterday in state court in  Los
Angeles . He also said that since 1989, he’s been entitled to
accrued compensation if he was fired by TCW.  Gundlach, 51, who worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006, claims
the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA fired him to
avoid having to pay management and performance fees for the
distressed-asset funds his group managed and that went “through
the roof.” Gundlach seeks about $500 million.  Ten days after he was fired, Gundlach started his own money
management firm, DoubleLine Capital LP. TCW sued in January 2010
alleging that Gundlach and three other former employees stole
TCW’s trade secrets to start DoubleLine. TCW’s damages expert
testified that the company suffered $344 million in damages from
Gundlach’s alleged interference with contracts and $222 million
from a claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  Interviews/Speeches/Testimony  Computer Hacking Law Needs Tougher Penalties, Senate Panel Told  The U.S. needs tougher penalties for hackers who break into
computers operating the nation’s critical infrastructure, such
as power grids and financial networks, a Justice Department
official told U.S. lawmakers.  The 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act should be amended to
create a mandatory minimum penalty of at least three years in
prison for those who carry out cyber attacks on systems key to
national and economic security, Associate Deputy Attorney
General James Baker said yesterday in testimony to a Senate
Judiciary Committee hearing.  Offenses under the computer-fraud law also should be
subject to the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations, or RICO, Act to target organized crime groups
that hack into computer systems, Baker said.  “Our critical infrastructure, such as electrical grid,
financial sector, and transportation networks that underpin our
economic and national security, have suffered repeated cyber
intrusions, and cybercrime has increased dramatically over the
last decade,” Baker said in a statement at the hearing.  The testimony from Baker and Pablo Martinez, deputy special
agent in charge at the U.S. Secret Service Criminal
Investigative Division, echoed proposals from an Obama
administration cybersecurity plan, announced in May, for
protecting the nation’s critical infrastructure, including
banks, power grids and government computers from cyber attacks.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who is
compiling comprehensive cybersecurity legislation on his side of
Capitol Hill, solicited the administration’s proposal to guide
Congress’s efforts on the issue.  For more, click here.  Economy Trumps Technology on U.S. Lawmakers’ Agenda, Group Says  The economy and upcoming elections may distract Congress
from legislation to protect consumer privacy, promote innovation
and maintain the Internet’s openness, a technology-policy group
said.  “There’s going to be a laser-like focus on the economy and
certainly on the Republican primary, and both are going to cast
a fairly large shadow over the agenda this fall, but it’s not
the whole story,” Leslie Harris, president of the Washington-
based Center for Democracy and Technology, said yesterday during
a call with reporters.  The attention those issues are getting means the technology
agenda, which includes cybersecurity, copyright, and privacy
bills “has received only sporadic attention,” she said. The
inaction has negative “implications for technology innovation,
for the privacy and free-expression rights of Internet users and
ultimately for the Internet’s openness,” said Harris, whose
group promotes civil liberties online.  House legislation to bolster intellectual property
protections is expected soon, David Sohn, CDT’s senior policy
counsel, said during the call. In May, the Senate Judiciary
Committee approved a measure called the Protect IP Act, which
targets websites that sell illegally copied music, movies,
pharmaceuticals and consumer products.  The Senate measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to
seek court orders requiring U.S.-based Internet-service
providers to block access to infringing sites. CDT sent a letter
objecting to the bill during the Senate markup.  Ordering Internet service providers to block access to
infringing sites may lead other nations to take actions that
“hinder online freedom of expression,” according to the letter
that CDT and 12 other groups sent to the Senate Judiciary
Committee in May.  Congress will also consider online privacy measures
including legislation aimed at limiting law enforcement access
to consumers’ e-mail and location-based information gathered on
mobile devices, Nojeim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 