-- 
California Pension May Question Political Spending

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/california-pension-may-question-companies-on-political-spending.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-largest U.S. pension, may use its
investment clout to push corporations to disclose their
political donations, under a  policy  adopted by the fund’s
investment committee.  The U.S. Supreme Court, citing free-speech protections,
ruled last year that companies and unions could spend their own
money on elections, not just contributions from employees and
political-action committees.  Calstrs has $147 billion in assets, of which about 52
percent is in global stocks, Chief Investment Officer
Christopher Ailman said. The California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension with $227 billion in
assets, is developing language for a similar policy, Wayne
Davis, a Calpers spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Hopefully other pension systems will follow our lead in
adopting this policy,” Harry Keiley, a member of the Calstrs
board, said at the investment panel’s meeting.  Companies that don’t cooperate with Calstrs may face a
shareholder initiative under the proposal, which goes to the
fund’s corporate governance committee for final approval.  The Calstrs policy would declare that corporate boards are
responsible for political spending by their companies and that
contributions should be “in the best interest of
shareholders.”  Twenty-three percent of social and environmental
shareholder proposals this year deal with political spending,
according to San Francisco-based As You Sow, which tracks
shareholder activism. That is second only to proposals related
to the environment, the organization said in a  report .  The high court’s decision “boosted already substantial
investor and public interest in more oversight and disclosure of
corporate political spending,” the report said.  In June, California Treasurer Bill Lockyer called on
Calstrs and Calpers to push for more corporate disclosure of
political spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  