-- 
California Proposes $24.5 Million Settlement With Chevron

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-08T00:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/california-proposes-24-5-million-settlement-with-chevron-1-.html
California  Attorney General Kamala D. Harris filed a proposed $24.5 million settlement with  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  to resolve claims the company violated state hazardous-
materials storage laws.  Harris said in a statement today that the enforcement
action was filed jointly with district attorneys from Humboldt,
Merced, Nevada and Sacramento counties. The complaint claims
Chevron tampered with or disabled leak-detection devices for
underground gasoline tanks, according to the statement.  Harris said Chevron also failed to test secondary
containment systems, conduct monthly inspections, properly train
its employees and maintain alarm systems. The agreement must be
approved by a state judge in Alameda County, Harris said in the
statement.  “We work hard to comply with all laws and regulatory
requirements,” and Chevron has “taken the appropriate actions
to address the situations related to this issue and will work to
avoid any similar occurrences in the future,”  Sean Comey , a
spokesman for Chevron, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It is important to note that the majority of the
incidents were technical violations, such as improper
paperwork,” Comey added. “None of the violations involved any
risk to human health or the environment.”  The settlement will require Chevron to maintain a
compliance program in which it trains employees and tracks the
monitoring of underground  storage tanks , according to Harris’s
statement.  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, is the second-
largest U.S. energy company.  The case is California v. Chevron, 11593515, California
Superior Court, Alameda County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  