-- 
Cameron’s Russia Visit to Yield First U.K. Contact With Putin Since 2007

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-09T12:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cameron-russia-visit-yields-first-u-k-putin-contact-since-2007.html
When  David Cameron  meets  Vladimir Putin  in Moscow next week, it will be the first face-to-face
contact between a British prime minister and the Russian premier
since  Tony Blair  and Putin parted on poor terms in 2007.  With the possibility of Putin regaining the Russian
presidency next year, the U.K. government is aiming to re-
establish links that collapsed four years ago amid acrimony over
the murder of a Russian dissident in  London  and raids on offices
of the British government’s cultural agency in Russia.  “The lack of contact is reflective of the poor state of
Russian relations with the U.K.,” James Nixey, manager of the
Russia and Eurasia program at the Chatham House foreign-affairs
research group in London, said in a telephone interview. “The
Brits are still uncertain who they should be dealing with.”  Putin was unable to run for a third consecutive term as
president when his eight years in office came to an end in 2008.
He picked  Dmitry Medvedev  to replace him in the Kremlin, while
remaining at the center of power as prime minister. Putin hasn’t
ruled out a return to the presidency in elections in March.  “If we have a political dialogue between leaders, it
immediately translates into political contacts at lower
levels,” the Russian ambassador to the U.K., Alexander Yakovenko, told reporters in London today. “If you have a
friend, when you’re not calling them in two years, what do you
mean by that?”  ‘Very Frank’  Blair and Putin met at a Group of Eight summit in
Heiligendamm,  Germany , just before Blair quit office in June
2007. Blair said afterward the discussion was “very frank.”  “There are real issues there,” Blair told reporters. “I
don’t think it will be resolved anytime soon. Putin set out his
beliefs that  Russia  isn’t being treated properly by the west. I
set out our view that people are worried and fearful about
Russia today.”  The last contact of any kind was a phone call later that
month from Putin to Blair’s successor,  Gordon Brown , to
congratulate him on becoming prime minister. Brown dealt instead
with Medvedev, as has Cameron since he took office in May 2010.
Medvedev will be Cameron’s host during next week’s visit.  A former Russian agent,  Alexander Litvinenko , a Kremlin
critic who died in November 2006 after being poisoned in London
with the radioactive isotope polonium-210, blamed Putin for the
murder in a death-bed statement, an accusation the Kremlin
called “absurd.”  No Extradition  Russia refused to hand over an ex-KGB bodyguard, Andrei Lugovoi, who is wanted in Britain for Litvinenko’s murder, as
the country’s constitution forbids the extradition of Russian
citizens.  The dispute sparked the expulsion of four Russian and four
U.K. diplomats and Russia’s closure of U.K. cultural offices
outside Moscow. The U.K. also froze cooperation with Russia’s
Federal Security Service, the domestic successor to the KGB.  Relations were further damaged by Russia’s 2008 invasion of
 Georgia . Cameron, then in opposition, flew to Georgia and
condemned the act.  “Cooperation stopped after the Litvinenko case,”
Yakovenko said. “We believe that we have to re-establish these
relations. Everything is in the hands of the British side. We’re
ready.”  The Russian ambassador suggested the U.K. should agree to
Lugovoi standing trial in Russia.  ‘Start Cooperating’  “We’re asking for some proof that this is the man who’s
guilty,” the envoy said. “As soon as we get this information,
we can start cooperating and put this case in the Russian
courts.”  Yakovenko also called on British forces in  Afghanistan  to
take action to stop the flow of heroin from the central Asian
nation.  “Fight with the drug dealers, take them on, destroy the
crops,” he said. “Every year we have an increase in production
of heroin. We’re asking ourselves why.”  Since taking office, Cameron has focused on building trade
links around the world in an effort to help the U.K.’s stalling
economy.  Business Secretary Vince Cable made a three-day visit to
Russia in November 2010 with the largest-ever British business
delegation. The group was composed of 37 companies, including  BP
Plc (BP/) , which has a 50 percent stake in TNK-BP, Russia’s third-
largest oil producer,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s second-largest aircraft-engine maker.  Nixey said U.K. prime ministers moved between “honesty and
expediency” in their attitude to Russia. For Cameron, “the
question is which is it going to be now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  