-- 
Canada’s Dollar Falls Amid Lower Global Growth Forecasts; Bond Yields Drop

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-08T21:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/canada-s-dollar-falls-amid-lower-global-growth-forecasts-bond-yields-drop.html
Canada’s dollar fell from the
strongest this week versus its U.S. counterpart as the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development slashed
growth forecasts and European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said threats to the euro region have worsened.  The currency rose yesterday the most this month versus the
greenback as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, topped $90 a
barrel and the central bank reiterated a forecast for growth to
resume in the second half, damping bets it might cut borrowing
costs this year. Yields on 10-year Canadian government notes
slid to a record low today.  “The risks have increased,”  Camilla Sutton , chief
currencies strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital
unit, said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “We’re in a
very mixed holding pattern now; we’re looking to the major
central banks and governments. Temporarily the focus is off
currencies like the Canadian dollar.”  Canada ’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.6 percent to
98.95 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
98.30 cents earlier today after closing at 98.33 cents
yesterday, up 0.7 percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0106.  The loonie extended losses as North American stocks dropped
when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to offer
any specific new plans to bolster growth in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trade partner. Bernanke said in a speech in Minneapolis
policy makers will discuss at their meeting this month the tools
they could use to boost the recovery and stand ready to employ
them if necessary.  Stocks Fall  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.1 percent after
earlier gaining 0.5 percent.  President  Barack Obama  will propose a $300 billion stimulus
plan to Congress tonight in  Washington  as U.S. job growth stalls
and the unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent.  Government bonds  climbed as investors sought safety amid
concern the global economic slowdown is worsening. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes dropped as much as six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.209 percent, the lowest in Bloomberg
records dating to 1989. The price of the 3.25 percent securities
maturing in June 2021 increased 49 cents to C$109.03.  Thirty-year bond yields were within one basis point of a
record low 2.886 percent.  Crude oil fluctuated, with October futures rising as much
as 1 percent to $90.23 a barrel in  New York  and falling as much
as 1.1 percent. The contract closed at $88.62 a barrel.  OECD Forecasts  The loonie fell after the OECD said the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trade partner, will grow 1.1 percent in the third
quarter and 0.4 percent in the fourth, instead of the 2.9
percent and 3 percent predicted in May.  Japan  will expand 4.1
percent in the third quarter before stalling in the fourth, the
OECD said.  Central banks around the world should be ready to ease
monetary policy if economies weaken further, the Paris-based
group said.  The ECB cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent from
1.9 and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent for 2012.  Threats to the euro region’s economy have “intensified”
and inflation risks have eased as the area’s debt crisis
worsens, Trichet said. The economy faces “particularly high
uncertainty and intensified downside risks,” he said in
 Frankfurt  after the ECB held its key rate at 1.5 percent.  Employment Data  Statistics Canada  will issue employment data for August
tomorrow. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.2 percent, while
21,500 new positions were created, according to the median of 22
forecasts by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We get residual flows on the back of everybody globally
struggling to figure out where do you keep your money,” Scotia
Capital’s Sutton said. That’s keeping the currency above parity,
she said.  The Canadian currency “is less of a haven story and more
of a diversification story,” Sutton said.  Canada’s merchandise trade deficit shrank to C$753 million
($765 million) in July from a revised C$1.37 billion a month
earlier on a rebound in exports led by shipments of automobiles
and parts, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists
forecast a C$1 billion shortfall, according to the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  