-- 
Canada July International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-08T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/canada-july-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international merchandise trade report for July
from Statistics Canada.  Canada's merchandise exports rose 2.2% and imports
edged up 0.5% in July. As a result, Canada's trade deficit
with the world narrowed from $1.4 billion in June to $753
million in July.  Exports increased to $37.3 billion, as volumes rose in
most sectors. Overall, volumes rose 4.1%, while prices
declined 1.9%. Machinery and equipment, automotive
products, and industrial goods and materials were the main
contributors to the gain in the value of exports.  Imports grew slightly to $38.0 billion as prices
increased 0.9% and volumes decreased 0.4%. In July,
imports from Japan surpassed $800 million, a level similar
to those observed prior to the earthquake and tsunami in
March.  Imports from the United States rose 3.1% to $23.6
billion in July. Exports were up 2.1% to $27.0 billion.
Canada's trade surplus with the United States went from
$3.5 billion in June to $3.4 billion in July.  Imports from countries other than the United States
fell 3.6% to $14.4 billion. Exports to countries other
than the United States increased 2.4% to $10.3 billion.
Consequently, Canada's trade deficit with countries other
than the United States narrowed from $4.9 billion in June
to $4.1 billion in July.  Exports rise in most sectors  Exports of machinery and equipment increased for a
third straight month, rising 5.5% to $6.8 billion in July.
Volumes were up 5.3%. Leading the gain in value were
aircraft, engines and parts, up 16.1%; and
telecommunication equipment, which increased 12.6%.  Exports of automotive products rose 7.6% to $4.9
billion, on the strength of higher volumes. Passenger
autos and chassis was the main contributor to the gains in
this sector.  Exports of industrial goods and materials increased for
a third consecutive month, up 2.8% to $9.9 billion in
July. Metal ores rose 48.1% to reach a record high of $1.6
billion, led by copper ores, concentrates and scrap; and
nickel ores, concentrates and scrap. Partially offsetting
this increase was a 10.4% decline in chemicals, plastics
and fertilizers, largely as a result of lower exports of
fertilizers and fertilizer materials.  Exports of energy products decreased 2.1% to $8.4
billion in July, as both prices and volumes declined.
Crude petroleum exports, which were down for a fourth
consecutive month, accounted for the decline.  Machinery and equipment moderates the rise in imports  Imports of automotive products increased 5.8% to $6.1
billion in July, with gains in all sub-sectors. Volumes
rose 6.6% while prices declined 0.7%.  Imports of energy products grew 6.1% to $4.3 billion.
Crude petroleum imports rose 44.0% as some refineries
resumed production. Following record levels of imports in
June, petroleum and coal products, namely light oils and
preparations, declined 28.5%.  Imports of industrial goods and materials fell 1.5% to
$8.1 billion in July, as a result of widespread declines.
Metals in ores, concentrates and scrap; and organic
chemicals were the main contributors to this decrease.  Machinery and equipment fell 5.3% to $10.2 billion, as
volumes declined. After reaching a record level in June,
imports of industrial and agriculture machinery decreased
in July.  Note: In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and
balance of payments (BOP) based data. The previous year's
customs data are revised with the release of the January
and February reference months as well as on a quarterly
basis. The previous two years of customs based data are
revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month. The previous year's BOP based
data are revised with the release of the January, February
and March reference months. Revisions to BOP based data
for the previous three years are released annually in June
with the April reference month.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments (BOP), which also
includes trade in services, investment income, current
transfers as well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States, Japan and the United Kingdom. Trade data for all
other individual countries are available on a customs
basis only. BOP data are derived from customs data by
making adjustments for factors such as valuation,
coverage, timing and residency. These adjustments are made
to conform to the concepts and definitions of the Canadian
System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally
adjusted in current dollars. Constant dollars are
calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  New aggregation structure  Statistics Canada will introduce a new aggregation
structure, the North American Product Classification
System (NAPCS), to organize and present import and export
statistics in various programs. The new structure will
replace the classification structures known as the summary
import groups (SIG) and the summary export groups (SEG)
and the higher level aggregations; major groups,
subsectors, sectors and sections that have been in use for
several decades. The first release of data using the new
structure will be on June 8, 2012 for the April reference
month.  Readers interested in this upcoming change can find
more detailed information on our website page dedicated to
classification consultation and notification.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  