-- 
Cargill Tax Counsel Seeks Overhaul to ‘Dated’ U.S. System

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-08T14:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cargill-tax-counsel-calls-for-overhaul-to-dated-u-s-system.html
Congress should overhaul its system
for taxing the international income of U.S.-based companies,
Scott Naatjes, vice president and general tax counsel of Cargill
Inc., told the Senate Finance Committee in  Washington  this
morning.  Cargill, which had annual earnings of “close to $4
billion” last year, according to the testimony, produces and
markets food and other products and has operations in 63
countries. The U.S. tax system imposes extra costs when
companies compete for investment opportunities around the world,
he said.  “U.S. tax policy cannot prevent the investment from
happening,” said Naatjes, whose Minneapolis-based company is
one of the largest closely held U.S.-based businesses. “It can
only stop U.S. companies from participating.”  The U.S. has a worldwide tax system that imposes a residual
tax on U.S.-based companies when they repatriate profits earned
outside the country. Business groups, including the  Business
Roundtable , have been urging Congress to adopt a so-called
territorial system that doesn’t tax profits earned overseas,
similar to those used in the U.K. and  Germany . In his prepared
testimony, Naatjes called the U.S. tax regime “dated.”  Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said he
wants to ensure that the U.S. tax system doesn’t encourage
companies to locate operations outside the country while also
trying to make U.S. companies competitive in overseas markets.
The committee has been holding a series of hearings on
overhauling the  tax code .  ‘More Competitive’  “Let us make our tax code more competitive and fair,
helping our economy grow and creating more jobs for Americans in
the global economy,” Baucus said.  Naatjes said the U.S. shouldn’t adopt a revenue-neutral
overhaul of the corporate tax code, which is what President
 Barack Obama  has proposed. The corporate tax burden is
eventually shared by customers, workers or shareholders, and tax
policy changes should focus on distributional effects, he said.  “Our tax system should maximize the economic pie that we
all share,” Naatjes said. “We can then achieve our vision of
fairness within that system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  