-- 
Cash Is King for Top European Investors

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cash-is-king-for-top-euro-investors-in-freight-train-markets.html
Top-performing European equity fund
managers are bracing for further market declines by hoarding
cash and buying “mega-cap” pharmaceutical and tobacco stocks.  Investors held the most cash in three years last month amid
the biggest European equity sell-off since October 2008, a month
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, according to
a survey by Bank of America Corp. The best performers aren’t
taking risks any time soon.  “Right now markets look like a freight train and stepping
in front of one is never a very good idea,” said Philippe Brugere-Trelat, whose 2.6 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) Franklin
Mutual European Fund has beaten 90 percent of rivals this year.
“We’re very risk averse and we’re certainly not jumping in the
market with both feet.”  The failure to resolve the European sovereign-debt crisis
and a slowdown in major economies such as  Germany , France and
the U.S. caused the region’s Stoxx 600 Index to fall 10.5
percent in August, the biggest monthly drop in the three years
since governments bailed out the world’s financial system. Any
rebound is likely to be temporary in the absence of a long-term
fix to  Europe ’s debt and growth problems, investors say.  Brugere-Trelat, based at  Franklin Templeton  Investments’
office in Short Hills,  New Jersey , held 6.7 percent of his fund
in cash at the end of July, the latest month for which figures
are available. European equity funds typically hold about 2.5
percent of their assets in cash, according to  Morningstar Inc.   ‘Cheap Stocks’  “Cash and diversification are the two main tools we’re
using” to protect the fund against further falls in equity
markets, Brugere-Trelat, 60, said. “There are plenty of cheap
stocks around. But a lot of stocks are cheap for the right
reasons.”  Global investors’ cash holdings climbed to 5.2 percent last
month from 4.1 percent in July as money managers sold cyclical
stocks, those most linked with economic growth, according to the
survey by Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit. Cash balances
peaked at 5.5 percent in December 2008.  Olgerd Eichler, manager of Mainfirst Bank AG’s Top European
Ideas fund, was one of those investors. He held the most cash
out of all European equity funds with more than 250 million
euros in total assets, according to the latest data available to
Chicago-based Morningstar.  Eichler’s 383 million-euro fund had 14.4 percent of its
assets in cash at the end of May, helping it beat 81 percent of
its rivals this year. The fund, which has topped 98 percent of
its peers since its inception in July 2007, is down 12 percent
this year, compared with a 16.5 percent fall in the Stoxx 600
Index. Franklin Mutual European Fund’s is 9.3 percent lower
since Jan. 1.  ‘Unpleasant Speed’  “We’re entering a phase of rising earnings
disappointments,” Eichler, 44, said in an interview. “Many
sell-side analysts didn’t adjust sufficiently the earnings
estimates going forward. This time the slowdown has got very
unpleasant speed, and it’s not going to turn quickly.”  The Frankfurt-based  fund manager  has reduced his cash
holdings since May, investing in “mega caps” such as  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  The
average stock in his fund now has a market value of 45 billion
euros compared with about 20 billion euros in the first quarter.  “All three enterprises have safe dividend prospects,”
Eichler said. “If there are flattish equity markets going
forward these will be deserving of higher multiples.”  Nestle, BAT  It is a sentiment shared by Brugere-Trelat, whose top
holdings are Nestle SA, the world’s largest foodmaker, and
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s biggest cigarette maker.  “They offer to me the best risk-reward profile in current
markets,” he said. “They are not as cheap as banks or cyclical
companies, but the risk level is considerably lower.”  Thorsten Paarmann, 37, at Invesco Asset Management Ltd. in
 Frankfurt  is another manager whose cash holdings, at 8.9 percent
of overall assets at July 31, have helped put him in the top 10
percent of comparable funds this year. He increased his fund’s
cash allocation in anticipation of outflows during difficult
market conditions, he said.  Paarmann’s 634 million-euro Pan European Structured Equity
Fund is down 6.9 percent this year, compared with a 16.5 percent
fall in the Stoxx 600 Index. It has beaten 94 percent of peers
in the period and has outperformed 96 percent of rivals over the
last five years.  ‘Upward Potential’  In contrast to Brugere-Trelat and Eichler, Paarmann is
bullish on European stocks because their current prices are
projecting the region’s debt crisis to deteriorate and a slowing
U.S. economy.  “We do not anticipate another major shock because a lot of
things have been anticipated already,” he said. “Where we come
from now, we see more upward potential than downward risk.”  Nevertheless, Paarmann’s holdings are in defensive stocks
such as British American Tobacco, GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi,
 France ’s biggest drugmaker.  “We tend to have more defensive stocks because the market
is not rewarding those with extra volatility,” he said. “You
can get market returns with below-market risk.”  All three managers agree that macroeconomic concerns about
the survival of the euro and the health of the world economy are
taking precedence in the equity markets over stock picking and
will do for the foreseeable future. The biggest influence on
stock performance is the decisions made by politicians,
according to Franklin Templeton’s Brugere-Trelat.  “I see a lot of foot dragging,” he said, referring to
Europe’s political leadership during the crisis. “At the end of
the day when push comes to shove they will do the right thing.
The alternative is making the Lehman bankruptcy look like a walk
in the park.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 