-- 
CFTC Will Delay Votes on Dodd-Frank Margin Rules Until 2012

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-08T16:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cftc-will-delay-votes-on-dodd-frank-margin-rules-until-2012.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  will delay votes on some Dodd-Frank Act final rules
for the $601 trillion swaps market until the first quarter of
2012, postponing the date the regulations would take effect
until later next year.  The announcement of the delay by CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler 
is the second time the agency has sought additional time to
complete rules aimed at reducing risk and increasing
transparency in the swaps market. The CFTC already delayed other
rules originally slated to take effect July 16 until as late as
the end of this year.  Rules governing capital and margin requirements, swap
execution facilities and internal business conduct standards
will likely be completed in the first quarter of 2012, Gensler
said in a preliminary schedule outlining when rules would be
considered by the agency. Gensler said the agency this year will
consider a rule providing additional “exemptive relief” from
current laws to give the CFTC more time to finish the Dodd-Frank
regulations.  “The realities of this schedule will push the clearing and
trading mandate to approximately the third quarter of 2012,”
 Scott O’Malia , Republican commissioner, said at the meeting.  Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul enacted in July 2010,
originally set a one-year deadline for the CFTC to complete most
rules to limit risk in trades conducted by companies including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Cargill Inc.
Largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis.  G-20 Timetable  Dodd-Frank seeks to have most swaps guaranteed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms. The
heads of the G-20 nations set a goal to complete broad
principles of swaps regulation by the end of 2012. The CFTC
timeline would put the U.S. implementation schedule just before
the G-20 commitment to implement clearing, O’Malia said.  The CFTC voted 4-1 today to propose rules governing when
trades must be cleared and traded on exchanges or other
platforms. Under the proposal, Wall Street banks would be
required to start clearing swaps three months after the agency
defines which trades must be guaranteed by central
clearinghouses.  The clearing proposal would phase in the rules for other
institutions, requiring private funds and pensions to comply
within six months and some smaller users within nine months.
Cleared swaps would also need to be traded on the same timeline
or 30 days after a platform allows the product to be traded.  The CFTC also proposed by a 4-1 vote to grant Wall Street
firms and large swaps users three months to comply with margin
requirements for non-cleared swaps. Dodd-Frank gave the CFTC
authority to write margin rules for non-bank dealers and major
swap participants.  Definitions  The clearing and margin proposals can’t take effect until
the CFTC also completes final rules defining which firms are
swap dealers and major swap participants and which trades are
considered swaps. The agency hasn’t yet announced meetings to
vote on those rules.  The CFTC has scheduled five meetings before December, and
Gensler’s timeline calls for votes on rules governing
clearinghouses, end users and external business conduct
standards at those meetings. The CFTC will vote on speculation
limits in oil, natural gas and wheat markets as early as the
next meeting, on Sept. 22, Gensler told reporters on Aug. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  