-- 
CFTC May Propose Staggered Implementation of Over-the-Counter Swaps Rules

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-08T14:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cftc-may-propose-implementation-rules-for-clearing-and-trading.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may require Wall Street banks to clear swaps three
months after the agency decides which trades must be guaranteed
by central clearinghouses.  The proposal, under consideration today by the agency’s
five commissioners at a Washington meeting, is part of a
timetable for when Dodd-Frank Act regulations must take effect
in the market. The CFTC will need to delay some Dodd-Frank rules
into the first quarter of 2012, said  Gary Gensler , CFTC
chairman. Votes on capital and margin requirements and final
rules governing business conduct standards are unlikely until
next year, Gensler said.  Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul enacted in July 2010,
seeks to reduce risk and boost transparency in the $601 trillion
market by having most swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other platforms. Largely unregulated
swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank rules will
govern trades conducted by companies including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Cargill Inc.  The clearing proposal considered today would phase in the
rules for other institutions, requiring private funds and
pensions to comply within six months and some smaller users
within nine months. The proposal would be open to public comment
before it is completed.  The proposal can’t take effect until the CFTC also
completes final rules defining which firms are swap dealers and
major swap participants and which trades are considered swaps.
The agency hasn’t yet announced meetings to vote on those rules.  Rules Delayed  The proposals “force us to wake to reality and recognize
that the earliest the commission can complete the last of the
triggering rules is the end of the first quarter of 2012,”
 Scott O’Malia , a Republican commissioner, said in a statement
prepared for the meeting.  The CFTC proposal would set an implementation timeline for
when swaps must be traded on exchanges or other platforms. Under
the plan, swaps that are cleared would need to be traded on an
exchange within three months or within a month after a trading
venue decides it can allow the product to be traded.  The CFTC also may propose granting Wall Street firms and
large swaps users three months to comply with margin
requirements for non-cleared swaps. Dodd-Frank gave the CFTC
authority to write margin rules for non-bank dealers and major
swap participants. The agency proposed those rules on April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  