-- 
Chile Gets $1 Billion 10-Year Dollar Bonds at Cheapest Funding Rate Ever

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/chile-obtains-cheapest-funding-ever-in-1-billion-dollar-bonds.html
Chile , Latin America’s highest-rated
borrower, sold $1 billion of dollar bonds at a record-low yield
after the biggest rally since December 2008 in benchmark  U.S.
debt .  The government sold dollar bonds due in 2021 to yield 3.353
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chile also
increased its existing 5.5 percent peso-denominated bonds due in
2020, selling an additional $350 million to yield 4.4 percent.
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc managed both sales.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain tapped the international
 bond market  for the first time in more than a year after the
yield on 10-year dollar bonds fell 74 basis points from the 3.89
percent paid when they were sold in July last year. That was the
least Chile had paid to borrow since it first sold bonds as an
independent republic in 1822, Larrain said at the time.  “Chile has very good numbers across the board,” said
 Gunter Heiland , who helps manage $2.2 billion of emerging-market
assets at Greenwich, Connecticut-based investment fund Gramercy
and bought the new Chilean dollar bonds yesterday. “It’s a good
diversification that was reasonably priced.”  The Andean nation’s economy is growing at its fastest pace
in more than a decade at a time when much of the world is
struggling with a widening European debt crisis and slower
global growth.  The $200 billion copper-based economy will decelerate in
the third and fourth quarters after growing 8.4 percent in the
first half of 2011, the fastest pace since 1995, Larrain said at
the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit on Aug. 24. The economy may
grow by more than 5 percent next year, he said.  Copper Savings  Chile has increased fiscal savings to $18 billion, the
highest level since 2009 and about 9 percent of GDP. Copper
prices, which plunged 6.6 percent last month after more than
tripling in value since 2009, are underpinned by “robust”
demand,  Thomas Keller , the chief financial officer of Chile’s
state-owned copper company Codelco, said at the Bloomberg
conference. Copper accounted for more than half of Chile’s
exports last month, the central bank said today.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Chile’s dollar bonds Aa3,
the fourth-highest investment-grade rating. Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings rank them one level lower at A+.  “Chile is one of the better emerging market sovereigns out
there,” said Cathy Hepworth, who helps manage about $15 billion
of emerging-market debt for Prudential Financial Inc. in Newark,
 New Jersey . “In this environment, to the extent that people
have cash, it’s attractive.”  Spread Widens  The bond sale establishes benchmarks that will facilitate
borrowing for Chilean companies, Larrain said from  New York 
yesterday, according to a ministerial statement sent by e-mail.  Chile’s 2020 dollar bonds yielded 3.15 percent as of 6:45
p.m. New York time yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s a 131 basis point spread over similar maturity
 U.S. Treasuries , up from 80 basis points on July 7.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand for Chile’s
10-year dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 55 basis
points in the last two months.  “They’re taking advantage of the low yield curve rather
than tight spreads,” said Donato Guarino, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in New York. “Even though the spread has moved
wider, U.S. yields are so low that this is cheap for them.”  The outstanding peso-denominated bonds yielded 4.34 percent
as of 8:02 p.m. New York time yesterday, compared with 4.31
percent on Sept. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a scarcity of bonds in the market,” said  Siobhan Morden , head of  Latin America  strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford , Connecticut. “There’s a shift into global foreign
exchange bonds at the moment because of the higher yields they
offer and the low beta on foreign exchange.”  A low-beta currency is one that’s relatively insulated from
fluctuations in market volatility.  The government plans to hold most of the proceeds from the
sale overseas, removing any effect on the local  exchange rate .
Part of the money can be used to repay maturing debt while some
will be deposited into an offshore savings fund, the  finance
ministry  wrote in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  