-- 
Chile Consumer Prices Rose More-Than-Forecast 0.2% in August

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-08T15:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/chile-consumer-prices-rose-0-2-in-august-from-previous-month.html
Chilean consumer prices climbed a
faster-than-estimated 0.2 percent in August from July as food
costs rose, cementing expectations the central bank won’t follow
 Brazil ’s lead in cutting its key  interest rate  this month.  Annual inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent from 2.9
percent while monthly  core inflation , which excludes fuel and
produce, was 0.2 percent, the National Statistics Institute said
in a report distributed today. The median estimate of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for consumer prices to rise
0.1 percent in August from July.  The central bank cut its 2011 inflation forecast yesterday
to 3.3 percent from 4 percent in a June report. Today’s consumer
price data partially reflects seasonal effects and doesn’t
represent a deterioration in inflation rates that would motivate
the central bank to change borrowing costs, Mario Arend, chief
economist at Celfin Capital, said by phone from Santiago.  “Inflation expectations through December could rise
slightly on today’s data but not because there’s been a change
in trend,” he said. “The central bank has signaled it will
keep rates steady in its base scenario. As long as the base
scenario of lower growth abroad continues, we should expect a
rate of 5.25 percent in coming months.”  ‘Relatively Stable’  Policy makers anticipate their key rate will remain
“relatively stable” after they kept it on hold at 5.25 percent
in the past two meetings, bank President Jose  De Gregorio  told
Senators in Valparaiso yesterday.  Chile’s benchmark rate is the highest among major  Latin
America  economies behind Brazil and  Argentina . Brazil, Latin
America’s largest economy, cut its rate by a half-point on Aug.
31 after raising borrowing costs at its five previous meetings.  Consumer prices in Brazil, as measured by the IPCA index,
rose 0.37 percent in August from the previous month, the
national  statistics agency  said Sept. 6. Prices rose 7.2 percent
from a year ago, the highest since June 2005.  Chile’s August inflation data was “totally compatible”
with central bank forecasts, De Gregorio told reporters today in
Santiago.  Clothing prices rose 1.6 percent in August from the
previous month, followed by a 0.9 percent gain in healthcare and
0.5 percent increase in food and beverage costs, the institute
said today. Utility prices fell 0.3 percent in the period.  Inflation may ease to 2.9 percent next year as a weaker
global economy damps commodity prices and domestic growth, the
bank said in its quarterly monetary policy report yesterday.  Changed Outlook  “The external impulse that the Chilean economy receives in
the coming quarters will be lower than previously estimated,”
the bank president told Senators yesterday. “The external
scenario also has created major modifications in the inflation
outlook, especially in the short term.”  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects views of
average price increases and is derived from the gap between
nominal and inflation-linked yields, rose 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 2.62 percent as of 11:05 a.m. New York
time from 2.44 percent yesterday.  Chile ’s peso strengthened 0.2
percent to 462.36 per  U.S. dollar  from 463.09 yesterday.  Chile’s central bank targets 3 percent inflation, with a 1
percentage point margin of error over 24 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 