-- 
China Said Likely to Reject Toyota Affiliate’s Venture

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T07:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/china-said-likely-to-reject-toyota-affiliate-s-joint-venture.html
China will likely reject an
application for a joint venture for an affiliate of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  because it would give the carmaker a third partnership in
China, exceeding regulatory limits, according to three people
familiar with the situation.  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , in which Toyota owns a 16.5
percent stake, has applied to make cars with Chery Automobile Co.
in the world’s biggest auto market. The government considers
Fuji Heavy, maker of Subaru-brand cars, a part of Toyota, said
the people who declined to be identified as the matter is
confidential.  Fuji Heavy has heard the argument that the government could
reject a venture in which the partner is controlled by Toyota,
according to a Fuji Heavy executive familiar with the situation.
Under Chinese  regulations  an overseas company is limited to two
joint ventures manufacturing passenger cars.  “The government is concerned about overcapacity of the
 auto industry  and has been focused on slowing down automakers’
expansion pace,” Han Weiqi, an analyst with CSC International
Holdings Ltd. in  Shanghai  said yesterday. “A venture between
Subaru and Chery wouldn’t likely contribute much in terms of
volume or improvements to the industry.”  China’s National Development and Reform Commission, which
oversees approval of foreign joint ventures in the country,
didn’t immediately respond to faxed requests for comment. Jin Yibo, an assistant general manager for Wuhu, China-based Chery,
said yesterday he doesn’t have any information regarding the
deal to release.  ‘Not Aware’  The venture should not be rejected because Toyota’s stake
is only 16.5 percent, said the Fuji Heavy executive, who
declined to be identified.  “We are not aware of this,” Fuji Heavy spokesman Kenta Matsumoto said by e-mail yesterday. “Our plan to realize local
production in China remains unchanged.” Toyota spokesman Masami Doi in  Japan  said yesterday he was unable to confirm whether the
government would reject the application.  Fuji Heavy shares fell 3.1 percent to 444 yen in  Tokyo ,
while shares of Toyota fell 0.7 percent to 2,680 yen.  Toyota has passenger-car making ventures with China FAW
Group Corp. and Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. in China.  Manufacturing with Chery, China’s seventh-largest automaker,
is key to Fuji Heavy’s goal of tripling sales to 180,000 units
in the country and increasing global deliveries by 42 percent to
900,000 by 2015. Local production would also help reduce the
Tokyo-based company’s sensitivity to the rising yen against the
dollar because its exports to China are dollar-based.  China  Market  China, the world’s biggest vehicle producer, has the widest
selection of choices for consumers, with 379 models on sale, 1.5
times the number available in the U.S., the world’s second-
largest auto market after China, according to J.D. Power &
Associates.  The combined production capacity of China’s largest
automakers could exceed total demand by about 32 percent by 2015,
according to calculations based on company and government
projections.  Fuji Heavy, which currently exports to China, previously
expected to announce details on local production in July.
President Yasuyuki Yoshinaga said last month in an interview
that the company’s “perseverance is being tested” with the
delay in government approval.  Forester SUV  The Forester sport-utility vehicle is  Fuji Heavy ’s top-
selling model in China, where the company’s overall sales rose
28 percent to 62,000 units in the year ended March 31, according
to the manufacturer.  China requires overseas carmakers to work with local
partners, who must own at least 50 percent of joint ventures.  Fuji Heavy and Daihatsu Motor Co. are the only Japanese
carmakers without a vehicle-making venture in China.  A 25 percent import duty makes Subaru cars more expensive
than locally built cars. The Subaru Forester starts at 220,980
yuan ($34,500), compared with 189,800 yuan for the locally built
Toyota RAV4, according to pricing data compiled by Sina.com.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  