-- 
Chinese Developers, Small Caps May Weigh on Equities, Jefferies’s Ju Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T01:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/chinese-developers-small-caps-may-weigh-on-equities-jefferies-s-ju-says.html
Chinese stocks face “challenges”
this year because the government is unlikely to ease measures to
stem inflation even as global economic growth slows, said
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) ’s head of Hong Kong and China Research.  Investors should be cautious on the nation’s property
developers as sales may worsen in the next two months, while
small-company shares are more vulnerable than their larger peers
to a global downturn, said Christie Ju who joined the U.S.
investment bank in Hong Kong in January. Ju previously helped
Bank of America Corp.’s brokerage unit take the top spots in
Institutional Investor’s inaugural All-China Research Team poll
and AsiaMoney’s survey of analysts.  “We are very positive on the longer-term outlook,
especially given that valuation is very reasonable,” Ju said in
a phone interview yesterday. “But for the next couple of months
or even the first half of next year, we are in quite a bit of a
challenging situation and lots of uncertainty.”  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
available to foreign investors has plunged 17 percent this year
amid speculation the government will maintain policies to cool
inflation. The gauge is valued at 9 times reported profit and
reached the lowest level since November 2008 last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite
Index has slumped 10 percent in 2011.  “Inflation hasn’t really come down as significantly as
people expected,” Ju said. “Right now we are still in the
tightening cycle. It’s difficult to count on a general loosening
cycle such as interest-rate cut and I don’t see that happening
in the near term.”  Monetary Policy   The central bank has raised  interest rates  five times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12
times since the start of 2010 to tame inflation, which jumped to
a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. Consumer-price gains
may have slowed to 6.2 percent last month, according to the
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
August inflation data are scheduled to be released tomorrow.  China International Capital Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest
investment bank, said in a report this week that the probability
of looser monetary policies faded after Premier  Wen Jiabao  wrote
in the Communist Party’s magazine that inflation was his
economic policy priority.  Societe Generale  SA raised its rating on Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  last week to “overweight” on speculation
the nation will stop tightening monetary policy. Chinese shares
are pricing in a global recession and concern that regulators
will boost policies to curb inflation through the end of the
year, which is “illogical and fallacious,” according to the
note from Societe Generale’s Todd Martin and Anthony Lee that’s
dated Sept. 2.  Property Concerns  Jefferies’s Ju said Chinese property stocks haven’t
“priced in” the possibility that sales in September and
October will worsen amid tighter liquidity.  “We are seeing sales starting to decline and mortgage
quotas are getting limited,” Ju said. “The situation has not
improved, but worsened in the past couple of weeks.”  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, said sales dropped 13 percent in August from a year
ago while  Beijing Capital Land Ltd. (2868)  said its contracted sales
fell 43 percent last month. A gauge of 34 property stocks on the
Shanghai Composite has dropped 1.4 percent this year.  UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG have lowered
their economic growth forecasts for China for next year, saying
the slowdown in developed countries will sap demand for the
nation’s exports. The world’s second-largest economy grew 9.5
percent in the second quarter, slowing from a 9.7 percent
expansion the previous quarter.  Small-Cap Stocks  Chinese small-capitalization stocks may extend their
declines given the global economic outlook, Ju said. A ChiNext
index of start-up companies has tumbled 21 percent this year on
concern monetary tightening will make it more difficult for
small companies to borrow from banks and expand businesses.  “Small caps don’t weather the downturn as much as their
larger counterparts and the outlook for small caps is very
challenging,” Ju said.  Ju recommended Chinese consumer-related stocks such as meat
supplier  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  and China Mengniu Dairy Co.
because their earnings growth will better weather the slowdown
in the economy.  “China’s going to pay for structural changes of the
economy from more export-driven to domestic consumption-
driven,” she said. “This is probably a period of time that’s
extremely challenging for the global economy.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  