-- 
China Record Auto Exports Seen on Entry-Level Demand: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T00:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/china-record-auto-exports-seen-on-entry-level-demand-cars.html
Chinese automakers may post record
exports this year, helping offset slowing domestic sales caused
by expiring incentives, curbs on congestion and competition from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Honda Motor Co.  Sales abroad may reach 800,000 vehicles, a 15 percent
increase from the 681,000 sold in 2008 before the global
recession, according to the  China  Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. Exports surged 57 percent in the first seven
months, compared with a 3.2 percent gain in domestic sales in
the world’s largest auto market.  “It isn’t enough to just sell vehicles in China,”
Lawrence Ang, executive director of  Geely Automobile Holdings
Ltd. (175) , said in an interview. “The demand for mid- to low-end
cars in overseas markets is much bigger than in China.”  Geely, Great Wall Motor Co. and Warren Buffett-backed BYD
Co. want to increase exports as more plants open and domestic
sales cool from last year’s 32 percent growth rate. Chinese
factories could build 40 million vehicles a year by 2015,
outstripping demand of about 27 million, said the National
Development and Reform Commission, the top planning agency.  “Expanding into overseas markets will help digest capacity
and increase avenues to fuel growth,” said  Harry Chen , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co.
“Automakers in China have been quickly building plants and
there will be overcapacity over the next three to five years.”  GM, Honda Models  Domestic automakers get 7.3 percent of their vehicle sales
overseas, according to J.D. Power & Associates. The government
 said  in 2009 it wanted exports to make up 10 percent of sales by
next year.  The top export markets are Brazil, Algeria and Russia,
according to the  China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export
of Machinery and Electronic Products .  Deliveries in China slowed this year after the government
reinstated a  sales tax  and restricted purchases in some cities,
including Beijing. GM and Honda also created cheaper, China-only
brands that have lured first-time buyers from Chinese companies.  China auto sales may rise about 5 percent this year, the
automakers’ association said in July, revising its previous
estimate for growth of 10 percent to 15 percent.  Australia,  Russia   Geely sold 213,381 vehicles in China during the first six
months of 2011, 9 percent more than a year earlier. Exports by
the affiliate of Volvo Cars surged 93 percent in the first half
to 13,385 units, with Russia, Ukraine and  Turkey  being its
biggest markets.  It exported 22,653 cars last year. The automaker aims to
have at least half of its sales coming from overseas by 2015,
Chief Executive Officer Gui Shengyue said.  Great Wall exported 12,717  pickup trucks  and 12,707 sport-
utility vehicles in the first half, with Russia, Australia and
 Chile  being its biggest markets, according to the Baoding-based
company. Great Wall, the biggest exporter last year, wants to
more than double the proportion of overseas sales to 30 percent
by 2015 from 14 percent by introducing new models.  “We need to penetrate deeper into markets like  Australia ,
where we have already exported to, and beef up our brand
image,” Chairman Wei Jianjun said last month.  The company also plans to complete a Shanghai share sale
this month to raise as much as 3.17 billion yuan to support
plans to increase production.  Strengthening Yuan  Automakers’ export plans are complicated by a rising
currency. A stronger yuan cuts the value of repatriated earnings
and raises the prices of China-made cars overseas.  The Chinese currency strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for
the first time in 17 years on Aug. 11 amid speculation the
central bank will allow currency gains to curb inflation running
at the highest in three years.  The yuan has gained about 6 percent since a two-year dollar
peg ended June 19, 2010.  To help mitigate that, Geely and Great Wall want to settle
more deals in yuan instead of dollars, according to the
companies. Great Wall also is working with banks to lock in
exchange rates to minimize fluctuations, Wei said last month.  “If the yuan didn’t appreciate that much, we would have
exported much more,” Ang said. “The rising yuan has been the
major negative factor undermining our exports.”  U.S.,  Europe  Expansion  To help meet the government’s 10 percent target, carmakers
are bringing long-discussed plans to expand in the U.S. and
Europe to fruition.  Geely signed an agreement last month with Manganese Bronze
Holdings Plc., maker of the London taxi, to sell its vehicles
and spare parts in the U.K. Geely in 2006 became the first
Chinese carmaker to display vehicles at the Detroit Auto Show.  The company, which owns about 20 percent of Manganese
Bronze, delayed a plan to sell its Free Cruiser compact in the
U.S. in 2008, saying it needed more time to prepare.  “Entering developed markets is an important step for
Geely’s overall development,” Gui said without elaboration.  Great Wall, China’s biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles,
introduced a diesel Hover H6 in  Italy  last month. It plans to
sell vehicles in  North America  by 2015, Vice President Huang Yong said in an interview.  BYD, part-owned by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said
it will appoint dealers in the U.S. this year for its E6
electric car. It will export the E6 and electric buses to the
U.S. and Europe next year, and a right-hand drive E6 will go on
sale in  Hong Kong  in June, Chairman  Wang Chuanfu  said.  U.S. consumers will be a tougher sell for Chinese carmakers
than those in emerging markets, said Kevin Tynan, senior
automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries. About two in three
prospective American car buyers won’t consider a Chinese brand,
according to a survey of 450 respondents by New York-based GfK
Automotive, based on data compiled in the fourth quarter of 2010.  “Chinese automakers simply have not engineered vehicles
good enough to gain share in the more automobile-sophisticated
markets,” Tynan said. “It will be no small task and probably
take many years, perhaps decades.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  