-- 
China’s Food-Driven Inflation Won’t Hit Global Economy Soon, Experts Say

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-08T17:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/china-s-food-driven-inflation-won-t-hit-global-economy-soon-experts-say.html
China ’s price pressures are driven
primarily by food costs, and it will be some time before the
country will export inflation to the rest of the world economy,
according to speakers at a meeting hosted by Bloomberg Link.  Most of the fastest rising prices in China are for food
products like pork and vegetables which have locally set costs,
so price pressures are unlikely to spread through the global
economy, said Constance Hunter, chief economist at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .  “It’s going to be some time before they can export
inflation” to countries outside China, Hunter said at the
Bloomberg Global Inflation Conference in  New York . “Most food
is really traded locally.”  Inflation remains a major concern of central bankers in
 Asia ’s emerging markets, while policy makers in developed
nations are focused on a slowdown in growth. Chinese inflation
accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July,
prompting Premier  Wen Jiabao  to say Aug. 31 that his top
economic priority is stabilizing prices.  Labor costs are increasing in China, though from “very low
levels,” and while they add to inflation, they also allow
Chinese consumers to purchase more foreign-made goods, Hunter
said. “China can’t consume more of the world’s goods until its
wages go up,” she said.  Rising inflation in China is more worrisome in terms of its
impact on the standard of living in the U.S., because China has
been a source of low-cost goods that have been bought by
American consumers, said  Jerry Webman , chief economist at
OppenheimerFunds Inc. in New York.  ‘Free Ride’ Ending  “This kind of free ride that we’ve had” will begin to
weaken as price gains in China are passed through to products
imported into the U.S., Webman said at the Bloomberg Link
conference.  “It’s simply a matter of a lower standard of living” in
the U.S. rather than a concern that Chinese inflation will
trigger an inflationary spiral in the world’s largest economy,
Webman said.  Bernard Yeung , dean of the  National University  of
Singapore’s Business School and also a speaker at the Bloomberg
Link meeting, said China has been “a source of absorbing
inflationary pressures” that helped support global growth.
While he is not worried about inflation in China, Yeung said he
doubts the nation will be able to continue absorbing inflation
and providing investment-driven growth in coming months.  China’s central bank raised  interest rates  five times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash deposits as reserves 12
times since the start of 2010 to contain inflation.  Consumer-price gains in China may have slowed to 6.2
percent in August, according to the median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The inflation data are
due tomorrow. The government’s full-year target for inflation is
4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  