-- 
Most China Stocks Rise on Valuations, U.S. Economic Plans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T01:56:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/china-s-stock-index-futures-advance-on-valuations-u-s-economic-plans.html
Most  China  stocks rose on
speculation the nation’s equities are undervalued relative to
earnings and U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s expected jobs
proposal may boost the world’s biggest economy.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. advanced to one-week high, pacing
gains for energy producers. Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s
biggest gold producer, lost 1.1 percent before a report tomorrow
that will probably show Chinese inflation slowed last month.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 0.1 percent to 2,517.26 at 9:44
a.m., with 472 stocks higher, 366 lower and 116 unchanged. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.1 percent to 2,775.23. Coal producers
advanced, while financial companies declined.  “Obama’s proposed plan may spur a short-term rally,” said
Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees
$285 million. “China’s market will continue to be volatile due
to the unclear outlook for inflation control measures.”  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 11 percent this year as the
central bank raised interest rates five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation. It is valued at
11.6 times estimated earnings, matching a record low set on
Sept. 6, according to daily data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank may raise interest rates this month or
next, the  Securities Times  reported. Increases would be
triggered by quickening inflation, the newspaper said, citing an
unidentified economist at China International Capital Corp.  China’s inflation rate jumped to a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July. Consumer-price gains may have slowed to 6.2
percent last month, according to the median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. August inflation data are
scheduled to be released tomorrow.  Stocks ‘Challenges’  Chinese stocks face “challenges” this year because the
government is unlikely to ease measures to stem inflation even
as global economic growth slows, said Jefferies Group Inc.’s
head of Hong Kong and China Research.  Investors should be cautious on the nation’s property
developers as sales may worsen in the next two months, while
small-company shares are more vulnerable than their larger peers
to a global downturn, said Christie Ju, who joined the U.S.
investment bank in  Hong Kong  in January.  The gauge tracking financial companies slipped 0.2 percent,
the most among CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. China Vanke Co.
lost 0.3 percent to 8.10 yuan. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
fell 0.4 percent to 2.57 yuan.  Equities are unlikely to decline further this year given
the country’s economic growth and corporate profits, according
to Fan Gang, a former academic adviser to the nation’s central
bank.  ‘Hard to Imagine’  “It’s hard to imagine this could be lower,” Fan, a former
member of the People’s Bank of China’s monetary policy
committee, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong
Kong.  China’s economy  is “still growing 9 percent and the
profit of those listed companies really growing as well, so I
don’t see the reason why it would continue to fall to even lower
levels.”  China won’t raise  interest rates  or bank reserve
requirements in the next two-to-three weeks, said Fan, who is
now director of China’s National Economic Research Institute.  Yanzhou Coal added 1.1 percent to 28.64 yuan. The gauge
tracking energy producers in the CSI 300 gained 0.3 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups.  Obama Plan  President Obama prepared to unveil his proposals for
promoting job growth in an address to a joint session of
Congress today. He plans to propose injecting more than $300
billion into the economy next year, mostly through tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and direct aid to state and local
governments.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence
vote on austerity measures and  Germany ’s top court rejected
challenges to the participation of  Europe ’s largest economy in
euro-rescue funds, easing concern about Europe’s debt crisis.  China’s stocks are poised to drop, if history is any guide,
with trading activity at “pretty much dead” levels, according
to China International Capital Corp.  “Trading has been pretty much dead in the A-shares market
amid recent market routs,” Hao Hong, a Beijing-based global
strategist at CICC, wrote in a report this week. “Consensus
took this as a sign that  Shanghai  has bottomed. But we are less
enthusiastic.”  The average daily turnover for shares on Shanghai Composite
plunged to 55.7 billion yuan this month through Sept. 6, a 54
percent drop compared with average trading in the first half of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Trading on
Sept. 6 was a 14-month low of 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  