-- 
China, Kazakhstan Sign Accord to Expand Gas Pipeline Network

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/china-kazakhstan-sign-accord-to-expand-gas-pipeline-network-1-.html
China , the world’s biggest energy
user, signed an accord with  Kazakhstan  to expand the capacity of
a pipeline network delivering natural gas from Central Asia by
more than 80 percent.  The two governments agreed to build the Kazakh section of
Pipeline “C” that will originate from Turkmenistan and cut
through Uzbekistan, China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s biggest oil and gas producer, said in its  online
newsletter  today. The link will flank two existing pipelines
running through the three Central Asian nations.  China is turning to Central Asia for gas supplies to
diversify fuel sources and to help cut the nation’s reliance on
coal and oil. Turkmenistan started deliveries in December 2009
and is the only country transporting gas to China by pipeline.  The capacity of Pipeline “C” will rise to 25 billion
cubic meters a year by December 2015, boosting the network’s
capacity to 55 billion cubic meters, CNPC said.  Construction of the 1,305-kilometer (811 miles) Kazakh
section will begin early next year and Pipeline “C” will be
operational by January 2014 with an initial capacity of 15
billion cubic meters a year, CNPC said.  China and Uzbekistan agreed in April to expand the
network’s capacity. The Central Asian nation, which straddles
 Turkmenistan  and Kazakhstan, signed an accord with CNPC to
deliver 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year, the Chinese
company said in a statement in June last year.  China is also in talks with Russia for gas supply by
pipeline. The negotiations have stalled over pricing
disagreement.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo, Rebecca Keenan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 