-- 
CIMB, Fututech, Palette, Pintaras Jaya: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-08T00:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cimb-fututech-palette-pintaras-jaya-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index climbed 0.7
percent to 1,464.61.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  : The Employees Provident
Fund, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund, sold 5.8 million shares
in the nation’s second-largest banking group, a stock exchange
filing showed. CIMB lost 0.3 percent to 7.28 ringgit.        Fututech Bhd. (FUT)  : The lighting products supplier said
a group led by Egovision Sdn. made a mandatory takeover offer at
50 sen apiece for the rest of the shares it doesn’t already own,
according to a statement. The shares rose 5.4 percent to 48.5
sen.        Palette Multimedia Bhd. (PMB)  : The communications and
multimedia company proposed raising as much as 4.6 million
ringgit from an offering of warrants to existing shareholders,
it said in a stock exchange filing. The shares last traded at
7.5 sen on Sept. 6.        Pintaras Jaya Bhd. (PINT)  : The Malaysian construction
group won a 54.9 million-ringgit ($18 million) building contract
from Oasis Garden Development Sdn., according to a company
statement. Pintaras added 5.5 percent to 2.50 ringgit.  UOA Development Bhd. (UOAD MK): The property developer’s
construction unit received a 101.4 million-ringgit contract to
build a hotel in Kuala Lumpur, it said in a statement. The unit
got the contract from Ceylon Hills Sdn., partly owned by UOA
Development, the company said. The stock gained 0.7 percent to
1.50 ringgit.        Zecon Bhd. (ZEC)  : The builder got a three-month
extension from the stock exchange to resolve its public
shareholding spread. The public spread is 23.4 percent as of
June 30, lower than the required 25 percent, Zecon said in a
statement. The company’s major shareholder is still in the midst
of selling its shares to comply with the spread, it said. Zecon
slipped 2.9 percent to 51 sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  