-- 
Clenergen Expects First Profit as It Divests Indian Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-08T20:13:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/clenergen-expects-first-profit-as-it-divests-indian-unit.html
(Corrects source of investment fund in sixth paragraph.)  Clenergen Corp., a biofuel
developer, will become profitable for the first time after
jettisoning an Indian subsidiary as part of a strategy change,
Chief Executive Officer Mark Quinn said in an interview.  Clenergen will earn about $500,000 in the quarter ending in
April 2012 as its first three power plants come online, Quinn
said. It had a net loss of $844,942 in the same quarter this
year and has lost more than $42 million since inception in
October 2005, according to a company filing.  Clenergen  India  Private Ltd. will be transferred to private
investors, according to a statement today from the Las Vegas-
based parent company. The deal allows Clenergen to focus on
gasification power plants and the production of biofuels for
those plants.  “This change allows many of our projects that are in
different stages of development around the world to be fully
funded, without incurring further equity dilution or debt at the
parent level,” Quinn said in the statement. “Our shareholders
will receive high returns from this strategic change.”  Terms of the transaction involving the Indian unit will be
announced in a filing later today. The unit operated two power
plants, one working on combustion steam technology and another
using anaerobic digestion. The steam plant was unprofitable,
Quinn said.  To help fund its operations, Clenergen will license its
technology to Futenco AG. Under the agreement, Futenco will form
a $30-million fund to support crop plantations in  developing
countries . Clenergen operates in countries including the
 Philippines ,  Ghana  and India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  