-- 
Cloud-Computing Contracts for U.S. Should Avoid ‘IT Cartel’

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-08T18:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cloud-computing-contracts-for-u-s-should-avoid-it-cartel-.html
The U.S. government should write
cloud-computing contracts so that agencies can easily move from
one provider to another, increasing competition and keeping
costs low, the former federal chief information officer said.  “We’ve got to make sure that as you construct these
contracts, the way they’re written and the way the agencies
manage these contracts, you have the flexibility to pull away
and move to the next platform,” Vivek Kundra said in an
interview in San Francisco last week. “So it’s not like you
have a single player over any of these spaces.”  While serving as U.S. CIO from March 2009 until he resigned
last month, Kundra pushed agencies to shift computer systems and
functions such as financial management, e-mail and websites to
the cloud. One of Kundra’s goals in the initiative was to
replace contracts that have locked agencies into proprietary
systems developed and operated by a few contractors, a situation
that he said keeps the government’s technology costs high.  Kundra estimated that $20 billion the government spends on
federal technology systems can be moved to the cloud, in which
networks of computing resources are shared by multiple users.
That would account for 25 percent of the $80 billion that the
U.S. government spends annually on information technology.  Kundra’s replacement, former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive
Steven VanRoekel, has said he will continue Kundra’s cloud
initiative. Kundra is now a joint fellow at the John F. Kennedy
School of Government and the Berkman Center for Internet and
Society, both at Harvard University.  ‘Healthy Ecosystem’  Companies that offer government cloud services include
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Microsoft, contractors that make up
“a very vibrant and healthy ecosystem,” said Kundra, who
attended last week’s Dreamforce cloud-computing conference in
San Francisco. The event is Salesforce.com’s annual conference.  Agencies should write contracts that allow them to easily
shift data from one vendor’s storage space to another, creating
competition and keeping contractors’ pricing transparent, Kundra
said. Data transfer should be as simple as transferring contacts
from one e-mail system to another, he said.  If agencies can switch cloud providers, it will create
“healthy market pressure” that will keep the cost for a cloud
service low, David Bonnette, president of closely held
 BigMachines Inc. , a Deerfield, Illinois-based product and
service configuration company that uses a cloud platform, said
in an interview.  ‘IT Cartel’  That will avoid the creation of a cloud-based version of
what Kundra calls the “IT cartel,” a small number of
traditional technology contractors that make billions of dollars
a year by operating federal networks. Agencies cannot shut down
those systems or shift to other systems, including the cloud,
because the networks run on outdated technology that makes it
difficult and costly to transfer the data.  These companies “are billing around the year hundreds of
dollars an hour,” Kundra said. “It’s crazy.”  More than 5,000 vendors sell information-technology
products and services, such as desktop and laptop computers, and
software licenses, to federal agencies through the General
Services Administration’s Schedule 70 contracts. The GSA manages
federal buildings and contracts that agencies use to buy goods
and services.  Agencies bought about $16 billion off the GSA schedule in
2010, with Round Rock, Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Armonk, New
York-based IBM leading the list. Ten technology contractors
accounted for 24 percent of the $7.66 billion in sales in the
first half of fiscal 2011 ending March 31, according to GSA
data.  “The shift from hardware and software” that the
government buys and maintains itself “to low-cost, maintenance-
free services that are based on the Internet and run by private
companies” will increase productivity and reduce costs, Kundra
wrote last week in a New York Times  opinion piece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  