-- 
Coca-Cola Enterprises Rescinds Warning Shot to French Government

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-08T22:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/coca-cola-enterprises-rescinds-warning-shot-to-french-government.html
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) , one of
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s largest franchise bottlers, said it made a
mistake in threatening to reconsider a 17 million-euro ($24
million) manufacturing investment in southern  France  because of
a sugar-related tax proposal.  “I would like to set the record straight,” Hubert Patricot, president of the Atlanta-based company’s European
group, said today in a statement. “We are re-confirming our 17
million euro investment to our Les Pennes-Mirabeau facility.”  The company had said in a statement hours earlier that it
was re-evaluating the planned investment and had canceled a
Sept. 19 ceremony with Chief Executive Officer John Brock. The
threat was in protest of a government plan to tax sugared
beverages as part of an austerity measure.  Coca-Cola Enterprises declined to comment beyond the
follow-up statement. Patricot in his statement stood by the
company’s opposition to the tax proposal.  “We remain strongly opposed to a tax that unjustly targets
the purchasing power of the French people and one category of
beverages under the pretext of addressing public health
concerns,” he said. “Consumer information and education around
increased exercise and balanced diets, not discriminatory taxes,
must be part of any comprehensive proposal.”  France’s government announced  last month a plan to raise 12
billion euros in 2011 and 2012 to fight mounting deficits.
Parliament is voting through tomorrow on 2011 measures that
include raising taxes on alcohol and cigarettes and creating a
new levy on sodas.  Euro Disney Protest  Coca-Cola Enterprises is the latest company to challenge
elements of the government’s plan.  Euro Disney SCA (EDL) ’s Disneyland
Paris and French theme parks opposed a planned increase in the
value-added tax on its business to 19.6 percent from 5.5
percent. The tax was  scrapped  yesterday after the parks won
support from former Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin.  When he presented the plan, Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
justified the new levy on sugared drinks, saying it was aimed at
reining in “the development of obesity that eventually will
represent a health cost.” The levy would yield about 100
million euros a year, according to the government.  Coca-Cola Enterprises protested earlier today saying there
are “no studies in France” linking sodas and higher obesity
rates. The company said then that its investment in the factory
in Pennes-Mirabeau was on hold pending the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  