-- 
Cohen Says Growing Global Middle Class Pushing Up Food Costs

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-09-08T14:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cohen-says-growing-global-middle-class-pushing-up-food-prices.html
A growing middle class worldwide is
contributing to a rise in demand for more nutritious food
products, pushing up costs, said Abby Joseph Cohen, partner and
senior U.S. investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We may have already begun a structural rise in food
prices,” Cohen said today at the Bloomberg Global Inflation
Conference in New York hosted by Bloomberg Link.  An expanding global middle class is demanding “better
food,” including products with higher protein content, Cohen
said. As demand rises, so have prices, she said.  Slowing global economic growth is restraining increases in
the costs of energy and other commodities, which surged earlier
this year.  The worldwide inflation rate is forecast to moderate on an
annual basis to just above 3 percent by the end of this year,
from 3.7 percent in June, when most central bank targets were
breached, according to economists at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The U.S. faces a “one-third chance’ of relapsing into
recession, Cohen said.  The Fed still has tools to invigorate the U.S. economy,
including replacing short-term securities in its Treasury
portfolio with longer-term bonds, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
has said. Economists at Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and elsewhere
expect the central bank will take such action at its Sept. 20-21
meeting.  Such a move would help lower rates on everything from
mortgages to car loans. In theory, that would encourage people
to spend more, strengthening the economy.  William Poole, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis, said the Fed won’t be able to offset the damage to
the economy from fiscal tightening.  “I think it is very, very unfortunate the Fed is going
down this path,” said Poole, who also spoke at the conference.  Poole said Bernanke should give a speech devoted to the
“problems of fiscal policy” and make it clear that the Fed
alone can’t fix all that ails the economy.  Bernanke delivered such a warning in his Aug. 26 speech in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “Most of the economic policies that
support robust economic growth in the long run are outside the
province of the central bank,” Bernanke said. He called on
Congress and the White House to consider ways to curb surging
home foreclosures and to put Americans back to work.  The Fed on Aug. 9 pledged to hold its benchmark interest
rate at a record low through mid-2013 in a bid to bolster the
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  