-- 
Copper May Advance on China Import Speculation, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-09-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/copper-may-advance-on-china-import-speculation-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise on speculation
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal used in wiring
and pipes, will accelerate imports, a survey showed.  Seven of 15 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 47 percent, said prices will gain next week. Six
predicted a drop and two forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was up 0.6 percent for this week at $9,132
a metric ton by 4:15 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange.  Copper imports into China in July reached the highest level
since January on buying by traders before an expected seasonal
gain in demand and on depletion of local stockpiles in the first
half. Shipments of refined metal, copper alloy and products rose
9.5 percent from June to 306,626 tons, customs figures showed
Aug. 10.  “We are still expecting Chinese import demand for metals
to grow significantly in the upcoming months, which in turn will
support the LME markets,” said Sven Streitmayer, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany .  The Asian nation, which has a target of building 10 million
units of affordable housing this year, may release August import
figures on Sept. 10.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Sept. 2.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
75 of the past 153 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 7 Bearish: 6 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  