-- 
Corn Crop Shrinking as Hottest Summer Since ’55 Spurs Record Harvest Price

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-08T13:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/corn-crop-shrinking-as-hottest-summer-since-55-spurs-record-harvest-price.html
The hottest summer since 1955 in
parts of the Midwest has eroded corn yields in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower and exporter, sending prices to record
highs for the harvest season.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on Sept. 12 may cut its
crop forecast for a second straight month, to 12.554 billion
bushels, down 2.8 percent from an August projection of 12.914
billion, according to the average estimate of 30 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inventories before next year’s
harvest will be the lowest since 1996, according to the survey.  Cash-corn prices in  Iowa  and central Illinois, the two
largest growing states, have risen at least 71 percent in the
past year to the highest ever before harvesting began this
month, government data show. Crops in parts of the Midwest were
damaged by the  hottest temperatures  in more than 100 years,
boosting costs for livestock producers including  Tyson Foods
Inc. (TSN)  and ethanol makers such as Poet LLC.  “The crop could get smaller, and that will increase risks
for prices to move higher,”  Dan Cekander , the director of grain
research for Newedge USA LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Supplies will be tight for another year,
and that puts a premium on adding acreage next year and
producing a big crop” to rebuild depleted inventories, said
Cekander, who forecast a harvest of 12.521 billion bushels.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 0.4 percent to
$7.4525 a bushel as of 7:14 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices are up 61 percent in the past year.  Midwest Heat  Overnight  temperatures  in  Iowa  and  Illinois  were as much as
6 degrees Fahrenheit above normal in July, according to the
National Climate Data Center show. Some farms from northeast
 South Dakota  to southwestern  Ohio  had less than half the normal
rainfall since July 1, data from the  High Plains Regional
Climate Center  show.  The heat in July damaged plants during their reproductive
stage, reducing the number of kernels on each ear, Kyle Tapley,
an agricultural meteorologist for Rockville, Maryland-based MDA
Information Systems Inc., said yesterday.  Earlier in the growing season, when ear size is determined,
plants were stunted by delays in planting following floods and
cool temperatures, said Tapley, who cut his crop estimate to
11.914 billion bushels from 12.223 billion a month ago.  Illinois will be the “trump card” for determining final
U.S. yields because the heat and dryness was centered on the
state, the second-biggest grower, Jim Bower, the president of
Bower Trading Inc. in Lafayette,  Indiana , said in an interview.  USDA Estimates  The USDA is predicting an average yield in  Illinois  of 170
bushels an acre, up from 157 bushels last year, even though crop
conditions are worse. As of Sept. 4, about 40 percent of the
plants were rated good or excellent, compared with 60 percent a
year earlier, the agency said this week.  Leon Corzine, a past president of the National Corn Growers
Association, said his farm near Assumption, Illinois, probably
will produce 25 percent less corn this year than his five-year
average of 200 bushels per acre.  “The heat and the dryness really hurt our crops, with the
high nighttime temperatures restricting conversion of plant
sugars into kernels,” said Corzine, who farms about 25 miles
(40 kilometers) south of Decatur, Illinois, where Archer Daniels
Midland Co., the biggest corn processor, is based. “We won’t
run out of corn. People just won’t get as much at the prices
they want to pay. There is supply rationing already happening.”  Higher Costs  Higher corn prices are increasing feed costs for poultry
producers including  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the fourth-largest
U.S. chicken processor, which last month reported a third-
quarter net loss of $55.7 million. The Laurel, Mississippi-based
company’s cash-market corn costs were 85 percent higher in the
three-month period than a year earlier, while soybean-meal
expenses rose 26 percent, Sanderson said in a statement.  “We remain subject to very challenging markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Joe Sanderson said on a conference call. The
U.S. harvest “might still not be large enough to satisfy the
needs of corn users next year without price rationing.”  Tyson Foods Inc., the largest U.S. meat producer, said last
month that it was reducing the weight of chickens raised at some
of its farms as poultry-meat inventories increased and feed
costs climbed. Chicken prices climbed as much as 11 percent in
the two weeks ended Aug. 19, the Springdale, Arkansas-based
company said yesterday in a presentation to  Barclays Capital .  Corn Usage  “We will use less corn this year in livestock rations,”
said Darrel Good, an economist at the  University of Illinois  in
Champaign. “The abundance of lower-quality wheat both
domestically and internationally is already slowing corn used in
 animal feed .”  Rising crude-oil prices, which jumped 21 percent in the
past year before today, are supporting increased blending of
corn-based ethanol in U.S. gasoline supplies, Good said.  Denatured-ethanol futures soared 55 percent in the past
year through yesterday on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. U.S.
inventories dropped to 17.6 million barrels as of Aug. 12, the
lowest since January, and totaled 17.9 million as of Aug. 26,
Energy Department data show.  “We have not seen a slowdown in ethanol production,” the
University of Illinois’ Good said. “I do not foresee a drop in
corn prices because we will need to encourage more planting next
year to begin to rebuild inventories.”  High corn prices will maintain land values in the Midwest,
Good said. Agricultural real estate in a region comprising
Illinois, Iowa, Indiana,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin  soared 17
percent in the second quarter, the most since 1977, the Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Chicago said Aug. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  