-- 
Corn May Gain on Speculation Crop Will Miss Estimates in Top Grower U.S.

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-08T11:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/corn-seen-advancing-on-speculation-u-s-production-may-drop-below-estimate.html
Corn may rise in  Chicago  on
speculation production in the U.S., the top grower and exporter,
will be lower than estimated after dry summer weather harmed the
crop.  The U.S. harvest probably will be smaller than the
government forecast last month after unusually warm, dry weather
in July and August damaged Midwest crops, according to a survey
of as many as 30 analysts by Bloomberg News. The  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  is scheduled to publish its latest production
forecasts on Sept. 12.  “The maize supply situation is a cause for concern,” the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  said in a
report today, using another common name for corn. Hot weather in
July and August “is expected to hamper yield potential in the
major growing areas of the Midwest,” the UN agency said.  December-delivery corn slipped 0.1 percent to $7.4725 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:22 p.m. Paris time.
The grain has climbed 19 percent this year.  The FAO cut its outlook for the 2011-12 world coarse-grain
harvest, including corn, by 13.7 million metric tons from a
month ago to 1.15 billion tons, citing a reduced outlook for
U.S. corn production. Informa Economics Inc. and Allendale Inc.
said this week the U.S. corn crop will fall below the USDA’s
August forecast.  ‘Reasonably Priced’  “If we get some of these bad yield numbers that have been
talked about, corn’s still reasonably well priced,” said Paul Deane, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in  Melbourne .  U.S. corn production may total 12.554 billion bushels,
compared with the government’s estimate of 12.914 billion,
according to the average estimate in the Bloomberg survey.
Inventories before next year’s harvest will be the lowest since
1996, based on the survey.  “The markets continue to be in a consolidation phase in
the context of position adjustments and prudence ahead of the
USDA report coming Monday,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel
said in a daily market report.  Yields may be 149.2 bushels an acre, compared with the USDA
estimate of 153 bushels, according to the survey. Soybean
production will also likely be less than the USDA forecast, the
estimates show.  “The market treads water waiting for some words of wisdom
from the USDA on Monday,”  Dave Norris , an independent U.K.
wheat trader, said in a commentary on his website.  Soybeans for November delivery advanced 0.1 percent to
$14.215 a bushel. The oilseed has gained 1.3 percent this year.  Wheat for December delivery slipped 0.1 percent to $7.51 a
bushel. The grain has declined 5.4 percent this year. Milling
wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris rose
0.1 percent to 206.75 euros ($290.69) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 