-- 
Cowboys Battling Injuries in Defensive Backfield as Jets Opener Approaches

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-08T14:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/cowboys-battling-injuries-in-defensive-backfield-as-jets-opener-approaches.html
The Dallas Cowboys, who gave up a
league-high 33 passing touchdowns last season, may be without
two starting cornerbacks in their National Football League
season opener against the New York Jets.  Two-time Pro Bowl selection Terence Newman hasn’t practiced
this week after injuring his groin earlier in training camp, the
Cowboys said on their website. Mike Jenkins, a first-round pick
in the 2008 draft, missed most of the preseason with a neck
injury and left practice yesterday with a hyperextended knee.  The Cowboys tied with the Houston Texans for most touchdown
passes allowed last season and gave up 436 points, the most in
franchise history. The Jets passed for 202.6 yards per game last
year, 22nd in the 32-team league.  Jenkins hasn’t been ruled out for the Sept. 11 game against
the Jets at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said Newman wasn’t expected to play.  “He didn’t practice, so we’re not considering him
available for the Jets,” Jones said in a press conference
yesterday.  Jones said that Orlando Scandrick, Alan Ball and Bryan McCann may be the team’s only healthy cornerbacks this weekend.
They have 28 NFL starts among them, while Jets receivers
Santonio Holmes, Derrick Mason and Plaxico Burress have combined
for 347 starts.  Offensive lineman Tyron Smith, the team’s first-round pick
and projected starting right tackle, also left practice
yesterday with a hyperextended knee. Wide receiver Miles Austin,
a Pro Bowl selection in each of the past two seasons, has been
limited in practice with a groin injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  