-- 
Crude Oil Declines in New York as  Economic Outlook Pressures Equities

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-08T21:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/crude-oil-declines-from-5-week-high-as-libyans-discuss-output-storm-spins.html
Oil fell in New York after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he sees increasing risk to
the economic outlook and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
after the biggest gain in two weeks.  Crude slipped 0.3 percent as Bernanke disappointed
investors by not detailing new plans to boost growth in the
world’s largest economy. Oil settled below a $90 technical
resistance level after reaching $90.23 in intraday trading on
speculation that tropical storms would affect supply.  “Crude is an extremely volatile product,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New
York. “I’m going to be short as long as it closes below $90.
The crude is kind of tracking the  S&P 500  tick for tick.”  Oil for October delivery fell 29 cents to settle at $89.05
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have
fallen 2.6 percent this year.  It was the second consecutive day that futures rose above
$90 in intraday trading only to settle lower. A close above $90
would breach a technical top established in late July and early
August when futures were trading roughly between $80 and $90 a
barrel, Horwitz said. Futures last settled above $90 on Aug. 3.  Brent crude  for October slipped $1.25, or 1.1 percent, to
$114.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange.  Equities Drop  Fed policy makers will discuss the tools they could use to
boost the economic recovery at their next meeting this month and
“are prepared to employ these tools as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery in the context of  price stability ,”
Bernanke said in the text of a speech to economists today in
 Minneapolis .  Stocks fell on Bernanke’s comments and as investors waited
for President  Barack Obama  to discuss the economy at a joint
session of Congress tonight. He is expected to propose a more
than $300 billion stimulus plan as job growth stalls and the
unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent.  The S&P 500 fell 1.1 percent to 1,185.90 at 4:05 p.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 119.05 points,
or 1 percent, to 11,295.81.  “Markets have adjusted to a level where growth is no
longer priced in,” said Kaha Kiknavelidze, a London-based
managing partner at Rioni Capital Partners LLP, a hedge fund
that specializes in emerging markets.  Jobless claims rose by 2,000 to 414,000 in the week ended
Sept. 3, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims
to 405,000, according to the median forecast. The number of
people on unemployment benefit rolls and those receiving
extended payments fell.  U.S. Growth  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
also cut growth forecasts today for the U.S. and  Japan  today,
the largest and third-largest oil-consuming countries.  China  is
the second-biggest user of crude.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.1 percent in the third quarter
and 0.4 percent in the fourth, the OECD said today, instead of
the 2.9 percent and 3 percent the organization predicted in May.
Japan’s economy will expand 4.1 percent in the third quarter and
stall in the fourth, the OECD forecast.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
that “downside risks” to the region’s economy have
intensified, causing the euro to tumble the most in a month
against the dollar.  The euro dropped 1.6 percent to $1.388 at 4:53 p.m. in  New
York . A weaker euro and stronger dollar curbs commodities’
appeal as an alternate investment to the U.S. currency.  Supplies Drop  Earlier, oil rose as much as 1 percent after the Energy
Department reported inventories fell almost twice as much as
expected last week as half of U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil output was
shut because of Tropical Storm Lee. Tropical Storm Nate, which
is forecast to strengthen in Mexico’s Bay of Campeche, may limit
output and imports this week.  “We are having a stormy season down there, but I’d really
have to see more economic activity before I’d consider this
really bullish,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst
with  Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida .  Oil supplies dropped 3.96 million barrels to 353.1 million
barrels as imports tumbled to their lowest level since April and
demand fell in the government report. Stockpiles were forecast
to decline by 2 million barrels, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey before the report.  Nate, with winds of 70 miles (110 kilometers) per hour, was
about 120 miles west of Campeche,  Mexico , the country’s main
oil-producing region, according to an  National Hurricane Center 
advisory at 5 p.m. in New York. It was just 4 mph below the
threshold for a hurricane and may become one tomorrow, it said.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 677,494
contracts as of 4:53 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 665,161
contracts yesterday, 2.3 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 