-- 
Czech Strategy May Boost Nuclear Power Focus, Minister Says

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-09-08T11:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/czech-strategy-may-boost-nuclear-power-focus-minister-says-1-.html
The Czech government is drawing up a
proposal for the national energy strategy that would increase
focus on nuclear power, Industry and Trade Minister Martin Kocourek said.  A significant expansion of the country’s nuclear power
capacity is among the three alternatives the government will
consider when it reviews its long-term energy strategy at the
end of the year, Kocourek said in an interview in  Prague  today.  The ministry’s proposal runs in direct opposition to
 Germany ’s decision to abandon nuclear power by 2022 following
the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima plant in March. If carried
out, nuclear power would represent over 80 percent of the  Czech
Republic ’s energy output by 2060, compared with the current 32
percent, Hospodarske Noviny reported today, citing a draft of
the energy strategy proposal.  “We have opened a discussion on the national energy
strategy,” Kocourek said in an interview on the sidelines of a
business conference. “Nuclear power is the cheapest energy
source from the long-term perspective.”  Czechs may quintuple the current nuclear power capacity of
20 terawatt hours, according to Hospodarske.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the state-
controlled utility, currently operates six reactors at the
Dukovany and Temelin atomic plants and plans to build two more
in Temelin by 2025.  The ministry’s proposals are only a starting point in the
discussion about the Czech Republic’s energy future as it must
submit the strategy to the government by the end of the year,
Kocourek said. The main criteria for the government are economic
growth and competitiveness, he said.  The strategy proposal doesn’t advocate increasing the share
of renewable energy resources after 2030 given the current level
of technology, Kocourek said in a separate e-mail message today.
The proposal has been prepared by a group of government experts,
economists, scholars, businessmen and municipal representatives.  In addition to the German wariness, the Czechs have also
been facing opposition from neighboring  Austria , which feels
threatened by the proximity of both Temelin and Dukovany plants
to its border. Kocourek said the country has the right to decide
about its future energy strategy.  “Czech energy doesn’t need ideology,” Kocourek said.
“What it needs is rational update of its energy strategy. The
current ideology-driven policies of some countries are one
thing; our reality is another.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  