-- 
Danish Mortgage Bond Demand Pushes Rate to New Low, Nordea Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-08T14:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/danish-mortgage-bond-demand-pushes-rate-to-new-low-nordea-says.html
Danish mortgage bond yields fell to
a record low in a  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  auction as investors sought
alternatives to sovereign debt and unstable stock markets.  The  interest rate  on one-year bonds used to finance
 mortgage loans  fell to 1.13 percent in the first of two
auctions, Nordea said today. In December, at the bank’s previous
record auction, the rate was 1.5 percent. The yield on one-year
bonds financing adjustable-rate, interest-only mortgage loans
fell to 1.12 percent from 1.48 percent in December.  “Denmark has sort of a safe haven status in the current
situation,” Troels Eriksen, an analyst at  Nordea Markets , said
in a phone interview from Copenhagen. Nordea plans to sell about
9.5 billion kroner ($1.78 billion) in bonds over two days of
auctions, he said.  Covered-bond sales have climbed across  Europe  amid a
worsening of the debt crisis and global economic outlook.
Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed bonds,
said Sept. 5 foreign holders of its bonds may climb by as much
as half as it refinances loans this month. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said today the risk to growth in
the 17-member euro region is on the downside.  Bonds that Nykredit will auction this month to fund
adjustable-rate mortgage loans were given a AAA rating by
 Standard & Poor’s  on Sept. 2. Moody’s Investors Service said a
day earlier it will rate the securities Aa1, the company’s
second-highest grade. The bonds carry higher ratings than more
than half the sovereigns inside the 17-member euro bloc.  “The investors don’t really take Moody’s seriously,
because if you look at the current market conditions and what
else you can get, then the bonds are a pretty decent paper,”
Eriksen said.  Moody’s cut the credit rating of Nykredit by one level, to
A2, on July 1, citing profit risks, and previously criticized
 Denmark ’s adjustable-rate market as representing a refinancing
risk. Its demand that Danske Bank A/S’s mortgage unit put up an
extra $6.2 billion in collateral to retain its ratings prompted
the unit, Realkredit Danmark A/S, to terminate its contract with
the rating company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  