-- 
DBRS Rates U.S. AAA on Reserve-Currency Status, Underlying Economic Pace

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-08T21:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/dbrs-rates-u-s-aaa-on-reserve-currency-status-underlying-economic-pace.html
DBRS Inc. gave the U.S. a AAA credit
rating on the dollar’s status as the world’s reserve currency
and underlying strengths of the economy, marking the first time
the Toronto-based firm has scored the nation’s sovereign debt.  U.S. debt  relative to its gross domestic product has climbed
and is expected to peak at 103 percent in 2013, “well above”
other AAA ranked countries, following the worst recession since
the Great Depression, DBRS analysts led by Fergus J. McCormick
wrote today in a report. President  Barack Obama  signed on Aug. 2
a measure that threatens automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions during the next 10 years.  The debt-reduction measure “is likely to result in a large
fiscal adjustment,” DBRS said. “Implementation risk will
remain significant. If fully executed, the renewed commitment to
fiscal adjustment should succeed in stabilizing debt-to-GDP.”  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating
to AA+ on Aug. 5 for the first time, slamming the nation’s
political process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut
spending or raise revenue enough to reduce record budget
deficits.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings on Aug. 2, the day Obama signed a bill that
ended the debt-ceiling impasse that had constrained the
Treasury’s debt auctions. Moody’s and Fitch also said downgrades
were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt-reduction measures
and the economy weakens.  DBRS also has offices in  New York ,  Chicago  and  London ,
according to its  website . The firm rates more than 1,000
companies including banks, resource firms and utilities and
covers sovereigns, public finance and structured finance, the
Web site said. DBRS is one of 10 credit ratings agencies
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  