-- 
Deadly Plane Crash May Persuade Hockey Players to Avoid Russia, Agents Say

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-08T20:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/deadly-plane-crash-may-persuade-hockey-players-to-avoid-russia-agents-say.html
The  Kontinental Hockey League  could
be less attractive to players now in  North America  after a plane
crash this week that killed most of the squad of three-time
Russian champion Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, sports agents said.  Travel safety will be an issue for players considering
joining the KHL, which has become a rival to the  National Hockey
League . Only two of the 45 people on Lokomotiv’s plane survived
the crash about 300 kilometers (185 miles) northwest of Moscow
two days ago. The coach, Canadian Brad McCrimmon, and ex-NHL
players Pavol Demitra and Ruslan Salei were among the dead.  The Soviet-era plane had been in service for more than 30
years and was operated by a charter provider. In the U.S., most
pro sports teams and many top-level colleges travel to and from
games on  charter flights  on commercial carriers, such as  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
two largest carriers.  “We have to find out what are they using for air travel
before we sign off with a specific team,” Lewis Gross, a New
Jersey-based agent with Sports Professional Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview.  Yak Service, the operator of the flight that crashed, was
put under review by European Union regulators in 2009 for
possible inclusion on a blacklist after Russia restricted it at
home. The European Commission didn’t ban the operator after
Russia lifted its own measures.  Foreign Planes  Russian President Dmitry Medvedev yesterday said the
country may turn to foreign aircraft producers to ensure safe
 air travel . The number of air accidents in the first seven
months increased 60 percent to 24 and the number of fatalities
rose nine-fold to 72, Federal Statistics Service data show.  Still, there’s no way to get around air travel in sports,
especially in a large country such as Russia or the U.S., agents
said. Delta may charge $12,000 for a regional charter jet on a
short U.S. route, Bill Wernecke, who runs the airline’s charter
service, said during an interview in January. A sports team’s
typical spending is $1 million to $3 million a season, he said.  “It always has been and always will be if you want to be a
professional athlete,” Toronto-based agent Ian Pulver said of
the necessity of air travel in a telephone interview. “These
are risks that everyone takes, including myself, entertainers,
businessmen.”  The 24-team KHL started in 2008 and has lured players such
as Jaromir Jagr, the ninth-leading scorer in NHL history, with
big-money contracts. It also affords players from European
countries a chance to be seen by NHL scouts.  ‘Window to NHL’  “KHL holds very high-level hockey and is a good window to
the NHL,” Juuso Pulliainen, a Finland-based agent who
represents 10 current KHL players, said in an e-mail.  One of those who died in the crash had prior concern for
his safety. Jan Marek, a 32-year-old player, said in an
interview two years ago with Czech newspaper Lidove Noviny that
he was scared to fly in  Russia .  “I feel it’s getting worse,” Marek said in comments
republished yesterday by the newspaper. “I would rather ride a
bus to Moscow for three days. I won’t take any pills but I may
try shots of vodka.”  Gross said several players he represents get offers every
season to play in the KHL. Last year, current Edmonton Oilers
goalie Yann Denis and former New York Islanders defenseman Brett Skinner played with the KHL’s Amur Khabarovsk club.  While Gross said he doesn’t think the crash will change the
way players view the opportunity to play in Russia, especially
if they are being offered more money than they could make in the
NHL, it will change how agents evaluate the playing options for
their clients.  ‘Due Diligence’  “They always tell you that they charter and they have
great travel, but it’s not something that I think many agents
looked into in terms of confirming it,” he said. “That will
now be part of our due diligence.”  Lokomotiv Yaroslavl joins  England ’s Manchester United
soccer club and the Marshall University football team as sports
teams affected by accidents.  United’s plane crashed taking off from a refueling stop in
Munich on a trip back from a 5-4 victory over Red Star Belgrade
in February 1958. Twenty-two people were killed, including seven
players, and another player died of his injuries 15 days later.  Seventy-five people were killed in November 1970 as a plane
carrying Marshall’s football team crashed while attempting to
land in Huntington,  West Virginia . Most of the team, the
coaching staff, flight crew and supporters were killed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net  and Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
1320 or  mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 