-- 
Debt Panel Must Revise Social Programs, Taxes, Members Say

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-08T20:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/debt-panel-must-revise-social-programs-taxes-members-say-1-.html
Members of Congress’s debt-cutting
supercommittee called for bipartisanship and expressed optimism
over reaching a deal to slash $1.5 trillion from the U.S.
deficit even as Republicans lowered expectations for major
changes to taxes and entitlement programs.  With the economy headed for another potential tailspin,
Democrats and Republicans on the 12-member panel agreed that  job
creation  must be a primary goal. “The final product must be
looked at through the prism of job creation,” said Michigan
Representative  Dave Camp , a Republican.  Still, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  sought to lower
expectations for the supercommittee at a luncheon today
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. Congress shouldn’t
try to produce a “grand bargain” to control government
deficits and instead should “set our sights on a path to make
incremental progress towards addressing the crises before us,”
said Cantor, a Virginia Republican who isn’t a member of the
panel.  Separately, Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican who sits
on the committee, said he would quit if defense programs face
deeper cuts than those already agreed to. “I am off of the
committee if we are going to talk about further defense cuts,”
Kyl said at an event organized by Washington policy groups.  Taxes, Entitlements  During today’s opening meeting, members spoke in
generalities about demands for higher taxes, which Democrats
support, and cuts in entitlement programs such as Medicare,
which Republicans are pressing, as the committee tries to meet
its late-November deadline to reach a deal.  “This committee must be primarily about the business of
saving and reforming social safety net programs that are not
only failing many beneficiaries but going broke at the same
time,” said Republican Representative Jeb Hensarling of  Texas .
In addition, he said, “I hope we are able to bring about pro-
growth tax reform.”  Congress created the committee last month in legislation
raising the federal debt limit. It was assigned to create a 10-
year deficit-cutting plan that Congress would vote on in
December. If the panel can’t agree or Congress doesn’t enact its
proposals, across-the-board budget cuts will take effect in
2013.  Debt-Ceiling Debate  Several members called for an end to the rancorous politics
that marked negotiations earlier this year over raising the debt
ceiling. The American people “desperately want us to sit down
like adults,” said Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat. “Let’s at least hit our $1.5 trillion target” for
deficit reduction, said Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican.  Democratic Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, the co-
leader of the panel, urged members to “come together” around a
plan that can be approved with bipartisan support.  “I hope we can continue to not allow ourselves to be boxed
in or pigeonholed by special interest groups,” she said.  The panel today approved rules requiring it to conduct
business primarily in public while also allowing members to hold
some meetings in private. The session was briefly disrupted by a
group of protesters chanting “now, jobs” in the hallway
outside the hearing room.  Short Time Frame  The committee’s short time frame for its work may limit its
ability to revamp the  tax code  now, leaving the group looking
for an overhaul that could be completed next year. The group is
likely to consider setting targets for major changes to be
considered over the next year, before Bush-era income tax cuts
are set to expire at the end of 2012.  “That’s certainly possible,” Camp, who also is chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, said before the meeting.  Such an approach “would have a date certain for  tax reform 
that would be outside of the 100-day window” for the panel to
agree on a plan, he said. Camp has been holding hearings on a
tax overhaul and said he wants to keep major tax legislation out
of the supercommittee’s proposal.  A tax-code plan that only sets overall targets would push
much of the substantive work into the 2012 election year. Still,
the panel would have to set the overall amount of money raised
and structure of a tax plan, matters that already divide the
political parties.  Targets and Deadlines  Other lawmakers have attempted this year to propose targets
and deadlines to spur a tax-code overhaul.  The bipartisan “Gang of Six” Senate members in July
called for a plan that would set tax-cut targets and instruct
the Finance Committee to report a bill to fit the plan.  Those targets included a three-rate tax structure for
individuals with a maximum top rate of 29 percent and retention
of some tax breaks for health, charities, homeownership,
retirement and low-income workers. The corporate rate would have
been between 23 percent and 29 percent. Members of that group
included Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner  and Idaho Republican  Mike Crapo .  “We ought to force the reform to take place and set the
parameters that require it to happen, but then let us have the
time in the appropriate committees of jurisdiction to build it
correctly,” Crapo said in an interview yesterday.  Similarly, as part of budget talks that collapsed in July,
President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, discussed targets for a tax overhaul. They couldn’t
agree on a plan or what would happen if Congress didn’t meet the
goals.  Obama and congressional Democrats have sought to let the
Bush income-tax cuts expire for high-income earners after 2012
while keeping them for everyone else. Separating the tax cuts
into the two income categories should be the enforcement
mechanism for tax changes, said a Democratic aide who couldn’t
speak publicly about internal deliberations. Republicans have
resisted that approach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  