-- 
Dell Sees PCs Poised for Sale by HP as High-Margin Ticket: Tech

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 7 5 8 4 6 5 ]   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-08T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/dell-sees-pcs-poised-for-sale-by-hp-as-high-margin-ticket-tech.html
Five years ago,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  lost the
title of world’s top personal-computer maker to its longtime
rival,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   So when Hewlett-Packard surprised the world by announcing
it would consider divesting its $41 billion PC business, Dell’s
founder and chief executive officer, Michael S. Dell, quickly
took to Twitter.  “Goodbye HP,” he wrote. “Sorry you don’t want to be in
PCs anymore.” He expanded on his message in a late August
interview. “We like the PC business, and we’re staying in it,”
said Dell, 46.  Whether No. 1 or No. 2, it’s a dubious distinction to be
one of the biggest suppliers of machines now considered products
of a bygone era, as the computing world moves on to tablets and
mobile devices. Still, Dell sees the business he once dominated
as a springboard to greater things,  Bloomberg Businessweek 
reports in its Sept. 12 issue.  Through a string of 10 acquisitions in less than two years,
Dell has branched into areas such as information-technology
services, computer networking and data storage. He thinks the
kind of low-cost, low-margin hardware Dell is known for -- the
company sold about $39 billion worth of desktops, laptops, and
related products last year -- can open the way for sales of
higher-margin enterprise products.  ‘Pruning the Business’  At the same time, and in a nod to reality, Dell is
winnowing its troubled line of consumer products and focusing
its attention on the small and medium-size businesses and
government agencies that already account for more than half its
sales.  “Some of this we kind of did to ourselves,” Dell said in
an interview in  Round Rock ,  Texas , where the company is based.
“We are consciously pruning the business,” he said. “We’re
replacing a lot of low-margin revenue with a lot of high-margin
revenue.”  Dell is under pressure to make the shift. The company is
expected to make less in profits this fiscal year than it did in
fiscal 2006. Analysts on average predict the company will have
$3.7 billion in profit for the year ending in January, according
to Bloomberg data. The company’s shares have lost 41 percent
since Jan. 30, 2007 -- the day before Michael Dell ousted former
CEO Kevin Rollins and returned to the helm, which is in part a
reflection of Wall Street’s skepticism about his strategy.  “It’s hard to say he’s come in and saved the company like
 Steve Jobs  at this point,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at
investment bank  Robert W. Baird .  Aiming at Middle  The consumer market has been vicious to everyone but  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , and Dell whiffed a few times too many: Its Adamo computer,
a $2,000 high-design laptop that launched with a splashy ad
campaign two years ago, failed to find many buyers, and last
month the company killed off its oddly shaped 5-inch tablet, the
Streak.  PC sales are also stalling. Gartner Inc. now predicts
global shipments will increase 3.8 percent this year to 364
million machines, down from the market researcher’s previous
forecast for 9.3 percent growth.  On the other end of the scale, enterprise giants such as
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
Oracle Corp., and Hewlett-Packard already hold sway over data
center sales to big businesses.  By focusing his company’s efforts on cost-conscious IT
officers at organizations with 100 to 5,000 workers, Dell is
betting it can stay out of its larger rivals’ cross hairs while
avoiding the expense and risk of keeping up with consumers’
whims.  Buying Direct  David Johnson , the head of mergers and acquisitions at
Dell, said recent purchases such as Compellent Technologies Inc.
and Force10 Networks Inc. will let Dell offer its existing PC
customers technology to move, store and analyze their data.
It’ll be less complicated for them to buy directly from Dell, he
says, than from resellers used by IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and
Cisco.  The direct approach means “we’ll attain more margin, but
the value the customer gets will also be greater,” Johnson
said.  In smartphones and tablets, the company plans to augment
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows and Google Inc.’s Android software
with its own security software to keep corporate data walled off
from users’ personal applications, a move to woo cautious IT
officers.  Cloud Computing  Yet even after those acquisitions, Dell is either way
behind or absent in many of the high-margin enterprise
technologies now in demand, including data-analysis software and
cloud computing. In the first week of September, IBM acquired
two data-analysis software companies in as many days, and
Hewlett-Packard agreed to buy enterprise-search company Autonomy
Corp. for $10.3 billion on Aug. 18. Cloud-computing services
from Amazon.com Inc., Microsoft and other companies are
replacing traditional server sales, instead letting users tap
computing power over the Internet.  And then there’s Dell’s reputation.  “A lot of enterprise wants a fairly sophisticated vendor,
and Dell’s not that,” said Noland. “They’re the low-cost
vendor.”  Shedding Dell’s image as the cheapest box builder is an
ongoing effort, Johnson says.  “It takes time to change the perception of a company,” he
said.  Michael Dell , for one, isn’t concerned about the wait.  Said Dell: “I think 46 is still pretty young.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at   bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  