-- 
Democrats Bank on Buyers’ Remorse in ‘Steep’ Climb to Win House

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/democrats-bank-on-buyers-remorse-in-steep-climb-to-win-house.html
Representative Steve  Israel , the
Democrat leading his party’s campaign to win back control of the
U.S. House, is managing expectations.  “It’s a steep mountain,” said Israel of New York. “I
can’t safely say to anybody that we’re going to win the House.
It’s too early to say. But I can guarantee it’s going to be
razor close.”  While most attention is focused on the 2012 presidential
race, House members are bracing for the fourth consecutive
election cycle in which they will face an electorate broiling
with frustration about Washington. According to an Aug. 18-22
Associated Press-GfK poll, 87 percent of Americans disapprove of
the job Congress is doing compared with 12 percent who approve.  In 2006, voter frustration resulted in the ouster of
Republican leadership in both the House and Senate. Two years
later, the electorate gave the  Democratic Party  the White House
and complete control of the legislative process. In 2010, voters
rebelled anew, setting off a pro-Republican wave that flipped
House control and pared the Democrats’ margin of power in the
Senate.  As Israel and his party try to recover from those losses,
voter unrest in public opinion polls is aimed at both parties --
a dynamic that may threaten some of his incumbents as he
confronts a difficult takeover terrain. The AP-GfK poll found
that 75 percent of Americans disapprove of how Republicans in
Congress are handling their jobs, compared with 68 percent
disapproval for Democrats.  Two Dozen Seats  There are 240 Republicans in the House, 192 Democrats and
three vacancies. Democrats need a net gain of 24 seats in the
435-member chamber. To get there, they must overcome newly drawn
congressional maps that provide more safety to vulnerable
Republicans, an opposition with a cash advantage and a president
struggling with low job approval ratings as voters worry about a
sputtering economy.  “At this point, Democrats’ drive for 24 is not completely
unrealistic, but it’s unenviable and arduous,” said  David Wasserman , House editor for the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report in Washington.  Democrats are pinning their hopes on 61 seats now held by
Republicans in districts that President  Barack Obama  carried in
2008.  The party has so far recruited candidates for 45 districts
it wants to win back as it portrays Republicans as willing to
cut programs for working-class Americans and reshape entitlement
programs such as Medicare for the elderly, while protecting tax
breaks for the wealthiest.  Republican Mandate  Republican lawmakers claimed a mandate for shrinking
government through deep budget cuts after winning 63 House seats
in the 2010 midterm election. Democrats say public polling and
some contentious town hall meetings for Republicans earlier this
year are evidence voters are having second thoughts.  “There’s a deep sense of buyers’ remorse that has set in
since Republicans took the majority,” Israel said.  Democrats were buoyed in May when their candidate, Kathy Hochul, won a special election in a traditionally Republican  New
York  district. A prominent issue in a race was  House
Republicans ’ approval of a budget that would privatize Medicare
for future recipients.  Further voter dissatisfaction came after 66 House
Republicans voted against raising the nation’s debt limit to
head off a default on U.S. obligations, Israel said.  Independent Voters  Independent voters, a swing bloc that backed Democrats in
2006 and 2008 and turned away in 2010, are “fed up with
Republicans who have consistently gone too far,” Israel said.  While such sentiment may provide a path for Democrats to
pick up a net gain of about 10 seats, reaching the 24-seat
threshold will be more difficult, said  Nathan Gonzales ,
political editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report
in  Washington .  “There’s a big hurdle between gaining seats and gaining
the majority,” he said.  Redistricting, the once-a-decade reconfiguring of House
district boundaries, is a major reason for that. States are in
the process of using data from the 2010 Census to redraw those
lines.  Democrats are set to pick up seats in some states, such as
Illinois and  California , according to an analysis by the Cook
Political Report. Those gains may be blunted because Republicans
used redistricting to shore up support for lawmakers vulnerable
to a Democratic challenger in states such as Wisconsin.  Incumbent Protection  In about a dozen swing districts “dramatic changes were
made,” said Representative Pete Sessions, a  Texas  Republican
who chairs the  National Republican Congressional Committee .  First-term Republican Renee Ellmers of  North Carolina , who
defeated a seven-term Democrat by 1,483 votes out of 189,774
cast last year in a district Obama won with 53 percent support
in 2008, is the kind of incumbent Democrats must beat to reclaim
the House.  After redistricting, Ellmers’ district became 11 percentage
points more Republican than the national average, up from 2
percentage points before state lawmakers this year moved the
district lines to capture Republican strongholds, according to a
partisan voting index by the Cook Political Report.  In Texas, state legislature Republicans strengthened the
district of Republican Blake Farenthold, a Tea Party favorite
and former radio talk show host who favors shrinking government,
to 13 points more Republican from 2 points. Farenthold beat his
Democratic opponent by 775 votes in 2010.  Carving Out Democrats  In  Wisconsin , first-term Republican  Sean Duffy  won a race
for a vacant seat that had been held by a Democrat for more than
40 years, winning 52 percent of the vote. His district, which
was 3 points more Democratic than the national average, is now
evenly split.  “We have spent a lot of time attempting to work with
delegations and with state legislators to have us take
Republican seats and bolster them,” Sessions said.  Republicans can “hold our own and add seats,” in part
because Americans will blame Democrats and Obama for the
slowdown in economic growth, Sessions said.  Federal Reserve staff at the August meeting cut estimates
for the gross domestic product in the second half of 2011. That
was the fourth consecutive downward revision to its near-term
outlook, the longest series of downward revisions since the
recovery began two years ago. The nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate is a reminder that a sustained labor-market
rebound has yet to develop.  Job Losses  “The people back home are losing their jobs; they are in
real economic trouble,” Sessions said.  Republicans also boast a financial edge. The National
Republican Congressional Committee entered August with $11.3
million in the bank, more than the $8.1 million reported by its
House Democratic counterpart.  Even though Republicans “start with an advantage,” a lot
can change more than a year before an election, Gonzales said.  “If the economy is struggling next summer, the bulk of
responsibility will be laid on president Obama, and that will
put Democrats at risk,” Gonzales said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  