-- 
Deutsche Telekom, AT&T United Front Masks Diverging Interests on T-Mobile

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-09-09T13:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/deutsche-telekom-at-t-seen-at-odds-with-t-mobile-deal-crumbling.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) 
have vowed to fight together in court to rescue a $39 billion
sale of T-Mobile USA Inc. That display of unity masks their
divergent interests should those efforts fail.  AT&T would gain from drawing out the regulatory review to
keep ownership of its smaller rival uncertain while putting off
the payment of a breakup fee estimated at as much as $7 billion,
investors said. T-Mobile owner Deutsche Telekom is better off
having its hands free as soon as possible to explore options
after a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit to halt the deal sliced
14 percent off its stock in just over a week, they said.  “AT&T still wants the deal to go through, but if there’s no
hope for it, then it’s to their benefit to prolong the process,”
said Leon Cappaert, a  fund manager  at Brussels-based KBC Asset 
Management who holds AT&T and Deutsche Telekom shares. “For 
Deutsche Telekom, it’s just the other way round. This is a window
of opportunity for all players to grab customers from T-Mobile.”  Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann, 48,
had turned the U.S. business into the German company’s fastest-
growing unit in his previous role as head of T-Mobile
International. T-Mobile USA has lost almost 1 million contract
customers in the past four quarters, as consumers demanding
attractive Web-surfing, multimedia phones switched to rivals. It
has also suffered from lagging behind competitors in building
faster networks.  Board Support  Obermann still has the full support of Deutsche Telekom’s
board to salvage the AT&T transaction, people with knowledge of
the matter said, asking not to be identified as revealing
internal deliberations.  While Deutsche Telekom remains focused on addressing
regulatory concerns, management is starting to consider options
should the deal collapse, the people said. They include spinning
off  T-Mobile USA  to shareholders and reviving talks with
previous suitors, they said. Deutsche Telekom had considered an
IPO of T-Mobile USA as recently as last year.  Philipp Kornstaedt, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman,
reiterated that the company is committed to joining AT&T in
court to defend the transaction. The German company said this
week it would also explore options for the U.S. assets together
with AT&T to address potential remedies required by regulators.  Brad Burns, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment.  Shares Fall  Deutsche Telekom dropped as much as 34 cents, or 4 percent,
to 8.14 euros and was down 3.6 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt. The stock has lost 14 percent since the Aug. 31 U.S.
lawsuit against the transaction, which would create the largest
mobile-service provider in the country, ahead of  Verizon
Wireless .  HSBC Holdings Plc analysts cut Deutsche Telekom’s rating to
“neutral” from “overweight,” lowering their share-price
estimate by 32 percent to 9.50 euros, citing the risk of a
“prolonged deadlock” over T-Mobile USA and “less flexibility
and delays” in rolling out a next-generation network in
 Germany .  The T-Mobile USA deal now has a 75 percent risk of failing,
up from 50 percent, Espirito Santo analysts led by Will Draper
wrote in a note.  AT&T slipped 18 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $27.78 in New
York trading.  ‘Driver’s Seat’  Germany’s former phone monopoly can’t yet restart talks
with other suitors while it’s contractually obligated to fully
back the deal, said Heinrich Ey, a fund manager at Allianz
Global Investors in  Frankfurt  who holds AT&T and Deutsche
Telekom shares.  “With AT&T in the driver’s seat, Deutsche Telekom has to
do everything to support them,” Ey said. With the probability
of regulatory approval now “very low,” a sale of the entire
business would still be the best option for investors, he said.  An IPO of T-Mobile may only yield about 20 billion euros
($28 billion), according to Ey’s estimates.  Deutsche Telekom had held negotiations with five companies
about the future of T-Mobile USA, Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges said March 21, a day after the transaction
was announced, without identifying the companies.  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  was one of them, people with knowledge of the matter have
said.  AT&T and the  Justice Department  are scheduled to meet in
court Sept. 21 to explore whether a settlement may be reached.
The parties were asked to submit a joint proposal by Sept. 16
for scheduling the litigation. The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission is also reviewing the deal.  Court Proceedings  Deutsche Telekom expects proceedings won’t start before
next year, Kornstaedt said. Sprint, which would become the
smallest national wireless carrier if the deal goes through,
this week stepped up its opposition by bringing a separate
antitrust lawsuit.  Any changes to the key points of the purchase agreement
that are brought on by regulatory requirements would need
approval by Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board, one of the
people said.  A successful divestment to AT&T remains the preferred
outcome for both Obermann and Deutsche Telekom investors. The
company has pledged funds from the sale to cut debt and
repurchase shares, as well as boosting its European operations
and expanding its broadband network. Deutsche Telekom would also
gain a stake in AT&T of as much as 8 percent, from which the
German company hopes to draw about $600 million in annual
dividend payments.  “This uncertainty will be most damaging to T-Mobile and
Deutsche Telekom, which we presume will not be able to exercise
the deal’s break-up provisions and may be precluded from seeking
alternative options,” said John Jackson, a Boston-based analyst
at CCS Insight. “A blocked deal would leave T-Mobile a weak
fourth-place national operator with a parent highly unlikely to
commit additional investment and an unappealing shortlist of
alternative suitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  