-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Would Dominate on Derivatives, EU Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-08T14:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/deutsche-boerse-nyse-would-dominate-on-derivatives-eu-says.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s bid for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  would create “by far the leading position” in
derivatives trading in the European Union, the region’s
antitrust chief said.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, is
examining “the potential loss of head-to-head competition”
between the exchanges, the effect the deal may have on clearing
and “the risk of lower innovation in products and technology,”
he said in the prepared remarks of a speech he gave in  New York .  The European Commission last month opened an expanded probe
into the deal, which would put more than 90 percent of the
region’s exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent
of European stock trading in the hands of one organization. The
regulator cited concerns over reduced innovation in derivatives
products and technology.  Almunia declined to comment on whether he planned to send a
formal antitrust complaint to the companies listing possible
competition problems with the deal.  EU reviews of financial market mergers will continue to
look at “vital” areas for competition such as market data,
indexes, trading technology, access to collateral and clearing
and settlement, Almunia said today.  European antitrust probes into the credit-default swaps
industry show oversight must include infrastructure owners,
intermediaries and information-service providers, Almunia said.  Regulators are investigating Thomson Reuters Corp. over the
use of identification codes for real-time market-data feeds.
 Standard & Poor’s  in May offered to change its pricing policy in
 Europe  to overcome antitrust concerns over licensing fees for
securities identification numbers.  The EU’s antitrust agency has set a deadline of Dec. 13 to
rule on  Deutsche Boerse ’s plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 