-- 
DiGi.Com Plans to Return Cash to Shareholders, Split Stock

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-08T05:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/digi-com-plans-to-return-cash-to-shareholders-split-stock-1-.html
DiGi.Com Bhd. (DIGI) ,  Malaysia ’s third-
largest mobile phone operator, plans to return cash to
shareholders including  Norway ’s Telanor ASA after receiving a
509 million-ringgit ($170 million) payment from a unit.  The company also said investors will receive 10 shares for
each one they currently own in a proposed split to make the
stock more affordable and boost liquidity, according to stock
exchange filings today.  DiGi, 49-percent owned by Telenor will make the payment to
shareholders by the first half of 2012 as it depreciates more
than 1 billion ringgit of equipment and upgrades its network.
The company, which reduced its second-quarter dividend to 30 sen
from 35 sen a year earlier, in April said depreciation costs may
hurt earnings for three years, prompting HSBC Holdings Plc and
RHB Capital Bhd. to lower ratings on the stock.  “‘With this capital distribution, they are definitely
paying out more than what they did last year,’’ Lim Tee Yang, an
analyst at RHB, said by phone from  Kuala Lumpur  today. ‘‘The
stock should move up a bit tomorrow.’’  DiGi’s shares, suspended since yesterday, have risen 27
percent this year, outperforming a 3.5 percent decline in the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  DiGi Telecommunications Sdn., a wholly owned DiGi.com
subsidiary, will undertake a  capital management  exercise to
distribute 509 million ringgit to the parent. The parent then
intends to return excess proceeds to shareholders by the first
half of 2012, according to its filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Tokyo at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  