-- 
Stocks in U.S. Drop as Bonds, Dollar Climb on Bernanke’s Economic Remarks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-08T20:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/dollar-treasuries-advance-before-obama-bernanke-speeches-aussie-weakens.html
U.S. stocks slid and commodities
fell, while Treasuries and the dollar rose, as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke disappointed investors by not detailing
new plans to boost growth in the world’s largest economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 1.1 percent to
1,185.9 at 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
retreated 0.3 percent as corn and wheat led declines and oil
erased an earlier advance. The 10-year Treasury yield, which
climbed from a record low yesterday, fell six basis points to
1.98 percent, while the Dollar Index jumped 1 percent to the
highest closing level since March and gold futures increased 2.2
percent as investors pursued haven assets.  U.S. benchmark stock indexes swung between gains and losses
before heading lower after Bernanke said risks to the economic
outlook have increased and policy makers will discuss tools they
could use to boost growth at their meeting this month, while
warning that fiscal tightening by Congress may hurt the fragile
recovery. As in a speech on Aug. 26, the Fed chief today stopped
short of signaling what he thinks is the Fed’s best option to
aid the economy.  “It’s a little disappointing,” Bruce McCain, who helps
oversee $22 billion as chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, said in a
telephone interview. “Like he didn’t even care to put anything
new out there. Investors are grasping for some clear indication
of where we are going to be moving and there just isn’t enough
to provide that clarity.”  Banks Slump  Financial companies led declines among the 10 main
industries in the S&P 500, dropping 2.3 percent as a group.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost 3.8 percent and Wells Fargo & Co. slid
2.2 percent to pace losses. Bank of America Corp. slid 3.7
percent as Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan said the
lender struggling to contain losses from soured mortgages will
cut employees and assets to make the bank easier to manage.  The S&P 500 is down 13 percent from a three-year high at
the end of April amid concern the economy may relapse into
another recession. The index is up 5.9 percent from its low for
the year a month ago.  The extra yield investors get to hold 30-year bonds instead
of two-year notes was at 3.12 percentage point, almost the least
in a year, on bets the Fed may replace some of the central
bank’s shorter-maturity U.S. securities with longer-term debt to
lower borrowing rates.  Obama Speech  President Barack Obama will address Congress later today on
a $300 billion plan to stimulate economic growth. The U.S. trade
deficit narrowed more than forecast, reaching a three-month low
as exports climbed to a record, in a report Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. economist Jan Hatzius called a “major positive” for
growth prospects.  The S&P 500 yesterday gained 2.9 percent, the most in two
weeks, amid speculation Obama’s plan will stimulate growth and
help cut unemployment that remains at 9.1 percent more than two
years after a recession officially ended. The Fed said in its
Beige Book survey released yesterday the economy grew at a
slower pace in some regions of the country.  The euro weakened against 15 of 16 major peers, dropping
1.5 percent to $1.3894. European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet said “downside risks” to the euro area
intensified, giving officials the option to take further action
should the debt crisis worsen. The ECB left its benchmark rate
at 1.5 percent and cut its growth forecasts for this year and
next, and Trichet said inflation dangers are “broadly
balanced.” Last month those risks were on the “upside.”  `Someone to Push'  “This market is looking for assistance and what it wants
is a wheelchair and someone to push it,” Burt White, who helps
oversee $330 billion as chief investment officer at LPL
Financial Corp. in Boston, said in a telephone interview.
“People are hoping that central banks will deliver that.
Everyone was expecting the ECB to be on hold and do nothing and
yet they were hoping for something.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lowered its growth forecasts for the U.S. and Japan and said
central banks should be ready to ease monetary policy if
economies weaken. Policy makers in the U.K., South Korea, the
Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia also kept interest rates
unchanged today.  The U.S. will grow 1.1 percent in the third quarter and 0.4
percent in the fourth, instead of the 2.9 percent and 3 percent
predicted in May, the OECD said today. Japan will expand 4.1
percent in the third quarter before stalling in the fourth, and
the three biggest euro economies will gain 1.4 percent and then
shrink 0.4 percent.  Franc Weakens  The Swiss franc retreated versus all 16 major peers, losing
0.5 percent versus the euro and 2 percent against the dollar.
The franc fell by a record 8.1 percent against the euro on Sept.
6 after the Swiss National Bank set a franc ceiling -- the first
time such a limit was set since 1978 -- saying it would use
“unlimited” quantities of cash to cap the increase.  Almost two stocks gained for each that fell in the Stoxx
600, which rose 0.7 percent as oil producers and retailers
climbed. KBC Groep NV rallied 5.9 percent following a report
that Banco Santander SA seeks to buy KBC’s Polish unit. Home
Retail Group Plc climbed 2 percent after saying the sales
decline at its Argos chain slowed. Syngenta AG and Givaudan SA
both dropped after Morgan Stanley recommended selling their
shares.  Greek Concern  Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt surged to a
record, signaling there’s about a 92 percent probability the
nation won’t meet debt commitments, after its economy shrank
more than previously reported. Five-year contracts on Greek
sovereign bonds jumped 217 basis points to a record 3,022 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  Greek gross domestic product shrank 7.3 percent from a year
earlier after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in the
first quarter, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said. Greece’s
financial situation is “on a knife’s edge,” German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told lawmakers last night, the
parliament’s HIB bulletin said.  Oil slipped 0.3 percent to settle at $89.05, erasing
earlier gains triggered by concern tropical storms will cut
supplies.  Wheat fell to the lowest price in almost three weeks,
losing 1.8 percent to $7.38 a bushel in Chicago, amid
speculation that increasing supplies from Russia and Europe will
reduce demand for grain from the U.S. Corn fell 1.9 percent on
speculation this year’s rally in prices will encourage producers
to feed other grains to livestock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  