-- 
Dynegy Bondholder Losses Deepen as Debt Exchange Looms: Corporate Finance

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/dynegy-bondholder-losses-deepen-as-debt-exchange-looms-corporate-finance.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) ’s bondholders, who
suffered a 16 percent loss since the beginning of the year, may
face more punishment as the company heads toward purchasing its
outstanding debt for less than face value.  The power producer last week transferred $1.25 billion of
assets, mainly coal-fired power facilities, out of a unit that
issued bonds for the company, leaving fixed-income investors
with fewer claims in a bankruptcy. The move also gives Dynegy
more leverage in negotiating a distressed-debt exchange, said
Kimberly Noland, a New York-based analyst with Gimme Credit LLC.  “In this case you have activist shareholders with
restructuring and distressed-debt backgrounds,” Noland said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “So instead of the inevitable
rolling downhill into the bankruptcy abyss you have some very
clever people who have formed a restructuring committee and are
doing all kinds of moves based on the lack of bond covenants.”  The third-largest independent U.S. power producer has
posted five straight quarterly losses driven by lower power
prices and reduced cash flow. Robert C. Flexon was named chief
executive officer on June 22 by a new board backed by
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s Icahn Capital LP and Seneca
Capital, the two largest shareholders.  Dynegy’s net loss narrowed to $116 million, or 95 cents a
share, in the second quarter compared with net loss of $191
million, or $1.59, a year earlier, the Houston-based company
said in an Aug. 8 statement. Cash flow used in operations for
the six months ended June 30 was $86 million, compared with net
cash provided by operating activities of $368 million in the
first half of 2010.  Gas Price Fallout  Gas costs set energy prices in most markets because plants
powered by it usually provide the marginal power needed to meet
demand.  “A distressed-debt exchange is likely to happen because
Dynegy Holdings doesn’t have the cash or  cash flow  to sustain
itself through 2012, so it will default in 2012 unless something
is done,” Swami Venkataraman, an analyst at the rating company
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a telephone interview. “They do not
have cash available to make debt service for the whole year and
make good on other payments.”  Dynegy Holdings is a unit of Dynegy Inc.  The company’s 8.375 percent bonds due May 2016 fell 7.7
cents since the beginning of last month to 63.25 cents at 12:32
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Equity vs. Debt Investors  “The new board and management team appear to be pursuing a
strategy that seeks to enhance  shareholder value  at the expense
of creditors,” Moody’s Investors Service Senior Vice President
A.J. Sabatelle wrote in a report yesterday. “Default risk
remains high, and litigation risk is expected to increase.”  Moody’s rates the company Caa3, nine steps below investment
grade, while S&P assigns it a CC designation, one step lower.  Dynegy has $4 billion in outstanding debt, according to a
June 30 regulatory filing, which includes $785 million of bonds
due in 2015 plus $1 billion of notes and $1.7 billion of loans
that expire in 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  James Golden, a spokesman for Dynegy, declined to comment
on questions about the company’s restructuring. NRG Energy Inc.
and Calpine Corp. are the two largest U.S. independent power
producers.  Dynegy said July 10 it would retool its structure to create
two units, one owning eight natural gas-fired power generation
facilities and another owning a group of six coal-fired
facilities. The units would be “bankruptcy remote,” insulating
them if affiliates become insolvent, according to the statement.  Avoiding Default  The energy provider had to restructure to avoid violating
an earnings-to-interest covenant in its loan agreement. It
arranged $1.7 billion in new loans, subordinating existing
bondholders and sending the unsecured debt to a two-year low.  The $550 million of 7.5 percent senior unsecured Dynegy
Holdings bonds due in June 2015 rose 0.69 cent on the dollar
today to 66 cents for a yield of 21.1 percent, according to
Trace. They’ve fallen 25.4 percent from the year’s high of 88.5
cents.  The company’s shares fell .17 cents, or 3.15 percent, to
$5.23 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading at 12:27 p.m.
in New York. The shares hit a low for the year of $3.55 on Aug.
19.  Natural gas for next-month delivery rose 5.4 cents to $3.99
a million British thermal units yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . That’s down from $13.69 on July 2, 2008.
The benchmark power price in PJM Interconnection LLC, the
largest U.S. power market, has averaged $56.76 a megawatt-hour
so far this year, 40 percent lower than the same period four
years ago.  “While they’re doing all this restructuring Dynegy’s
fortunes will depend on where commodity prices are,” A.J.
Sabatelle, an analyst at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview.
“They can still end up filing for bankruptcy if power prices
remain depressed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 