-- 
Health-Care Law Challenges Thrown Out by U.S. Appeals Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T21:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/health-care-law-upheld-by-federal-appeals-court.html
A federal appeals court in  Virginia 
threw out two challenges to the Obama administration’s 2010
health-care law, saying it lacked authority to decide whether
the measure is constitutional.  With the decisions, the court in Richmond today became the
second U.S. appellate panel this year to leave the law intact
after lower-court judges ruled on its constitutionality. The
decisions came in separate cases challenging the statute’s
requirement that individuals buy health insurance or pay a tax
penalty. A third appeals court threw out that mandate.  The rulings broaden the range of opinions on the health-
care law among the intermediate federal courts, a division
likely to be resolved by the U.S. Supreme Court.  “I was a little surprised,” Northwestern University law
professor Stephen Presser said of the court’s decision to
dismiss the cases on jurisdictional grounds. “I expected them
to talk about the constitutional issue.”  The judges in both decisions dismissed the cases, saying
the court lacked jurisdiction. In one, the judges said a statute
that generally blocks lawsuits challenging the collection or
assessment of taxes barred them from ruling on the health-
insurance mandate. In the other, they said the state of Virginia
lacked the legal right to bring its lawsuit.  “This decision is another victory for the Affordable Care
Act,” said  Stephanie Cutter , assistant to the president and
deputy senior adviser, in a White House blog post. Cutter
pointed out that two of the judges noted in one of the decisions
that they would have found the law to be constitutional.  Court Victory  The administration won its first appeals court victory on
June 29 when a Cincinnati panel turned aside a challenge to the
law by the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center, a
Christian-based public interest law firm.  In a 2-1 decision, that court found Congress had power to
enact the insurance mandate through its constitutional authority
to regulate interstate commerce. Thomas More appealed the ruling
to the Supreme Court on July 27.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta invalidated the
insurance-purchasing mandate in an Aug. 12 ruling, also by a 2-1
margin, concluding that Congress lacks authority to compel
people to buy a product for their entire lives. It left the rest
of the law in force.  Christian School  The Virginia appeals stem from one challenge by the state
and another by Liberty University, a Christian school founded in
Lynchburg, Virginia, by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell. In the
lower courts, one judge upheld the measure while another struck
down the mandate.  Mathew Staver, dean of the Liberty University School of
Law, called the outcome “astounding.” He said in an interview
that the school will petition the U.S.  Supreme Court  for review.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  said in a
statement that he plans to appeal the ruling.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming in court
papers that without expanding the pool of younger, healthier
customers the  insurance industry  won’t be able to meet its
obligations for coverage under the law.  Expanded Coverage  The individual mandate and expansions of Medicaid and
employer-based coverage will provide about 32 million more
people with coverage by 2019, Justice Department lawyers said,
citing the  Congressional Budget Office .  The government argued in court that the legislation is an
extension of Congress’s power to tax, as people who fail to buy
coverage starting in 2014 would face a penalty to be included on
an individual’s tax return.  In the decision on the Liberty University case, the judges
said that the Anti-Injunction Act prevented them from ruling.
In the lower courts, the  Justice Department  failed to win
dismissal of the lawsuits on grounds of the act. The government
didn’t cite the law on appeal.  “Because this suit constitutes a pre-enforcement action
seeking to restrain the assessment of a tax, the Anti-Injunction
Act strips us of jurisdiction,” Judge Diana Gribbon Motz wrote
in a 2-1 decision.  In the Virginia case, the judges unanimously held that the
state couldn’t sue to enforce a law passed in response to the
federal health-care measure that bars residents from having to
buy health insurance.  “To permit a state to litigate whenever it enacts a
statute declaring its opposition to federal law, as Virginia
has,” Motz wrote, “would convert the federal judiciary into a
‘forum’ for vindication of a state’s ‘generalized grievances
about the conduct of government.’”  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  