-- 
ECB Holds Rates as Crisis Damps Growth Outlook

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-08T11:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ecb-keeps-rates-on-hold-as-worsening-crisis-damps-growth-outlook.html
The European Central Bank left
interest rates unchanged and may lower its inflation and growth
forecasts as the region’s debt crisis worsens.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today kept the benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent, as predicted by all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. President Jean-Claude Trichet, who holds
a press conference at 2:30 p.m., may say inflation risks are no
longer on the upside, signaling rates are now on hold after two
increases this year, economists said.  The spreading debt crisis is sapping confidence in European
banks and driving up market borrowing costs, prompting
economists such as Nouriel Roubini and Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz to urge the ECB to quickly cut rates. Economists who
closely watch the ECB say it is more likely to use other tools
first, such as reintroducing 12-month loans to banks.  “It would take a full-blown recession for the ECB to
really reverse course,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist
at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “Having just raised
interest rates it would be very, very embarrassing to say sorry,
we apparently made a mistake. It is much more likely that they
will offer even more liquidity assistance to banks to help ease
tension in the inter-bank markets.”  The Bank of England today kept its key rate at a record low
of 0.5 percent and maintained its bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($320 billion).  Focus on Growth  Central banks around the world are refocusing on supporting
growth. Yesterday the Bank of Canada said there is a
“diminished” need for it to raise interest rates, Sweden’s
Riksbank abandoned a planned increase and the Reserve Bank of
Australia signaled it is prepared to keep rates on hold.  Fears of a renewed global recession have caused stocks to
tumble around the world and forced Japan and Switzerland to
intervene to stop their currencies appreciating as investors
seek havens.  Manufacturing slumped in Europe and Asia last month, while
weak growth and stubbornly high unemployment in the U.S. have
fueled calls for the Federal Reserve to embark on a third round
of quantitative easing. U.S. President Barack Obama will today
propose a more than $300 billion stimulus plan to lawmakers in
Washington.  Economic Projections  The ECB will cut its forecasts for growth and inflation
when it issues new economic projections today, said Jacques Cailloux, chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in London. It may lower its 2012 growth estimate to 1.4 percent
from 1.7 percent and its inflation forecast to 1.6 percent from
1.7 percent, he said.  Trichet said on Aug. 29 that the bank was reviewing its
assessment of inflation risks, which in last month’s policy
statement it described as being “on the upside.”  “The language will probably shift to neutral on inflation
and downside risks to growth, which is enough to flag that the
ECB is on hold,” said Laurent Bilke, a former ECB economist now
working for Nomura International in London. “That is the
intermediate step before they would even consider any easing. It
is very unlikely that the ECB would do a massive U-turn so soon.
That is just not how it operates.”  While euro-area growth slowed more than economists forecast
in the second quarter, to 0.2 percent from 0.8 percent in the
first, inflation at 2.5 percent remains in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit.  ‘Biggest Mistake’  The central bank raised rates in April and July to combat
price pressures. Since then, the debt crisis that had already
engulfed Greece, Portugal and Ireland has spread to Italy and
Spain, the region’s third and fourth-largest economies, forcing
the ECB to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug. 8.  Investors have increased bets that the ECB will cut its key
rate by the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show.  “The ECB made its biggest mistake in its history hiking
rates this year,” Roubini, co-founder and chairman of Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said in an interview on Sept. 6. “They’ve
created more sovereign debt problems. They’ve created more
banking problems.”  The Euribor OIS spread, a measure of banks’ reluctance to
lend to each other, rose to 79 basis points yesterday, the
highest in almost 2 1/2 years.  Liquidity Measures  Juergen Michels, chief euro-region economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said the economic outlook is not gloomy enough
to prompt rate cuts and the ECB is more likely to introduce new
measures to keep banks awash with cash, perhaps as soon as
today. That could include an additional six-month loan or
reintroducing a 12-month operation, he said.  Policy makers could also look at cutting the deposit rate
to push down market borrowing costs and increase the penalty
banks incur when they park cash with the ECB rather than lend it
to other institutions, Michels said.  The ECB has reversed direction on rates before. It raised
its benchmark in July 2008 before embarking on the most
aggressive easing in its history in October after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global recession.
Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann said on
Sept. 5 that current market conditions remind him of that time.  “The experience of late 2008 indicates that the ECB can
change course very quickly,” said Cailloux, who sees a 40
percent chance that the ECB will cut rates by year-end. “Given
how quickly the situation has deteriorated over the past month,
we do not believe the ECB will be in a position to provide much
credible forward-looking guidance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  