-- 
Medvedev Seeks Aviation Overhaul After Crash

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-09-08T12:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/medvedev-demands-russian-aviation-overhaul-as-hockey-team-crash-kills-43.html
President Dmitry Medvedev demanded
“radical changes” in Russia’s civil aviation after a passenger
plane carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team crashed
yesterday, killing all but two of the 45 people on board.  A search and rescue mission continued until 1 a.m. local
time and resumed in the morning, when workers recovered the last
body after 7 a.m. Plane fragments littered the riverbank site,
with a turbine, seats and other parts in the water. The plane, a
Soviet-era Yakovlev-42 aircraft, had failed to gain altitude
when taking off from the Tunoshna airport in the Yaroslavl
region about 300 kilometers (186 miles) northwest of Moscow on
the opening day of the  Kontinental Hockey League  season.  Medvedev, 45, who has pushed to modernize the economy and
turn Moscow into a global financial hub to reduce dependence on
energy exports, spoke today at a global policy forum in the
region where the plane crashed. The president called for
reducing the number of airlines and purchasing foreign aircraft
to guarantee safety of air travel.  The authorities may seek to decommission Yak-42 planes,
Deputy Transportation Minister Valery Okulov, who’s also a
former head of Russia’s flagship airline, OAO Aeroflot, said in
a telephone interview from Yaroslavl. Investigators are waiting
to decode recording devices before commenting on possible causes
of the crash, he said.  Critical Condition  Lokomotiv player Alexander Galimov is in critical
condition, according to Yaroslavl Governor Sergey Vakhrukov’s
press service. An airplane crew member -- identified as
Alexander Sizov on the  KHL  website -- was also hospitalized.  Lokomotiv, a three-time national champion, was coached by
former Detroit Red Wings assistant Brad McCrimmon, a 52-year-old
Canadian, and its roster lists former National Hockey League
players Pavol Demitra, who played for the St. Louis Blues and
Vancouver Canucks; Josef Vasicek, Karel Rachunek and Karlis Skrastins.  The plane crash is a blow to the fledgling Russian league,
which started in 2008 and has attracted players including former
New York Rangers winger Jaromir Jagr, the ninth-leading scorer
in NHL history.  The Entire Team  “The whole team was on the plane,” Vladimir Malkov,
Lokomotiv’s spokesman, said in comments broadcast on state
television. There were eight crew members on board, Yelena
Kalabushkina, a spokeswoman for the Emergency Ministry said by
phone.  The KHL is made up of 24 teams, split between two
conferences, in Russia, Belarus, Latvia and Kazakhstan.  The league and the NHL have been at odds in recent years
over the KHL attempting to entice NHL players to break their
contracts and join the Russian league.  Swedish national team ice-hockey goaltender Stefan Liv was
also on the team. The KHL website said that McCrimmon was on the
plane, as were two members of the 2010 world champion Czech
Republic team, Jan Marek and Vasicek. Alexander Karpovtsev, a
member of the 1994 Stanley Cup winning New York Rangers team,
and Igor Korolev, who played 12 seasons in the NHL, were
assistant coaches.  Yakovlev Planes  Russian airlines have rejuvenated their fleets in recent
years, adding more jets manufactured by Airbus SAS and  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the market leaders. Boeing has received orders for 117
planes from Russian airlines since 1997, according to the
Chicago-based planemaker’s website.  Variants of Boeing’s top-selling 737 single-aisle jet were
the most numerous, account for 74 of the total, the website
shows. Only 14 of those planes were delivered through July,
according to the website.  OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s main carrier, has 87 Airbus SAS
aircraft in operation, most of which are single-aisle jets,
according to Airbus’s latest data of orders and deliveries. The
Russian carrier is also talking with Toulouse, France-based
Airbus about buying its A380 double-decker jet, Airbus vice
president Christopher Buckley said last month.  The plane that crashed was developed during the Soviet era
by the Yakovlev Design Bureau, and has been in commercial
service for more than 30 years. Eight Yak-42s have crashed with
570 fatalities since they entered service in 1975, the  New York
Times  reported.  Several Crashes  The aircraft has three rear-mounted jet engines and
typically flies as many as 120 passengers. It has been involved
in several crashes, including an accident involving a Ukrainian
plane which killed all crew and more than 60 Spanish
peacekeeping soldiers near the Black Sea city of Trabzon. A
probe has been opened into the cause of today’s accident,
according to the Russian Investigative Committee.  Yak Service, the operator of the chartered flight, was put
under review by European Union regulators in 2009 for possible
inclusion on a blacklist after Russia restricted it at home. The
European commission didn’t ban the operator after Russia lifted
its own measures.  The plane was headed to Minsk, Belarus, for a game today,
according to the KHL website. Alexander Medvedev canceled
yesterday’s opening KHL game in Russia’s Bashkortostan region.
The accident happened just after 4 p.m. local time yesterday at
a tributary that feeds into the Volga.  ‘Lokomotiv is Everything’  “Lokomotiv is everything for Yaroslavl,” said Oleg
Mayorov, a 35-year-old singer in a disco-ska band who came to
the arena with his wife and two daughters to pay their respects.
“This is the only thing that unites everybody in the city.”  Club supporters piled as much as two meters of flowers,
scarves, and flags on tables at the arena. Outside, fans made a
shrine with candles and more scarves. In Yaroslavl, cars honked
their horns in mourning.  Lokomotiv Yaroslavl joins England’s Manchester United
soccer club and the Marshall University football team as sports
teams affected by accidents.  United’s plane crashed taking off from a refueling stop in
Munich on a trip back from a 5-4 victory over Red Star Belgrade
in February 1958. Twenty-two people were killed, including seven
players, and another player died of his injuries 15 days later.  Seventy-five people were killed in November 1970 as a plane
carrying  Marshall’s football team  crashed while attempting to
land in Huntington, West Virginia. Most of the team, the
coaching staff, flight crew and supporters were killed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  