-- 
Egypt Yields Jump Most Since Revolt Signalling Need for Cash

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-09-08T14:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/egypt-yields-jump-most-since-revolt-signalling-need-for-cash-1-.html
Egyptian borrowing costs climbed the
most since February, the month former President  Hosni Mubarak 
was ousted, after the Finance Minister said the country is
seeking $7 billion in aid.  The average yield on one-year notes surged 53 basis points,
or 0.53 percentage point, from a sale earlier this week to 13.6
percent, according to data posted on the  Finance Ministry 
website. That’s the biggest advance since a sale on Feb. 21, the
first after the departure of Mubarak. The yield on six-month
notes jumped 31 basis points, the most since Feb. 10, to 12.952
percent. The country raised 6 billion pounds ($1 billion) at the
auction, meeting its target.  Egypt  is negotiating with Arab countries for grants and
credit facilities to cover its immediate needs of about $7
billion, Finance Minister Hazem El Beblawi said yesterday. The
country plans to finance 120 billion pounds of its estimated 134
billion-pound budget shortfall through local sales of  government
securities , he said Sept. 4.  “The only explanation is they need the money,” said
Moustafa Assal, head of fixed income at Cairo-based investment
bank Beltone Financial Holding. “The Ministry of Finance has
lost its leverage. The 13 percent cap the government tried to
enforce on one-year bills was bound to fall especially as more
foreigners left the market after the U.S. credit rating cut.”  Foreigner Debt Holdings  The Egyptian government, which relies on weekly sales of
treasury bills and bonds to fund the  budget deficit , had limited
yield gains in the aftermath of the uprising by accepting lower
than its fund raising targets. It canceled an auction in June,
forcing yields down temporarily in the following month.  Foreign investors  reduced  their holdings of Egyptian bills
by 34.9 billion pounds in the first six months of the year to
24.5 billion pounds, according to the most recent central bank
data available. The country’s 39 private and public banks
stepped in, increasing their investments by 46 percent and 56
percent, respectively. Bank of Alexandria, the Cairo-based unit
of  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , increased its holdings by 70
percent to 8.16 billion pounds.  “Local banks still have the ability to buy the debt, but
they understand the momentum and are asking for higher yields,”
said Assal. “If these rates are sustained, we could be
witnessing the beginnings of a recession.”  Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond due April 2020
advanced, sending the yield four basis points lower to 5.45
percent at 3 p.m. in Cairo. The pound retreated as much as 0.1
percent to 5.9812 against the dollar, the weakest level on a
closing basis since January 2005, before rebounding to 5.979.  Editor: Shanthy Nambiar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  