-- 
Electronic S&P 500 Options Will Compete With CBOE’s Pit Trading

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-08T15:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/electronic-s-p-500-options-will-compete-with-cboe-s-pit-trading.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  plans to launch
an electronic options contract based on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index that analysts say may overtake volume in the 28-year-
old flagship gauge traded on the  Chicago Board Options Exchange .  CBOE’s C2 Options Exchange was  approved  on Sept. 2 to begin
 S&P 500  derivatives that settle based on the end-of-day prices
of index stocks, rather than levels at the start of the
expiration day. S&P 500 options trade in live auctions at the
CBOE in Chicago, the largest of nine U.S. equity derivatives
venues by volume. The new contract, designated SPXpm because
settlement is based on prices at 4 p.m. New York time, will
change hands on C2, an electronic exchange.  The S&P 500 products will appeal to different users, with
electronic traders adopting SPXpm while those who need to
“negotiate large, complex orders” continuing to buy and sell
in the CBOE pit,  William Brodsky , chairman and chief executive
officer of CBOE Holdings, said in a Sept. 2 statement. The
Securities and Exchange Commission cleared the product over
objections from  International Securities Exchange , which said it
will spur late-day volatility and investor confusion.  “Over time you’d expect the electronic trading of the
SPXpm option to rival that of S&P trading in the pit,”  Richard Repetto , an analyst at New York-based Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, said in a phone interview. He said the company’s index
volume may increase 30 percent next year because of the new
product. “That’s a pretty good growth rate,” he said.  Trading Volume  Trading in futures on the S&P 500 increased after a smaller
electronic version was introduced on the  Chicago  Mercantile
Exchange’s Globex platform in 1997, Repetto said. Volume in the
equity futures products rose 36 percent in 2000, 64 percent the
next year and 105 percent in 2002 as more investors used the
benchmark index. WTI crude oil futures had a faster shift after
electronic trading began in 2006, surging 81 percent that year
and 60 percent the next, data from Sandler O’Neill show.  CBOE and C2 had 26.2 and 1.3 percent of total U.S. options
volume last month, respectively, and CBOE accounted for more
than 95 percent of the industry’s index volume, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based  OCC , which clears and settles all
options trades. CBOE’s exclusive license to trade options on the
S&P 500 ends in 2018.  Electronic-Trading Transition  CBOE Holdings isn’t likely to allow the C2 contract to
cannibalize its S&P 500 options volume until the new product
builds liquidity,  Diego Perfumo , an analyst at Equity Research
Desk LLC, said in a phone interview. The Greenwich, Connecticut-
based company advises  hedge funds  and institutions about
exchanges. The transition to electronic trading can happen
gradually and with greater exchange control than elsewhere
because there are two related products, he said.  Trading in S&P 500 options is conducted by humans in a pit
on one end of CBOE’s Chicago  trading floor . The SPX pit,
expanded to include more rows for market makers and clerks in
2008, holds more than 200 traders. Most buying and selling takes
place manually through open outcry, with traders using hand-held
computers, their voices and hand signals to communicate.  Most options products on the CBOE can be bought and sold in
the exchange’s hybrid system, both electronically and in open
outcry, or only through automated processes. The trading floor
is less populated now than five years ago, with some pits empty.  Exclusivity Expiration  “Typically markets convert to electronic trading without a
substitute contract,” Perfumo said. “CBOE is very smart in how
they created this non-fungible contract,” he added, meaning the
contracts aren’t interchangeable and positions opened in one
market can’t be offset by those in the other. “They have until
2018 to shift, so they won’t hurt their existing liquidity. By
the time their exclusivity expires, it’ll be mostly electronic
and will most likely stay with the CBOE.”  SPXpm is likely to improve CBOE Holdings’ revenue and
profit. CBOE got $44 million in transaction fees from its index
products including options on the S&P 500 in the second quarter,
more than half its total options fees of $81.7 million. The rest
came from products based on stocks and exchange-traded funds.
Trading fees from options and futures accounted for 72 percent
of the company’s operating revenue in the second quarter.  “C2 has a tremendous opportunity to capture over-the-
counter business in S&P 500 options,” said Thomas Foertsch,
president of Exchange Capital Resources, a Chicago-based company
that advises trading firms on operational and market structure
issues. Foertsch worked at the CBOE from 1983 until 2009 and ran
day-to-day operations for SPX on the trading floor starting in
1989. Over-the-counter transactions take place away from
exchanges and aren’t cleared by the OCC.  Morning Settlement  Off-exchange trading in S&P 500 options developed after the
contract moved to morning settlement in the early 1990s,
Foertsch said. Brokers and investors began trading “essentially
lookalike a.m. products with p.m. settlement,” he said. About
95 percent of over-the-counter options based on the S&P 500 use
afternoon settlement, according to C2 data. CBOE’s SPX product
accounted for almost 60 percent of index options volume earlier
this year, ISE said.  The ISE, the first electronic U.S. options  exchange , wrote
three  letters  to the SEC this year urging it to reject C2’s
request to trade S&P 500 options with p.m. settlement. It said
the industry began shifting away from afternoon settlement in
the late 1980s because of disruptive volatility near the close
of trading on expiration days for S&P 500 stocks listed on the
New York Stock Exchange. New York-based ISE is owned by
derivatives exchange Eurex, whose parent company is  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  in  Frankfurt .  Improved Auctions  C2 told the SEC the concerns were misplaced since NYSE and
other exchanges have automated and improved the auctions that
set stock prices at the end of the day, allowing more offsetting
orders to enter the market to mitigate buy or sell imbalances.  While the commission approved the SPXpm contract because it
provides additional choice for investors and may draw over-the-
counter options trading onto C2, it said the  potential effect  of
p.m. settlement is “unclear” since the improved closing
auctions for stocks depend on attracting orders in a “very
concentrated window of time” on expiration days. The SEC said
it “remains concerned about the possible effect of volatility”
once afternoon-settled index options are reintroduced.  Even as the SEC dismissed other evidence C2 offered to show
that volatility wouldn’t be increased, it noted that the
potential impact “would be more significant if both index
options and index futures” offered afternoon settlement. The
Chicago Mercantile Exchange moved its S&P 500 futures contracts
to a.m. settlement in 1987 and the CBOE first allowed both types
of contracts in the late 1980s before shifting to morning
settlement starting in 1992, according to the SEC.  14-Month Pilot  The SPXpm product will operate for a 14-month pilot. The
exchange will submit confidential annual and interim reports to
the SEC analyzing trading patterns in SPXpm and shares in the
S&P 500 stocks. This will help regulators assess the effect of
afternoon settlement on  S&P 500 index (SPX)  options, the SEC said.  ISE also said C2’s new contract wasn’t materially different
from the SPX, or options on the S&P 500, and was aimed at
skirting rules and preserving trading on the CBOE floor while
allowing the electronic market to provide a narrower spread, or
difference between the best bid price at which traders are
willing to buy contracts and the best offer price at which
they’ll sell. Providing different contracts means that better
prices on C2 won’t directly affect trading and prices on CBOE.  Alternatives for Investors  The SEC disagreed. SPXpm will offer electronic trading in a
similar contract to the SPX and give investors more alternatives
to hedge their broad market exposure, the agency said.  Foertsch expects SPXpm to draw volume from firms trading
over the counter as well as those using the SPX contract as long
as sufficient liquidity -- the availability of bids and offers
at different prices -- develops on C2. Some investors and
traders active in the smaller-size  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , which
aims to track the index, may also choose the SPXpm once the
electronic S&P 500 product is available, he said.  Options on the SPDR ETF, which can trade on any exchange,
were the most popular contract in the first half of this year,
accounting for 13 percent of the industry’s volume, according to
OCC data. CBOE’s S&P 500 options were the next most active, with
3.8 percent, the data showed.  “The pie isn’t shrinking, it’s expanding,” Foertsch said.
He said volume in the two S&P options products could reach 1.1
million contracts a day early next year, up from 762,000 on the
CBOE this year through August. “This is a tremendous
opportunity for the CBOE,” he said.  Transaction Fees  C2 hasn’t announced the transaction fees users must pay for
SPXpm contracts or said when it will begin trading. Repetto said
he expects the product to begin trading sometime after the
September quarterly expiration.  In addition to attracting over-the-counter volume, “SPXpm
will offer users ‘point-and-click’ convenience, and the large
contract size -- with one SPXpm contract being 10 times larger
than one SPY option contract -- will make SPXpm extremely cost-
effective to trade,” Brodsky said. SPY is the ticker for the
SPDR S&P 500 ETF. Exchanges charge fees per contract traded.  August was a record month for CBOE, which traded 144
million contracts, almost 8 million more than in October 2008,
the month after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed for
bankruptcy. S&P 500 options traded a record 1.3 million
contracts daily, according to the CBOE. Alex Kramm, a New York-
based analyst at UBS AG, said in a report dated Sept. 6 that
SPXpm “represents the biggest upside potential” for C2.  High-Frequency Traders  The SPXpm may offer better bid and offer prices and would
appeal to firms that want to buy or sell electronically,
including high-frequency traders, Perfumo said. He expects
initial volume on C2 to come from traders arbitraging price
differences between the contracts. The SPDR ETF is likely to
remain the primary product for more cost-sensitive institutions
and retail customers because of its smaller size, he said.  “If you’re a portfolio manager tracking the S&P 500, you
would need to hedge with the SPX or SPXpm,” Perfumo said. “If
you’re a hedge fund hedging your equity portfolio, the SPY or
options on the S&P 500 futures at the CME are substitutes.”
Those traders don’t need an exact hedge for their market
exposure and the substitutes “are acceptable all-electronic
alternatives to the SPX,” he said.  Foertsch said the new electronic S&P 500 options will give
hedge funds and other institutional customers a new way to trade
the most popular U.S. index contract.  “From a strict customer standpoint, this is an enormous
win,” said Foertsch, who spent more than 26 years on the CBOE
floor. “They can now interact with liquidity electronically. It
will lower their costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  