-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for a Second Day on Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T20:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/emerging-stock-index-swings-between-gains-losses-kospi-vnindex-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day as investors speculated policy makers will take steps
to boost economic growth, offsetting concern that Europe’s
recovery is faltering.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.4 percent to
1,013.53 at 4:31 p.m. in  New York . Brazil’s Bovespa index jumped
1.8 percent as the central bank signaled it may cut interest
rates further. Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  surged 2.6
percent after Citigroup Inc. said investors should buy the
nation’s equities.  Technology exporters including Samsung Electronics Co. and
HTC Corp. rallied ahead of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s speech
to Congress today that will outline a $300 billion plan to re-
ignite growth. Stocks in Poland and Hungary retreated after
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said risks
to the euro region’s recovery have “intensified.” Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that fiscal tightening
by Congress may hurt the fragile U.S. expansion.  Obama is probably “going to come out with a very
aggressive program of government spending on infrastructure, and
this of course will help the unemployment situation
temporarily,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion at
Templeton Asset Management, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg UTV. “People will move more towards equities going
forward.”  2011 Declines  The MSCI gauge has retreated 12 percent this year as U.S.
hiring slowed and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, threatening the
global economic recovery. Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits
unexpectedly rose last week, while credit-default swaps on Greek
government debt surged to a record today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 373, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Bovespa pared this year’s loss to 17 percent. Brazil’s
central bank said that “moderate adjustments” in the benchmark
 interest rate  are “consistent” with its goal of bringing
inflation to the 4.5 percent target in 2012, according to the
minutes of the bank’s August 30-31 meeting, which were published
today. That signals more rate cuts are on the way, said  Tony Volpon , Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. The real weakened 0.3 percent against the
dollar.  Convertible Yuan  Turkey ’s ISE National index climbed to a one-month high.
Turkish stocks have “underperformed with emerging markets and
valuations are looking nearly as cheap as they ever have,”
Citigroup analysts Andrew Howell and Maria Gratsova in London
said in an e-mailed report today. Investors have “reduced their
exposure significantly over the past year. We say buy it back,”
the analysts said.  Samsung Electronics, Apple Inc.’s closest rival in tablet
computers, gained 3.2 percent. HTC, Asia’s second-biggest maker
of smartphones, advanced 3.4 percent.  Obama will propose cutting payroll taxes for small
businesses, along with assistance for the long-term unemployed,
spending for building roads and bridges and repairing schools,
and aid to states to keep teachers and emergency workers on the
job, according to an administration memo obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The yuan strengthened 0.2 percent versus the dollar.
Chinese officials told European Union business executives that
the yuan will achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU
Chamber of Commerce in China President Davide Cucino told
reporters in Beijing yesterday.  Bernanke Speaks  Poland’s zloty depreciated 1.4 percent versus the euro
while the nation’s WIG20 Index of shares retreated 0.2 percent.
The Hungarian forint weakened 0.8 percent and the benchmark BUX
Index lost 1.7 percent.  The European economy faces “particularly high uncertainty
and intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today after the ECB left its benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent. While monetary policy is still
“accommodative,” financing conditions have worsened in parts
of the euro region and the ECB stands ready to pump more cash
into markets should that be required, he said.  Bernanke said in the text of a speech to economists today
in  Minneapolis  that policy makers will discuss the tools they
could use to boost the recovery at their next meeting this month
and are standing ready to use them if necessary. As in a speech
on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, the Fed chief stopped short
of signaling what he thinks is the Fed’s best option to aid the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  