-- 
Emirates Airlines’ Bonds Rise on Tourism, Oil Drop: Arab Credit

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-08T11:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/emirates-airlines-bonds-rise-on-tourism-oil-drop-arab-credit.html
Emirates airlines’ notes have risen
in the past month, regaining an advantage they enjoyed over
Dubai’s sovereign bonds as the world’s biggest international
carrier benefits from rising tourism and falling oil prices.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai government’s
6.7 percent bond due 2015 over the Emirates’ note widened to 16
basis points yesterday from a discount of 22 basis points on
Aug. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the Dubai-owned airline’s 5.125 percent bond due 2016 fell 21
basis points, or 0.21 of a percentage point, to 5.28 percent
yesterday since reaching a record 5.49 percent on Aug. 11.  “The fundamental drivers for Emirates have improved,”
Ahmad Alanani, the Dubai-based head of fixed-income sales for
the Middle East at investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in an
interview. “The number of travelers going through Dubai Airport
have hit a record high” and oil prices have dropped, he said.  Emirates’ earnings in the year to March surged 43 percent
to a record 5.93 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) as it attracted
more passengers using a growing fleet of Airbus SAS A380s. The
Arab world’s biggest carrier is building the largest superjumbo
fleet as it seeks to establish Dubai as an intercontinental
travel hub and win passengers from  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, British
Airways and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)  It also competes with
regional rivals  Qatar Airways  and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad.  Emirates’ 2016 notes declined 10 basis points to 5.18
percent at 3:07 p.m. Dubai time today. Dubai’s sovereign 2015
bonds fell 19 basis points to 5.31 percent at the same time.  Destination Dubai  Dubai International Airport, home to Emirates airline,
handled a record number of passengers in July. The number of
travelers rose to 4.7 million from 4.3 million a year ago. The
number of passengers Emirates carried jumped 14 percent to 31.4
million in the 12 months to March.  At the same time, fuel is becoming cheaper. Oil tumbled 6.8
percent this quarter and was trading at $88.94 a barrel as of
7:10 p.m. yesterday in Dubai. Fuel made up 34 percent of the
airlines’ costs in the past fiscal year, according to its annual
report. The  United Arab Emirates , which Dubai and Abu Dhabi are
a part of, holds about seven percent of the world’s proven crude
oil reserves.  Emirates’ bonds have mostly traded higher than Dubai
government’s 2015 security since being sold in June, except
between July 28 and Aug. 22.  That’s expected to continue since the airline’s “not
likely to come back to the market any time soon,” while Dubai
“is likely to be an ongoing issuer when market conditions
allow,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, who helps oversee $2 billion
in fixed-income assets as chief executive officer at Mashreq
Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai.  2009 Bailout  Dubai, the Middle East’s tourism and trade hub, suffered
since the onset of the global credit crisis in 2008 as property
prices crashed and credit markets froze. Tourism, trade and
transport are recovering after a $20 billion bailout in 2009
from the U.A.E’s central bank and neighboring  Abu Dhabi  to repay
part of its debt. The emirate and its state-owned companies
borrowed about $113 billion, according to an  International
Monetary Fund  report in June.  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default has risen
to 410 yesterday since hitting this year’s low of 316.6 on June
7, according to five-year credit default swaps from data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Dubai’s credit default swaps reached 655 basis points in
November 2009 after state-owned Dubai World announced plans to
restructure about $25 billion of debt. The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent, should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Dubai Sovereigns  Still, “in the current environment, global  risk aversion 
is probably going to be a more important driver of Dubai or
Emirates bond prices than issuer-specific news flow,” said Nick Stadtmiller, a fixed-income analyst at  Emirates NBD PJSC. (EMIRATES) 
“Investors tend to treat Dubai names as birds of the same
feather,” with Emirates 2016 notes likely to perform in line
with Dubai sovereigns over the next few months, he said.  Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August,
raising the odds the world’s biggest economy will slip into
recession. Political squabbling over the  U.S. budget deficit 
that led to the country being stripped of its AAA credit rating
and mounting concern about a default in Europe has caused the
S&P 500 share index to drop 5.7 percent in August.  Declining Yield  The yield on Dubai government’s 6.7 percent bond due
October 2015 fell 143 basis points this year to 5.44 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield on  Middle East  sovereign bonds fell 49 basis points over
the same period, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign U.S. Dollar Bond Index.  Dubai has been spared the political unrest that swept
through other Middle Eastern countries. Uprisings in the region
this year have toppled governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
sparked conflict in Libya, Syria and Yemen. Emirates airline is
part of Dubai’s plans to establish itself as a global logistics
and aviation hub.  Emirates, which is investing in a wide-body jet fleet
including 90 Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos worth $34 billion at
list prices, isn’t concerned about financing the planes and is
fully funded through July 2012,  Gary Chapman , president for
group services, said July 11. Emirates plans to spend about $4
billion annually over the next three to four years, he said.
About 199 planes are slated for delivery through 2019.  Airline Traffic  Passenger traffic at Middle Eastern airports grew 7.7
percent in July year-on-year, the second-highest pace after
 Latin America , which posted a 10 percent increase, according to
the  Airports Council International  in Geneva. Traffic in  Europe 
grew 6.7 percent in July, Asia Pacific 5.5 percent and  North
America  2.5 percent.  The yield on Singapore Airlines’ 2.15 percent bond maturing
in September 2015 fell 107 basis points this year to 1.43
percent today.  “Emirates airline has a wide appeal to high yield bond
investors and is perceived by many as an indirect play on the
sovereign,” said Alanani. “For now, the premium to the
sovereign can be justified as this is a credit that can stand on
its own in the current context, independent of the sovereign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  