-- 
Men’s Tennis Tour Supports Nadal, Murray in U.S. Open Dispute Over Play

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-08T10:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/men-s-tennis-tour-supports-nadal-murray-in-u-s-open-dispute-over-play.html
The  ATP World Tour , the governing
body of men’s tennis, said the U.S. Open must do more to protect
players’ health after Rafael Nadal led protests over conditions
at the season’s last major.  Nadal, the defending champion in New York, yesterday
accused a tournament official of ignoring safety for “the
money” after the Spaniard fell behind 0-3 against Gilles Muller
of Luxembourg. Nadal’s fourth-round match was being played in a
drizzle and was stopped after twenty minutes.  “We understand it was a difficult situation with the rain
and fans wanting to see tennis, but the health and safety of the
players must be everyone’s priority,” the ATP World Tour said
in an e-mail. “If the players have any concerns, those must be
taken into consideration.”  The U.S. Open is the biggest money maker with annual
revenue of about $200 million for the U.S. Tennis Association, a
non-profit organization that governs tennis and promotes its
growth in the U.S. The tournament is offering record total prize
money of $23.7 million this year, with $1.8 million each for the
men’s and women’s champion.  The ATP runs the men’s tour, while the International Tennis
Federation’s four leading national associations in Australia,
France, the U.S. and the All England Club at Wimbledon own and
organize the four Grand Slam events.  Wash Out  After rain washed out both the day and night sessions two
days ago, tournament organizers fell further behind yesterday.
While 10 singles matches were scheduled, only three men’s
fourth-round matches began and a total of 10 games were
completed before play was halted at the National Tennis Center
in New York. One men’s fourth-round match, two men’s
quarterfinals and four women’s quarterfinals never started.  Andy Roddick, the 2003 U.S. Open champion from the U.S.,
and fourth-seeded Andy Murray of Britain had joined Nadal in
voicing complaints to tournament referee Brian Earley after they
came off court after playing only a handful of games.  “It was still raining when we went out, and you can’t play
on a hard court when it’s raining because the lines are so
slippery,” Murray told the British Broadcasting Corp.  “They (referees) stand on the court and say it looks all
right but, if you try moving at the speed we’re moving at and
changing direction, it’s completely different. It just didn’t
make sense,” added the Scot.  “If a player or players feel that conditions are unsafe,
we listen to them, as we have always done, and the referee uses
that information as part of his/her assessment on whether to
continue to halt play,” the U.S. Tennis Association said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  No Roof  The U.S. Open has been struggling with rain in the past
three years, and last had a normal Sunday finish in 2007. Unlike
Wimbledon and the Australian Open, it doesn’t have a retractable
roof over its main Arthur Ashe stadium, the biggest in tennis
holding 23,000 spectators. The French Open will have a
retractable roof by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 