-- 
LendingClub Lures Investors as Consumer Loan Rates Top Bonds

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lendingclub-lures-investors-as-consumer-loan-rates-top-bonds.html
LendingClub Corp. , a startup that
lends money to help consumers pay off credit-card bills,
consolidate debt and take vacations, is attracting investors who
buy pieces of those loans and get higher returns than they can
from stocks or bonds.  Peter Thomson, director of  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , is
investing in some of LendingClub’s top-rated loans that mature
in 36 months, he said in an e-mailed statement. Thomson will
invest a total of $25 million, said two people familiar with the
matter, who declined to be named because the amount is private.  Since San Francisco-based LendingClub began issuing loans
in 2007, investors have earned more than 9.5 percent a year on
average, according to the company’s website. Rates on two-year
 U.S. Treasuries  are near a record low of 0.2 percent, while 30-
year bonds yield about 3.3 percent. For stock investors, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 18 percent in the past
four years.  “In a world where rates are zero or near zero, you have to
go quite a ways out on the curve to get anything that’s
satisfactory from a yield standpoint,” said Stefan Clulow, who
helps manage Thomson’s personal funds in Toronto. “We can get
better returns by going into products like the one offered by
LendingClub.”  Clulow declined to say how much he’s committing to
LendingClub’s loans, calling it a “material investment.”  LendingClub Chief Executive Officer Renaud Laplanche also
declined to comment on the amount, though he said it’s the
company’s biggest investment from a single individual or
institution.  Credit Scores  LendingClub issues loans ranging from $1,000 to $35,000 and
then lists them on its website, where investors purchase the
debt. The loans run for three or five years, with annual
 interest rates  ranging from 5.4 percent for the highest-rated
notes to almost 24 percent for the lowest-rated. The company
rates the notes based on a borrower’s credit score and issues
loans to fewer than 10 percent of applicants, Laplanche said.  LendingClub is originating more than $23 million in loans a
month. At the end of June, 3.3 percent of loans were at least 30
days past due. American Express Co., the biggest  credit-card 
issuer by purchases, had a delinquency rate of 1.5 percent. Bank
of America Corp. said 4.16 percent of loans were delinquent,
while JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported a rate of 2.59 percent.  LendingClub makes money by charging an origination fee to
the borrower on each loan and the investor on each transaction.
Together these generate revenue equal to about 5 percent of the
loan amount, Laplanche said.  Borrowing for Less  For borrowers, LendingClub offers a source of capital at a
time when banks have made it more difficult to get loans and
credit-card rates have surged. The average variable-rate credit
card has jumped to 13.8 percent from as low as 10.7 percent in
March 2009, according to data from Bankrate.com. LendingClub
customers can borrow at less than half that rate to pay off
existing balances.  “There’s a big opportunity to offer better rates to prime
consumers who want to borrow,” said Jeff Crowe, a partner at
 Norwest Venture Partners  in  Palo Alto ,  California , which first
invested in LendingClub in 2007. “And to offer far better rates
to the people who are lending to those prime consumers.”  LendingClub offers lower rates than banks by eliminating
administrative and marketing costs, such as the millions of
mailed promotions sent by credit-card companies every year.  Not Yet Profitable  Still, the company isn’t yet turning a profit. While
revenue more than doubled in the second quarter to $2.79
million, LendingClub’s operating expenses were $5.89 million,
resulting in a $3.11 million net loss. LendingClub is bolstering
sales, marketing and customer support to win business from banks
and fend off competition from Prosper Marketplace Inc., another
San Francisco-based startup.  Prosper , founded in 2006, says on its website that it has
funded $255 million in loans, compared with $353 million for
LendingClub. Prosper promotes rates for borrowers starting as
low as 7.4 percent and average returns for investors of 10.6
percent. Both companies are regulated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  They’re also competing for money from venture capitalists.
In June, Prosper raised $17.2 million in funding, led by Draper
Fisher Jurvetson and Crosslink Capital. Last month, LendingClub
brought in $25 million in financing led by Union Square
Ventures, a funding round that included participation from
Thomson’s venture fund, Thomvest. In total, the companies have
raised more than $150 million in venture finance.  “Peer-to-peer lending is for real,” said Tim Draper,
founder of Draper Fisher Jurvetson and a Prosper board member.
“People are looking for an alternative, and Prosper is showing
better results for both investors and borrowers than banks.”  Investment Portfolio  Thomson, 46, is putting his money in a LendingClub unit
called LC Advisors, which was formed last year to manage money
for accredited investors. LC Advisors buys pieces of loans
across the LendingClub site, creating diversified portfolios for
clients.  Thomson is the grandson of Roy Thomson, who began buying
newspapers in the 1930s. His family company, which later became
Thomson Corp., bought Reuters Group Plc in 2008 for $15.9
billion, forming  Thomson Reuters . Bloomberg competes with the
New York-based company in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  Laplanche, 40, expects more institutions and wealthy
individuals to follow Thomson’s lead as investors see his
company as viable and safe. He projects revenue of about $20
million this year.  “It took some time to build investors’ confidence,”
Laplanche said. “We wouldn’t be growing at the rate we’re
growing if we didn’t offer a great return for investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  