-- 
England Picks Armitage Among 10 Rugby World Cup Rookies to Face Argentina

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-08T06:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/england-names-team-to-face-argentina-in-opening-rugby-world-cup-match.html
Delon Armitage will start  England ’s
Rugby World Cup opener against Argentina on the wing in place of
Mark Cueto, who has been struggling with a back injury.  Nick Easter’s inclusion at No. 8 in place of James Haskell,
who takes over at openside flanker from Hendre Fourie, is the
only other change to the team that began England’s last match, a
20-9 win over Ireland in Dublin on Aug. 27.  “The great thing for us is that Delon’s playing very
well,” England manager  Martin Johnson  said at a news conference
today. “When you’ve got a guy who isn’t quite right and a guy
in great form, it’s a pretty simple decision.”  Armitage, who is usually a full-back, is one of 10 England
players who will feature in their first World Cup match on Sept.
10 in Dunedin, New Zealand, the Rugby Football Union said.
Easter, prop  Andrew Sheridan  and fly-half  Jonny Wilkinson  are
the only survivors from the team that started the 2007 World Cup
final loss to South Africa in Paris.  Inside center Mike Tindall, who is deputizing as captain
for the injured Lewis Moody, is one of three players in the
starting lineup who began England’s victory over Australia in
the 2003 final. Wilkinson and hooker Steve Thompson also started
the 20-17 win in Sydney. Wilkinson, who kicked the winning drop-
goal in that match, becomes the third England player to appear
at four World Cups, joining Jason Leonard and Mike Catt.  “The young guys coming through are really excited and it
shows in training, but us older players are pretty excited,
too,” Sheridan said. “You don’t really get bored of World
Cups.”  ENGLAND: Ben Foden, Chris Ashton, Manu Tuilagi,  Mike
Tindall  (captain), Delon Armitage, Jonny Wilkinson, Richard
Wigglesworth, Nick Easter, James Haskell, Tom Croft, Courtney
Lawes, Louis Deacon, Dan Cole, Steve Thompson, Andrew Sheridan.  Replacements: Dylan Hartley, Matt Stevens, Tom Palmer, Tom
Wood, Ben Youngs,  Toby Flood ,  Matt Banahan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  