-- 
EPA’s McCarthy Opposes Bills to Delay Cement, Boiler Rules

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-08T16:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/epa-s-mccarthy-opposes-bills-to-delay-cement-boiler-rules-1-.html
President Barack Obama’s
administration defended plans to regulate emissions from cement
plants and industrial boilers and said Republican lawmakers
don’t need to delay the rules to save jobs.  Less than a week after Obama quashed new Environmental
Protection Agency standards for ozone citing the threat to the
economy, the EPA’s top air official said today the cement and
boiler proposals present no such tradeoff.  “These are rules that are long overdue,” Assistant
Administrator Gina McCarthy testified to the energy and power
subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s
misleading to say that implementation of the Clean Air Act costs
jobs.”  Republicans in Congress have proposed measures to scuttle
or postpone regulations put in place or under development by the
EPA, saying business owners need encouragement to spur economic
recovery.  “A lot of Americans are not investing in their companies
because there is such uncertainty out there in the marketplace
over these regulations,” said Representative Greg Walden, an
Oregon Republican.  The subcommittee today considered measures that would delay
limits on mercury from cement-plant smokestacks and on toxic
releases from industrial boilers at factories such as refineries
and chemical manufacturers.  The EPA is reworking the boiler standards, planning to
update them by the end of October and put them in place in
April.  Republican Opposition  Republicans said the rules are being rushed.  “Both the cement and the boiler bills allow -- in fact
require -- that new emissions controls be implemented,” said
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican who is the
subcommittee’s chairman. “But they replace unrealistic targets
and timetables with achievable ones.”  McCarthy said the rules were originally intended to be
final in 2000.  “We believe there would be job growth and there are
technologies that are available to address” these rules, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  