-- 
Utah Governor Herbert Calls Perry on ‘Dumb’ Social Security Criticism

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-08T20:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/herbert-says-perry-risks-alienating-voters-with-social-security-comments.html
Republican Utah Governor Gary Herbert said it was a “dumb thing” for Texas Governor Rick Perry to call Social Security a “Ponzi scheme” in the debate
among Republican presidential hopefuls yesterday.  Republicans risk turning off voters with comments like that
as well as with Perry’s rejection of scientific evidence of
climate change, Herbert said today in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. The governor said the nation needs
lawmakers to take a more-balanced approach to “see if we can’t
find solutions and not just fight.”  Utah is part of a suit against the federal government to
eliminate the mandate in the U.S. health-care overhaul that
requires Americans to buy insurance. Herbert said the law shows
that all sides aren’t being heard when the nation seeks to fix
its problems.  “It was unconscionable” that Washington lawmakers failed
to bring the nation’s governors into the debate, Herbert said.
“Now the Affordable Care Act has divided this country in a way
we haven’t seen since the Vietnam War.”  Herbert, 64, took office in August 2009 after Jon Huntsman,
who is one of the Republican presidential candidates, resigned
to become U.S. ambassador to China under President Barack Obama.
Herbert said he considers himself “conservative in principle
and moderate in tone.”  Swashbuckler Texan  “I don’t think I have a special pipeline to the
Almighty,” said Herbert, who called the 61-year-old Perry “a
swashbuckler Texan.”  The “extremes on either end of the spectrum have more
influence than they should,” Herbert said. They are blocking
U.S. efforts to develop solutions in areas including health
care, he said.  Herbert is organizing a health-care meeting with insurers,
doctors, hospitals and consumers to discuss how to reduce
spending. He said he is frustrated by the lack of flexibility
with the new law, such as when it raises benefits that have to
be provided to recipients of Medicaid, a joint state-federal
health plan for the poor.  No Pull-Back  States that were generous when there was enough revenue are
unable to pull back on benefits that exceed the federal minimum
because of the law, Herbert said. Even so, he said the U.S.
contribution to Medicaid should be reduced if the nation is ever
to deal with its ballooning deficit.  Utah’s efforts to cut costs by switching to paperless
Medicaid statements required him to personally go to Obama to
get around rules that appeared to prohibit the move, Herbert
said.  “This lack of flexibility should concern all of us,” said
Herbert, a father of six and grandfather of 13.  Utah, like Massachusetts, was one of the first states to
develop a health-insurance exchange to provide affordable
coverage for small businesses and individuals. Utah’s online
marketplace is aimed at businesses with fewer than 50 workers.
It now serves about 4,500 employees and is “a far cry from
where it needs to get to,” Herbert said.  About 14 percent of Utah’s population was  uninsured  in
2009, according to the  Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation .
Massachusetts had about 5 percent uninsured and the national
average was about 17 percent. Herbert said that number has
dropped to closer to 10 percent.  Never Consulted  “When they designed health reform, the governors were
never invited to the table, never consulted,” Herbert said.
“Why not let the states be the innovators of health reform?”  Social Security is another issue on which the sides need to
work together at a solution, Herbert said.  At the Republican debate yesterday in Simi Valley,
California, Perry, who is leading his rivals in polling, said
Social Security’s guarantee of government retirement benefits
for seniors constitutes “a monstrous lie” and called it “a
Ponzi scheme.”  A Ponzi scheme is a type of criminal fraud in which early
investors are paid off with money received from later
participants, rather than earnings from the investment. The
enterprise’s intent is to siphon off money for those running the
fraud and eventually leave later participants empty-handed.  As the nation’s populous baby-boomer generation begins to
turn 65, Social Security will face challenges raising enough
money to pay for benefits with the remaining workers, Herbert
said. That may require the retirement age to be raised or some
other kinds of tweaks to the program, he said.  “But Republicans should have learned from George W. Bush’s
well-intentioned effort to fix Social Security,” Herbert said.
For the American people, the answer may be to repair it, not
dismantle it, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  