-- 
Tesco, Pepsico in Race for $2.4 Billion in U.K. Energy Subsidies

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-09-08T08:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tesco-pepsico-in-race-for-2-4-billion-in-u-k-energy-subsidies.html
Companies including  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and
PepsiCo Inc. are racing for about 1.7 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) in power-generation subsidies being offered by the U.K.
through March 2015, according to a report by the Carbon Trust.  Low-carbon investments could make average returns of about
12 percent, rising potentially above 15 percent because of
subsidies including the Renewable Heat Incentive and the Feed in
Tariff, the London-based adviser to business said in a report
published today.  The two programs provide a 10-to-25-year guaranteed fixed
payment for renewable energy consumed or exported to the  power
grid . Waste-to-energy, hydro power and biomass-for-heat projects
all can provide rates of return above 15 percent after the
subsidies, according to the report. Returns from most projects
analysed would fall below 6 percent without the extra tariff.  Companies need to act quickly to take advantage of the
incentives and win branding benefits as they show their
customers they are helping to fight  climate change , said Hugh
Jones, managing director of advisory services at the trust,
which is part funded by the U.K. government. Returns are higher
than assumed by many executives, he said, citing surveys of
financial directors. The Carbon Trust forecasts power prices
will rise 37 percent by 2020.  The measures are “subject to periodic review and
incentives are likely to be reduced over time,” the report
said. “It is vital to implement an overriding organizational
culture that enables effective but rapid action.”  18,000 Homes  Since April, 290 Feed-in-Tariff registered projects
amounted to 9 megawatts of installed capacity, Carbon Trust said
in its report. That’s enough to supply about 18,000 homes. Solar
projects accounted for 60 percent of the projects, while hydro-
electric plants were 75 percent of new capacity.  Besides Tesco and PepsiCo, consumer-brand-based companies
in the U.K. investing in or buying renewable energy also include
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and John Lewis Partnership Plc, according
to the report.  The incentives provide some investor certainty as the
nation seeks to change electricity-market regulation, which has
created some uncertainty, Jones said. The subsidies may erode
some of the market share of utilities as companies invest
directly in projects or with local-government partners, he said.  Centrica  Plc,  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , EON AG,  RWE
AG (RWE) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power and Electricite de France SA,
often referred to as the “Big Six”, supply 99 percent of
people with electricity and natural gas.  U.K. Rule Changes  The U.K. in December set out a shift in  energy policy  to
change the liberalized market structure that was put in place
over two decades ago to help replace about a quarter of
Britain’s power stations.  Chris Huhne , energy secretary,
recommended guaranteeing long-term prices for low-carbon energy
such as nuclear and wind power, setting a minimum price for CO2
emissions and providing payments for back-up power stations.  Britain’s power-market shakeup, which would fix returns
through so-called contracts-for-difference, is hoped to spur
investment into atomic and renewable sources to help the nation
meet a European target of getting 15 percent of its energy from
green sources and its own domestic ambition of slashing CO2
emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. The
government is due to pass its electricity market reform
legislation next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  