-- 
ESPN, NFL Extend Broadcast Agreement Through 2021 Season

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-08T20:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/espn-nfl-reach-eight-year-contract-extension-for-monday-night-football.html
ESPN extended its broadcast-rights
agreement with the  National Football League  for eight years,
giving the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit “Monday Night Football”
through the 2021 season.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in a statement from
Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN, which will also telecast the
 NFL draft  and the  Pro Bowl . The  New York Times reported  the deal
was valued at $1.9 billion a year, or about 73 percent more than
the network has been paying.  The cost of programming rights, particularly for sports,
has soared in recent years as ratings increase. “Monday Night
Football” has become the most-watched series in cable-TV
history since it moved to ESPN from ABC in 2006. The series,
which debuted in 1970, ranked eighth among broadcast and cable
programs last year, averaging 10.5 million households a night.  “It keeps ESPN’s lock on a lot of NFL content and will
continue to drive up their affiliate fees and secure audience
and advertising growth,” said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller
Tabak & Co. in  New York , who recommends buying Disney shares.
“The NFL is easily the most valuable cable-television
franchise.”  The contract renewal potentially lets ESPN charge cable
operators more for its programming. While contracts with pay-TV
providers are private, ESPN probably charges distributors about
$4.75 a month for each subscriber, according to Joyce, almost
four times more than a cable network such as USA or TBS.  Football is the most-watched U.S. televised sport. The past
two Super Bowls have been the most-watched TV programs ever.  ESPN will add 500 hours of studio programming and receive
the right to broadcast games in 3-D under the agreement,
according to the statement. The network also gets increased
international broadcast rights.  “Today we’ve secured cable’s most valuable television
franchise, along with an enhanced international package of year-
round multimedia rights,” George Bodenheimer, president of ESPN
and ABC Sports, said in the statement.  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, fell 68 cents, or
2.1 percent, to $31.95 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have dropped 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  