-- 
European Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Home Retail Climbs

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T16:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-obama-jobs-speech.html
European stocks climbed, extending
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s largest rally in three weeks, as
oil producers and retailers advanced.  Total SA (FP)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  advanced at least 2.5 percent
as oil rose. KBC Groep NV rallied 5.9 percent following a report
that  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  seeks to buy KBC’s Polish unit.  Home
Retail Group Plc (HOME)  gained 2 percent after saying the sales decline
at its Argos chain slowed.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.7 percent to 230.47 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London. The benchmark measure has swung between
gains and losses at least 12 times today. The gauge has still
tumbled 21 percent from this year’s high in February as concern
mounted that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading. The decline has
cut the index’s valuation to 9.6 times estimated earnings, near
the cheapest since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-
European market except  Greece .  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  gained less
than 0.1 percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  and France’s
CAC 40 Index both rose 0.4 percent.  Equities rallied around the world yesterday as investors
speculated that President Obama will introduce a $300 billion
plan to create more jobs in a speech to Congress today. Obama
will propose a stimulus plan in the Republican-controlled House
chamber as job growth stalls and the unemployment rate hovers
above 9 percent.  Euro-Area Rates  The  European Central Bank  left interest rates unchanged at
1.5 percent, as predicted by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The central bank cut its growth forecasts for this year and
next and President Jean-Claude Trichet said the region’s economy
faces “particularly high uncertainty and intensified downside
risks,” at a press conference in  Frankfurt .  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  policy makers resisted calls
to extend economic stimulus as they attempted to navigate a path
between accelerating inflation and a faltering recovery.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by  Mervyn King , maintained the target of its bond program at 200 billion
pounds ($320 billion) as forecast by all but one of 41
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It also held the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent today, as
predicted by all 57 economists in a separate poll.  Total, Tullow Oil  Total rose 2.5 percent to 33.66 euros, helping lead gains
for  oil companies . Tullow Oil jumped 4.8 percent to 1,227 pence.
Oil advanced as much as 1 percent before European stock markets
closed.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  surged 5.9 percent to 17.53 euros after Polish
newspaper Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported that Banco Santander
SA, Spain’s biggest bank, seeks to buy KBC’s Polish unit Kredyt
Bank SA. The paper did not say where it got the information.
Santander wants KBC to abandon the bidding process and enter
direct negotiations, according to the Polish newspaper, which
cited no one.  Home Retail jumped 2 percent to 117.8 pence after reporting
that sales fell 8.6 percent in the 13 weeks ended Aug. 27, a
slower pace than the 9.6 percent decline in its fiscal first
quarter.  Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt maker, declined 2.2
percent to 45.47 euros after Barclays Plc wrote that the company
predicts its third quarter will “be tougher” than the first
half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 