-- 
Euro Falls on ‘Intensified Risks’; Dollar Up as Bernanke Discusses Tools

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-08T21:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/euro-stays-lower-versus-dollar-after-ecb-keeps-key-interest-rate-unchanged.html
The euro fell the most in a month
versus the dollar as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said “downside risks” to the region’s economy have
intensified, damping the outlook for interest-rate increases.  The dollar strengthened and stocks fell after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped short of signaling that
the central bank will take steps to bolster growth. The 17-
nation euro weakened against all major counterparts except the
Swiss franc after Trichet said inflation risk was lowered. The
franc tumbled as investors speculated the central bank would
stand firm in its pledge to weaken the currency.  “Trichet ended the tightening cycle for the ECB, which was
pretty significant,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist in New York  at Gain Capital Group LLC. “Some
participants were looking for Bernanke to be more dovish in tone
and give more certainty that the central bank is going to go
ahead with some of these tools, which would have been good for
risk and dollar-negative.”  The euro slipped 1.5 percent to $1.3882 at 5 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest decline since Aug. 4. It earlier fell to
$1.3873, the least since July 12. This was the first daily close
below $1.39 since March 10. The single currency weakened 1.2
percent to 107.59 yen. The greenback rose 0.3 percent to 77.51
yen.  The Dollar Index rose 1.1 percent to 76.272. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.1 percent after its biggest daily gain
yesterday since Aug. 23.  ‘Downside Risks’  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press conference
in Frankfurt today. The ECB cut its growth forecasts for this
year and next, and Trichet said inflation dangers were “broadly
balanced.” Last month those risks were on the “upside.”  Europe ’s central bank forecast inflation to average between
2.5 percent and 2.7 percent this year, and between 1.2 percent
and 2.2 percent in 2012, Trichet said.  “The market took this as a signal that there may be rate
cuts down the road, even though he was very careful to indicate
that there was nothing imminent,” said Steven Englander, head
of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt
and  Tom Keene . The euro “still has room to fall.”  Traders are betting the ECB will cut rates by 30 basis
points during the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps shows.  Euro View  “The direction of euro-zone risks on the cyclical and
financial stability fronts mean it is only a matter of time
before the ECB is forced to ease policy, which is likely to
happen via an expanded balance sheet and a lower deposit rate
over the coming months,” said  Lena Komileva , global head of
Group-of-10 strategy in  London  at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co..
“The market has been looking for an excuse to sell the euro and
the U-turn in ECB policy direction signaled today was sufficient
for sellers to grab the momentum.”  The dollar snapped yesterday’s losses versus the yen and
rose versus all major counterparts except the  New Zealand dollar 
after Bernanke also said that fiscal tightening by Congress may
hobble the fragile economic recovery.  “A substantial fiscal consolidation in the shorter term
could add to the headwinds facing economic growth and hiring,”
he said in the text of a speech to economists today in
 Minneapolis . Policy makers are scheduled to meet Sept. 20-21.  President  Barack Obama  will address a joint session of
Congress today on proposals to speed  job creation  that may
inject more than $300 billion into the economy next year.  Jobs Talk  “To announce a broad program to fight unemployment is
always something that might be perceived as dollar-positive by
the market,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  New Zealand ’s dollar gained against all its major
counterparts excluding the dollar.  “There are several markets that are resisting the risk-
aversion dynamics that we know are out there,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in New York. “There’s not a heck of a lot of attractive
currencies left out there and the kiwi just doesn’t have the
same sovereign, interest-rate growth risks that seem to be
bedeviling a lot of other currencies.”  The kiwi gained 0.2 percent to 64.40 versus the yen, from
64.27.  Real Gains  Brazil ’s real gained as much as 0.4 percent to 1.6509 per
dollar, before trading at 1.6602, after Brazil’s central bank
signaled it may make further  interest-rate  cuts amid its outlook
for slowing inflation.  Brazil’s central bank said that “moderate adjustments” in
the benchmark interest rate are “consistent” with its goal of
bringing inflation to the 4.5 percent target in 2012, according
to the minutes of the bank’s August 30-31 meeting, which were
published today.  The Swiss franc weakened against all 16 major peers,
sliding most versus the New Zealand dollar and British pound.
The currency fell by a record against the euro on Sept. 6 after
the  Swiss National Bank  set a franc ceiling and said it would
use “unlimited” quantities of cash to cap any gains.  “The general consensus is that the SNB is ready to stand
pat and it wouldn’t be smart to try and take them on at the
moment,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “They’re going to stand their
line and hold the ground.”  The franc dropped 0.5 percent against the euro to 1.21525,
and slid 2.1 percent to 87.56 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  