-- 
Euro Weakens to Six-Month Low as Swaps Indicate 90% Odds of Greek Default

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-09T21:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/euro-is-set-for-biggest-weekly-slump-in-four-months-on-prospects-of-easing.html
The euro fell to a six-month low
versus the dollar and the yen rallied as  Germany  prepared plans
to shore up the nation’s banks with credit-default swaps showing
a more than 90 percent probability that Greece won’t meet its
debt commitments.  The yen strengthened against the euro as investors sought
the Japanese currency as a haven, even as Greek officials said
the nation is committed to “full implementation” of its
bailout agreement. The 17-nation euro weakened amid speculation
the region’s central bank will dilute a proposal to wean
distressed banks off its emergency funding. The Dollar Index
headed for the biggest weekly gain since May 2010 after
President  Barack Obama  detailed his $447 billion plan to boost
hiring.  “Greece coming out and denying is not going to have any
effect whatsoever on people’s thinking,” said  John Curran , a
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer. “All these countries were
denying that they had issues to begin with. So please, let’s
take the rose-colored glasses off.”  The euro depreciated 1.6 percent to $1.3656 at 5 p.m. in
New York, after dropping to $1.3627, the lowest level since Feb.
22. The currency has slumped 3.9 percent this week, the most
since the period ended July 2010.  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 77.61 per dollar after
strengthening as much as 0.5 percent. The yen rose 1.5 percent
to 105.99 per euro, touching the strongest level since January
2001.  Dollar Rallies  “There is a lot of chatter right now that  Greece  may
default over the weekend,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “A lot
of investors are reducing their exposure and trying to find
cover in case something happens over the weekend.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, gained for a second
day, adding 1.3 percent to 77.199. It earlier reached 77.276,
the highest level since March 11. The gauge had a 3.3 percent
weekly gain, the most since the period ended October 2008.  The seven-day relative strength index for the gauge reached
82.14, trading above the 70 level for the second day. A reading
above 70 signals an asset may have risen too quickly and may be
due for a reversal. The euro’s seven-day relative strength fell
below 30 for the second day signaling it may have declined too
fast and may reverse.  Futures Bets  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 36,443 on Sept.
6, compared with net shorts of 384 a week earlier.  Axel Merk, president and chief investment officer at Merk
Investments LLC, said his firm sold $90 million of euros
yesterday after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took a “more dovish tone.”  Merk Investments manages more than $860 million in assets
and runs the Merk Hard Currency Fund. Merk disclosed the sale in
a note today.  ECB Policy  The  European Central Bank  left its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent yesterday and cut its 2011 and 2012 growth forecasts at
a policy meeting in  Frankfurt .  The implied yield on Euribor futures for June slid seven
basis points to 0.96 percent, showing traders were adding to
wagers for lower borrowing costs. Investors should be “on
alert” for a potential 50 basis-point cut in ECB rates,
Barclays Plc economists  Julian Callow  and Francois Cabau wrote
in an investor report yesterday.  Greek bond yields reached record highs as the country
endeavors to show it can reach budget-cutting targets to receive
financial aid. Credit-default swaps insuring Greek sovereign
bonds jumped 212 basis points to a record 3,238, according to
CMA.  The country rejected default talk as “organized
speculation,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
 finance ministry  as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
is preparing an emergency plan to help banks that face a
possible 50 percent loss on their Greek bonds. Ilias Mosialos, a
Greek government spokesman, said the payment of a sixth loan
tranche under a European Union and International Monetary Fund
bailout agreed in May of last year isn’t at risk.  Basis Swaps  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, fell 6.6
basis points to 65.7 basis points below the euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, indicating a higher premium to buy the
greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro had a weekly decline of 1 percent against nine
developed nation currencies, according to the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Swiss franc declined 8.9
percent this week and the  New Zealand dollar  fell 0.1 percent.  “Whenever there are things like ‘Greece is not doing
enough’ is said, that is when people get the most scared because
of a possibility they may not get the next tranche of aid,”
said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Periphery concern has
continued to be the overarching theme.”  Krone Falls  Norway’s krone was the biggest loser against the dollar
falling to a four-week low of 5.5512, before trading at 5.5465.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 2.7 percent and the S&P
GSCI Index of raw materials slumped 1.5 percent.  Demand for the yen was tempered before finance ministers
from the Group of Seven nations meet today in Marseille,  France ,
to discuss ways to bolster their economies. Japanese Finance
Minister Jun Azumi said before departing from  Tokyo  that he
would appeal to the group to appreciate his concern about
excessive yen gains.  Japan  has intervened in the  currency markets  three times in
the past 12 months to weaken the yen, with the last operation
being a 4.51 trillion-yen action in August, the largest monthly
amount since March 2004. The yen went on to reach 75.95 per
dollar on Aug. 19, a postwar record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  