-- 
Euro Year-End Forecast Cut to $1.30 by Nomura as Conditions Deteriorate

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-08T12:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/euro-year-end-forecast-cut-to-1-30-by-nomura-as-conditions-deteriorate.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its year-
end forecast for the euro versus the dollar to $1.30 from $1.40,
saying a worsening euro zone sovereign debt crisis will weigh on
the 17-nation currency.  While a “disorderly default” will be avoided in Greece
and an expansion to the role of the region’s European Financial
Stability Facility will be approved by national parliaments, the
fund may not be effective in purchasing sovereign bonds in the
secondary markets, one of its proposed functions, Jens Nordvig,
global head of Group of 10 foreign exchange strategy in New York
at Nomura, wrote in a note to clients today.  “EFSF bond market intervention is unlikely to be
effective, given capacity constraints, hence even in our central
scenario we are likely to see continued upward pressure on
peripheral bond yields and generally rising,” risk premiums,
Nordvig wrote in a Sept. 5 note to clients. “Given weakening
central bank diversification flows to euro, the impact on euro-
dollar should be greater than has been the case so far in
2011.”  Euro Falls  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.4035 at 7:51 a.m. in New
York, from $1.4098 yesterday. The currency has weakened 3
percent during the past three months against nine developed-
nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  The shared currency is forecast to trade at $1.43 at the
end of the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 42 strategists.  European Union leaders in July proposed expanding the role
of the 440 billion euro ($618 billion) EFSF -- the fund that has
helped bail out Greece, Ireland and Portugal -- to buy bonds in
the secondary markets, aid troubled banks and offer lines of
credit. The plan will go into effect after the parliaments of
member nations approve it.  The European Central Bank bought Italian and Spanish
government bonds last month to hold down borrowing costs and
keep the crisis from spreading to the two countries. Yields on
Italian 10-year bonds reached a euro-era record of 6.4 percent
Aug. 5 and Greek two-year bond yields touched 55.8 percent
today, the highest ever.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  