-- 
Ex-BTG Partners Join Plural to Form Brazilian Investment Bank

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-08T19:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ex-btg-partners-pereira-guimaraes-join-plural-to-form-new-brazilian-bank.html
Plural Capital Ltda, a Brazilian
 asset management company  founded by two former Banco BTG Pactual
SA executives, hired former BTG partners Evandro Pereira and
Pedro Guimaraes as part of a plan to become a full-service
investment bank, two people familiar with the matter said.  Plural, which currently manages 600 million reais ($362
million), will have a banking license from an August agreement
to buy Banco Modal SA. Plural is in advanced talks to buy local
brokerage Flow Corretora de Mercadorias, said three other people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the acquisition hasn’t been announced. Flow partners include
Jorge Felipe “Pipo” Lemann, son of Brazilian billionaire and
3G Capital Inc. partner  Jorge Paulo Lemann , one of the owners of
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.  Competition is increasing for investment banking services
in  Brazil , the second largest developing economy after  China ,
amid a surge in equity offerings and deals. Companies founded by
former Brazilian executives who left the country’s biggest
investment banks handled at least 25 mergers and acquisitions
this year to date worth a combined $1.65 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rodolfo Riechert and Andre Schwartz created Plural in
November 2009 after leaving BTG, the Brazilian investment bank
led by billionaire  Andre Esteves . Plural’s plan to become an
investment bank concurs with the end of a non-competition
agreement in July between BTG and its partners.  Plural and Flow declined to comment. Modal send an e-mail
statement saying that it agreed to sell its control to Plural.  Plural, based in  Sao Paulo , will have initial capital of
about 400 million reais, according to a person familiar with the
expansion plan.  In April, a group of eight stock market traders left BTG to
join Flow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  