-- 
Ex-President Arroyo Faces Renewed Plunder Charges in Philippines

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-09-08T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ex-president-arroyo-faces-renewed-plunder-charges-in-philippines.html
Former Philippines President  Gloria Arroyo  faces renewed charges that she skimmed $35 million from a
2007 contract given to a Chinese telecommunication company in the
latest move against her family since she stepped down last year.  Arroyo, her husband and two associates acquired $35 million
in “ill-gotten wealth” from the $329 million deal she awarded
to  ZTE Corp. (000063) , according to a plunder complaint filed yesterday
with the nation’s top anti-graft body by a group including a
current lawmaker. “Gloria Arroyo surely enriched herself at the
expense and to the damage and prejudice of the Filipino people
and the Republic of the Philippines,” the complaint said.  Arroyo, 64, joins predecessors  Joseph Estrada  and  Ferdinand
Marcos  who faced graft accusations after leaving office.
President  Benigno Aquino , whose mother helped oust Marcos in
1986, won the election to replace Arroyo with “If There’s No
Corruption, There’s No Poverty” as his campaign slogan.  The former president defeated three impeachment attempts
during her tenure and was cleared of graft charges over the ZTE
contract in 2009 because of presidential immunity. Arroyo is
currently a member of the  House of Representatives .  The Arroyos have already been cleared and the latest
complaint has no substance, GMA News  reported , citing a
statement from husband Jose Miguel Arroyo. The couple made no
personal gain from the deal, the report cited him as saying.
Arroyo canceled the ZTE deal after lawmakers opened a probe into
the allegations.  Helicopter Sale  Last week, police filed a plunder complaint with the top
anti-graft body, the Office of the Ombudsman, against Jose
Miguel Arroyo and more than 20 other people for the alleged
irregular sale of several helicopters.  Former ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez, an Arroyo appointee,
quit in April to preempt an impeachment trial by Congress for
her failure to pursue charges against Arroyo. Her seven year
term was to end 2012.  Aquino denies his efforts to pursue Arroyo are a vendetta.  “It’s true, doing what’s right is personal,” he said July
25. “What is wrong remains wrong, regardless of how long it has
been allowed to persist. If we ignore the crimes of the past,
they will continue to haunt us.”  Since taking office, the president has filed more than 120
complaints against suspected smugglers, corrupt officials and
tax evaders. He hasn’t secured any convictions yet in a country
that was ranked 134 out of 178 on Berlin-based Transparency
International’s  corruption perception index  in 2010.  Tough on Graft  Aquino “would like to be known as the president who
seriously went against graft and corruption in government,”
Earl Parreno, a fellow at the Institute for Political and
Electoral Reform in  Manila , said by phone. “Corruption during
the time of Arroyo was quite strong so this can’t be viewed
simply as a political prosecution.”  Aquino touted his efforts to clean up government to Chinese
investors in a state visit to the country last month.  “The biggest change between the Philippines under my
administration and under the previous government is a change in
mindset,” Aquino told businessmen in Beijing on Aug. 31. “We
will not take shortcuts in order to close deals; we will follow
the correct procedures.”  The president has ordered his guards to protect officials
hunting tax evaders in an anti-corruption drive aimed at drawing
investors to the country, he said in an Aug. 18 interview. From
1970 to 2009, the  Philippines  lured less foreign direct
investment than its Southeast Asian neighbors, according to the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  