-- 
Texas Instruments Cuts Sales Forecast as Chip Orders Slow

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T22:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/texas-instruments-cuts-sales-forecast-as-customers-hold-off-on-chip-orders.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, said third-quarter sales may fall short
of earlier forecasts, citing a slump in orders for electronics
components from customers across its product lines.  Profit will be 56 cents to 60 cents a share on revenue of
$3.23 billion to $3.37 billion, the Dallas-based company said in
a statement today. Analysts on average had estimated profit of
60 cents on sales of $3.5 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Texas Instruments gets most of its revenue from analog
chips, semiconductors that are key components in everything from
medical devices to e-book readers. The company’s customers and
distributors are holding off on orders, concerned that a slowing
economy will crimp demand for electronics, said Tore Svanberg,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “The weakness is fairly broad-based,” said Svanberg, who
recommends buying Texas Instruments shares because of the
company’s long-term growth prospects. “I don’t think there’s a
place to hide right now.”  Texas Instruments stock, down 21 percent this year, fell
1.2 percent to $25.48 in extended trading following the
announcement. The shares had earlier lost 9 cents to $25.80 at 4
p.m. today on the New York Stock Exchange.  Chipmakers Cut Forecasts  Texas Instruments is the latest chipmaker to indicate that
a weakening economy is weighing on demand.  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , which
makes programmable chips, on Sept. 6 said sales this quarter may
fall as much as 3 percent from the prior period. The company had
previously predicted an increase of as much as 6 percent.  Texas Instruments’ competitor,  Fairchild Semiconductor
International Inc. (FCS) , also said on Sept. 6 that third-quarter
sales and profitability will fall short of its earlier
forecasts. In a filing, the company said orders haven’t
increased -- as is normal this time of year -- because some
Asian customers are reducing their stockpiles of unsold chips.  “Since this downturn is macro-driven, we really have no
insight as to how long it will take,” Texas Instruments Vice
President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a conference call. “Orders are
weak and we expect, in total, orders will be down from the
second quarter.”  On July 25, Texas Instruments said profit in the current
period would be 55 cents to 65 cents a share on sales of $3.4
billion to $3.7 billion.  Texas Instruments expects to accumulate inventory as it
slows down production to match lower demand, Slaymaker said.  Three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers are Avnet
Inc., Arrow Electronics Inc. and WPG Holdings Ltd. -- all
distributors of electronic components -- which account for a
combined 21 percent of the company’s sales, according to
Bloomberg data.  Texas Instruments ranked second behind  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp . among U.S. chipmakers in total
sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in san Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  