-- 
Mexico Peso Drops as Global Growth Concerns Boost Risk Aversion

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-08T21:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/mexico-peso-declines-as-global-growth-concerns-increase-risk-aversion.html
Mexico’s peso posted its first
decline in three days as U.S. jobless claims increased and the
head of the  European Central Bank  said threats to the euro
region’s economy have “intensified.”  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 12.5146 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. New York time, from 12.4638 yesterday. The currency has
fallen 1.4 percent this year, the second-worst performing major
Latin American currency tracked by Bloomberg after  Argentina ’s
peso.  Jobless claims in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trading
partner, rose by 2,000 to 414,000 in the week ended Sept. 3,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to
405,000, according to the median forecast. The euro region’s
economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and intensified
downside risks,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a
press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  The peso is “merely tracking the slightly risk-cautious
tone right now,” said  Paul Biszko , an emerging-markets
strategist at RBC Capital in Toronto. “The ECB maybe wasn’t as
dovish as some had anticipated, and the U.S. jobless claims data
came in a little bit weaker. There are a lot of even risks in
the next few days so people are still very cautious.”  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today kept the benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent, as predicted by all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Nineteen of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg declined against the dollar.  Economist Forecasts  Economists from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to HSBC Holdings
Plc are forecasting the peso will reverse the decline and gain
4.7 percent by year-end to 11.90 per dollar, according to the
median estimate of 23 analysts in a Sept. 6 survey by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit.  “The peso is well-anchored, strong,”  Mexico ’s central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens said today in an interview with
Mexico City-based Radio Formula. “Its value in the medium- and
long-term is anchored by our macroeconomic strength.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 declined 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
6.24 percent, according to Banco Santander SA data. The price of
the security rose 1.20 centavo to 133.88 centavos per peso.  Traders didn’t trigger any of the dollar options available
today, the central bank said on its website. The bank has been
buying as much as $600 million through the options every month
since March 2010 to bolster foreign reserves. They allow the
central bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of
capital and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  