-- 
Fed Policy Makers Lay Groundwork for Further Action to Foster U.S. Rebound

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-09-08T14:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/fed-policy-makers-lay-groundwork-for-further-action-to-foster-u-s-rebound.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
laying the groundwork for further action at this month’s
meeting, warning that U.S. economic growth could stall,
producing lasting stagnation in the job market.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said yesterday the Fed should consider adding “very significant
amounts of policy accommodation” and attacked the notion it
should abide by a 2 percent ceiling on inflation. San Francisco
Fed chief  John Williams  cited “a number of steps” that could
be taken to support growth, without offering specifics.  The Fed may decide at its Sept. 20-21 meeting to replace
some of the short-term  Treasury securities  in its $1.65 trillion
portfolio with long-term debt in a bid to lower rates on
everything from mortgages to  car loans , according to economists
at  Wells Fargo & Co ., Barclays Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Some analysts dub the maneuver “Operation Twist”
because it would bend long-term yields lower. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to speak in  Minnesota  on the economic outlook
at 1:30 p.m. New York time.  “There is basically one vote that matters, and that is  Ben Bernanke ’s,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “This is clearly an
activist leadership, and they are going to continue to push
buttons until they are satisfied.”  Investors increased bets on further Fed stimulus after a
Sept. 2 Labor Department report showed that hiring unexpectedly
stalled in August and the jobless rate stayed at 9.1 percent.  Yield Spread Narrows  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes touched 1.9066 percent Sept.
6, the lowest on record, and were at 2.015 percent at 10:15 a.m.
in  New York . The spread between U.S. 10-year and two-year notes
has narrowed to 1.82 percentage points from 2.05 points since
the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting in anticipation of Fed purchases of
longer-dated securities.  After last month’s gathering, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said it would keep the benchmark  interest rate  low at
least through the middle of 2013, replacing its earlier pledge
to hold borrowing costs down for “an extended period.” Evans
yesterday called that decision “a step in the right
direction.”  Half of the 12 Federal Reserve banks reported slowing or
subdued growth in their regional survey of the economy released
yesterday, and a majority reported fewer price pressures.  Recent data “were quite definitive in showing the  U.S.
economy  was not close to achieving launch velocity or getting
growth up well above potential growth rates so we could make
progress on the employment front,” Evans told reporters.  ‘Asymmetric’ Ceiling  Evans said a 2 percent ceiling on the Fed’s inflation
objective is “extremely, and inappropriately, asymmetric” in
the context of a jobless rate that has averaged 9.5 percent for
the past two years. Financial conditions are tighter than they
should be because “households, businesses, and markets place
too much weight on the possibility that Fed policy will turn
restrictive in the near to medium term,” he said.  Evans said that indicates the public believes the Fed puts
more emphasis on its mandate from Congress to keep prices low
and stable over its second mandate for full employment.  The Fed could provide more stimulus by making a
“conditional” statement that it would hold the federal funds
rate at low levels until unemployment falls to around 7 percent
or 7.5 percent “as long as medium-term inflation stayed below 3
percent,” he said.  Communication Tweak  Economists such as former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer  and
 Mark Gertler , a New York University professor and research co-
author with Bernanke, are also advocating more communication by
the Fed about its inflation and employment goals as a way of
encouraging expectations that rates will stay low for longer.  Gertler said the committee could express a range of
tolerance around its long-term goal for inflation, currently 1.7
percent to 2 percent. That would help alleviate concerns that
the Fed might prematurely tighten policy as inflation
accelerates toward that range.  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, minus food and energy, was
at 1.6 percent for the year ending July.  “The FOMC could say we have a target of 2 percent for  core
inflation  with a range of tolerance between 1.5 percent and 2.5
percent, for example,” said Gertler.  The Fed could then signal that as long as unemployment
remains above a certain level, temporary movements of core
inflation above the range of tolerance would be permissible. Any
moves closer to a “danger zone” of 3 percent would then compel
action, Gertler said.  Bernanke Approach  This approach would be closer to the flexible inflation
targeting outlined by Bernanke in a 2003 speech when he was a
Fed governor, which leaves room for discretion and patience for
price gains to move back down toward the stable target over
time.  Meyer, now at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, a St. Louis
forecasting firm he co-founded, said he also expects the
committee to eventually adopt “bolder, more imaginative
approaches to easing.”  Meyer, in a note to clients, said the committee could
announce a “monitoring range” around a medium-term target for
headline inflation of 2 percent. The short-term range would
focus on core inflation, or prices excluding food and energy, of
1.5 percent to 2.5 percent at an annual rate.  “If the labor market does not improve significantly, the
FOMC would keep the funds rate ‘exceptionally low’ as long as
near-term core inflation is projected to stay within the
monitoring range,” Meyer wrote. The core PCE index is not
expected to move above 2.5 percent “for a very long time,” so
the policy would signal the FOMC would not start removing policy
accommodation until well beyond 2013, he said.  “We just think that they are going to have to be more
imaginative at some point,” Meyer said in an interview. “We
are in unprecedented circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  