-- 
Financial Demand for Office Space Is Steady Amid Job Cuts, Landlords Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-09-08T19:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/financial-demand-for-office-space-is-steady-amid-job-cuts-landlords-say.html
Financial-industry demand for office
space is holding up in the face of job reductions and the
slowdown in the  U.S. economy , according to executives from
 Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and Brookfield Office Properties Inc.  There’s no “nervous decision-making time frame like you
had in 2008 and 2009, with the turmoil and the freeze-up in
financial markets that led to the financial distress that we all
experienced and hope to never experience again,” Doug Linde,
president of Boston-based Boston Properties, said today during a
Bank of America Corp. conference in New York. “We haven’t seen
a panic, or an expectation of any type of deterioration.”  The biggest global banks have announced almost 60,000 job
cuts this year through the first week of August, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Cutbacks at financial
firms are expected to temper leasing demand in  New York , the
biggest and most expensive U.S. office market, brokerage Cassidy
Turley said in a July report.  Banks have become “much more sophisticated” over the last
decade, said Ric Clark, Brookfield’s chief executive officer.
They are less inclined to dump offices during economic declines,
only to pay more for new space when prosperity returns,
according to Clark, whose New York-based company owns lower
Manhattan’s World Financial Center.  Back to Basics  “The cuts would have to be very drastic before you saw any
impact on the New York City market,” he said. “You may see
less trading jobs, but what we’re seeing from our financial
services firms is they are adding jobs in the investment banking
sector. They’re getting back to the basics of the business.”  Cutbacks at larger firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are being offset by boutique companies including
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , which have
expanded or are seeking more space in New York, Linde said.  Tenant demand also has kept pace in  San Francisco  and
Boston, he said. Boston Properties, the biggest U.S. office real
estate investment trust, owns Manhattan’s General Motors
Building, Boston’s Hancock Tower and most of San Francisco’s
Embarcadero Center.  Brookfield probably will have its best leasing year ever,
even as tenants’ confidence level “clearly changed” in August,
Clark said. Last month, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
5.7 percent, the most since May 2010, after S&P cut the U.S.
government’s credit rating and concern mounted that the country
may be on the verge of another recession.  “It hasn’t really impacted anything that we are doing
anywhere,” Clark said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  