-- 
Food-Price Gains Driven by Chinese Consumers Defy Easing Global Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/food-price-gains-defy-policy-makers-bid-to-ease-inflation-panelists-say.html
Rising food prices that defy easing
global inflation may challenge policy makers in countries
including China to control costs without hurting economic growth,
panelists at a forum said yesterday.  A growing middle class seeking higher-protein foods is
contributing to increased demand and prices, Abby Joseph Cohen,
partner and senior U.S. investment strategist at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , said at the Bloomberg Global Inflation Conference in
New York hosted by Bloomberg Link.  Central banks “should be concerned” about rising food
prices, said Roberto Rigobon, a Massachusetts Institute of
Technology professor, while  James Rickards , senior managing
director of Tangent Capital Partners, said China risks harming
employment if the country tries too hard to contain prices.
Their comments compare with signals yesterday from the  Federal
Reserve  and the  European Central Bank  that the inflation outlook
is benign enough to allow further easing.  China is “between a rock and a hard place, because they’re
very concerned about inflation,” Rickards said during a panel
discussion. At the same time, raising interest rates too much
may hurt export-related jobs important to the country’s economy.
“Inflation and unemployment are both highly destabilizing” for
China, he said.  Inflation remains a major concern of central bankers in
 Asia ’s emerging markets, while policy makers in developed
nations are focused on a slowdown in growth. Chinese inflation
accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July,
prompting Premier  Wen Jiabao  to say Aug. 31 that his top
economic priority is stabilizing prices. The rate slowed to 6.2
percent in August, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today.  Moderate Inflation Forecast  At the same time, slowing global economic growth is
restraining increases in the costs of energy and other
commodities, which surged earlier this year. The worldwide
inflation rate is forecast to moderate on an annual basis to
just above 3 percent by the end of this year, from 3.7 percent
in June, when most central bank targets were breached, according
to economists at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture World Food Price
Index has fallen 2.8 percent from a record in February while
remaining 21 percent above its level from a year ago. Soybeans,
the second-largest U.S. crop behind corn, are trading close to
the highest since 2008.  “Even as energy commodity prices have come lower in recent
months, things like soybean prices remain at fairly high
levels,” Cohen said during a panel discussion on the global
inflation outlook. “We may in fact have already begun a
structural rise in food prices.”  Option for Action  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday that he may
add more monetary stimulus this month, while ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said threats to the euro region have worsened and
inflation risks have eased, giving officials the option to take
further action should the debt crisis intensify.  Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday
that the economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks.” The ECB left its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1.5 percent.  Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor, said at the
Bloomberg Link conference that the increased threat of recession
means the central bank should shift from a focus on inflation to
creating an environment supportive of more jobs. Governments in
 China  and  Brazil  have criticized Fed stimulus as weakening the
dollar and fueling inflation.  Not all conference participants shared Cohen’s view. Food
prices will decline over the long term as crop yields increase,
said Jennifer Fan, a partner and senior portfolio manager at
Arrowhawk Capital Partners. “But volatility will continue to be
very high,” Fan said yesterday during a panel discussion.  Volatile Prices  Lincoln Ellis, managing director at the Linn Group and
chief investment officer at Strategic Financial Group, said food
prices will continue to be volatile, partly because of central
bank monetary policies and growing wages in developing countries.  “The dynamics for what we consider traditional inflation
are very much in place” in  developing countries , Ellis said on
a panel.  Bernard Yeung , dean of the National University of
Singapore’s Business School and also a panelist yesterday, said
China has been “a source of absorbing inflationary pressures”
that helped support global growth. Yeung said he doubts the
nation will be able to continue to do so and provide investment-
driven growth in coming months.  China’s central bank raised interest rates five times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash deposits as reserves 12
times since the start of 2010 to contain inflation.  Low-cost Goods  Rising inflation in China may eventually affect the
standard of living in the U.S., because China has been a source
of low-cost goods being bought by American consumers, said  Jerry Webman , chief economist at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in  New York .  “This kind of free ride that we’ve had” will begin to
weaken as price gains in China are passed through to products
imported into the U.S., Webman said at the Bloomberg Link
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in New York at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  