-- 
Former SAP Unit Charged on Oracle Downloads

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/former-sap-unit-criminally-charged-for-oracle-downloads-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors charged  SAP AG (SAP) ’s
former TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit with unauthorized
computer access and criminal copyright infringement for improper
downloads of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  programs.  SAP, which shut the Bryan, Texas-based unit in 2008,
reached an agreement with the U.S.  Justice Department  resolving
the charges, Jim Dever, a SAP spokesman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. A plea agreement was filed in court and
isn’t yet public, he said, without disclosing any penalty.  “Any fine would be paid by SAP,” Dever said. “We look
forward to what we believe is a fair and final resolution.”  TomorrowNow was accused in 11 counts of using login
credentials from Oracle customers such as Merck & Co. and
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  to gain access to the company’s
software and one count of criminal copyright infringement for
reproducing Oracle’s copyrighted works, according to a charging
document filed yesterday in federal court in San Francisco by
U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag.  Jack Gillund, a spokesman for Haag, declined to comment on
whether there was a plea agreement with SAP.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , and Redwood City,
California-based Oracle are the two biggest makers of business
software and compete for corporate customers that purchase
programs to run payroll, human resources, accounting and real
estate management tasks.  Oracle Lawsuit  Oracle sued SAP in 2007 over unauthorized downloads of its
programs by TomorrowNow, which offered software maintenance and
fixes for customers that ran products made by software companies
acquired by Oracle. The Justice Department and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation were investigating the downloading, SAP
said in August 2010.  SAP didn’t contest that it was liable for infringement by
TomorrowNow. A federal jury awarded Oracle $1.3 billion in
damages to compensate the company for what SAP would have paid
to license the software.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , last week threw out the damage award, saying it was
“grossly excessive” and not supported by the evidence at
trial. Damages for the improper downloading should be no more
than $272 million, Hamilton ruled Sept. 1. If Oracle disagrees
with the amount, SAP should get a new trial, she said.  “We are very pleased that the Department of Justice
brought criminal charges against SAP for their widespread and
systematic theft of Oracle’s intellectual property, to which SAP
has repeatedly confessed,”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for
Oracle, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow, 11-642, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 