-- 
Fortress Commodity Fund Said to Beat BlueGold in August

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 5 9 8 3 ]   K e i t h   C a m p b e l l   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-09T07:36:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/fortress-commodity-hedge-fund-beat-bluegold-clive-in-august.html
The $1.1 billion Fortress
Commodities Offshore Fund Ltd. had its best month ever in August
by betting on price declines for oil and copper, beating bigger
rivals Clive Capital LLP and BlueGold Capital Management LLP.  Fortress, the commodity hedge fund run by William Callanan,
rose 6 percent last month and has now gained about 1.8 percent
in 2011, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter who declined to be identified because the data isn’t
public.  Chris Levett ’s Clive Fund fell 0.2 percent last month
and  Pierre Andurand ’s BlueGold Fund lost 12 percent, according
to investors.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index, which measures movements
in commodity prices, fell 1.85 percent in August on concern that
slowing economic growth would hurt demand for oil, nickel and
copper. Gold, which Fortress was betting would rise, surged 12
percent to $1,825.72 an ounce last month as investors sought a
haven from riskier assets.  “We are quite concerned about the economic contraction
that may unfold, and as a result, we intend to be an active
seller of rallies in base metals and energy,” Callanan, who has
worked at  Soros Fund Management  LLC, said in a letter to
investors dated Aug. 19. “Our core belief in the potential for
the gold market is steadfast and this will remain in the
foreseeable future.”  Clive Capital  The Fortress fund, which started trading in January 2008,
is part of New York-based  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG) 
Callanan, 40, joined Fortress in August 2007 after previously
working as chief investment officer at Rubicon Fund Management
LLP, a London-based hedge fund.  From 2000 to 2003 he worked at Stanley Druckenmiller’s
Duquesne Capital Management LLP, and prior to that he was
employed by  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management. Callanan
declined to comment on his August gains.  London-based Clive Capital, which oversees about $4.8
billion, is now down 11 percent this year, said the investors,
who declined to be identified because the fund’s performance is
private. BlueGold, which managed $2.3 billion at the end of
April, has fallen 25 percent in 2011, investors said.  A spokeswoman for Clive declined to comment. BlueGold’s
Andurand didn’t return a phone call and email seeking comment.  The $1.1 billion Merchant Commodity Fund, founded by ex-
Cargill Inc. traders  Doug King  and  Michael Coleman , lost 3.9
percent in August, taking the year’s loss to 32 percent, the two
people said. Singapore-based Coleman declined to comment. The
fund advanced 256 percent since starting in June 2004 through
June this year and never had a losing year, according to a fund
document.  Corn, Soybeans  The $820 million Krom River Commodity Fund rose 1.9 percent
in August on gold, corn, soybeans and coffee, Chris Brodie, its
fund manager and founder, said in an e-mailed letter to
investors that was obtained by Bloomberg.  Arabica coffee futures climbed 20 percent last month, the
highest gains among the 24 raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, followed by a 15 percent advance in Chicago-traded corn.  Tony Hall’s Duet Commodities Fund Ltd., which oversees
about $100 million, gained 1.65 percent in August to boost 2011
returns to 33 percent, according to an investor.  Declining prices for oil and metals prompted some clients
to withdraw money from hedge funds that invest in commodities.
Ernesto Prado, chief investment officer at Ayaltis AG, said he
redeemed investments in three commodity hedge funds during the
first six months of 2011 to invest in firms that trade bonds.  “Commodities are going to be very volatile and erratic
this year,” said Prado, whose firm oversees $300 million.
“Demand from  China  may slow as the economies in the U.S. and
 Europe  deteriorate under the weight of debt.” 