-- 
Four U.S. Open Umpires Sue U.S. Tennis Association Demanding Overtime Pay

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T22:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/four-u-s-open-umpires-sue-u-s-tennis-association-claiming-overtime-pay.html
Four  U.S. Open  umpires sued the U.S.
Tennis Association, claiming the group misclassified them as
independent contractors to avoid giving them overtime and other
pay.  The umpires, who seek to represent hundreds of U.S. Open
umpires going back to the 2005 Open, filed a complaint against
the tennis governing body today in federal court in Manhattan.
The suit claims the USTA violated federal and state pay laws and
seeks unspecified damages on behalf of the umpires.  “Umpires were paid based upon a schedule set and dictated
by defendant,” the umpires said in their complaint. “Umpires
regularly worked in excess of 40 hours per week but were not
properly paid wages due them including but not limited to
overtime for hours in excess of 40 hours per week.”  The  2011 U.S. Open  is currently under way at the Billie
Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens,  New York .  Chris Widmaier, a USTA spokesman, declined to immediately
comment on the suit.  The suit was filed by Steven Meyer and Marc Bell, both of
whom live in  Florida , and Larry Mulligan-Gibbs of  Pennsylvania 
and Aimee Johnson of  Louisiana . All have been employed by the
USTA as umpires, according to the complaint.  The plaintiffs claim the USTA hires umpires for the Open
and assigns their work, sets their pay and hours, prescribes a
dress code and maintains policies governing umpire conduct on
and off the court.  According to the umpires, pay for last year’s Open ranged
from $115 a day for USTA sectional or provisional umpires in
qualifying matches to $200 a day for gold-badge chair umpires in
main-draw matches. Umpires often worked more than eight hours a
day, seven days a week, depending on the length of matches and
weather delays, they said.  The case is Meyer v. United States Tennis Association, 11-
CV-6268, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  