-- 
France Telecom May Lose Appeal Over $1.55 Billion in Tax-Break Subsidies

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-08T15:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/france-telecom-may-lose-appeal-over-eu1-1-billion-in-subsidies.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ,  France ’s largest
phone company, should lose an appeal over an order by the
European Union to pay as much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.55
billion) in back taxes to the French government, an adviser to
the EU’s top court said.  Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general for the  EU Court of
Justice , said in a non-binding opinion today that the EU court
should dismiss the appeal. The Luxembourg-based tribunal follows
such advice in a majority of cases.  The European Commission had probed France’s support for the
phone company when it was close to bankruptcy in 2002, deciding
that France Telecom had received improper tax benefits from 1994
through 2004. The Paris-based company is appealing a lower EU
court’s decision that sided with the regulator in 2009.  The Brussels-based commission won a separate case at the EU
high court in 2007 over France’s failure to recoup the tax
breaks. The tribunal rejected France’s arguments that the
commission should have given a more precise figure when it ruled
in 2004 that  France Telecom  must pay back as much as 1.1 billion
euros, plus interest.  Rulings by the EU’s top court take about six months from
the time of the opinion. France Telecom said the company has set
aside the funds in an escrow provision.  French State’s Role  The commission’s probe focused on the role the French state
played in supporting France Telecom at the end of 2002. When the
commission started investigating whether the promise of loans to
France Telecom constituted state aid, it also opened a probe
into whether the company benefited from unfair tax breaks.  “If the court follows this opinion there will be no
financial impact on France Telecom due to the fact that the sum
claimed has already been paid to the French authorities in
2010,”  Tom Wright , a spokesman for France Telecom, said today
in an e-mailed statement.  The tax system dates back to a French law from 1990 when
the company, which was formerly part of a government department,
was set up.  Mario Monti, EU antitrust commissioner at the time, said in
2004 that the estimate of from 800 million euros to 1.1 billion
euros in back taxes will probably rise to between 1.2 billion
euros and 1.7 billion euros after interest is added.  The case is: C-81/10 P, France Telecom v. European
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  