-- 
FTC Should Reject Online Advertisers’ Privacy Effort, Groups Say

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-08T14:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ftc-should-reject-online-advertisers-privacy-effort-groups-say.html
An online-advertising industry
effort to self-regulate privacy safeguards fails to protect
Internet users and should be rejected, a coalition of consumer
groups wrote to U.S. and European Union regulators today.  “Consumers in both the U.S. and EU are offered limited
options based on principles crafted by the digital marketing
industry,” the Transatlantic Consumer Dialogue wrote in a
letter to the Federal Trade Commission and Article 29 Working
Party, a group of privacy watchdogs from the EU’s 27 nations.  The Transatlantic Consumer Dialogue, founded in 1998 and
based in London, represents EU and U.S. consumer and public-
interest groups, including, in the U.S., the American Civil
Liberties Union, the Center for Digital Democracy and the
Consumer Federation of America.  Under the online ad industry’s U.S. privacy  initiative ,
announced in October by a coalition of advertising and marketing
groups, triangular icons appear on or near ads, or at the bottom
of websites. The icons link to disclosures about companies’ data
collection practices and let consumers opt out of being targeted
by ads based on the websites they visit.  The New York-based Interactive Advertising Bureau, which
recommends standards and generates market research for online
advertisers, began requiring its members to comply with the icon
program on Aug. 29. About 350 companies have licensed and are
using the icons, Mike Zaneis, the bureau’s general counsel, said
in an interview last month.  ‘Do Not Track’  “We are fortunate enough in the U.S. to have thoughtful
regulators that take the time to understand our program and let
it fully develop before preemptively deeming it inadequate,”
Zaneis said of the letter in an e-mail today. The  Digital
Advertising Alliance , which developed the privacy program,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The industry effort, which is voluntary, coincides with an
increased focus by U.S. lawmakers and regulators in Washington
on Internet privacy, including whether consumers should have
control over whether their activities are tracked online.  The FTC in December called for creating a “do-not-track”
option that lets consumers opt out of being tracked online and
receiving targeted ads. Lawmakers including Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who chairs the Senate
Commerce Committee, have introduced legislation that would
create a do-not-track system.  At stake is the market for online behavioral advertising,
which targets ads to people based on the websites they visit and
is projected to grow to $2.6 billion in 2014 from $775 million
in 2008, according to a January 2010 study by eMarketer Inc., a
New York-based digital research firm.  Self Regulation  The industry’s self-regulatory program is “inadequate”
and the icon is an “insufficient means of notice to a user
about the wide range of data collection that they routinely
face,” the Transatlantic Consumer Dialogue wrote in its letter.
Under the program, companies can continue to collect “sensitive
data,” including about consumers’ health and finances,
according to the letter, which also was sent to officials in the
White House and U.S. Commerce Department.  The FTC is concerned that the voluntary industry effort
only blocks targeted ads and doesn’t address online tracking,
Jessica Rich, the deputy director of the agency’s consumer
protection bureau, said in an interview last month. The FTC has
received the letter and takes comments from the Transatlantic
Consumer Dialogue “very seriously,” Cecelia Prewett, an agency
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The agency has the power to act when companies engage in
unfair and deceptive trade practices. If Congress passes a do-
not-track law, the FTC wants to increase its enforcement power
with rule-making authority.  The FTC and Obama administration are preparing to issue
reports on Internet privacy by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  