-- 
Galliano Found Guilty Over Hate-Speech Claims

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-08T12:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/galliano-found-guilty-over-hate-speech-claims.html
John Galliano, the designer fired by
 Christian Dior SA (CDI)  over a video recording of him saying “I love
Hitler,” was found guilty by a French court of hate speech
stemming from incidents at a Paris cafe.  Galliano, 50, who said he didn’t remember anti-Semitic and
racist attacks on other cafe patrons in two incidents, received
suspended fines and was ordered by judges at the Paris court to
pay damages of 1 euro ($1.40) each to the three victims he
verbally assaulted and 3,000 euros each for their legal fees.  Galliano had “a sufficient knowledge of his actions”
despite his addictions to drugs and alcohol, Judge Anne-Marie
Sauteraud said, reading the decision of the three-judge panel.  The designer was fired by the  65-year-old  Paris fashion
house a day after the video was released and three days before
he was to host Dior’s women’s ready-to-wear show in Paris. Dior,
which also owns Galliano’s namesake label, hasn’t replaced him.
Sidney Toledano, Dior’s chief executive officer, said at the
March show that, while Galliano is “brilliant,” his comments
were “intolerable because of our collective duty to never
forget the Holocaust and its victims.”  Aurelien Hamelle, Galliano’s lawyer, said it was a
“satisfying decision.” The judges suspended the fines because
they “understood that this is a sick man.” Galliano will
continue his treatment and “hopes with time to be forgiven,”
Hamelle said.  Prosecutor Sought Fine  Under French sentencing rules on hate speech Galliano could
have received a maximum 22,500-euro fine and six months in
prison. Prosecutor Anne de Fontette sought a fine.  “John Galliano recognized the state he was in and sought
treatment for himself,” the judges wrote in their decision.
“The accused apologized, renewed them at the trial, notably to
the victims,” the court said.  Taking all that into account they decided on a less
stringent application of criminal law and suspended the fines,
the court said.  Five associations that joined in the complaint were each
also awarded 750 euros for fees and 1 euro for damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  