-- 
Geithner: Obama Will Push ‘Substantial Package’

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-08T14:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/geithner-says-obama-will-push-a-very-substantial-economic-jobs-package.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said President  Barack Obama  will seek a “very
substantial package” of measures to create jobs in his economic
plan to be presented tonight.  “The U.S. should act to strengthen growth and
employment,” Geithner wrote in an op-ed piece in the Financial
Times dated today. Obama “will push for the very substantial
package of public investments, tax incentives, and targeted jobs
measures he will put forward tonight, combined with a carefully
balanced mix of fiscal reforms designed to restore fiscal
sustainability over the medium term.”  Geithner’s remarks offered a rationale for the president’s
plan to be presented tonight to a joint session of Congress.
Obama will propose a more than $300 billion stimulus plan as job
growth stalls and the unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent.  In his op-ed, Geithner said the U.S. and the global
economies must do more to restore growth. He said the biggest
constraints to action have more to do with “political
paralysis, misplaced fears about inflation and moral hazard, and
unwarranted disaffection with the efficacy of the traditional
fiscal tools of tax cuts and investment.” He also said fiscal
policy must be guided by imperatives of growth.  “As for monetary policy, with growth slower and  oil prices 
lower, inflation risks are on average, though not everywhere,
less acute,” Geithner wrote. “This means some central banks
will continue to ease policy, while some will keep rates lower
longer and slow the pace of expected tightening. None of the
major central banks are out of ammunition.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also speaks today
in Minneapolis,  Minnesota  on the economic outlook.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ; 