-- 
Georgia Wants Any Russia WTO Deal to Have International Monitors

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-09-08T14:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/georgia-wants-any-russia-wto-deal-to-have-international-monitors.html
Georgia  may not support Russia’s 18-
year-old bid to join the  World Trade Organization  until customs
transparency is improved, Deputy Foreign Minister Tornike
Gordadze said.  “We’re asking for something very simple. WTO membership
demands customs transparency, and that’s what we want to see,”
Gordadze said yesterday in an interview in Krynica,  Poland .
“But Russia has violated that principle from the very
beginning.” Georgia wants “at least international monitoring
at the borders.”  Russia and Georgia are due to meet in  Switzerland  this
month to discuss the WTO. Russia has been trying to join the
trade organization since 1993, surpassing the 15 years  China  had
to wait before joining. While the U.S. and the European Union
back Russian membership, its southern neighbor Georgia has
blocked its accession, deepening a rift between the two nations.  “We want  Russia  to join the WTO. That would mean it had to
keep to rules it’s currently ignoring, such as the illegal goods
embargo it imposed on Georgia,” Gordadze said.  Russia halted the import of Georgian food products in 2006,
expanding the ban later the same year in a move that cut road,
rail, air and sea links with Georgia, halted postal services and
blocked money transfers after Georgia arrested four Russian
servicemen, accusing them of espionage. The four were released
and expelled Oct. 2, 2006, after which Russia imposed sanctions.  Georgia’s Borjomi mineral water, banned in Russia for the
last five years, could immediately resume exports to Russia if
Russian and Georgian authorities agree, a spokeswoman for the
company, Nitsa Cholokashvili, said by phone from Georgia’s
capital, Tbilisi, today.  Biggest Economy  Russia is the biggest economy and the only Group of 20
nation outside the WTO, whose 153 members carry out 97 percent
of world trade. Joining the WTO could boost Russia’s $1.5
trillion economy by more than 3 percent in the medium term,
according to the  World Bank . All current WTO members  must agree 
to the terms of admission for a new member.  “We’re not politicizing the issue, and we’re definitely
not saying we’ll only allow Russia’s WTO membership in exchange
for the end of the occupation of our territory, nothing like
that,” Gordadze said. “It’s a completely different issue.”  Russia routed Georgia’s army in a five-day war in 2008 over
 South Ossetia , later recognizing the breakaway republic’s
independence from the Caucasus nation as well as that of
Abkhazia, another separatist region. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  refuses to talk to his Georgian counterpart, Mikheil
Saakashvili, whom he blames for starting the conflict.  According to Gordadze, Georgia will continue talking to
Russia and expects progress to be made.  “At least the talks are ongoing, and they’re not
completely unconstructive,” he said. “It’s worth continuing
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  