-- 
German Stocks Rise Before ECB Announcement; Deutsche Bank Gains

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-08T10:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/german-stocks-climb-for-a-second-day-as-deutsche-bank-beiersdorf-advance.html
German stocks rose, extending
yesterday’s gain, before a meeting by the European Central Bank
today that economists said may announce support measures for
financial markets.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  jumped 5.5 percent after confirming its
profit targets for the year.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  climbed 1.7 percent
as Commerzbank AG advised buying shares in the consumer-products
company. K+S AG dropped as Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation
on the fertilizer producer.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 1.2 percent to 5,468.53 at
11:59 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The broader HDAX Index also gained 1.2
percent.  The DAX yesterday jumped the most since May 2010 as
 Germany ’s top court rejected lawsuits against its participation
in European rescue funds and a report showed industrial
production surged in July. The measure is still down 28 percent
since May as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis grows.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet will probably resist
calls to cut the benchmark interest rate today and may opt
instead to increase the supply of cash to euro-area banks as the
region’s debt crisis worsens. Policy makers will keep the key
rate at 1.5 percent, according to all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The ECB may lower its inflation and
growth forecasts, signaling rates are now on hold after two
increases this year, economists said.  “Investors are positioning themselves for some form of
support from central bankers as there certainly is room for that
given the recent market and economic performance,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in  Barcelona ,  Spain .  Obama Plan  Stocks also gained in Europe today before U.S. President
Barack Obama and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speak
on the  U.S. economy . Obama will address Congress on a $300
billion plan that includes tax cuts, infrastructure spending and
direct aid to state and local governments.  Deutsche Bank rose 5.5 percent to 25.91 euros. The nation’s
biggest bank reiterated its full-year operating pretax profit
target of 10 billion euros ($14 billion) and said it completed
85 percent of its funding plan by the end of August, according
to an investor presentation published on its website.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, fell 1.8 percent from June, when they dropped 1.2
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast an increase of 0.5 percent, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
slipped 0.3 percent from the previous month, when they advanced
0.3 percent.  Beiersdorf, maker of Nivea cream, gained 1 percent to 41.10
euros, a third advance. The shares were raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Commerzbank, which cited the outlook for the
company’s profitability and said they may reach 50 euros apiece.  K+S dropped 1.7 percent to 46.02 euros. Morgan Stanley cut
its recommendation to “underweight” from “equal-weight,”
citing a “lack of relative attractiveness on valuation
grounds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  