-- 
German Exports Unexpectedly Fell in July

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/german-exports-unexpectedly-declined-in-july.html
German exports unexpectedly declined
for a second month in July, underscoring signs  Europe ’s largest
economy is losing momentum as the global recovery falters.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell
1.8 percent from June, when they dropped 1.2 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast an increase of 0.5 percent, according to the median of
14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports slipped 0.3
percent from the previous month, when they advanced 0.3 percent.  German growth is slowing as Europe’s debt crisis prompts
governments from  Spain  to Ireland to cut spending, sapping
export demand. Factory orders from abroad dropped in July and
executives and investors grew more pessimistic last month.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars, said on Sept. 1 that U.S. sales dropped in August.  “ Germany  just has to get used to a slower pace of
growth,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich. “We are heading into a soft patch, but I doubt it
will result in a recession again.”  The  trade balance  narrowed to 10.4 billion euros ($14.6
billion) from 12.7 billion euros in June. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services, was
7.5 billion euros, down from a revised 11.5 billion euros.  German economic growth weakened to 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from 1.3 percent in the previous three months as
imports exceeded exports and consumers cut spending. In the 17-
member euro region, the expansion slowed to 0.2 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates, citing slower global demand and “sharply” declining
European consumption.  Exports to the 27-member European Union rose 3.9 percent to
49.7 billion euros in July from a year earlier, while sales to
the euro region gained 1.9 percent to 33.3 billion euros,
today’s report showed. Sales to countries outside the EU
increased 5.1 percent to 36.1 billion euros from a year earlier,
the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  