-- 
Ghost of Lehman Haunts G-7 Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-08T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ghost-of-lehman-haunts-g-7-amid-debt-crisis.html
Europe ’s finance chiefs will face
international calls today to accelerate efforts to contain their
debt crisis as mounting bets on a Greek default highlight the
biggest threat to the global economy.  As central bankers and finance ministers from the Group of
Seven nations convene in Marseille, France, for their first
face-to-face talks since they promised “coordinated action”
Aug. 8 to calm financial markets, Europe’s failure to stamp out
investor worries over sovereign debts are set to be the focus.  Any global recession “will have Europe’s fingerprints on
it,” said Constance Hunter, who helps manage about $12 billion
as chief economist at Aladdin Capital Management LLP in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Europe is the real risk.”  It’s not the only risk as policy makers race to head off a
recurrence of the contraction, the worst since the Great
Depression, that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. three years ago this month. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development yesterday said the G-7 will
barely expand in the final quarter as the euro region shrinks.  Every G-7 member is fighting on multiple fronts to prevent
the slowdown from turning into a global slump. Central bankers
are signaling easier monetary policy. President  Barack Obama 
last night announced a renewed effort to cut the 9.1 percent
jobless rate.  Japan  is struggling to prevent a stronger yen from
undermining exports. Benchmark  interest rates  are already at
record lows and public debt at unprecedented highs.  ‘Getting Worse’  “Things are getting worse and the big difference between
now and a few years ago is that this time around we’re running
out of policy bullets,” Nouriel Roubini, chairman of New York-
based Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in a Sept. 6 interview.
“There is a 60 percent probability of another economic
contraction in most advanced economies.”  Credit-default swaps on Greek debt yesterday surged to a
record, signaling a 91 percent chance the nation will fail to
meet debt commitments. A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to
each other in Europe this week rose to the highest in almost 2
1/2 years and about $5 trillion has been wiped off global equity
markets since the start of July as debt fears rippled around the
world.  “The possibility of a European Lehman Brothers should keep
us all awake at night,” Harvard University professor Niall Ferguson told Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker on Sept. 6. Deutsche Bank AG
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Sept. 5 that
conditions “remind one of the fall of 2008.”  Europe Pressed  Officials arriving for the gathering share the view that
Europe needs to do more to put its financial house in order.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will urge
 Francois Baroin  and  Wolfgang Schaeuble , his French and German
counterparts, to take “more forceful action” to protect banks
and ensure governments can borrow at sustainable interest rates,
according to an opinion piece in the Financial Times yesterday.  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said Sept. 6 that
Europe’s outlook depends on political decisions. International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  has called on
the region to recapitalize its banks -- forcibly, if needed --
and avoid tightening monetary and fiscal policies too much.  Lagarde may use the talks to step up the IMF’s
“communication in terms of trying to find support as far as
growth is concerned,”  Jacques Cailloux , chief euro-area
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  ‘Negative Feedback Loop’  Morgan Stanley economists led by Joachim Fels told clients
Sept. 7 that with fiscal policy tapped out and a “negative
feedback loop between weak growth and soft asset markets,”
central banks may ease monetary policy in lockstep as soon as
this weekend.  Underscoring the growth concerns, European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday cited “particularly
high uncertainty and intensified downside risks” to the economy.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said hours later that
U.S. policy makers will this month discuss the tools they could
use to boost the recovery and stand ready to use them.  Elsewhere, the Swiss National Bank on Sept. 6 imposed a
ceiling on its franc after it soared to a record against the
euro, damaging exports, as investors sought a haven from
Europe’s woes. Central banks from  Brazil ,  Canada ,  Sweden ,
 Australia  and the  Czech Republic  this week indicated a
willingness to keep monetary policy loose.  ‘All Necessary Measures’  The G-7 officials meet in the southern French port tonight
and tomorrow. While there will be no formal statement, Baroin
will brief reporters after the talks end at 2:15 p.m. tomorrow.
In their joint comment last month, they vowed to “take all
necessary measures to support financial stability and growth”
after a U.S. sovereign-rating cut and a slide in Italian and
Spanish debt.  The policy makers gather as the euro area’s debt turmoil
continues to defy remedies almost two years since it began in
Greece. It required bailouts in Portugal and Ireland and last
month forced the ECB to buy Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
to stem a market rout.  Dogged by voter unrest and ideological splits, Europe’s
leaders are adding to investor unease as they argue over the
terms of bailouts, with Finland demanding collateral from Greece
and German lawmakers seeking veto power. They have also dithered
over a revamp and management of their regional rescue fund and
fallen short of the closer fiscal ties investors say are
necessary to protect the euro’s long-term future.  Biggest Risk  Sixty-four percent of fund managers surveyed by BofA-
Merrill Lynch last month identified Europe’s debt crisis as the
world’s biggest risk, up from 43 percent in July. That contrasts
with three years ago this weekend when European finance
ministers gathered along the same coast, in Nice, took aim at
the U.S. for destabilizing the world economy. Days later they
began criticizing the U.S. for letting Lehman fail.  As then, the danger is one economy’s woes are transmitted
either by hurting global trade, slamming bank balance sheets or
freezing financial markets, said Jim O’Neill, chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  “You could spend the last decade focusing on the U.S. and
 China  and not really worry about anything in Europe,” said
O’Neill. “What we now have is a whole complex interplay where
Europe could cause significant damage beyond its own borders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Marseille,  France , at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  