-- 
Glenn Beck Debuts Web TV Network to Leverage His Fame After Fox

-- B y   D e v i n   L e o n a r d
-- 
2011-09-08T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/glenn-beck-starts-online-tv-network-to-leverage-his-fame-after-fox-news.html
As the sun sets over Jerusalem’s Old
City and a performer plays a mystical solo on a curved ram’s
horn, Glenn Beck appears before an audience near the southern
wall of the Temple Mount, a sacred site for both Jews and
Muslims that they have battled over for centuries.  The jocular, baby-faced former  Fox News  personality, who
once blithely referred to President Barack Obama as “a
racist,” looks like a preacher in his dark suit, purple tie and
wire-framed glasses as he delivers a fear-mongering speech at
his Restoring Courage rally on Aug. 24, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 12 issue.  The global economy is collapsing, Beck warns; the U.S. and
 Europe  are descending into anarchy, and Islamic terrorists are
on the verge of achieving their ultimate goal: the annihilation
of Israel.  “The world is burning,” Beck says, his voice shaking with
emotion. “Whatever we’ve thought would never change, whatever
we’ve grown to think is solid and strong and durable, is under
siege. You don’t have to be a prophet to know that things aren’t
going so well in the world. The threats are mounting. Evil is
growing. And darkness is falling.”  Outside the Old City’s walls, several dozen Israeli
protesters can be heard chanting, “One, two, three, four, Glenn
Beck no more! Five, six, seven, eight, Israel doesn’t need your
hate!” Beck ignores them.  “God is with me,” he shouts. “I fear not!” As he leaves
the stage, an Israeli singer serenades the crowd with a
rendition of the song “Sabbath Prayer” from “Fiddler on the
Roof.”  Evangelical Supporters  Many of those in the audience, who grant Beck repeated
standing ovations, are American evangelicals who paid almost
$5,000 to one of several Beck-endorsed travel agencies to
attend. Some shelled out an additional $500 to make the trip
with long-shot Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain.  Anybody who’d been listening to Beck’s syndicated radio
show -- heard weekly by more than 9 million listeners in the
U.S. -- knows that he has been using Restoring Courage to
promote more than just tenuous doomsday predictions. Beck
frequently reminded his fans that if they couldn’t make it to
the Holy Land, they could watch the “planet-course-altering”
rally by subscribing to  GBTV , his new Internet channel, for
$4.95 a month, or a premium $9.95 monthly rate.  This is where Beck’s television show will resurface on
Sept. 12 after its tumultuous 2 1/2-year run on  Fox News  ended
three months ago. While he says that Restoring Courage wasn’t
conceived as a promotional event for GBTV -- he says it was a
genuine effort to increase support for the embattled Jewish
state -- one might be forgiven for coming away with a different
impression.  Hard Times  Beck, 47, has made a fortune by preaching that we are
living in cataclysmic times, that politicians shouldn’t be
trusted (especially liberals) and that humanity’s salvation lies
in buying gold, hoarding food, putting faith in traditional
conservative values -- and paying him.  Beck is the sole investor in Mercury Radio Arts Inc., the
Manhattan-based company that produces his radio, television,
book publishing, Internet, and live event projects. According to
someone familiar with the company who was not authorized to
speak publicly about its finances, it brought in $40 million in
2010, $2.5 million of it from Beck’s now-defunct Fox television
show and the rest from the other diverse arms of  Glenn Beck  Inc.  ‘Brilliant Businessman’  “He has monetized every possible platform,” says Michael Harrison, publisher of Talkers, an industry trade publication,
who describes Beck as a “brilliant businessman.”  After his bitter break with Fox, the network that made him
a known quantity in every household in America, Beck is leaving
the mainstream television world behind and embarking on an
audacious new business venture.  He is pouring resources into GBTV, which he promises will
grow into a 24-hour, Internet-based network with scripted and
unscripted shows. He is moving from  Manhattan  to Dallas, where
he plans to build a broadcasting studio to house his radio and
television programs; he hopes it will become a tourist
attraction and powerful symbol of his brand, not unlike NBC’s
“Today” show studio in Rockefeller Center. And he is
bankrolling all of it himself.  “I’m not going to risk anybody else’s money but mine,” he
says in an interview in his Manhattan office. Beck has similarly
grand plans for  the Blaze , his year-old news website named after
the Biblical burning bush, which he hopes to turn into a
conservative rival to the Huffington Post. According to
ComScore, the Blaze attracted 2 million visitors in July.  Brand Appeal  As Beck launches himself into the diffuse, untested realm
of Internet broadcasting -- a medium still in search of a
successful business model -- his acumen and his brand appeal
will be tested as they haven’t been before.  Are finicky viewers, who have thus far proved reluctant to
pay for news or entertainment online, going to shell out to see
him? Is it possible to make money even if they do? And given
these obvious questions about GBTV, why is Beck putting so much
of his own money at risk when he could just sit back and enjoy
the millions he makes doing what he does best: radio?  The idea that a popular media personality like Beck can
frictionlessly redirect his audience to a less traditional
platform has been challenged of late. Howard Stern went from
ubiquity to relative obscurity in 2005 when he left terrestrial
radio for the subscription satellite kind. Oprah Winfrey is
struggling to retain viewers after ending her ABC talk show and
launching her OWN cable network. And former MSNBC host Keith Olbermann is having similar difficulties at independent
broadcaster Current TV.  Smaller Audiences  Along with the inevitable audience drop-offs, all three
have found themselves struggling to inject their personalities
into the culture and conversation the way they did when media
conglomerates were blasting their messages out into the world.  At Fox, Beck enjoyed widespread popular attention, not all
of it positive. In addition to tossing bouquets to conservatives
and urging listeners to stockpile gold, he sought out
controversy like a canny shock jock.  He made statements that he would later retract -- like his
claim that Obama harbored a “deep-seated hatred for white
people,” and validated Internet rumors that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency might be building “concentration
camps” by repeating and then “debunking” them. Beck
frequently reminds his fans and his critics not to take him too
seriously.  “I’m a rodeo clown,” he has often said.  Angry Americans  That didn’t prevent him from connecting deeply with people
who were confused and angry in the aftermath of America’s
economic collapse. Standing at his signature on-set chalkboard
and diagramming how the country was heading down a socialist
rabbit hole, Beck became the voice of the forces that would
metastasize into the country’s newest political movement.  “He was there as a ready-made, sympathetic, information-
providing messenger for the concerns and frustrations that were
fueling the Tea Party,” says Republican pollster  Kellyanne
Conway . “You could come home at 5 p.m., turn on Fox, and there
was Glenn Beck talking about all the things that were keeping
you awake at night.”  His influence grew so much that Beck was able to mobilize
an estimated 300,000 followers to attend an Aug. 28, 2010, rally
at the Lincoln Memorial.  “America today begins to turn back to God,” he
proclaimed. It was an unusual assertion from a self-described
comedian.  Abandoned by Advertisers  By then, though, “The Glenn Beck Show” was in decline.
Ultimately, it lost a million viewers from its 2.7 million peak
as the host became embroiled in controversy after controversy.
Advertisers abandoned him, though he continued to beat MSNBC and
CNN in his time slot. Finally, last April, Beck and Fox News
chief Roger Ailes announced that the show would end later this
year.  Ailes made it clear that he wasn’t displeased with Beck’s
pending departure: “Half the headlines say he’s been
canceled,” he told the  Associated Press . “The other half say
he quit. We’re pretty happy with both of them.” (Fox News and
Mercury Radio Arts declined to discuss their relationship for
this story.)  Beck, who left Fox in June, seems to think that he knows
something about the strength of his own appeal that Ailes
doesn’t. He’s by no means a digital novice.  In March 2010, he introduced Insider Extreme, a $9.99
subscription service enabling customers to watch a video stream
of his three-hour radio show and other “exclusive content”
like  “The 4th Hour,”  a segment by Beck’s longtime sidekicks
Pat Gray and Stu Burguiere that is perhaps best savored by the
most fervent of the host’s admirers.  Expensive Network  Some 80,000 people signed up -- a fraction of the almost 2
million who watched him on Fox each night in his final days on
the air. It’s also expensive to go from installing cameras in a
radio studio to creating a full-blown network, on top of the
fact that very few people have figured out how to do it
profitably online.  “He can still drive people to GBTV through his radio
program,” says  Stephen Battaglio , business editor of TV Guide.
“But Fox News really is what kept him in the national
consciousness almost every day.”  Early one afternoon in July, Beck strides through the
Mercury Radio office near Times Square, in  New York , where the
talk radio star will operate until his Dallas move. A young
female assistant trails him. Suddenly, he spins around.  “Find your passion. Follow your passion. Write that
down,” he commands. Beck’s assistant looks startled and rushes
off to do as she is told.  Revolutionary War Costume  Several minutes later, Beck is seated in his office. The
room is decorated with vintage radios. Behind the door hangs a
Revolutionary War costume that Beck sometimes donned for his
televised lectures about the Founding Fathers and how horrified
they would be by  Barack Obama ’s America. A statue of one of his
idols, Walt Disney, sits on his desk, a few feet away from a
portrait of Winston Churchill.  Beck explains that he had been batting around ideas for a
GBTV slogan for almost a week when “find your passion” popped
into his head in the hallway.  “It just kind of cemented in my mind,” Beck chuckles.
“Write it down. There it is. Let’s go!”  He says subscribers will be able to access GBTV on any
device, from an iPad to a television connected to a Roku box.
Traditional media companies have been pushing the same idea,
with mixed results, for some time. It’s difficult to imagine the
vast majority of Beck’s AM radio listeners hooking their
computers up to their TV sets to catch Beck anytime soon.  Streaming-Video Vanguard  “Watching streaming video on a computer is more prevalent
with college kids and young adults, not older folks who
typically listen to talk radio,” says  Brad Adgate , research
director at  Horizon Media , a New York ad-buying firm.  Still, Beck is certain he’s part of a vanguard that will
replace the industry’s blinkered incumbents.  “I believe that the networks of the past, in time, are
going to have to evolve or burn themselves out,” he explains.
“What we are developing is a nonlinear network.”  Beck also insists that GBTV will enable him to pursue goals
he wasn’t able to at Fox. He says he is tired of pointing out
the world’s problems. This might be an understandable position
to take when people like his former boss Ailes have suggested he
lost viewers because he dwelled too much on America’s downfall.
Now Beck says he wants to recruit a volunteer army that will
stand ready in case of disaster.  No Need for Government  “My vision is to create a situation where if, God forbid,
there is another Joplin or a Great Depression, we don’t need the
federal government,” Beck says. “We’ll help each other.”  In the meantime, he is struggling to design the perfect set
for his webcast. There will be a chalkboard, though it won’t be
the typical kind. This one will be three-sided. His staff wants
him to decorate the set with iconic American symbols like the
Statue of Liberty. Beck would prefer a large Bob’s Big Boy
figure.  It sounds like he is already testing the patience of his
co-workers. It wouldn’t be the first time.  “I mean, I changed the set on Fox,” Beck says. “Poor
Fox. God bless ‘em. They were troupers. What was it? Three
times, I think I changed sets on them? That’s damn near nuts.”  Great Radio Voice  If you listen to Beck for any length of time, you find that
he has one of the great voices in radio, one that he uses to
create a feeling of intimacy with his listeners. He can be very
funny. It’s difficult to discern exactly where he stands
politically. He excoriates Obama and gushes over
ultraconservative Republican presidential candidates like
 Michele Bachmann  and Rick Perry. He describes himself as
libertarian and expresses contempt for Republicans along with
Democrats.  “I think they are all taking us to hell,” Beck scoffs.
“You look at the regulations. You look at the spending on both
sides. You look at their absolute unwillingness to speak
straight to the American people and say that what is coming is
bad.”  Beck was something a radio prodigy. Growing up in Mount
Vernon,  Washington , he fell in love with Orson Welles’s panic-
inducing radio broadcast of H.G. Wells’s “The War of the
Worlds.” During high school, he got himself a job as a disc
jockey on KUBE 93, an FM station in nearby Seattle.  Raw Eggs  After graduating in 1982, he bounced around the country on
the Morning Zoo circuit, where he became known for his zany
stunts. In 1988, he hired Jessica Hahn, the one-time consort of
televangelist Jim Bakker, as his sidekick at a Phoenix station.
A year later in Houston, Beck urged his listeners to mail him
raw eggs, enraging the U.S. Postal Service.  As Beck frequently reminds his audience in the more
confessional moments of his show, his career was eventually
undermined by his cocaine and alcohol abuse. In 1994, he went
straight. He later married his second wife, Tania, with whom he
joined the Mormon church. The sober Beck was tired of telling
jokes and spinning Britney Spears records. He started injecting
more and more politics into his routine.  In 2000, he moved to Tampa to become a full-time talk radio
show host at WFLA-AM. The transition wasn’t smooth.  “Very early on, I said, ‘Glenn, can you stop crying on the
air?’” recalls Gabe Hobbs, then head of news, talk and sports
for Clear Channel Communications Inc., the station’s owner.  Dark Mood  Then came 9/11, inadvertent maker of countless careers.
Clear Channel offered Beck to radio stations that were carrying
Dr. Laura Schlessinger’s show and wanted someone who spoke more
directly to the nation’s dark mood. In January 2002, Beck’s
syndicated show officially debuted on 47 stations, and the
rising star began thinking about how he could capitalize on his
fame.  He called Chris Balfe, a rabid fan who had designed a
website for him six years earlier in  Connecticut  and was now a
management consultant.  “‘Chris, people don’t understand how powerful radio is,’”
Balfe recalls Beck saying. “‘They think talk radio is boring
and old. They don’t really understand the power that it gives
you to connect with people. I really feel I can have a
multimedia company with radio at the center of it.’”  Before the end of 2002, Balfe, now president of Mercury
Radio Arts, had created a paid subscription business on Beck’s
website.  “Even to stream the show, you had to pay a $6.99 monthly
fee,” he says. The following year, Beck published a book, “The
Real America,” which became the first of seven best-sellers. In
it, he praised then-President George W. Bush and defended his
decision to invade  Iraq .  Monthly Magazine  Two years later, Beck hired Balfe’s brother, Kevin, to
launch Fusion, a monthly magazine featuring cover stories like
“Glenn’s Interview With Condi Rice” and “Are You Raising a
Prostitot?” He charged $35 for a year’s subscription.  “From the first issue, it was profitable,” says Kevin
Balfe, now Mercury’s senior vice president of publishing.  In 2006, Beck’s growing popularity won him a 7 p.m. show on
CNN Headline News. He distinguished himself by asking Keith Ellison, the first Muslim member of the U.S. Congress: “Sir,
prove to me you are not working for our enemies.”  On “The Daily Show,” Jon Stewart observed: “Finally, a
guy who says what people who aren’t thinking are thinking.”  Even with Stewart’s continued critiques -- or perhaps
because of them -- Beck increased the audience in his time slot
by 300 percent. Fox hired him on the eve of Obama’s election in
2008.  Bigger Than Bill O’Reilly  “He smashed the competition at CNN and MSNBC,” says
Adgate of Horizon Media. “He got bigger numbers than Bill O’Reilly.”  What received somewhat less attention was what Beck’s
newfound notoriety must have done for the  cash flow  at Mercury.
In 2009, he published two more books (“Glenn Beck’s Common
Sense” and “Arguing With Idiots”), an audio book (“America’s
March to Socialism”) and a children’s version of his novel
“The Christmas Sweater.”  There was also Glenn Beck’s Common Sense Comedy Tour, in
which he wore his Revolutionary War outfit and entertained his
fans with his pretend history lessons. The numbers of stations
carrying his radio program rose from 300 to 400 during his time
at Fox.  Yet as the economy showed signs of improvement, viewers and
advertisers on Fox tired of Beck’s darkness. After he called
Obama a racist in July 2009,  ColorOfChange.org , an African
American political advocacy group, had little trouble convincing
100 companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and insurer  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  to pull their ads from the show.  No P&G Ads  “We watched his last show to see who the advertisers
were,” says Rashad Robinson, executive director of
ColorOfChange. “It was the company that says it will melt down
your gold if you mail it in, and one that sells home plastic
surgeries. It wasn’t P&G.”  There were reports in the Washington Post and the New York
Times that even Beck’s Fox colleagues felt he was tarnishing the
network. Beck’s departure was all but certain when there were
reports last March that a top Fox executive, Joel Cheatwood,
would be leaving the  News Corp. (NWSA)  subsidiary to join Mercury Radio
Arts. By then, Beck was ready to try going it alone on the
Internet.  “When I joined, there were a number of options on the
table,” says Cheatwood, now GBTV’s head of programming.
“Certainly, Glenn and Chris had been talking about this one.”  Dallas Studio  Beck calls Cheatwood and Balfe into his office in late
August to discuss GBTV business. The session flows a bit like
Beck’s radio show, with Beck cracking jokes and leaping from one
topic to the next. His underlings are his dutiful straight men.  Cheatwood has found a potential site for Beck’s Dallas
studio: a downtown building that currently houses a health club.
Beck gets excited when he learns that the lease has a 30-day
vacate clause.  “Grab what you can and run,” Beck says. “You’re healthy.
Those treadmills? You can carry those yourselves.”  Everybody laughs. Beck is only partly kidding. He says he
would like to make a decision before he leaves for Israel later
in the week.  He’s still fussing over his set. He’s given up trying to
get the owners of  Bob’s Big Boy Restaurants International LLC  to
let him use their iconic image. He tells Balfe that he wishes he
could purchase the trademark. Balfe, a heavyset guy who wears a
dark suit and sips Coke Zero, lets him know this is not
possible.  Six Hours of Programming  Next the three men talk about the difficulty of turning
GBTV into a real network. It will launch with six hours of
programming a day. Beck’s new show will be two hours long. The
rest will basically be “Insider Extreme” fare -- the telecast
of Beck’s morning radio show and “The 4th Hour” with Gray and
Burguiere. Beck needs more programming.  Unfortunately for him, it won’t come cheap. Cheatwood warns
that Mercury may have to pay as much as $25,000 an episode for
nearly forgotten ‘70s television shows to air. Beck grows
restless.  “I really want to talk about finding investors to produce
shows with us,” he says.  Cheatwood reminds his boss that this, too, could be
expensive.  “I know. So let’s find someone who is as insane as we
are,” says Beck. “We are providing material. I have two
stories that I want to produce. Everybody I talk to about them
says: ‘Gar! Incredible.’”  Restoring Courage  Before the meeting breaks up, the three men talk about
Restoring Courage, the first big event to air on GBTV. “The
good news,” Beck says sarcastically, “is we are still $1.4
million away from reaching our goal of funding this thing.”  Restoring Courage illustrates the challenges Beck faces
after Fox. Unlike last year’s Washington rally, his mission to
Israel isn’t treated as a major news event by the national
media.  “I don’t believe Fox was there,” Beck complains on his
radio show. He reassures his listeners, and perhaps himself,
though, that “everybody else under the sun was there.”  Still, the Wall Street Journal -- News Corp.’s flagship
American newspaper -- ignored Restoring Courage, too. This can
only be troubling for Beck. The Wall Street types who might
invest in future GBTV shows probably don’t listen to Beck’s
radio show. But it’s fairly certain that they read the Wall
Street Journal and watch Fox News.  Tea Party Backers  Even with his protestations to the contrary, Restoring
Courage seems to have been an effective promotion for GBTV. Beck
allowed devotees around the country to show his  Jerusalem  speech
for free at Restoring Courage Viewing Parties. About 50 members
of the New Jersey Tea Party Coalition and their friends watch it
at a Harley-Davidson dealership in Rochelle Park, just across
the George Washington Bridge from New York. Most have signed up
for GBTV or are planning to.  “My son, who is 30 years old, he paid for me and him,”
says Pedro Cabrera, an affable Cuban immigrant. “I’m very proud
of him. He is very conservative.”  There are a few holdouts, like Ron DuBois, who carries a
copy of the Koran and doesn’t understand why more people aren’t
“outraged” by Obama’s supposed connections to the Weather
Underground, which Beck highlighted on Fox News.  “I liked him when he was more political,” DuBois gripes.  On-Screen Attacks  The former Fox News star appears on the flat-screen TV
hooked up to a PC running Windows Vista. As he works through his
usual repertoire of attacks against the  United Nations , European
diplomats, journalists and Islamic terrorists, the Jersey Tea
Partiers clap as if they are in Jerusalem with him. When he
finishes, Michele Talamo, a Tea Party activist and human
resources consultant, is almost ready to hand over her credit-
card number.  “I’m thinking about it,” she says.  Balfe says Mercury’s goal is to have 250,000 GBTV
subscribers by the end of September. This seems like a
convenient number given that it would generate roughly the same
amount of revenue in a single month that Beck made on Fox News
last year. But nearly a third of those projected GBTV
subscribers are former Insider Extreme customers who are willing
to pay $9.99 a month to watch Beck do his radio show, which they
could have listened to for free. The ones who signed up
expecting a real network may be less easily satisfied.  Beck will have to reach deeper into his own pocket to fill
out GBTV’s schedule, unless he can find outside investors. You
have to wonder what the hedge fund guys might say the next time
Beck calls someone a racist. No wonder he would prefer to remain
independent.  This much is certain: He needs a more compelling marketing
gimmick for his new venture than “Find Your Passion.” As the
summer dragged on, Beck seemed to have come up with a better
idea.  “I said to Stu, ‘I got a new slogan for GBTV,’” he said
on the radio. “You say, too crazy for Fox? I’ll show you too
crazy for Fox.” Perhaps he was joking, but with Glenn Beck you
never know.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Leonard in New York at 
 dleonard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  