-- 
Gold May Advance as Growth Concerns Spur Demand, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/gold-may-advance-as-growth-concerns-spur-demand-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain toward a record set
this week as concern about economic growth spurs demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth, a survey found.  Twenty-two of 26 traders, investors and analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, or 85 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
Two predicted a drop and two were neutral. Gold for December
delivery was down 1 percent for this week at $1,857.40 an ounce
by 11:42 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York  after reaching
an all-time high of $1,923.70 on Sept. 6.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday “downside risks” to the euro area’s economy have
intensified as the region’s debt crisis worsens. The central
bank kept  interest rates  unchanged, while Labor Department
figures showed claims for U.S. unemployment benefits rose last
week. Global equities this week fell within 1.4 percent of an
11-month low.  “Besides the persistent debt problems in euro-zone
countries and the threat of the  U.S. economy  sliding into
recession, interest rates are set to remain at a very low level
for an extended period,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG. Gold will “remain well supported and it is only
a matter of time before new record highs are reached.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Sept. 2.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 219 of 379 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 22 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  