-- 
Google Acquires Zagat Restaurant-Rating Service to Reach Local Advertisers

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-08T23:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/google-buys-zagat-to-bolster-local-services.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  acquired  Zagat Survey
LLC , the review service known for its burgundy-colored
restaurant guides, adding features designed to boost ad revenue
from local businesses.  Zagat rates hotels, eateries, retailers and other vendors,
 Mountain View , California-based Google said today  in a blog
post . Google, the world’s largest Internet-search company,
didn’t disclose terms of the transaction.  Adding Zagat’s rankings, famous for a mix of quotes from
different users, helps Google vie with Yelp Inc. and  OpenTable
Inc. (OPEN)  in offering restaurant information. The purchase also
escalates competition with social-networking leader Facebook
Inc. and daily-deal providers Groupon Inc. and LivingSocial.com.  The Zagat deal signals that Google is getting more serious
about providing local information, said Kerry Rice, an analyst
at Needham & Co. in  Los Angeles .  “Competition is going to increase,” he said. “That may
not ultimately be good for OpenTable and Yelp.”  Shares of San Francisco-based OpenTable fell $5.23, or 8.3
percent, to $57.50 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, marking the
biggest decline in four months. Google’s stock, which has
dropped 9.9 percent this year, rose 93 cents to $534.96.  OpenTable Partner  OpenTable provides restaurant reservations on Google
Places, which helps local businesses call attention to
themselves in search results. The company said in August that 5
to 10 percent of traffic on its site comes from Google and other
affiliates, including Zagat and Yelp.  Zagat will be central to Google’s efforts to provide more
local information,  Marissa Mayer , vice president of local, maps
and location services, said in the blog posting.  “Moving forward, Zagat will be a cornerstone of our local
offering -- delighting people with their impressive array of
reviews, ratings and insights, while enabling people everywhere
to find extraordinary (and ordinary) experiences around the
corner and around the world,” she said.  In June, Google said the U.S. Federal Trade Commission had
begun what’s likely to be a broad antitrust review of its
business practices, including search and advertising. U.S. and
European investigators are stepping up their scrutiny of Google,
questioning whether its dominance in search blocks competition
or harms consumers.  Reviews Removed  Google said  July 21  that it removed outside reviews from
its Places pages, which directs users to local establishments.
Yelp, Expedia Inc. and other companies complained that Google
used their content without permission and misrepresented
information on their sites.  In announcing the deal today, Zagat framed it in the form
of a review: “Zagat, a ‘pioneer in user-generated content’ and
creator of the world’s most ‘influential’ and ‘trusted’ consumer
reviews, has been acquired by another ‘renowned innovator,’
Google.”  The deal marks a reversal of course for Zagat. The New
York-based company said in June that it had decided against a
sale and intended instead to make investments to expand its
Internet business.  The review service hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. more than
three years ago to find a possible buyer. Tim and Nina Zagat,
who founded the closely held business as a hobby in 1979, said
in 2008 they were considering partnerships or joint ventures.  The couple met at  Yale Law School  and started the business
after a guest criticized a newspaper’s restaurant reviews at a
dinner party. The Zagats began asking friends’ opinions and
found 200 amateur critics to rate 100 restaurants for food,
décor, service and costs. The results, printed on legal-sized
paper, were an instant success, according to Zagat’s website.  Yelp, based in  San Francisco , was founded in 2004 as a way
to gather user-generated reviews on a range of local businesses.
The company said in April that it was exploring an initial
public offering, without giving a timeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  