-- 
Greek Credit Swaps Surge to Record, Signal 91% Chance of Default

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-08T14:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/greek-credit-swaps-surge-to-record-signal-91-chance-nation-will-default.html
Credit-default swaps on Greek
government debt surged to a record, signaling a 91 percent
chance the nation will fail to meet debt commitments, after its
economy shrank more than previously reported.  Five-year contracts on the country’s sovereign bonds jumped
196 basis points to 3,001 basis points, at 3:45 p.m. in  London ,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Gross domestic product shrank 7.3 percent from a year
earlier after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in the
first quarter, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said. Greece’s
financial situation is “on a knife’s edge,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers last night, according
to parliament’s HIB bulletin.  “It’s a combination of Greece continuing to disappoint and
probably a growing realization among politicians that they’re
throwing good money after bad,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of
fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “They’ve
finally woken up to the fact that they’re not going to get this
money back.”  The default probability, which is based on a standard
pricing model, assumes investors would recover 40 percent of the
bonds’ face value were  Greece  to fail to meet its obligations
within five years.  Sovereign Swaps  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments rose 2.5 basis points to 322.5. The gauge is
approaching the record close of 327 basis points on Sept. 6.
Swaps on Portugal jumped 19 basis points to 1,060, Ireland
climbed 18 to 834 and  Spain  rose five to 396.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Greek two-year note yields jumped as much as 85 basis
points to a euro-era record 55.76 percent today. The nation’s
10-year yield climbed to an all-time high 20.13 percent.  Greece’s economy has been hurt by spending cuts and tax
increases introduced as a condition for a 110 billion-euro ($155
billion) European Union-led bailout last year, which have damped
consumer demand. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos this week
said the government will accelerate further austerity measures
to ensure continued support after EU officials said payment of a
sixth tranche of bailout loans will be withheld unless Greece
meets its deficit targets.  It would be an “enormous mistake for the people of
Greece,” to fail to meet terms of the bailout, European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said today. “It’s absolutely
obvious that it’s in the interest of Greece, in the interest of
growth and jobs in the medium-term perspective, to do the
adjustment.”  German government officials have stepped up exhortations on
Greece to hold to the terms of its rescue program after a
quarterly review of the nation’s progress by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  was unexpectedly suspended for 10
days last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  