-- 
Gross Says Obama’s $300 Billion Plan Not Enough: Tom Keene

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-08T18:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/gross-says-fed-s-quantitative-easing-destroyed-credit-creation.html
Bill Gross, founder of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said President Barack Obama’s plan to
stimulate the economy with more than $300 billion in tax cuts
and spending is inadequate.  “I don’t think $300 billion does it,” Gross said today in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Tom Keene. “I would
like to see something bold.”  Obama will propose cutting payroll taxes for small
businesses as part of a plan to spur hiring, according to an
administration memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The tax cut will
be included in a package Obama plans lay out in a speech to
Congress tonight, along with assistance for the long-term
unemployed, spending on roads and bridges and repairing schools,
and aid to states to keep teachers and emergency workers on the
job.  “I think markets will be disappointed eventually and
possibly tomorrow morning if we see $300 billion or less,”
Gross said.  Gross, who manages the world’s biggest mutual fund at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said fiscal policy in the
U.S. and Europe has been effectively frozen as governments
struggle with their debt loads.  Treasury Curve  Credit creation has been hurt as the U.S. Federal Reserve
purchased assets and kept interest rates at historic lows since
December 2008, Gross said. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke risks
causing a decline in longer-term lending by holding down rates,
he said.  “The first five years of the Treasury curve is frozen,”
Gross said. “Those who are looking for higher yield basically
have to move out to the 10-year area and perhaps to 30 years.”  In the U.S. and Europe, low interest rates and fiscal
inaction are providing no “policy stimulus” to the economies,
Gross said. Growth is shifting to developing economies in Asia,
where labor is cheaper, at the cost of developed markets in the
U.S. and Europe, he said.  “There are structural breaks in the global economy that
cannot easily be repaired,” Gross said.  The $245 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross has
lost 0.3 percent in the past month, underperforming 85 percent
of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund’s 3.8 percent return this year is worse than about two-
thirds of competitors, the data show. Gross has outperformed 98
percent of his rival fund over the past five years.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, manages
about $1.3 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  