-- 
Libyan Crude Oil Cargo Is Said to Be Offered for Shipping Later This Month

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-08T18:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/libyan-crude-oil-cargo-is-said-to-be-offered-for-shipping-later-this-month.html
An 80,000 metric-ton cargo of Libyan
crude is being offered for shipment from the western port of
Mellitah this month, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the transaction.  The oil, equal to about 600,000 barrels, will be loaded
from Sept. 15 to 17, the people said, declining to be identified
because the consignment has not been publicly announced.  Libya 
wants to resume crude exports in two to three weeks, Guma El-
Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator for the country’s National
Transitional Council, said in an interview in  London  today.  Libyan crude output slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in July
from 1.7 million in January, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency . The collapse contributed to a 21
percent rally in  oil prices  in London this year, and prompted
the IEA to coordinate a global release of emergency stockpiles
in June to compensate for the lost supply.  The nation, formally led by  Muammar Qaddafi , resumed
operations at its 120,000 barrel-a-day Zawiyah refinery near the
capital Tripoli about two weeks ago, El-Gamaty said today. The
plant is processing 30,000 barrels a day and will reach full
capacity in six to eight weeks, he said. The eastern crude
export facility in Tobruk is undamaged, he said.  The transitional government will name a new cabinet next
week and appoint a separate oil minister, El-Gamaty said. At the
moment Ali Tarhouni is the council’s oil and finance minister.  “The whole world is now dealing with the NTC as a
legitimate government,” El-Gamaty said. All existing oil
contracts with international  oil companies  will be honored, he
said. Under Qaddafi’s rule, Libya invited international oil
companies to boost the country’s exports after production
stagnated in the 1990s amid economic sanctions.  Output increased to as much as 1.87 million barrels a day
in 2008 from 1.38 million barrels in 2002, according to  U.S.
Energy Department data .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net 
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  