-- 
Iceland’s Economy Shrank in Second Quarter on Inventories

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T11:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/iceland-s-economy-shrank-in-second-quarter-on-inventories-1-.html
Iceland’s economy contracted in the
second quarter on a drop in inventories even as  consumer
spending  and exports advanced.  Gross domestic product shrank 2.8 percent from the first
quarter, when it grew a revised 1.9 percent, the Reykjavik-based
statistics office said on its  website  today. Output increased an
annual 1.4 percent in the quarter and 2.5 percent in the first
six months, the agency said.  “Exceptionally large changes in stocks occurred in the
first two quarters of 2011 and there are indications that stocks
of aluminum are overestimated and the export underestimated,”
the agency said “Most likely these changes have distorted the
seasonal adjustment and therefore an aggregation of these two
quarters gives a more reliable picture of the developments in
the first half of 2011.”  The government’s decision three years ago to let its
lenders fail and protect taxpayers from the cost of a bank
bailout is allowing Iceland’s $12 billion economy to recover
faster than some debt-stricken euro members such as Ireland as
exports pick up and households start to spend.  Exports rose 1.4 percent from the first quarter, while
household spending increased by 1.8 percent, the agency said.
Investment jumped 7.7 percent, while overall national
expenditure fell 3.9 percent.  ‘Inner Growth’  “Inner growth, driven by private consumption, continues to
rise, somewhat due to tourism,” said Asgeir Jonsson, an
economist with asset manager GAMMA, by phone. “It’s also
positive that these figures indicate that it’s unlikely that
there will be an overheating in the economy as we move forward,
which is something that the central bank has been pointing out
to some extent.”  Iceland’s central bank last month raised its benchmark
 interest rate  for the first time since 2008 when its banks
collapsed to cap inflation. The seven-day collateral lending
rate was raised a quarter of a percentage point to 4.50 percent.  The failure of Kaupthing Bank hf, Landsbanki Islands hf and
Glitnir Bank hf precipitated an 80 percent decline in the krona
against the euro offshore. Capital controls has protected the
currency since the end of 2008 and parliament is now debating a
bill to extend restrictions through 2015 to give the island’s
financial system longer to stabilize.  IMF Review  Credit default swaps on Iceland’s five-year debt were at
272 basis points on Sept. 7, compared with a 358 basis point
average for the 27-member European Union, CMA prices show.  The island completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund 
program last month after the Washington-based lender established
that all economic “objectives have been met and the country is
on the road to recovery,” according to an Aug. 26 statement
marking the island’s final review.  The IMF praised the central bank’s decision to raise rates
as an appropriate measure to tame inflation as import prices
rise. Consumer price growth held at 5 percent in August, the
highest level since June 2010. The krona has lost 5.8 percent
versus the euro this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  