-- 
Highland Capital $3 Billion European CLOs Are Said to Be Back Up for Sale

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-09-08T16:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/highland-capital-3-billion-european-clos-are-said-to-be-back-up-for-sale.html
Highland Capital Management LP, the
Dallas-based debt manager with about $23 billion in assets, has
put its business that manages collateralized loan obligations in
Europe back up for sale after taking it off the block earlier
this year.  Natixis SA is again managing the sale of five CLOs, valued
at $3 billion, according to two people familiar with the
discussions. The portfolios had been for sale at the beginning
of this year, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Armel Leslie, a spokesman for
Highland, declined to comment.  Highland would join Resource America Inc. and Aladdin
Capital Holdings LLC in selling its European CLOs. Some loan
managers have been exiting Europe this year as that market fails
to recover as quickly as the U.S. CLOs are a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return.  Pramerica Investment Management Ltd., Prudential Fixed
Income’s U.K.-based asset management business, took over a CLO
managed by an Aladdin Capital subsidiary, according to a Jan. 10
news release. Resource America said its subsidiary Resource
Europe Management Ltd., sold a CLO to an affiliate of
Intermediate Capital Group Plc, according to a Dec. 22 news
release. Octagon Credit Investors LLC also sold its European CLO
this year.  CLO Issuance  There have been more than $7 billion of CLOs backed by
widely syndicated loans issued in the U.S. this year, according
to Bloomberg data. There was only one fund-managed CLO in Europe
this year for 858 million euros ($1.2 billion), the data show.  Spreads on AAA slices of CLO debt in the U.S. as of Aug. 11
was 200 basis points more than the London interbank offered
rate, according to Morgan Stanley data. In Europe the spread for
the same rated debt was 275 basis points more than the
benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  