-- 
Hilton China Hotels to Rise Fourfold by 2014

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/hilton-china-hotels-to-rise-fourfold-by-2014.html
Hilton Worldwide  said it will have
100 hotels in  China  by 2014, four times the number of properties
it manages in the country now.  China will become Hilton’s biggest market after the U.S.
by the time, Andrew Flack, vice president of global brand and
marketing, told reporters in Shanghai today. The company now
runs 25 hotels in the country.  “This exceptional growth is really a once in a generation
opportunity we are seeing in China,” Flack said, citing the
increasing number of Chinese travelers. “What that delivers for
us is the opportunities to build hotels.”  Hilton, which also operates under brands including Waldorf
Astoria and Doubletree in China, is expanding as the number of
domestic tourists climbed 11 percent in 2010 and will continue
to increase as incomes and economic growth spur travel,
according to Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. China
is the world’s third-largest tourism destination, according to
the United Nations Tourism Organization.  Hilton is joining an expansion spree by other international
hotel groups in China.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) 
expects China to be its largest growth market in the next three
to four years, Chief Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said
in an interview in June.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
owner of the Holiday Inn brand, said in May that one in four of
the hotel rooms that it opens over the next five years will be
in China.  Chinese Travelers  The hotel operator will build properties under different
brands in China and expand into smaller, less affluent cities,
Philippe Garnier, Hilton’s vice president of sales and regional
marketing in the Asia-Pacific region, said at the same briefing.  “We really want to cover the regions that most Chinese
travelers want to travel,” Garnier said.  Hilton will enter cities including Xian in the north, and
Nanjing and Shaoxing in the east, according to Garnier.  The company has 3,750 hotels in 85 countries according to
the company.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  