-- 
IMF Advises Vietnam Against Cutting Interest Rates ‘Prematurely’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T05:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/imf-advises-vietnam-against-cutting-interest-rates-prematurely-.html
Vietnam  should avoid reducing
interest rates too soon as that may weaken its currency and
raise questions about the government’s commitment to fighting
inflation, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “It is important that  monetary policy  not be eased
prematurely, because the recent improved sentiment towards the
dong remains relatively fragile,” Benedict Bingham, the IMF’s
senior resident representative in Vietnam, said in an e-mail
today. His comments are a summary of remarks he made at a Sept.
6 meeting in Hanoi attended by officials including Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.  The State Bank of Vietnam will leave interest rates
unchanged for now and consider cutting them if inflation slows,
the government said last month as faltering U.S. and European
recoveries darken the outlook for Asian expansion. Vietnam’s
consumer-price growth accelerated to 23.02 percent in August, a
33-month high and the fastest pace in  Asia .  “To bring  interest rates  down, the government needs to
tackle the elevated inflation expectations and weakened
sentiment towards the dong,” Bingham said. Monetary policy
should “continue to steer a steady course in the months
ahead,” he said.  The dong has weakened about 1 percent in the past month
against the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was devalued for the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11, by
about 7 percent, partly to help curb Vietnam’s trade deficit.
The benchmark VN Index of stocks climbed 2.1 percent today,
buoyed by optimism commercial lending rates may decrease.  Interest-Rate Cut  The central bank cut the repurchase rate for the seven-day
term to 14 percent from 15 percent on July 4, after increasing
it in nine steps from 7 percent at the start of November 2010.
The  State Bank  of Vietnam yesterday ordered commercial lenders
in the country to report on their progress in lowering borrowing
costs, Thoi Bao Ngan Hang newspaper reported today.  “The decline in interbank rates in recent months and the
cut in the repo rate to 14 percent from 15 percent might be
taken as signals of an easing of commitment to the monetary
policy leg of the Resolution 11 strategy,” Bingham told the
Hanoi meeting attended by Dung.  The resolution, passed in February, called for a series of
measures aimed in part at slowing inflation.  The initiative’s initial success in bolstering and
stabilizing the dong spurred an increase in the central bank’s
foreign-currency reserves to $15.1 billion at the end of June,
Bingham said. Foreign reserves at the end of May were $13.5
billion, according to the  lender’s data .  ‘Overleveraged’  The IMF also told the government that an increase in credit
over the last four years has resulted in “overleveraged”
companies and “some banks being exposed to that
overleveraging.”  The State Bank of Vietnam said this week it’s considering
proposals to aid smaller lenders, after Moody’s Investors
Service said Sept. 1 that the country’s banks need more capital
to cushion them against losses.  “Detailed work on banking reform needs to get under way,”
Bingham told the government leaders. “Specifically, the capital
buffers in the banking system need to be increased and the
problems affecting smaller, weaker banks in Vietnam need to be
resolved.”  Moody’s retained its negative outlook for the Vietnamese
banking industry. Domestic economic imbalances pose a risk to
banks’ asset quality and make funding more difficult, the
ratings company said.  Gross domestic product in Vietnam, a manufacturing site for
companies from  Intel Corp . to Honda Motor Co., rose 5.57 percent
in the first six months of the year. That’s lower than a revised
6.18 percent expansion in the first half of 2010.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  