-- 
Stocks in India ‘Somewhat Overpriced,’ Even After 17% Decline, Mobius Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-09-08T12:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/indian-stocks-somewhat-overpriced-after-decline-templeton-s-mobius-says.html
Indian stocks are “still somewhat
overpriced” after the 16 percent decline in the country’s
benchmark equity index this year, according to Templeton Asset
Management’s Mark Mobius.  “Generally speaking, it’s difficult to find cheap stocks
in India,” Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion as executive
chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group, said today in an
interview broadcast on Bloomberg UTV. “Better earnings will
make Indian stocks more attractive.”  The BSE India Sensitive Index has dropped the most in Asia
this year on concern a slowdown in the U.S. and Europe’s debt
crisis may erode company profits already threatened by the most
aggressive interest-rate increases among major Asian economies.
Companies on the gauge trade at 14.4 times estimated profits,
compared with 10.1 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  “We are probably nearing the end of the tightening
cycle,” said Mobius. Policy makers are “beginning to be
concerned about growth,” he said. The Reserve Bank of India is
due to announce its policy review on Sept. 16, two days after
the government releases its monthly inflation data.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs 11 times since
the start of last year to damp living costs that are climbing
the fastest among the BRICS nations of Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa. Earnings for some 47 percent of Sensex
companies missed analysts’ estimates in the quarter ended June,
compared with about 33 percent in the previous three months.  ‘Growth Concern’  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation in July rose
9.22 percent from a year ago, staying at more than 9 percent for
an eighth straight month, government data show. Still, the
latest reading was the lowest in eight months.  “Inflation at this stage is beginning to moderate but the
concern going forward will be growth,” said Mobius.  India’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded 7.7 percent in the
three months ended June from a year earlier, the slowest pace of
expansion in six quarters. Slowing growth may prompt the Reserve
Bank to pause raising rates, the Press Trust cited Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee as saying on Sept. 5.  “India should be growing at 7 or 8 percent in order to
achieve the kind of living-standard increases that you need in
the population,” Mobius said. India’s population is estimated
by the International Monetary Fund to be 1.3 billion.  Foreign Funds  Overseas funds withdrew a net $2.1 billion from Indian
stocks last month, the most since October 2008, according to
data from the nation’s market regulator. That triggered an 8.4
percent drop in the Sensex, making it the gauge’s worst August
in at least a decade, according to Bloomberg data.  Foreign flows “will change if valuations come down or if
you see earnings moving up, which I think will happen given the
high-growth rate in the country,” said Mobius.  India’s $1.3 trillion stock market, Asia’s fourth-biggest,
is influenced by foreign fund flows. Inflows from abroad surged
to a record $29.4 billion in 2010, making the Sensex the best
performer among the world’s top 10 markets. The largest-ever
outflow in 2008 led the biggest annual slump of 52 percent.  “We are, of course, still continuing to buy in selective
areas,” said Mobius. India’s information technology industry
offers “great advantages” and “there really is no match in
the world now for that industry when you compare it to the
Indian companies,” he said, without naming any.  Templeton is “looking at” the nation’s state-owned and
private-sector lenders, Mobius said.  Energy, Telecom  The money manager favors energy companies globally, while
being “very careful” in adding shares of telecom companies as
they are “under pressure” due to lower average revenue and
income per user, and the investments needed to keep up with new
technologies, said Mobius.  “Look at our funds globally, energy is right at the top of
the list in terms of sectors,” he said.  Equities around the world rallied yesterday as investors
speculated that President Obama will introduce a $300 billion
plan to create more jobs in a speech to Congress today. Obama
will propose a stimulus plan in the Republican-controlled House
chamber as job growth stalls and the unemployment rate hovers
above 9 percent in the world’s largest economy.  “I’m sure he is going to come out with a very aggressive
program of government spending on infrastructure, and this will
help the unemployment situation temporarily,” said Mobius.  A global stocks rout wiped out more than $8 trillion in
value in the four weeks through Aug. 19 on signs Europe’s debt
crisis will spread and as concern mounted that two rounds of
government asset purchases and record-low interest rates fail to
entrench an economic recovery in the U.S. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index tumbled 10 percent in August, the biggest monthly decline
since October 2008.  Markets in Europe have already discounted most of the bad
news, Mobius said. “May be by the end of the year we will move
forward to a better market condition in Europe.”  Politicians will work out a program that will solve their
problems with Greece, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, Mobius said.
“They will reach some consensus on how to move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 