-- 
India Rupee Drops to 1-Year Low as Importers Boost Dollar Buying

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-08T13:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/india-rupee-drops-to-1-year-low-as-importers-boost-dollar-buying.html
India’s rupee dropped to the weakest
level in almost a year on speculation gold and fuel importers
stepped up dollar purchases to settle bills.  The local currency fell for a fourth day after crude oil
traded in New York rose 3.9 percent to $89.34 a barrel
yesterday, the highest close since Aug. 3. India imports more
than 75 percent of its fuel requirements. Local gold demand may
surge 25 percent during the Diwali festival season that falls
next month, according to Rajesh Exports Ltd., the nation’s
biggest jewelry maker.  “Demand for dollars from importers is strong and we could
see a sustained drop in the rupee in the coming days and
weeks,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-based currency trader
at Development Credit Bank Ltd. “The undertone for the local
currency is going to be bearish and there is nothing positive to
look forward to in the short term.”  The rupee declined 0.05 percent to 46.1950 per dollar at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency fell to 46.2725 earlier, its weakest
level since Sept. 16, 2010. Raghuvanshi forecasts the rupee may
drop to 46.75 per dollar by the end of this month.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 46.75 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 46.58
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  Monetary Tightening  The Philippine peso and South Korean won led losses among
Asian currencies today after the nations’ central banks joined
regional peers Malaysia and Indonesia in leaving borrowing costs
unchanged amid signs the global economic recovery is faltering.  In India, food inflation stayed above 9 percent for a fifth
straight week, government data showed today, maintaining
pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates.  The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates by 175
basis points, or 1.75 percentage point, this year to curb rising
prices. Economists such as Singapore-based Leif Eskesen at HSBC
Holdings Plc expect another increase when the central bank
reviews policy on Sept. 16.  Investment banks including UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG
and Morgan Stanley have cut estimates for India’s growth after
the Reserve Bank raised interest rates 11 times since mid-March
2010.  India’s growth in gross domestic product for the first six
months of the current fiscal year will be below 8 percent,
Montek Singh Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of the nation’s planning
commission, said in New Delhi today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  