-- 
Indonesia Holds Interest Rate to Boost Growth as Global Recovery Falters

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-09-08T09:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/indonesia-holds-interest-rate-to-boost-growth-as-global-recovery-falters.html
Indonesia  kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a seventh month while allowing lower
interbank lending rates as concern the global recovery is
faltering prompts policy makers to move to protect growth.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at 6.75 percent, the central bank said in a
statement in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The authority cut the
lower limit for interbank lending rates to 150 basis points
below the benchmark rate from 100 basis points, it said.  “In our opinion this is an implicit easing as it would
lead to lower interbank rates given flush domestic liquidity and
continued strong inflows,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-
based economist at  Barclays Capital . “The central bank is
definitely much more comfortable about its inflation outlook and
inherently there is a growth bias.”  Europe’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery have
hurt Asian exports and growth, reducing the scope for higher
borrowing costs to tame price pressures and prompting  South
Korea ,  Australia  and the  Philippines  to hold their key rates
this week. While Indonesia’s inflation accelerated in August,
economic expansion has eased to about 6.5 percent in the first
half of 2011 from 6.89 percent late last year.  Purchasing Power  “Bank Indonesia will be pro-growth at this time,” Norico Gaman, head of research at PT BNI Securities in Jakarta, said
before today’s decision. “As long as the global uncertainty
persists, BI will have to be very careful in deciding rates. We
need low interest rates to support purchasing power as
Indonesia’s growth is supported by consumption.”  Indonesia’s rupiah has fallen against the dollar along with
most regional currencies this month, as expansions slow from
 China  to  Malaysia  and policy makers hold back on further rate
increases. It was little changed at 8,568 a dollar as of 4:29
p.m. in Jakarta today, and is up 4.8 percent this year as Asia
economies still growing faster than developed markets lured
funds seeking better returns.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said this week the
world economy is “moving into a dangerous period” as stocks
extended a slump that wiped $6.6 trillion off global equity
values in the three months ended Sept. 5.  The last increase in Indonesia’s benchmark rate was a 0.25
percentage-point move in February.  Boost Credit  Today’s move to lower the interbank rate limit will widen
the range of lending rates and encourage banks to be more active
in the interbank money market, the central bank said. Capital
inflows have led to excess funds that are invested in central
bank notes or placed as deposits at  Bank Indonesia , and today’s
measure is aimed at pushing some of the money into the  interbank
market , according to Difi Johansyah, a BI spokesman.  “This is preconditioning toward interest-rate
normalization as the interbank rate is near to the lower
range,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in a mobile-phone
text message.  The step may cut lending rates and boost demand for credit
while reducing the central bank’s interest costs, said David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta.  “Bank Indonesia will still focus on using non-interest-
rate tools as inflation seems manageable,” said Winang Budoyo,
an economist at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.  The central bank will use a mix of monetary and
“macroprudential” policy tools to mitigate the potential
decline in Indonesia’s economic performance amid increasing
global uncertainties triggered by the situation in the U.S. and
 Europe , it said today. It aims to achieve an inflation target of
5 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012, give or take 1
percentage point, according to today’s statement.  Capital Inflow  “Meanwhile, the high excess global liquidity and risk
perception of investors will still keep pushing the swift flow
of foreign capital into emerging economies, including into
Indonesia,” Bank Indonesia said. “Foreign capital inflows and
the appreciation of the rupiah are expected to continue although
in higher volatilities.”  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent on average
through the remainder of his term ending in 2014.  Economic growth in the third quarter may be 6.6 percent,
supported by exports, consumption and investment, the central
bank said.  The country’s $707 billion economy has expanded twice as
fast as global output since 2008 amid buoyant Chinese demand for
energy exports and a boom in  consumer spending  that boosted
earnings at companies from Jakarta-based PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur to PT Gudang Garam, a Kediri-based cigarette maker.  Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy rose
4.79 percent in August from a year earlier, accelerating from a
4.61 percent pace the previous month. That’s still less than the
7.02 percent inflation rate in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  