-- 
Inflation Scare Passing Spurs Central Banks’ Recession Focus

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-09-08T13:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/inflation-scare-passing-spurs-central-banks-to-refocus-on-recession-risks.html
The global inflation scare is
ending.  As faltering economic growth drags down food and energy
costs, consumer prices are climbing more slowly after jumping
earlier this year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists calculate the
worldwide inflation rate will slide on an annual basis to just
over 3 percent by the end of the year from 3.7 percent in June,
when most central bank targets were breached.  The likelihood of weaker price pressures, which will be
debated today at a Bloomberg Link conference in  New York , may
help extend the three-decade rally in global bonds, with U.S.
Treasuries already rising last month by the most since December
2008. It also is allowing central banks from  Canada  to Sweden
and Australia to keep monetary policy loose to bolster global
growth under threat from  Europe ’s fiscal crisis and the U.S.
slowdown.  “We’re getting a reprieve from inflation,” said  Edward Yardeni , president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni
Research Inc. in New York, who will speak at the conference and
who devised the term “bond vigilantes” to describe the power
financial markets can wield over governments. “On balance, it
will keep bond yields relatively low.”  Inflation-Protected Securities  Investors are starting to anticipate weaker price
pressures. Breakeven rates on U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, are hovering near the lowest since October
2010. The breakeven inflation rate, calculated from yield
differences on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S.
 government bonds  of similar maturity, has fallen to 1.98 percent
from a 2011 high of 2.66 percent on April 11.  Five-year breakevens for the U.S., Germany and France are
all under 1.7 percent, indicating little inflation concern in
the coming half-decade, while those for  Japan  remain negative.
Inflation-linked government bonds worldwide underperformed
nominal sovereign debt last month by 1.282 percentage points,
the most since February 2009, according to Bank of America Corp.
indexes.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
today that threats to the euro region’s economy have
“intensified” and inflation risks have eased as the region’s
debt crisis worsens. The ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent and cut growth forecasts for this year and next.  Bank of
England  held its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent today.  “We’re looking at a situation when the main risk is of
very soft price increases rather than runaway inflation,” said
Constance Hunter, chief economist at Aladdin Capital Management
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , which oversees $12 billion. Hunter
will also address the Bloomberg conference.  Supporting Growth  Central bankers are already taking advantage of that
outlook to focus more on supporting growth as the world economy
loses momentum and financial markets are roiled by the euro-
area’s failure to contain its debt crisis. Those from the Group
of Seven will debate the world economy when they begin convening
for talks in the French city of Marseille tomorrow.  Yesterday alone, the Bank of Canada said there is a
“diminished” need for it to raise  interest rates , Sweden’s
Riksbank abandoned a planned rate increase and  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled he’s prepared to
extend a pause in rate shifts. The Czech central bank also may
delay boosting borrowing costs if the euro area’s turmoil
escalates, board member Lubomir Lizal said in an interview. The
Bank of Japan kept monetary policy unchanged as it gauges the
effect of stimulus.  Behind the revaluation of inflation risks is weakening
economic growth that is pulling down the prices of energy and
food. Crude oil traded in New York has dropped to $90.11 a
barrel from $113.73 in April. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials has dropped about 12 percent from its
highest level in almost three years in April, while the United
Nations’ Food and Agriculture World Food Price Index has fallen
1.6 percent from a record in February.  Forces Compounded  With such forces compounded by high unemployment and weak
credit growth, “inflation in advanced economies should drop
back to very low levels by late 2012,” said Andrew Kenningham,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  Inflation will stay low for years, at least in rich
nations, said Larry Hatheway, chief global economist at UBS AG
in London. That’s because sustained price increases are a
product of excess demand, and economic growth rates in  France ,
the U.S. and the U.K. are running more than 3.5 percentage
points below long-term trend rates, he calculates.  “It will take years before output gaps are closed,”
Hatheway said. “That’s not conducive to higher inflation
anytime soon.”  Profit Target Cut  Companies are responding. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s
largest retailer, is “laser focused” on prices as customers
switch to cheaper goods and smaller packages, Chief Executive
Officer Michael T. Duke said Aug. 16. France’s Carrefour SA, the
No. 2 retailer, said Aug. 31 it will “reset” prices in its
home country, its biggest market, in a bid to revive earnings
after cutting its annual profit target.  Other central banks may also be shifting their focus back
to growth after growing wary of inflation earlier in the year.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his Aug. 26
speech at the central bank’s  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, economic
symposium, said the Fed still has tools to boost growth. Policy
makers debated those options, including a third round of asset
purchases, last month and will do so again at an expanded two-
day meeting ending Sept. 21. Another option is to reduce
borrowing costs by replacing short-maturity Treasuries in its
$1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, who votes on monetary
policy this year, yesterday called for “very significant
amounts” of added stimulus and allowing inflation to drift
temporarily as high as 3 percent.  Reviewing Assessment  Trichet said Aug. 29 that his bank is reviewing its
assessment of inflation risks after raising its benchmark rate
twice this year, to 1.5 percent, and saying Aug. 3 that price
risks were “on the upside.”  At the Bank of  England , two policy makers who previously
sought higher interest rates last month voted to keep them
unchanged, and officials are now considering more stimulus. The
ECB and Bank of England both hold policy meetings today.  Inflation remains the chief concern of central bankers in
 Asia ’s emerging markets, according to Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-
based chief economist for Asia at Citigroup Inc. Chinese
inflation accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in
July, prompting Premier Wen Jiabao to say Aug. 31 that his top
economic priority is stabilizing prices. India’s wholesale price
index gained 9.22 percent in July.  ‘Sticky’ Inflation  “Inflation in some Asian countries remains sticky and thus
given that rates are still historically low, policy makers in
Asia will be cautious in easing monetary policy too quickly,”
Chua said.  Inflation in the advanced nations may still also pick up
once economic recoveries take hold given the amount of liquidity
that authorities have injected into their economies, said  Axel Merk , president and chief investment officer at Merk Investments
LLC in  Palo Alto , California, and a Bloomberg Link speaker.  “Policy makers can print as much money as they can for
now, but consumers don’t want it,” he said. “But we see
inflation creeping up at the edges in commodities, and if we do
get growth then it will become a bad concern. Saying there are
no inflation fears is dangerous.”  At the same time, the change in tone from developed
countries’ central banks has prompted Torsten Slok, chief
international economist at Deutsche Bank AG, to predict major
central banks will hold off tightening monetary policy for the
remainder of this year.  “Inflation shouldn’t be a problem going forward, so
interest rates will be low for even longer,” said Slok, another
speaker at the Bloomberg Link conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  