-- 
Inflation Bets Approach Year-Low as Unemployment Climbs: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-09T00:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/inflation-bets-approach-year-low-as-unemployment-climbs-australia-credit.html
Bond investors’ expectations of
inflation in  Australia  are falling toward the lowest level in a
year after global market turmoil helped drive the nation’s
unemployment rate to a 10-month high in August.  Consumer prices will rise at a 2.58 percent annual pace
over the next five years, yields on inflation-linked debt showed
as of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney, four basis points above the lowest
level since September 2010. The so-called breakeven rate is the
highest across eight developed markets Bloomberg tracks, as a
mining boom boosts export revenue.  The second consecutive increase in the jobless rate backs
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s view that
global financial instability and local consumers retrenching may
“curtail” inflationary pressures. Stevens signaled a
willingness this week to keep the developed world’s highest
interest rate on hold as the local dollar’s record advance and
slumps in manufacturing and construction prompt companies
including BlueScope Steel Ltd. to shed workers.  “In some respects the jobs data is probably exactly what
the RBA was hoping would materialize,” said Gavin Stacey, chief
interest-rate strategist at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney. “We’ve
got growth looking reasonably okay but now employers seem to be
consolidating the workforce rather than adding new workers.”  Resource Bonanza  The economy is being driven by a resource bonanza as China
and  India , which account for more than a third of the world’s
population, increase demand for minerals and energy. Australia’s
gross domestic product expanded 1.2 percent in the three months
through June as growth rebounded from floods in the first
quarter, a government report showed this week.  Yesterday’s employment data spanned a rout in financial
markets driven by concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing
U.S. growth will derail the global recovery. Australia’s
business and consumer confidence has weakened, threatening the
nation’s growth outlook.  Further caution from households and businesses may
“curtail the upward trend in inflationary pressures that has,
up to this point, appeared to be in prospect,” Stevens said in
a speech in Perth on Sept. 7.  The jobs report showed the number of people employed fell
by 9,700 in August, after a revised 4,100 drop in July. The
jobless rate rose to 5.3 percent, the highest since October
2010, from 5.1 percent.  Yields Fall  The two-year bond yield dropped 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, since Sept. 2 to 3.69 percent, heading for the
first weekly decline since the five days ended Aug. 19. The
extra return the notes offer over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries shrank to 349 basis points, after reaching 464 on
Dec. 29, the widest since March 2008.  “The macro-economic evidence probably points to downward
pressure on inflation expectations,” said Stuart Dear, a
Sydney-based portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about A$15 billion ($15.9 billion) of
fixed-income assets in Australia. “The next step is for the
 Reserve Bank  to move to an easing bias and to back that up with
some modest rate cuts, so perhaps 50 basis points of cuts over
the next six to nine months.”  December interest-rate futures yielded 4.09 percent,
compared with the 4.75 percent RBA cash rate target. Stevens
held the rate at that level on Sept. 6.  Default Swaps  Concern the global economic recovery will slow helped send
the perceived risk of corporate bonds to a two-year high this
week.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index closed at 180.7 basis
points on Sept. 6, the highest since July 20, 2009, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The gauge of
contracts on 25 of the nation’s biggest companies advanced 3
basis points to 174 as of 10:16 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Credit Agricole CIB.  “Australia iTraxx has had some wild swings this week,”
said Finbar Cooke, the Sydney-based head of  credit derivatives 
at ANZ Bank. “The direction continues to be determined by
events in Europe.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. One basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds in
Australia instead of similar-maturity government debt rose to
223 basis points yesterday from 222 at the end of last month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Australian
Corporate & Collateralized Index.  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” Stevens said in Perth. “It is too soon to
see much evidence of a concrete impact of these events on the
global economy.”  The corporate spread matches the widest since December
2009, the  Merrill index shows. That’s frozen the market for new
bond sales by non-financial companies in Australia, with the
A$150 million sale of notes on July 8 by a local unit of
Volkswagen AG the last such offering, Bloomberg data show.  “Australian credit spreads are hostage to the European
sovereign debt crisis and uncertainty of the U.S. economic
recovery,” said Ken Hanton, a credit analyst at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “Investors very much remain
focused on the macro-economic and sovereign story as opposed to
bottom up fundamentals.”  Mining Investment  Mining investment in the 12 months ending June 30 next year
is projected to be A$82.1 billion, 45 percent higher than in the
2010-2011 fiscal year, a report showed last week. Companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company,
are expanding output.  The central bank’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
The RBA aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper gains in consumer prices. The local currency has risen
about 16 percent in the past year and reached $1.1081 on July
27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency recently traded at $1.0611, heading for its first
weekly decline in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net 
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net 
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 