-- 
Inflation May Be ‘Monster’ Looming for Insurers, Sullivan Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-08T15:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/inflation-may-be-monster-under-the-bed-facing-insurers-sullivan-says.html
Inflation may be a bigger risk for
insurers than tsunamis or  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis because
claims costs could climb faster than the value of the firms’
investments, said  Martin Sullivan , deputy chairman of broker
 Willis Group Holdings Plc. (WSH)   “Inflation could well be the monster under the bed,”
Sullivan said today at an Insurance Insider conference in
London, billed as his first public speech since he left as chief
executive officer of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Rising
prices “can be more deadly to an insurer’s economic health than
defaults, earthquakes, winter storms, or tsunamis.”  Consumer prices in the U.S.,  China ,  Germany  and the U.K.
have advanced the most since 2008 this year, spurred by higher
energy costs and government efforts to stimulate economies.
Inflation adds to insurers’ costs for rebuilding property,
treating injuries and paying legal claims that can emerge years
after policies are sold, a problem that can be magnified by low
 interest rates , said Sullivan.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries is about 2 percent,
compared with a U.S. inflation rate of 3.6 percent. The so-
called real yield, or difference between the two, is negative
1.6 percentage points, the lowest since 2008. U.S. insurers hold
more than $3 trillion in bonds to help back policies.  “Of all the issues out there, inflation could be the one
that comes to surprise a lot of companies,” said Sullivan. “In
a zero interest-rate environment, reinsurers face two options:
they either accept a continuously weakening balance sheet or
they raise their rates.” The  Federal Reserve  has kept benchmark
interest rates in a target range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Reinsurance Rates  Property and casualty insurers and reinsurers are unlikely
to raise rates this year as the industry has substantial
reserves even after the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and U.S.
tornadoes fueled worst first-half for insured losses on record,
Dominic Christian, co-chief executive officer of Aon Benfield
Group Ltd. said at the conference today.  Aon Benfield, a unit of No. 1 broker  Aon Corp. (AON) , said today
that global  reinsurer capital  was $445 billion at the end of
June, an increase of about 1 percent from March 31.  London-based Willis, the No. 3 insurance broker, hired
Sullivan last year to help the company sign up more of the
world’s biggest firms as clients. New York-based AIG has had
three CEOs since Sullivan’s departure.  Sullivan started at AIG, once the world’s biggest insurer,
as a 17-year-old clerk and became CEO in 2005. He was ousted in
2008 as the company posted losses on subprime mortgage bets that
led to a government rescue package that swelled to $182.3
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 