-- 
TIPS Offering Cheap Inflation Protection, RBC’s Latter Says

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a v e   L i e d t k a
-- 
2011-09-08T21:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tips-offer-cheap-inflation-shield-as-expectations-fall-rbc-s-latter-says.html
     Sept. 8 (Bloomberg) --- U.S. inflation-protected debt is
attractive as the risk that the global economy is returning to
recession overtakes concern simulative monetary policies will
boost consumer prices, according to RBC Global Asset
Management’s Gordon Latter.  Investors have reduced their expectations for inflation as
measured by the difference in yields on Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities, or TIPS, and Treasuries to almost the
lowest level since October 2010. The break-even rate on 10-year
securities has dropped to 2.02 percent from a high this year of
2.67 percent reached on April 11.  “The world is short inflation protection,” Latter, who
serves as managing director of risk-based solutions in
 Minneapolis , said at the Bloomberg Global Inflation Conference
in New York hosted by Bloomberg Link. “You can’t get enough
inflation product.”  Central banks from the  Federal Reserve  to the  Bank of
England  have kept  interest rates  at record lows since the start
of the 2008 financial crisis. The Fed has purchased $2.35
trillion of debt in an effort to stimulate the economy and the
 Bank of Japan  and Swiss National Bank have each intervened in
the currency market to try to curb their currencies’
appreciation.  ‘Waste of Money’  “There is a lot of inflation hysteria,” Ari Bergmann,
managing principal at New York-based risk management adviser
Penso Advisors, said at the conference. “Hedging, in my
experience over the last 25 years, never works and is a waste of
money.”  Five-year break-evens for the U.S.,  Germany  and  France  are
all under 1.7 percent, indicating there is little inflation
concern in the coming half-decade, while those for  Japan  remain
negative. Inflation-linked  government bonds  worldwide
underperformed nominal sovereign debt last month by 1.282
percentage points, the most since February 2009, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The fixed-interest payment on 10-year TIPS turned negative
for the first time on Aug. 9 after Fed officials said they’ll
keep benchmark interest rates at record lows through mid-2013
with economic growth stagnating.  Inflation Adjustment  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference is known as the breakeven rate.  U.S. inflation has been running higher in 2011 even as
growth in the first half came in below forecasts. Consumer
prices rose 2.1 percent and 3.4 percent versus real gross
domestic product of 2.2 percent and 1.5 percent in the first two
quarter of the year, while increasing at a 3.6 percent annual
rate in July.  The biggest problem for investors seeking a hedge on a
global basis is that large scale inflation protection is only
offered through bonds “and bonds are dead,” Sebastien Goldenberg, global head of inflation products in  London  at
Citigroup Inc. said, citing volatility in sovereign bonds.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measure
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two to 30 years, has averaged 99.87 basis
points this month, compared with 90 this year.  “If there is in inflation it’s not going to be purely CPI
driven, it will look different than anything that happened
before,” Roy Niederhoffer, president of New York-based hedge
fund R.G. Niederhoffer Capital Management, said. “The global
economy is a tremendous unknown, and not an unknown easily
influenced by central bankers. We don’t know which outcome it’s
going to be, but it will probably mean more volatility.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  