-- 
Ireland’s Treasury Said to Curb Short Sales by Limiting Bond Repurchases

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-08T09:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ireland-is-said-to-curb-short-sales-by-limiting-bond-repurchase-facilities.html
Ireland’s National Treasury
Management Agency reined in its liquidity facilities for short-
dated bonds to clamp down on short-sellers, according to two
people familiar with the restrictions.  The Dublin-based debt-management agency e-mailed Irish
primary dealers on July 22 to say that starting on Sept. 1, it
wouldn’t provide repurchase facilities for a 4 percent bond
repayable on Nov. 11, according to the people, who declined to
be identified because the e-mail is confidential. On Aug. 24, it
said that it was stopping repo facilities for a 3.9 percent bond
due in March, and that it was scrapping repurchases for all
securities with less than 18 months to maturity, they said.  NTMA spokesman Ray Gordon declined to comment on the e-
mails. The agency’s website says it provides repurchase
facilities to primary dealers so they can “borrow bonds or cash
to cover short positions on a secured basis.”  Limiting repurchase facilities makes it harder for traders
and investors to speculate on a decline in bond prices by
selling securities they don’t own in the anticipation of buying
them back at a lower price in the future. Ireland’s two-year
borrowing cost is currently about 9.06 percent, down from as
high as 24 percent on July 19 and compared with a six-month
average of 11.8 percent.  “The effect is to squeeze further the repo rates on the
short end,” said Harvinder Sian, a senior fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “It
makes sense to try and differentiate yourself when Greek yields
are hitting new highs.” Greek two-year yields reached a record
55 percent this week.  Primary dealers account for 95 percent of the turnover in
Irish sovereign bonds, the NTMA said in its 2010 annual report.  Separately, the NTMA e-mailed market participants on July
26 saying it was concerned about an increase in failed bond
trades in recent months, according to two other people. The NTMA
said it was reminding participants that it can enforce or cancel
trades, said one of the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  