-- 
Liu Says China’s Banks to Meet, Exceed New Liquidity Standards

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-08T22:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/liu-says-china-s-banks-to-meet-exceed-new-liquidity-standards.html
Most of  China ’s banks will meet or
surpass the new liquidity requirements under the Basel III
agreement that’s aimed at averting future crises, said Liu
Chunhang, director general of the research and statistics
departments at the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  “Chinese regulators welcome the new rules as an important
step toward a more robust global financial system,” he said
today at a symposium on Asian banking and finance held at the
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  Policy makers are trying to design regulations that account
for swings in the economy and financial markets, and avoid a
repeat of the financial panic that began with the collapse of
subprime mortgage market in 2007. The Basel Committee on Bank
Supervision, made up of representatives from more than two dozen
countries, last year proposed requiring banks to increase their
quantity and quality of capital.  Under Basel III, the idea of variable or countercyclical
buffers was introduced, which would require institutions to
boost capital amid lending booms to strengthen balance sheets
and slow any credit bubbles. International, systemically
important firms would be asked to hold extra equity.  “The vast majority of our banks will meet or exceed the
new requirements on liquidity,” Liu said. “We view the new
liquidity standards as a very helpful tool for banks to improve
the management of  liquidity risk .”  Nelson Man, executive director of banking supervision at
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, also spoke at the conference.
He said that while his agency supports the global principles of
the agreement, he wonders whether it should have “more
flexibility, taking into account local circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  