-- 
J&J Meshes May Need Post-Market Study on New FDA Rules

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-09T20:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/j-j-c-r-bard-vaginal-meshes-need-more-study-fda-panel-says.html
Makers of vaginally implanted
surgical meshes, led by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , may have to conduct
studies of three years or more on the products if the  Food and
Drug Administration  follows an advisory panel’s lead.  Thirteen panel members told the FDA yesterday the devices
should be reclassified as “high-risk” products, requiring more
data to stay on the market. Another four said they worried about
slowing medical innovation yet agreed the safety and
effectiveness of the meshes required more study.  Manufacturers led by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J,
and C.R. Bard Inc. of  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey , face about 500
lawsuits from patients who say they were harmed by a
transvaginal mesh. The implants were cleared under an FDA
process known as 510(k) based on their similarity to existing
products, without clinical trials.  “We need to change how we do our premarket evaluations of
these products,” said Colin Pollard, director of the FDA’s
obstetrics and gynecology devices branch. “We think the current
510(k) paradigm doesn’t work for these products because we don’t
think we know enough about the safety and effectiveness.”  Doctors implanted more than 70,000 of the devices in U.S.
women last year, threading them through incisions in the vagina
to fortify pelvic muscles that fail to support internal organs,
a condition known as  pelvic organ prolapse .  No Decision Date  The FDA hasn’t decided when it will make a final decision
on reclassification,  Karen Riley , an agency spokeswoman, said in
an interview. If the FDA takes the panel’s advice, it may be
three years before final rules are issued, Pollard said.
Existing meshes will stay on the market at least until then, he
said.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest maker of health products,
after Pfizer Inc., fell $1.31, or 2 percent, to $63.64 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. C.R. Bard slipped
$3.95, or 4.2 percent, to $89.62.  While the devices’ worth may be proven over time, they
should be reclassified “given the paucity of data” on their
effects, said Donald Mattison, a captain in the U.S. Public
Health Service and a member of the FDA’s advisory panel.  The panel yesterday opened two days of hearings in
Gaithersburg, Maryland, to review whether the agency should
impose stricter requirements for the devices. The hearing
continued today, focusing on meshes used in patients with  stress
urinary incontinence .  Moderate-Risk  Manufacturers’ representatives yesterday said FDA can
require trials and labeling changes for the products while
leaving them as “moderate-risk” devices under the 510(k)
system. That would provide more scrutiny while allowing
companies to avoid some of the added cost and regulatory delays
imposed for high-risk devices, said Ginger Glaser, a senior
director of regulatory affairs for American Medical Systems. The
device maker is a subsidiary of Endo Pharmaceuticals Holding
Inc., based in  Chadds Ford ,  Pennsylvania .  Existing studies have shown the devices safe, Piet Hinoul,
a director of medical affairs for J&J’s Ethicon unit, told the
panel.  “Serious adverse events that are mesh-specific are very
low,” he said.  The FDA is weighing a July report from the U.S. Institute
of Medicine urging the agency to scrap the 510(k) process for
moderate-risk products. The system allows devices such as mesh
implants to enter the market if companies show they are
“substantially equivalent” to others already for sale.  FDA Control  Reclassifying the products would give the FDA control over
trials the companies must conduct, Julia Corrado, a clinical
reviewer for the agency, told the panel. Keeping the devices
under 510(k) “would mean a new device only needs to be as good
as a device currently on the market and we are concerned that is
not good enough,” she said.  While the mesh has been used for more than three decades,
mainly for hernias, its use “has evolved over the past few
years” as manufacturers expanded into other conditions, said
Herbert Lerner, acting director of the FDA’s division of
reproductive, gastro-renal and urological devices. “As industry
modified surgical mesh for these indications, none of the mesh
has been evaluated for clinical data.”  If the FDA reclassifies the implants, it will require data
on risks and effectiveness before new models can go on sale. The
panel also recommended post-marketing studies to gather long-
term data on products already on the market.  Three-Year Trials  Clinical trials to test the devices should last at least
three years, said  Denise Elser , a Chicago-area physician
speaking for the  American Congress of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists , echoing the advice of some panel members. The
Washington, D.C.-based group, with 56,000 members, also wants a
registry created to follow patients who already have implants,
she said at the hearing.  The added regulation for high-risk devices may harm
patients by slowing development of better implants, said
panelist George Flesh, a  pelvic surgeon  and clinical faculty
member at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston .  “Meshes have gotten better every couple of years,” he
said. He said he worried that “improvements are going to slow
down to a crawl.”  The devices work well for some patients, said panel member
 Cheryl Iglesia , a pelvic surgeon and associate professor at
Georgetown University School of Medicine.  “In general, in appropriate hands with appropriate
physicians, it’s safe,” she said. “But I just don’t feel it’s
ready for prime time. There’s not enough data.”  Recall Urged  The FDA should go beyond new studies and recall mesh
implants on the market now, said Beverly Pennington, a wedding
consultant from Carrollton,  Georgia . Pennington told panelists
she’s suffered through five follow-up surgeries since receiving
her implant two years ago.  “We were left permanently injured, robbed of our lives as
we previously knew them,” said Pennington, 63. “We the injured
became your guinea pigs and your post-market trials.”  At today’s hearing, surgeons representing three medical
societies said clinical trials have shown mesh works well for
treating with incontinence. New devices should nonetheless
undergo premarket testing to get FDA approval, said Deborah
Myers, president of the American Urogynecologic Society, a
Washington-based group representing 1,300 physicians.  Doctors from the American Urological Association and
 Society for Urodynamics and Female Urology  concurred, and said
better training for surgeons was key to reducing complications
from the products.  Patients who said they’d been harmed by urinary meshes said
the problem lies with the design of the devices themselves, and
not their surgeons. Amy Gezon, a 43-year-old mother of three
from  Salt Lake City , said she “seriously considered suicide to
escape the excruciating pain” from her implant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in Gaithersburg,  Maryland  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Gaithersburg, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 