-- 
Bayer Rises After Panel Backs Blood Thinner for Heart Use

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-09-09T08:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/j-j-bayer-blood-thinner-wins-u-s-advisers-approval-for-heart-condition.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  rose the most in 10 months
in  Frankfurt  trading after its blood thinner Xarelto won an
advisory panel’s support as a treatment to prevent stroke in
patients with the most common abnormal heart rhythm.  The drug, known chemically as rivaroxaban, was recommended
for atrial fibrillation patients in a 9-2 vote with one
abstention by advisers to the Food and Drug Administration
meeting yesterday in Adelphi,  Maryland . The agency is scheduled
to decide whether to approve Xarelto by Nov. 5 and isn’t
required to follow the recommendation.  The FDA staff recommended Sept. 6 that the medicine not be
cleared for the heart patients because study results didn’t show
it would be effective or safe enough. Warfarin, the current
standard of care, wasn’t adequately used in a Xarelto study,
potentially giving the new treatment from Bayer and partner
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  an unfair advantage, the agency’s staff said
in its report.  Xarelto is as effective as “warfarin for patients that
really need it,” Philip Sager, an advisory panel member, said.
“There are obviously a number of other things that will have to
be discussed and worked out.”  Sager is a doctor and a member of the  Cardiac Safety
Research Consortium  in  San Francisco .  Bayer rose 1.46 euros, or 3.7 percent, to 40.43 euros at
9:56 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock gained as much as 5.5 percent,
its biggest intraday increase since November. Bayer lost 7.5
percent on Sept. 6 after the FDA staff report was published.  Earlier Approval  Atrial fibrillation affects more than 2 million Americans,
according to the  American Heart Association . J&J, based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , markets Xarelto in the U.S. and pays
royalties on sales to Bayer, based in Leverkusen,  Germany . The
German drugmaker sells Xarelto outside the U.S. The partners  won 
U.S. approval July 1 to market the drug for prevention of blood
clots after knee or hip replacement surgery.  Physicians for the past half-century have used warfarin, a
drug that requires constant monitoring and dose adjustments, to
prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation patients, according to the
 New England Journal of Medicine .  The FDA staff also said the Xarelto results showed excess
strokes in patients using the blood thinner who then switched to
warfarin. The report suggested the companies conduct a
transition trial.  Robert Temple, director of the FDA’s office of drug
evaluation, said the panel members differed on what patients
would benefit most from the new blood thinner. Several advisers,
including Sager, voiced concern that Xarelto should be approved
only for patients who don’t respond to other treatments.  ‘Pyrrhic Victory’  “The recommendation for approval is potentially a Pyrrhic
victory,” Mark Purcell, a London-based analyst for  Barclays
Capital , wrote in a note to clients today. “The FDA may very
well opt for a label that restricts Xarelto to a small part of
the market.” Purcell rates Bayer’s shares “equal weight.”  Panel members didn’t support J&J’s claim that Xarelto
should be labeled superior to warfarin. Martin Rose, a clinical
reviewer with the FDA, said J&J indicated to him that it would
no longer pursue a superiority claim as the company sought U.S.
approval.  Peter DiBattiste, global therapeutic area head of
cardiovascular and metabolism at J&J, disputed Rose’s claim.  “Our position has not changed,” DiBattiste said.  Warfarin’s dose must be maintained in a specific range to
keep the blood from clotting and also from getting too thin and
putting patients at risk of severe bleeding, particularly brain
hemorrhage,  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford Bernstein
Ltd. in  London , said in a note Sept. 7.  Recommended Treatment Range  The comparison group of patients given warfarin during the
Xarelto study was in the recommended treatment range just 55
percent of the time. In separate studies of Xarelto’s rivals,
the comparison groups on warfarin did better.  Patients remained in the therapeutic window 64 percent of
the time during a trial of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa,
approved by the FDA for the heart patients in October, and 62
percent of the time for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s apixaban, known as Eliquis, now being tested in clinical
trials.  The New England Journal of Medicine, which published the
results, said Xarelto was tested on higher-risk patients.  The panel discussed the use of warfarin in the Xarelto
study at length.  “This can get us into some very dangerous territory,”
said  Steven Nissen , chairman of the department of cardiovascular
medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Nissen voted
against Xarelto approval.  ‘Best-in-Class’  Even if the FDA agrees with the staff report and rejects
Xarelto, Scannell said 30 percent of drugs that the agency
originally turns away are approved.  A delay in approval may erase any advantage Xarelto might
have had by beating Eliquis to the market. Eliquis presented
“best-in-class” results Aug. 28 at the European Society of
Cardiology’s conference in Paris. The pill had a 31 percent
lower risk of major bleeding, a safety concern with blood
thinners, compared with warfarin and an 11 percent reduced risk
of dying, the first time a warfarin replacement has saved lives
in a clinical trial.  About 300,000 patients have been prescribed Pradaxa, Glenn
Silver, a spokesman for Boehringer, said in an e-mail.  Bayer said sales of the blood thinner Xarelto will reach at
least 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) a year outside the U.S.,
leaving its peak sales estimate unchanged even if the drug
doesn’t get FDA regulatory approval in atrial fibrillation
patients.  The drugmaker is “confident” it will reach the sales
target in markets outside the U.S., including Europe and  Japan ,
said Astrid Kranz, a spokeswoman for the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  