-- 
Japan Machinery Orders Drop More Than Expected in Sign Rebound Is Stalling

-- B y   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 
2011-09-08T01:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/japan-s-machinery-orders-fall-most-in-10-months-as-yen-gain-stalls-rebound.html
Japan ’s machinery orders fell the
most in 10 months in July, as the yen’s gain to a postwar record
eroded company profits and discouraged investment.  Factory orders dropped 8.2 percent in July from June, when
they increased 7.7 percent, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three to six
months, were projected to decline by 4.2 percent, according to
the median forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Today’s report adds to concern that a rising yen may derail
the nation’s recovery from March’s record earthquake, putting
pressure on officials to take action to stem gains in the
currency. Finance Minister Jun Azumi, who was sworn in last
week, said on Sept. 4 that the government is ready to take
decisive action against speculative moves in the yen.  “The rebound may have run its course,”  Richard Jerram ,
chief economist at Bank of Singapore Ltd., who has analyzed
Asian economies for two decades, said before the report. The
strong yen “is lowering profitability of companies, deterring
them from making investments,” he said.  The yen traded at 77.35 per dollar as of 9:58 a.m. in
Tokyo, from 77.33 before the indicator was released. Adding to
signs of a weakening recovery, the  Finance Ministry  said in a
seperate report today that the nation’s current-account surplus
shrank 42 percent in July as exports slid 2.3 percent from a
year earlier.  A government report last week showed that capital spending
tumbled 7.8 percent in the second quarter, bucking the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a 1
percent gain. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose for a
second month to 4.7 percent in July.  Yen’s Advance  The yen’s advance to a post-World War II high last month
came even after authorities intervened on Aug. 4 in the foreign-
exchange market for the first time since March. A stronger yen
makes Japanese products less competitive abroad and erodes
overseas profits when they’re repatriated.  The Group of Seven nations’ finance ministers and central
bankers are due to meet in Marseilles,  France , this week as
global policy makers struggle to sustain an economic rebound
from the 2008 recession.  Switzerland , which like Japan has had
to contend with the appreciation of its currency due to
increased demand for save-haven assets, this week pledged to put
a ceiling on its  exchange rate  against the euro.  “We are concerned about persistent one-sided gains in the
yen,” Finance Minister Azumi said on Sept. 4. “I will tell the
G-7 that a strengthening yen may slow Japan’s economic growth.”  Business Plans  Japan’s largest manufacturers based their business plans
for the year ending March 31 on the assumption that the yen will
average 82.59 per dollar, according to the  Bank of Japan ’s
quarterly Tankan survey released on July 1.  Denso Corp. (6902) , Toyota Motor Corp.’s biggest auto parts
supplier, said last month that the strong yen is undermining its
recovery from the March 11 earthquake and may prevent the
company from raising its full-year profit forecast. Every one
yen gain against the dollar cuts Denso’s operating profit by 2.9
billion yen, the company said.  -- Editors: Lily Nonomiya, Ken McCallum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  