-- 
Japanese Stocks Snap 2-Day Rally, Extend Weekly Loss Ahead of G-7 Meeting

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-09-09T06:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-on-u-s-europe-growth-concerns.html
Japanese stocks snapped a two-day
rally, extending losses for the week, on prospects Europe’s
finance chiefs will face international calls today to contain
their debt crisis before a gathering of Group of Seven nations.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) ,  Japan ’s No. 1 maker of controls used to run
 machine tools , fell 7.6 percent, the biggest slide on the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average, after a report yesterday showed growth in
Japan’s machine tool orders slowed.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s biggest carmaker, lost 0.7 percent.  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
gained 3.2 percent and  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015)  rose 1.8 percent
after SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. boosted equity ratings on the
trading companies.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent to 8,737.66
as of the 3 p.m. trading close in Tokyo. The Topix dropped 0.2
percent to 755.70. For the week, the Nikkei fell 2.4 percent,
while the Topix lost 1.8 percent.  “Investors want to avoid an event risk with the G-7
meeting coming up this weekend,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general
manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“They are closing their positions to lock in profits from a
two-day rally.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
resisted calls to lower  interest rates  even after saying
“downside risks” to the euro area intensified. The economy
faces “particularly high uncertainty,” Trichet said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  yesterday. The ECB cut its growth
forecasts for this year and next.  G-7 Meeting  Europe ’s finance chiefs will face international calls today
to accelerate efforts to tackle the region’s debt crisis, as
central bankers and finance ministers from the Group of Seven
nations convene in Marseille, France.  The Topix has slid about 16 percent this year amid concern
U.S. growth is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage
the banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest
export markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the
index to 0.91 times book value, near the lowest since March 2009.  Machinery firms fell the most among the 33 groups on the
Topix index after the Japan Machine Tool Builders’ Association
yesterday said in a preliminary report that machine tool orders
in August totaled 98.96 billion yen ($1.3 billion), 12.7 percent
down from July. Fanuc tumbled 7.6 percent to 10,730 yen.  Komatsu
Ltd. (6301) , the world’s No. 2 maker of construction equipment and
Japan’s largest construction machinery maker, dropped 4.5
percent to 1,797 yen.  China ’s Prices  Komatsu, which gets 23 percent of its revenue in China,
maintained losses after China’s inflation eased in August from a
three-year high, giving policy makers more slack to pause
monetary tightening. Consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing
today.  Among stocks that fell were Toyota, dropping 0.7 percent to
2,680 yen, and Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of video-
game players, sliding 2.3 percent to 13,160 yen.  Japanese stocks earlier swung between gains and losses
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  called on Congress to pass a
jobs plan that would inject $447 billion into the economy.  ‘Wasn’t Positive’  “Obama’s policy fell into expectations and wasn’t a
positive surprise, with an impact to the market being limited,”
saidMasaru Hamasaki, who helps oversee the equivalent of $24
billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “Policy makers have lowered warnings about inflation in
Europe due to recent economic conditions. That’s what the market
had expected.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York , the index fell 1.1 percent yesterday
as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke warned that policy
makers should not disregard the “fragility” of the economic
recovery, while he said Congress and President Barack Obama must
put the federal government’s finances on a “sustainable
trajectory” over the long term.  Marubeni gained 3.2 percent to 478 yen after SMBC Nikko
raised its rating on the firm to “outperform” from
“neutral,” saying favorable earnings may boost dividend
payouts.  The brokerage also lifted Toyota Tsusho’s rating to
“neutral” from “underperform,” saying earnings may rise as
demand from carmakers increases and on better cost controls.
Toyota Tsusho rose 1.8 percent to 1,251 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 