-- 
Jay-Z Has Unique Fix for Maybach as Daimler Can’t Abide Sales Slump: Cars

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-08T22:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/jay-z-has-unique-maybach-fix-as-daimler-can-t-abide-slump.html
Jay-Z and  Kanye West  made it clear
in their video for the song Otis that  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s ultra-luxury
Maybach brand would be better off in a different form.  The two rappers sawed up a Maybach, which starts at
$372,500, transforming it into a post-modern topless buggy, with
its hood and trunk lids switched, the doors removed and flames
spewing from the rear. While their brazen re-styling may not be
the answer, sagging sales mean Daimler is considering changes.  Maybach, a hallmark of German motoring opulence in the
1930s, has failed to mount a serious challenge to  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley since
being reintroduced in 2002. Sales, which were targeted at more
than 1,000 a year, topped out at 600 cars in 2003 and sagged to
200 last year. Rolls-Royce sold 2,700 autos in 2010, while
Bentley delivered 5,100.  “We’ll make a decision on the future of the brand in due
course,” Joachim Schmidt, head of sales and marketing at the
Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker’s car unit, said in an
interview. “We’re not under any pressure.”  The marque’s dwindling sales adds to the challenges facing
Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche after Mercedes-
Benz was passed this year as the world’s second-largest luxury-
car brand by VW’s Audi. The automaker is also making a second go
at transforming the Smart city car into a nameplate with
multiple vehicles to target younger urban drivers and meet
environmental rules to reduce fuel burn.  Over the past five years, Daimler shares have fallen 8.6
percent while BMW stock rose 39 percent and VW’s preferred
shares more than doubled.  Not Enough Madonnas  While Maybach has won over stars like Jay-Z and singer
Madonna, it hasn’t gained a broad following among the world’s
wealthy because it lacks the distinctiveness and tradition of
its competitors. The last of the 1,800 original Maybachs was
manufactured in 1941 -- six decades before the re-launch.  “The Maybach product was always a non-starter -- too big,
too ostentatious, too expensive,” said Simon Empson, managing
director of U.K. auto website Broadspeed.com, who helped sell a
Maybach to a London customer in 2006. “I can’t see any future
for this marque.”  The options for the brand range from spending an estimated
500 million euros ($700 million) on a revamp, partnering with
another high-end carmaker like  Aston Martin , integrating it into
Mercedes or shutting it down, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the  University
of Duisburg-Essen .  “Daimler can’t continue Maybach as it is now,” said
Dudenhoeffer. “It leans too heavily on the S-Class and doesn’t
do enough to boost Mercedes. If they’re going to continue one
brand aside from Mercedes, then the choice is clearly Smart.”  Dwindling Dealers  Growth may be hard to come by. Maybach’s dealer network in
the U.S., where it sold about 30 percent of its cars last year,
has dwindled to 30 from 85 in 2002.  Still, Daimler continues to invest in the brand, even as it
holds talks with Aston Martin on a potential cooperation,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  Last year, it updated the two sedan models with new chrome
grills and cleaner 12-cylinder engines. The rear passengers in
the $423,500 Maybach 62 got an optional 19-inch cinema screen.
At the  Cannes Film Festival  in May, it presented a special
edition of the 20-foot 62 sedan that was studded with diamonds
from Swiss jewelry maker De Grisogono.  At the International Motor Show in  Frankfurt , which starts
next week, Maybach will display a 62 model at its stand. The
carmaker also offers the made-to-order Landaulet open-top
version, which starts at $1.38 million.  ‘Best or Nothing’  The chief argument for keeping the brand, which traces its
history to Wilhelm Maybach, an engineer who helped Gottlieb Daimler develop motors for the first automobiles, is to compete
with BMW and VW for the world’s wealthiest customers.  “For us as a luxury-car manufacturer, it’s good to be
represented at the highest end of the market,” said Daimler’s
Schmidt. “We make good money on every Maybach we sell,” and
the waiting list for delivery is at least six months, he said.  The average Maybach takes about 60 days to build compared
with three to four days for a typical Mercedes. Customers can
choose from more than 2 million combinations of color, leather
and accessories, such as an interior perfume atomizer and
handbraided seat piping. All Maybachs come standard with a
refrigerator in the rear and two silver champagne flutes. For
some, the hand-crafted luxury has a positive spillover effect.  Appeal for Guidance  “Maybach has a resonance that also helps Mercedes-Benz,”
said Peter Ritter, head of Torpedo-Garage, a Mercedes dealer in
Kaiserslautern,  Germany . “It’s important to offer something to
compete with Rolls-Royce and Bentley.”  Still, there are other options for Daimler to compete in
the ultra-luxury segment. Expanding the AMG high-performance
unit, which developed the SLS gull-wing supercar, may be a
better alternative, the University of Duisburg-Essen’s
Dudenhoeffer said.  In any case, Kanye West doesn’t seem to have the answer and
pleads in the song for guidance.  “Maybach bumper sticker reads: ‘What would Hova do?,’”
West asks in the Otis lyrics, referring to a nickname for Jay-Z.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  