-- 
JPMorgan Sees Euro Area Break-Up ‘Hedge’ in Sales of Italian, Spanish Debt

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/jpmorgan-sees-euro-area-break-up-hedge-in-sales-of-italian-spanish-debt.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said selling
Italian and Spanish bonds along with bank stocks and debt, and
buying dollars and gold may provide the best protection against
the “very unlikely” risk of a euro-area collapse.  “There are formidable barriers to break-up, which make it
less likely, but also mean it would be more disruptive if it did
occur,” Seamus Mac Gorain, a strategist in  London , wrote in an
investor report yesterday. “The financial turmoil and economic
impact would be most pronounced in the euro area, arguing for
broad underweight euro-area equity and credit.”  Yields on U.S. and German 10-year bonds fell to records
this week and gold reached a fresh high as investors sought the
safest assets amid concern policy makers aren’t doing enough to
prevent the spread of financial-market tension from the euro
area. That’s prompting economists to study worst-case scenarios,
with UBS AG saying two days ago that the euro doesn’t work under
its current structure.  Sales of Italian and Spanish bonds versus benchmark German
bunds may provide an “efficient hedge,” along with betting the
euro will fall against the dollar and buying gold, JPMorgan’s
Mac Gorain wrote. Owning less euro-area bank equities and credit
securities than benchmarks used to track performance would also
offer protection, he said.  Italian 10-year bonds rose a third day, pushing the yield
down five basis points to 5.21 percent as of 11:03 a.m. in
London. The rate fell to as low as 4.87 percent on Aug. 18 as
the  European Central Bank  was said to begin purchasing the debt
last month.  “The only way to hedge against a euro break-up scenario is
to own no euro assets at all,” UBS economists including
Stephane Deo wrote in their Sept. 6 report. The cost of a
potential collapse makes it “close to zero probability,” and
“the growth consequences are awful in any break-up scenario,”
they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  