-- 
Kenya’s Finance Ministry Expects Shilling to Strengthen, Top Official Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-08T11:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/kenya-s-finance-ministry-expects-shilling-to-strengthen-top-official-says.html
Kenya’s shilling, Africa’s second-
worst-performing currency this year, is expected to strengthen
as the government improves communication with financial markets,
a senior Finance Ministry official said.  “As long as we coordinate our policy direction, while at
the same time engage the financial sector players, we are going
to see the exchange rate getting stronger,” Geoffrey Mwau, the
ministry’s economic secretary, told reporters today in Nairobi.
Growing revenue from exports and tourism may also help the
currency gain, Mwau said.  Inflation that’s more than triple the government’s target
has been partly driven by a slump in the shilling. Central Bank
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has restricted liquidity to stem
speculative trading, which he cited as the reason for the
currency’s decline, and said in June he may take unspecified
action against some banks.  The shilling has slid about 14 percent against the dollar
this year and hit a 17-year low of 95.10 on Aug. 9. It fell 0.2
percent to 94.10 per dollar at 12:50 p.m. in Nairobi today.  In a bid to support the currency, Kenya’s central bank last
month raised the cost of borrowing via its discount window,
sending inter-bank lending rates soaring to a 12-year high of
28.44 percent.  The central bank reversed some of the increase on Aug. 29.
The average rate lenders charge each other for credit declined
to 8.82 percent yesterday.  “What we don’t want to see is huge fluctuations or huge
jumps in the exchange rate,” Mwau said. “You need
predictability.”  The central bank’s monetary policy committee is holding a
special meeting on Sept. 14 to review efforts to defend the
shilling and contain inflation.  Kenyan Finance Minister Uhuru Kenyatta has convened three
meetings with executives at lenders including Kenya Commercial
Bank Ltd. and Equity Bank Ltd. since last month, aimed at
improving relations, a Treasury official said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 