-- 
Kenya Asks IMF to Release Additional Funds to Help Ease Shilling Pressure

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-08T14:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/kenya-asks-imf-to-release-additional-funds-to-help-ease-shilling-pressure.html
Kenya  asked the  International
Monetary Fund  to release additional funds from its Extended
Credit Facility to help deal with a weakening shilling and
surging money-market rates, President Mwai Kibaki said.  The step is being taken along with other unspecified
measures to ensure “orderly trading in the money markets for
liquidity and foreign exchange,” Kibaki said in a speech today
in Nairobi. Kenya wants its next IMF disbursement to be paid
early “to ensure ample supply of foreign exchange to finance
required imports without putting pressure on the shilling.”  The shilling weakened 14 percent against the dollar this
year to a 17-year-low of 95.10 on Aug. 9 and is the world’s
fourth-worst performer, after neighboring  Uganda ’s shilling, the
Maldives rufiyaa and the Suriname dollar. The Kenyan currency
has fallen as inflation accelerated to 16.7 percent last month,
more than triple the central bank’s target. Three-month
borrowing costs are at 11.69 percent, the highest in 10 years.  Central Bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has blamed
speculative  currency trading  for the shilling’s decline.  “Our financial regulators must deal firmly with any
speculators who may seek to take advantage of the current
situation,” Kibaki said. “We must all know that short-term
financial gains by unscrupulous market players can also have
long-term consequences on our economy.”  In January, the IMF approved a three-year arrangement under
its extended credit facility for Kenya equivalent to about
$508.7 million, with an initial disbursement of $101.7 million.
An additional payment of $65 million was approved in June.  IMF Team  Kenya’s request for more funds will be considered when an
IMF team arrives in the country in October to do a regular
review of the existing program, Ragnar Gudmundsson, the IMF’s
representative in Kenya, said in a phone interview from Nairobi
today. The amount of extra funding available and timing of its
disbursement would probably be decided by the IMF’s executive
board in November or December, he said.  “The aim of the support is balance of payments support,
this will help beef the reserves of the  Central Bank  of Kenya,”
Gudmundsson said. “It would mean increasing the number of the
resources to be provided under the program to deal with the
impact of drought, and higher prices.”  The worst drought in six decades in the Horn of  Africa  has
led to crop shortages, resulting in as many as 3.75 million
Kenyans requiring food assistance, according to the United
Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  The central bank’s foreign-exchange reserves rose to $3.987
billion, the equivalent of 3.7 months of import cover, as of
Sept. 2, compared with $3.967 billion, or 3.68 months of
imports, a week earlier, according to the regulator’s website.  The IMF program targets currency reserves rising to 4
months of import cover.  The shilling strengthened for a third straight day,
advancing 0.2 percent to 93.75 shillings by 5:17 p.m. in
Nairobi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 