-- 
Korean Won Falls, Bonds Advance After Central Bank Leaves Rate Unchanged

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-08T06:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/korean-won-gains-bonds-decline-before-central-bank-interest-rate-meeting.html
South  Korea ’s won fell to this
month’s low and bonds advanced as concerns the global recovery
is faltering deterred the central bank from raising borrowing
costs at a review today.  The currency reversed an earlier advance after the  Bank of
Korea  held the benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent for a
third month, a decision predicted by 14 of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The central bank said it will closely
monitor financial and economic risks both at home and abroad in
setting future policy.  Interest rates  can’t be raised if global
uncertainties persist even as inflation remains elevated,
Governor Kim Choong Soo said today.  “The won reversed movements as the central bank made
comments that the global economy faces higher uncertainty,
making market players more cautious,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “The Kospi
trimming gains also affected the won.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,075.13 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, after advancing as much as 0.3 percent
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi
Index of shares closed 0.7 percent higher, having earlier
advanced as much as 1.3 percent.  The central bank raised the seven-day repurchase rate three
times this year by a quarter of a percentage point to help
counter inflation. U.S. President Obama will unveil proposals
promoting jobs growth in an address to Congress today. The plan
is to inject more than $300 billion into the world’s biggest
economy next year.  South Korea ’s benchmark three-year bonds advanced for the
first time in three days. The yield on the government’s 3.5
percent bonds due June 2014 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.42 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. The rate reached this year’s low of 3.36
percent on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  