-- 
Kraft’s Oscar Mayer, Sara Lee Reach Truce in Hot Dog War

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-09T00:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/kraft-s-oscar-mayer-rival-sara-lee-settle-lawsuit-in-chicago-hot-dog-war.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and regional rival
Sara Lee Corp. declared a truce in their legal war over which
company truly makes the best hot dog in the U.S.  The Illinois-based food purveyors, who are based about 30
miles apart, each issued statements today announcing a
settlement that ends a trial which started Aug. 15 in federal
court in  Chicago .  “Sara Lee is pleased with the outcome and looks forward to
continuing to produce its leading hot dog brand, Ball Park,” a
spokesman for the company, Mike Cummins, said in an e-mailed
statement. He declined to disclose the terms of the accord.  Consumers in the U.S. bought more than $1.6 billion worth
of hot dogs last year, eating about 7 billion of them -- a rate
of 818 per second -- from the Memorial Day federal holiday in
late May to Labor Day at the beginning of September, according
to statistics compiled by the  National Hot Dog & Sausage
Council , a Washington-based meat industry advocacy group.  In 2009, Sara Lee sued Kraft, maker of Oscar Mayer wieners,
claiming the world’s second-biggest food company was deceiving
consumers with a claim that its franks were 100 percent pure
beef and lying about taste test results.  Kraft, based in Northfield, countersued Downers Grove-based
Sara Lee, accusing the smaller company of falsely advertising
how its product fared in a taste contest.  ‘Wiener Wars’  “Let the wiener wars begin,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Morton Denlow declared at the outset of the non-jury trial. He heard
seven days of testimony and argument before the adversaries
recessed on Aug. 23. Proceedings were scheduled to resume today.  “The case has been settled,” Sydney Lindner, associate
director of corporate affairs for Kraft, said earlier today, the
 Chicago Tribune  reported.  While she declined to disclose specific settlement terms,
Lindner told the Tribune that no money was exchanged and that
neither company’s marketing practices would change.  She didn’t immediately reply to e-mail and voicemail
requests seeking comment after regular business hours.  The case is  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  v. Kraft Foods Inc., 09-cv-
03039, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  