-- 
Libyan Rebel Fighters Advance on Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-09-11T15:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/new-libyan-leaders-face-difficult-fight-for-unity-after-qaddafi-ouster.html
Libyan opposition forces pushed
toward the loyalist stronghold of Sirte after suspending an
earlier attack on Bani Walid, one of the last towns controlled
by Muammar Qaddafi’s supporters.  The fighting continued a day after the chairman of the
 National Transitional Council , Mustafa Abdel Jalil, arrived in
the capital, Tripoli, to take command of the interim
administration. The transitional leadership has been unable to
proclaim a full victory because of its failure to find Qaddafi
and to gain control of the remaining towns held by his
supporters.  A brigade of NTC-backed fighters advanced into Bani Walid
Sept. 9, a day ahead of a deadline to surrender, after loyalists
fired Grad rockets at the surrounding forces. Opposition troops
say they encountered strong resistance in the town.  “They used the time that we gave them as a deadline to
begin to reinforce,” Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the
council, said in a phone interview today from Tripoli. “The
Qaddafi battalions took the opportunity to dig in, which means
we need a greater force to dislodge them. We want to stem the
bloodshed and reduce the causalities, but it’s a double-edged
sword. If you don’t give them the opportunity, they say you’re
bloodthirsty.”  Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril of the transitional council
called Sept. 8 for national reconciliation and unity.  Internal Battle  “The first battle is against Qaddafi and his regime,”
Jibril told reporters. “This will end by the capturing or the
elimination of Qaddafi. However, the battle that is more
difficult is against ourselves. How can we achieve
reconciliation and achieve peace and security and agree on a
constitution? We must not attack each other or push each other
away.”  There is longstanding tension between western  Libya ,
Qaddafi’s heartland, and the east, where years of simmering
unrest fueled by political and economic resentment spawned this
year’s uprising. In addition, the rebel coalition that has been
bound together by hatred of a shared foe will be tested as
leaders jockey for power and resources.  The rebel Halbus brigade from Misrata entered the suburbs
of Bani Walid along the Maldoon Valley, getting to 10 kilometers
(six miles) from the town center, according to Khalid Abdula
Salem, commander of the rebel Western Front, in an interview
from his headquarters in the oasis Abdul Rauf.  They found some homes displaying the rebel tricolor and
others the green flag of the Qaddafi regime, Salem said.  Bani Walid’s garrison is composed of the elite 32nd Brigade
commanded by Qaddafi’s son Khamis, members of the Legion Thoria
secret police, and units of mercenaries from  Darfur , Salem said.  Oil Production  More than six months of fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule have reduced oil output and disrupted power supplies in the
country with  Africa ’s largest crude reserves. The petroleum
industry’s infrastructure is mainly intact, Guma El-Gamaty, the
NTC’s U.K. coordinator, said in a Sept. 8 interview.  An 80,000 metric-ton cargo of Libyan crude is being offered
for shipment from Mellitah this month, according to three people
with direct knowledge of the transaction.  The oil, equal to about 600,000 barrels, will be loaded
from Sept. 15 to Sept. 17, the people said, declining to be
identified because the consignment hasn’t been publicly
announced.  Libya resumed operations at its 120,000 barrel-a-day
Zawiyah refinery near Tripoli about two weeks ago, El-Gamaty
said. The plant is processing 30,000 barrels a day and will
reach full capacity in six to eight weeks, he said. The eastern
crude export facility in Tobruk is undamaged, he added.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday it
recognized the NTC as holding Libya’s seat at the Washington-
based fund and is preparing to send an economic support team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Abdul Rauf, Libya, at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 