-- 
New York Commuters Prefer Sleep or Exercise to Fighting Traffic, IBM Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/new-york-commuters-prefer-sleep-to-fighting-traffic-ibm-says.html
New York City commuters would rather
sleep, spend time with their families or exercise than fight
traffic, according to an annual survey by  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)   New York ranked No. 15 for having the most painful commute
in the survey, which ranks the emotional and economic toil of
commuting. Mexico City ranked the worst, a spot it tied for last
year with Beijing. The survey was released today.  When the survey asked commuters what they’d rather be doing
than being stuck in traffic, 23 percent of New Yorkers said
working, up from 10 percent last year. Forty-nine percent said
exercise, 39 percent said sleep more and 54 percent said spend
more time with family, according to the survey.  “In terms of their frustrations and stress, it’s generally
higher than it was last year,” Naveen Lamba, leader of IBM’s
Intelligent Transportation practice, said in a telephone
interview of the survey’s findings. “Despite reducing volumes,
you’re seeing the pain of the commute, so to speak,
increasing.”  The average typical one-way commute in Mexico City was 40
minutes. Of drivers surveyed, 57 percent said they’d been stuck
in roadway traffic for two hours or more during the past three
years.  For surveyed New Yorkers, the average typical commute was
30 minutes. The index’s average of 20 cities was 33 minutes.  The city with the least painful commute was  Montreal ,
according to the survey. The daily one-way commute on average in
the Canadian city last year was 29 minutes.  Beijing’s ranking improved over last year’s survey to third
worst, behind Shenzhen to the south, near  Hong Kong . IBM said
the Chinese government spent 80 billion yuan ($12.5 billion)
last year to improve transportation infrastructure in the
Chinese capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  