-- 
New Regulators for Investment Advisers Proposed in U.S. House

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-08T20:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/new-regulators-for-investment-advisers-proposed-in-u-s-house.html
One or more self-regulatory
organizations would oversee U.S.-registered retail investment
advisers under a draft bill by Representative  Spencer Bachus ,
the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.  A Financial Services subcommittee is scheduled to hold a
Sept. 13 hearing on investment adviser oversight. The meeting
follows a Securities and Exchange Commission report suggesting a
self-regulatory organization as one option for fixing the SEC’s
inability to inspect investment advisers at a sufficient pace.
Critics of the SEC have blamed the agency for failing to uncover
investment frauds including the Ponzi scheme of  Bernard Madoff .  “It will result in much more effective regulation and
examination,” said Bachus, an Alabama Republican, speaking to
reporters in Washington. “Madoff ought to tell you something
about how there were all sorts of rules that were violated.”  The SEC’s January report was required by the Dodd-Frank
Act, which didn’t give the agency authority to make changes.  “The staff believes that the Commission will likely not
have sufficient capacity in the near or long term to conduct
effective examinations of registered investment advisers with
adequate frequency,” according to the report, which listed
options that included putting one or more self-regulatory
organizations under SEC authority -- potentially mirroring the
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ’s oversight of brokers.  “Had Finra been on the job I don’t think you would’ve
seen” the Madoff fraud, Bachus said.  “The current regulatory disparity not only puts investors
at great risk, it undermines investor confidence, which in turn
jeopardizes not only the investment goals of millions of
Americans but also the economy at large,” said Dale E. Brown,
president and chief executive officer of the Washington-based
Financial Services Institute Inc., in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 