-- 
New York Terror Suspect Medunjanin’s Statements Can Be Used at U.S. Trial

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-08T22:22:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/new-york-terror-suspect-medunjanin-s-statements-can-be-used-at-u-s-trial.html
A terrorism suspect’s statements
after he was arrested following an expressway crash can be
admitted as evidence at his trial on charges that he helped plan
a suicide attack on  New York ’s subways, a judge ruled.  Law enforcement officers shouldn’t have questioned Adis
Medunjanin after the Jan. 7, 2010, crash because he had invoked
his right to an attorney, his lawyers said in federal court
filings in Brooklyn, New York. They asked U.S. District Judge
Raymond J. Dearie to keep those statements out of the trial.  “After due consideration of all relevant submissions and
evidence, the court denies in their entirety defendant’s motions
to suppress statements made to law enforcement” and to suppress
other evidence, Dearie wrote today in a one-page order. He said
he would release an opinion at a later date explaining his
reasoning.  Prosecutors say Medunjanin and two other New York men,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, were recruited by Adnan
Shukrijumah, one of al-Qaeda’s top operatives, for a planned
bombing of subway lines in  Manhattan  around the eighth
anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Zazi and
Ahmedzay pleaded guilty last year and are scheduled to be
sentenced in December.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “We’re very disappointed and now it’s on to the trial,”
Robert Gottlieb, a lawyer for Medunjanin in Manhattan, said in a
phone interview. “There will definitely be a trial at the
beginning of next year.”  Medunjanin pleaded not guilty in August 2010 to nine
charges, including attempt to commit an act of terrorism,
conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction, providing
support to a terrorist organization and receiving military
training from a terrorist group. His trial is scheduled to start
in January. He faces as long as life in prison if convicted.  Medunjanin was taken into custody after the crash, which
occurred about an hour after  law enforcement  officers left his
home in the Flushing area of Queens following the execution of a
search warrant for his passports, according to court documents.  Prosecutors said in a court document that Medunjanin
admitted after the collision on the Whitestone Expressway that
he was trying to kill himself and others so he could “carry out
an act of jihad before he was arrested.”  ‘We Love Death’  Medunjanin dialed 911 shortly before the wreck, screaming
in Arabic “We love death more than you love life,” before
swerving his silver Nissan Altima into another vehicle at more
than 90 miles an hour, prosecutors said.  He told FBI agents after the crash that he wanted to fire
his lawyer because he was “costing his family a lot of money
and not doing much in return,” prosecutors said in court
filings. Medunjanin signed three forms waiving his
constitutional rights because “he wanted to talk about his
activities in  Pakistan  and explain his religious and political
motivations,” according to the filings.  He told agents that he had traveled with Ahmedzay and Zazi
to join the Taliban in Pakistan, where they were recruited by
 al-Qaeda , who gave them military training and encouraged them to
conduct suicide attacks, prosecutors said in court documents.  Medunjanin “insisted” he agreed only to return to the
U.S. to raise money and send recruits to al-Qaeda in Pakistan,
while volunteering that he loved  Osama bin Laden  “more than he
loved himself” and that al-Qaeda was “good people,”
prosecutors said in the filings.  Gottlieb said in a court filing that he had already been
representing Medunjanin for three months at the time of the
accident. Gottlieb accused the government of preventing him from
finding and speaking with his client in the days after the
arrest.  “The waivers were not made knowingly because the
government had refused to tell Mr. Medunjanin that his attorney
was seeking to speak to him and had actively hidden Mr.
Medunjanin from his attorney, who was aggressively seeking to
find him,” Gottlieb said in a court document.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  