-- 
New Ape-Like Species May Be a Human Ancestor, Fossils From Africa Suggest

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-08T15:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/new-ape-like-species-may-be-a-human-ancestor-fossils-from-africa-suggest.html
The fossil of a 1.98 million-year-
old, human-like animal found in  South Africa  may be a direct
human ancestor and help explain how Homo sapiens evolved,
scientists said.  The brains, hands, feet, and pelvis of Australopithecus
sediba, found in the Malapa Cave outside Johannesburg, may
represent an intermediate stage between the Australopiths and
the human genus, Homo, according to five papers published online
by the journal  Science .  The Australopithecus family, which includes the Lucy
fossil, is what many scientists theorize evolved into the human
group Homo, the researchers said. That the group of human-like
features evolved together suggests that Au. sediba is related to
the human lineage, the researchers said.  Those four parts of the skeleton “really represent some of
the most critical areas for discussions of major events in human
evolution,” said Lee Berger, a study author and paleontologist
from the  University of the Witwatersrand  in Johannesburg.  The finding may mean that Au. sediba is the ancestor of
Homo erectus, which is the first species that archaeologists
agree was a member of the human family. If the South Africa
fossil is an ancestor, it may mean that Homo habilis, sometimes
known as the Handy Man, isn’t an ancestor of the human species,
said Derryl de Ruiter, another study author. There is very
little information on what Homo habilis’s skeleton looked like,
so it’s hard to determine where it fits in the evolutionary
tree, he said.  The shape of Au. sediba’s brain was inferred from the
inside of the skull, and the structure of the grapefruit-sized
organ looks human-like, one paper reported. The pelvis was
shorter and broader than other Australopiths, making it look
more like a modern human pelvis, a second paper said. If Au.
sediba is a human ancestor, that suggests that the pelvis
evolved before the brain got bigger.  The right hand of the adult female skeleton found looks
more human than ape-like, with a thumb that’s longer relative to
the fingers than ape hands, another paper reported. The ankle
joint in the foot was also human-like, and the foot may have had
an arch, as in a human foot. The heel was ape-like.  The hands and feet suggest that the animal both walked and
climbed trees, said Steven Churchill, another study author and
an anthropologist at  Duke University .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 