-- 
Nord Stream to Sap Revenue at Ukraine Gas Companies, Fitch Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-09-08T15:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/nord-stream-to-sap-revenue-at-ukraine-gas-companies-fitch-says.html
Russia ’s  Nord Stream  natural-gas
pipeline to  Europe , opened this week, will cut energy-company
revenue in countries bypassed by the link,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Ukrainian and Slovakian state energy providers will suffer
a decline in sales of about 20 percent from next year as they
earn less from gas transit, Fitch said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Russia, which supplies the European Union with a quarter of
its gas, has until now sent two-thirds of that volume through
Ukraine and Slovakia.  Nord Stream , the first direct link between
western Europe and Russia, is aimed at avoiding a repeat of the
gas-pricing disputes with Ukraine that disrupted shipments to
Europe twice since 2006.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, will benefit
from the “diversification of gas transportation routes,” Fitch
said in the statement. The Nord Stream pipeline runs under the
 Baltic Sea  and will be able to carry enough gas to supply 26
million European homes when it’s fully up and running next year.  In January 2009, Ukraine reached a 10-year gas supply deal
with Gazprom that the current government has called “unfavorable
and enslaving.” Ukraine’s state energy company NAK Naftogaz
Ukrainy is now seeking to revise the accord.  “In the light of the ongoing gas-price and volume talks
between Naftogaz and Gazprom, new disruptions to the supply of
gas similar to those experienced in 2006 and 2009 cannot be
fully ruled out,” Fitch said. “Securing an alternative gas
export route to western Europe may strengthen Gazprom’s
negotiating power with Naftogaz.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  