-- 
Novomatic, Slot-Machine Maker, Mulls Selling Rated Bonds Instead of IPO

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-08T11:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/novomatic-slot-machine-maker-mulls-selling-rated-bonds-instead-of-ipo.html
Novomatic AG, the world’s second-
largest maker of slot machines, may sell bonds instead of
holding an initial public offering after Austria’s benchmark
stock index lost a quarter of its value this year.  “A bond is an option,” Chief Executive Officer Franz Wohlfahrt, 52, said in an interview at the company’s
Gumpoldskirchen, Austria headquarters. “There are arguments
against an IPO.”  Novomatic’s founder, Johann Graf, may not be willing to
lose his influence over the pinball-machine importer that he
transformed into a maker of slot machines, network-gaming
algorithms and casino operator with businesses in more than a
dozen countries, Wohlfahrt said. The market plunge that has
erased a quarter of the Austrian Traded Index’s value this year
also makes a listing less appealing, Wohlfahrt said.  Graf has become one of Austria’s richest men with a net
worth of about 4 billion euros ($5.6 billion) according to
Vienna’s Trend magazine. He began Novomatic in 1980 and owns a
majority stake.  The company aims to raise funds because it sees a “huge
number of growth opportunities” in the global gaming market,
Wohlfahrt said, speaking Sept. 6.  Novomatic reported a 53 million-euro first-half profit as
revenue rose 17 percent to 655 million euros. Net income more
than doubled last year to 130 million euros and sales gained 12
percent to 1.18 billion euros.  Longing for Listings  “The market is longing for new listings and some kind of
new momentum,” Chief Financial Officer Peter Stein said from
the company’s seven-story office tower overlooking vineyards 20
kilometers (12 miles) south of Vienna. “The Austrian debt
market is limited in size, so the bonds that we’ve issued on a
corporate level have already been benchmark in size.”  Novomatic may try to tap international investors by seeking
a debt-agency rating on any new security, said Stein, adding
that the company expects to be rated as “investment grade.”  The gambling device maker, which exports 90 percent of the
machines it builds in Austria, has sold three outstanding
securities worth 500 million euros total since 2005. Novomatic
has less debt leverage than the world’s biggest slot maker,
Reno, Nevada-based  International Game Technology. (IGT)   The U.S. slot-machine maker had 2.2-times more debt than
earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization at the
end of December 2010. Novomatic’s outstanding bonds were almost
equal to the company’s Ebitda last year.  Novomatic had been planning to sell shares as early as this
month, Format magazine has reported, citing unidentified
bankers.  Revitalize Vienna  “A listing in Vienna certainly would invigorate the Vienna
exchange,” said Wolfgang Matejka, who manages 250 million euros
at Matejka & Partner Asset Management in Vienna. “Anyone
investing in the gaming sector would be bound to consider
Novomatic if it were listed.”  The Austrian company, which produces its machinery in a
56,000 square meter (602,780 square feet) factory, is pushing
its machine sales and casino operations into developing markets
as regulations tighten at home.  “We are seeing changes in tightening up regulations
because of player protection,” Wohlfahrt, 52, said. “In
Vienna, we are expecting regulation that is much tighter than
the existing one.”  About 64,000 slot machine players in Austria were
identified as “problem gamblers,” according to a May  medical
study  commissioned by ARGE, an addiction prevention institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  