-- 
Nuke Plants Need Quake Review Each Decade: Jaczko

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-08T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/nuclear-plants-need-quake-hazard-review-each-decade-jaczko-says.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission should for the first time require plant owners to
review earthquake hazards at least once a decade, Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said, backing a proposal opposed by industry.  “It’s a very sensible and reasonable thing to do,” Jaczko
said in an interview with Bloomberg Government yesterday at the
NRC’s headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland . “A 10-year review
doesn’t necessarily mean a 10-year modification to the plants.”  The NRC has no requirement for regular reviews of
earthquake and flood safety after nuclear plants go into
operation. A once-a-decade evaluation, with upgrades of
facilities as needed, was among proposals in an agency task-
force report. The commission requested the study to improve
safety at the 104 U.S. commercial reactors after an earthquake
and tsunami in March triggered meltdowns and radiation leaks at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan .  The NRC’s staff plans to recommend to the commission
tomorrow which proposals to weigh first.  Seeking to head off mandatory earthquake-safety reviews,
nuclear-plant owners called instead for dealing with new seismic
information “as it emerges,” in  comments  issued Sept. 6 by the
 Nuclear Energy Institute . The Washington-based industry group
proposed a three-phase approach to identify, assess and update
risks. Re-evaluations of seismic and flooding hazards “should
be considered as part of the NRC long-term activities,” the
trade organization said.  Industry self-evaluations are “fraught with potential
abuse,” Christopher Paine, director of the nuclear program for
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , an environmental group
based in  New York , said in an interview. The NRC needs to be
involved in a “more clear and rigorous way,” he said.  ’Further Evidence’  A 5.8-magnitude earthquake on Aug. 23 that had its
epicenter in  Virginia  “is just further evidence or
reinforcement” for the need to reduce risks to nuclear plants
from natural disasters, said Jaczko, 40.  The temblor knocked out off-site power at Dominion
Resources Inc.’s North Anna nuclear plant in central Virginia,
about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the epicenter. Company
officials plan to meet with NRC staff today at the agency’s
headquarters to discuss the earthquake’s impact on the plant,
which may have been subjected to ground movement that exceeded
its design limits. Dominion hasn’t said when it expects to re-
start the plant, which is still being examined by NRC
inspectors.  ‘Common-Sense’ Proposals  The NRC’s  task force  recommended requiring some older
reactors, such as those with a  General Electric Co. (GE)  design that
failed at Fukushima, to have sturdier vents to release pressure
to prevent a meltdown. The NRC should also require owners to
improve their ability to handle blackouts at  power plants , the
task force said.  “I really don’t see any of these recommendations that we
should not move forward on,” Jaczko said of the task-force
report. “They’re all common-sense recommendations.”  The commission decided to delay consideration of a task-
force proposal to establish a new regulatory approach to replace
what the staff advisers described as a “patchwork” of NRC
regulations that have evolved over decades. The NRC staff will
take 18 months to consider that recommendation, an approach
insisted on by Commissioner William Ostendorff.  “In an ideal world, it would be something we would do
right along with everything else,” Jaczko said.  Multiple Hazards  The NRC should “move quickly enough” to ensure that
plants are protected from multiple hazards, such as the Virginia
earthquake and  Hurricane Irene , which battered the eastern U.S.
less than two weeks later, Jaczko said.  “Any thought that we have eliminated accidents” is
“hopefully vanquished from anybody’s mind who works in this
industry,” he said.  Jaczko, a member of the five-member commission since 2005,
has led the agency since May 2009. He “was not forthcoming with
other commissioners about his intent to stop work” on the
government’s proposed nuclear-waste dump at Yucca Mountain in
 Nevada , NRC Inspector General Hubert T. Bell said in a June
report that also questioned Jaczko’s management style.  “Jaczko acknowledged that he sometimes loses his temper,”
Bell said in the report. He didn’t find that Jaczko broke any
laws.  Republicans have accused Jaczko, a former science adviser
to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , of halting the agency’s
work on the repository for political reasons, a charge the NRC
chairman has denied. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has led opposition
in  Washington  to the Yucca project.  Yucca Mountain  “We have a very narrow role in the whole Yucca Mountain
debate,” said Jaczko, who said he hasn’t taken a personal
position on the storage site. “Our job is ultimately to ensure
that whatever options are proposed meet safety and security
standards.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration sought in 2010 to
withdraw the license for the Yucca facility, a move thwarted by
a  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  licensing board later that year.
The full commission hasn’t issued a final decision on the waste
dump’s future.  The Yucca Mountain debate, the inspector general’s report
and Republican criticism of the chairman have exposed squabbling
within the commission.  ‘Not a Shy Person’  Jaczko told fellow commissioners to stay out of the
agency’s emergency-operations center at its headquarters in the
Washington suburbs shortly after the Fukushima plant was
crippled, NRC Commissioners Ostendorff, Kristine Svinicki and
William Magwood told a congressional committee on May 4.  “What I see is good, healthy debate among commissioners”
with different views, Jaczko said in the interview. “It’s
actually a very good thing for people to see that.”  “I’m certainly not a shy person, and I’m not somebody
without passion,” Jaczko said.  The NRC for years was an agency that drew limited public
attention, and that now has changed, Jaczko said.  “I don’t ever think scrutiny and attention is a bad
thing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  