-- 
Obama Will Propose Payroll Tax Cut for Small Businesses During Jobs Speech

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T14:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/obama-will-challenge-republicans-to-act-or-share-blame-in-address-tonight.html
President  Barack Obama  will propose
a reduction in payroll taxes for small businesses when he heads
to the home turf of his Republican congressional adversaries
tonight for a nationally televised address.  The payroll-tax reduction for employers will apply only to
small businesses, according to administration talking points
obtained by Bloomberg News. The president will also call for a
payroll tax cut for employees, as well as aid for the long-term
unemployed, funds for infrastructure spending and money for
laid-off teachers and veterans, according to the document.  Obama will pay for the additional spending by closing
corporate tax loopholes and raising taxes on high-income
earners. Next week, he’ll send a plan on how to offset the
spending to the special 12-member congressional committee
charged with coming up with $1.5 trillion in deficit cuts.  His address tonight to a rare joint session of Congress on
jobs, the top concern of voters as the 2012 election campaign
gets under way, will frame the government’s response as one of
either action or delay on reviving the economy. On taxes, the
signature Republican issue, he will cast himself as a champion
of relief for the middle class rather than for the wealthy.  Obama will propose a more than $300 billion stimulus plan
in the Republican-controlled House’s chamber as job growth
stalls and the unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent. His
job-approval ratings are scraping new lows as public doubts
about his stewardship of the economy rise.  ‘Difficult Summer’  “The president has had a difficult summer,” said
Democratic political consultant Tad Devine, a senior strategist
for the Al Gore and John Kerry presidential campaigns. “All of
the polling is heading in the wrong direction. He needs a
circuit breaker.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today the American
Jobs Act would be a White House-written bill that will be
introduced in Congress “early next week.” He said he didn’t
know immediately who would file the measure on behalf of the
administration. The bill will contain sections to boost the
economy and jobs and include “the mechanism to pay for it,”
Carney said.  Republican Resistance  White House officials anticipate that congressional
Republicans will resist much of the president’s jobs package,
which also includes money to build roads and renovate schools,
and direct aid to state and local governments to stem layoffs of
teachers and emergency workers. They expect the tax-cut
proposals to have the best chance of passage.  The speech will offer Obama a chance to both make a case to
the public for his proposals and prepare the way to blame
Republicans for inaction.  “He can later say they weren’t passed because of
obstruction,” Devine said. “That’s an easy case for people to
understand. You’ve got to put the benchmark down so they can
remember it.”  Republican leaders criticized early reports of the jobs
plan, saying it resembled Obama’s $830 billion economic-stimulus
package of 2009. That legislation also combined tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and aid to state and local governments,
and Republicans say it didn’t work.  “If  government spending  were the answer, we’d be in the
middle of a boom by now,” said Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky . “We’ve been on a spending spree for the
last two years.”  Republican Plan  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  laid out an
economic-recovery proposal in a Sept. 6 speech that included
many ideas favored by his party: a reduction in U.S. corporate
taxes, fewer federal regulations, opposition to the president’s
health-care overhaul, and the passage of new trade agreements.  Still, in the run-up to the speech Obama and his aides laid
the groundwork for their case that Republicans are also
accountable for the economy, arguing that the measures he will
offer have had bipartisan support in the past. “The only reason
some of these people may not support it now is because of the
politics that’s going on,” White House Chief of Staff  William
Daley  said on “Good Morning America.”  Carney predicted yesterday that members of Congress would
“get an earful” from constituents if they don’t act on the
package before the lawmakers’ end-of-year recess. He said today
that he was “pretty sure” Obama would be consulting lawmakers,
whom he didn’t identify, by telephone before tonight’s speech.  Shared Responsibility  The decision to deliver the address to a joint session
underscores the shared responsibility for the economy held by
congressional Republicans, whose standing in opinion polls is
lower than Obama’s. The cutaway video of Republican lawmakers’
reactions during the speech is likely to provide hints of
tension, and the air of confrontation adds drama to the event.  Presidents traditionally reserve the forum for State of the
Union addresses and for national crises. Besides his annual
State of the Union speeches and an address delivered just after
he took office, Obama spoke to a joint session only once before,
in September 2009, when he was prodding lawmakers to act on his
proposal to revamp U.S. health insurance.  A centerpiece of his new jobs plan is extending a temporary
two-percentage-point cut in the portion of payroll taxes paid by
workers that’s set to expire on Dec. 31. Obama has signaled he
will challenge Republicans to show the same commitment to
preserving a tax reduction that benefits middle-class families
as they have to ones that go to higher-income households.  “You say you’re the party of tax cuts?” Obama said in a
Sept. 5 speech in  Detroit . “Well then, prove you’ll fight just
as hard for tax cuts for middle-class families as you do for  oil
companies  and the most affluent Americans.”  Cantor Open  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor yesterday left open the
possibility he might accept Obama’s proposal to maintain the
payroll-tax cut.  “It is something I supported in the past” and “will be
part of the discussions ongoing,” the Virginia Republican told
reporters in  Washington .  Other Republicans expressed reservations.  Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions , the top Republican on the
Senate Budget Committee, said extending the payroll-tax cut
would be “a difficult thing” because “you don’t pay it if
you’re not working.”  Public opinion of Obama as well as Congress has plummeted
to new lows since a partisan fight in July and August over
raising the government’s debt limit that took the country to the
edge of default.  Falling Poll Numbers  Obama’s monthly job-approval rating in a Gallup Poll
dropped to the lowest of his presidency, with 41 percent of U.S.
adults  saying  they approved of his overall performance.  Concern over the economy also has increased as growth
weakened during the first half of the year to its slowest pace
since the recovery began, and market pessimism has risen over
the European debt crisis. In August, U.S. employers added no new
net jobs, the worst monthly results for payroll growth since
September 2010.  Recent signs of economic weakness have led private
economists to raise forecasts for the  unemployment rate  next
year. The median forecast for unemployment during next year’s
fourth quarter, when the presidential election will be held, is
8.5 percent, according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Aug. 2 through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  Credit Downgrade  After partisan disputes dragged out negotiations over the
debt limit,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s credit rating
to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The rating firm said the government
is becoming “less stable, less effective and less
predictable.”  Even so, the government’s borrowing costs fell to record
lows as Treasuries rallied. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have affirmed their top rankings on the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  