-- 
Obama to Seek New Payroll Tax Cut for Small Businesses

-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-08T16:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/obama-seeks-payroll-tax-cut-for-small-businesses-administration-memo-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will propose
cutting payroll taxes for small businesses as part of a more
than $300 billion plan to re-ignite the economy and spur hiring,
according to an administration memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  The business tax cut will be part of a package of measures
Obama will lay out in a speech to Congress tonight, along with
assistance for the long-term unemployed, spending for building
roads and bridges and repairing schools, and aid to states to
keep teachers and emergency workers on the job.  Obama’s advisers also have discussed seeking a deeper cut
in the payroll tax for workers, to three percentage points from
the temporary two-point cut in effect now, according to a person
familiar with the discussions.  Obama would pay for the additional spending by closing
corporate tax loopholes and raising taxes on high-income
earners. Next week, he’ll send a plan on how to offset the
spending to the special 12-member congressional committee
charged with coming up with $1.5 trillion in deficit cuts.  With his address tonight to a rare joint session of
Congress on jobs, the top concern of voters as the 2012 election
campaign gets under way, Obama is seeking to frame choices for
voters as much as present a plan for lawmakers.  Republican Resistance  He’ll be proposing his latest stimulus plan in the House
chamber, where the Republican majority has signaled opposition
to new spending. As job growth has stalled and the unemployment
rate hovers above 9 percent, Obama’s job-approval ratings are
scraping new lows as public doubts about his stewardship of the
economy rise.  “The president has had a difficult summer,” said
Democratic political consultant Tad Devine, a senior strategist
for the Al Gore and John Kerry presidential campaigns. “All of
the polling is heading in the wrong direction. He needs a
circuit breaker.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said earlier today the
legislation incorporating both economic growth and job-creation
sections, along with plans on how to pay for the package, would
be sent to Congress early next week. He said he didn’t know
immediately who would file the measure on behalf of the
administration.  Waiting for Reaction  White House officials say they expect congressional
Republicans to resist much of the president’s jobs package.  House Speaker  John Boehner  was noncommittal about whether
Republicans would support the proposals previewed so far,
including an extension of jobless benefits set to expire at the
end of the year.  Republicans will “listen and wait for what the president
has to outline,” Boehner told reporters after a meeting with
members of his party’s caucus. “I am going to be looking for
where is the common ground.”  Obama’s advisers expect the tax-cut proposals to have the
best chance of passage. The emphasis on payroll tax reductions
reflects the administration’s concern over  consumer spending ,
which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  The president has repeatedly called for an extension of the
cut in the employee portion of the tax. Without the extension,
the tax, which funds Social Security, would return to 6.2
percent from 4.2 percent for employees. Employers pay 6.2
percent. Cutting it by an additional percentage point for
employees would increase the cost of the tax cut from $120
billion to $180 billion over one year.  Hiring Incentive  Obama also will propose trimming the tax for small
businesses to encourage hiring, according to the administration
memo. The amount of the cut or details about what entities it
would apply to weren’t specified.  There is no commonly accepted definition of “small
business” across the government and especially in  tax policy .
Sometimes, the term is used to mean all companies that don’t pay
the corporate income tax.  Another definition, used by Obama in a small-business
capital gains exclusion proposal, excludes some industries.  House Republicans , who are considering a 20 percent
deduction for small business, are discussing setting the
threshold at 500 employees. For contracting purposes, the  Small
Business Administration  has definitions that rely on revenue and
employee thresholds, depending on the industry.  Wider Cuts  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  said an employer-side payroll
tax cut for small businesses only would be a mistake.  “If he wants to really create jobs, he ought to do it
across the board,” said Hatch, the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax policy.  Hatch said he wasn’t sure whether a similar proposal passed
last year had worked. That law, which effectively eliminated the
employer-side payroll tax for hiring long-term unemployed
workers, was written by Hatch and Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York .  The speech will offer Obama a chance to both make a case to
the public for his proposals and prepare the way to blame
Republicans for inaction.  “He can later say they weren’t passed because of
obstruction,” Devine said. “That’s an easy case for people to
understand.”  In the run-up to the speech Obama and his aides laid the
groundwork for their case that Republicans are also accountable
for the economy, arguing that the measures he will offer have
had bipartisan support in the past. “The only reason some of
these people may not support it now is because of the politics
that’s going on,” White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said
on “Good Morning America.”  ‘An Earful’  Carney predicted yesterday that members of Congress would
“get an earful” from constituents if they don’t act on the
package before the lawmakers’ end-of-year recess. He said today
he was “pretty sure” Obama would be consulting lawmakers, whom
he didn’t identify, by telephone before tonight’s speech.  Republican leaders criticized early reports of the jobs
plan, saying it resembled Obama’s $830 billion economic-stimulus
package of 2009. That legislation also combined tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and aid to state and local governments,
and Republicans say it didn’t work.  “If  government spending  were the answer, we’d be in the
middle of a boom by now,” said Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky . “We’ve been on a spending spree for the
last two years.”  Cantor Open  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor yesterday left open the
possibility he might accept Obama’s proposal to maintain the
payroll-tax cut.  “It is something I supported in the past” and “will be
part of the discussions ongoing,” the Virginia Republican told
reporters in  Washington .  Other Republicans expressed reservations.  Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions , the top Republican on the
Senate Budget Committee, said extending the payroll-tax cut
would be “a difficult thing” because “you don’t pay it if
you’re not working.”  U.S. stocks fell, after the biggest gain in two weeks for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as investors waited for Obama
to discuss the economy. Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields toward a record low, as investors sought refuge on
concern U.S. and European officials aren’t moving fast enough to
relieve stress in global financial markets.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.3 percent to 1,194.61 at 12:02 p.m.
in New York. Yields on 10-year notes fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.01 percent at 11:54 a.m. in New
York, after earlier dropping seven basis points, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Poll Numbers Falling  Public opinion of Obama as well as Congress has plummeted
to new lows since a partisan fight in July and August over
raising the government’s debt limit that took the country to the
edge of default.  Obama’s monthly job-approval rating in a Gallup Poll
dropped to the lowest of his presidency, with 41 percent of U.S.
adults  saying  they approved of his overall performance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net 
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  