-- 
Obama Channels Economic Frustration With $447 Billion Plan to Boost Jobs

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-09T09:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/obama-proposes-cutting-payroll-taxes-in-half.html
President  Barack Obama  channeled the
national frustration with the economy that threatens his
political standing and challenged the  U.S. Congress  to pass a
$447 billion jobs plan tilted heavily toward the Republican
prescription of tax cuts.  The president, speaking before a joint session of Congress,
demanded six times that lawmakers act “right away” on a plan
that would boost spending on infrastructure, stem teacher
layoffs and cut in half the payroll taxes paid by workers and
small business owners.  “The question is whether, in the face of an ongoing
national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually
do something to help the economy,” Obama told the lawmakers
yesterday.  Job growth stalled last month and the  unemployment rate  has
hovered at or above 9 percent for more than two years. The
president’s job-approval ratings are falling to new lows as
public doubts about his stewardship of the economy rise. Public
opinion of Congress has dropped even lower.  Tax cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the
president’s latest plan to turn the economy around, and
administration officials said they believe that will have the
greatest appeal to Republicans in Congress. The president dared
his adversaries to oppose a provision that would extend and
deepen payroll tax cuts due to expire Dec. 31.  “I know some of you have sworn oaths to never raise any
taxes on anyone for as long as you live,” he said. “Now is not
the time to carve out an exception and raise middle-class taxes,
which is why you should pass this bill right away.”  Common Ground  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican
who has been a frequent critic of Obama, said there may be areas
of common ground, such as tax reductions for small businesses.  “That’s something we Republicans have been advocating for
quite some time now,” Cantor said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. He also indicated Republicans may support extending
the payroll tax for workers.  Still, some other Republicans were hesitant.  “I am not sure that a payroll tax holiday is really going
to spur the economy,” said Representative Bill Huizenga, a
Michigan Republican. He added that “a better tax break would be
something that would spur along innovation and wealth
generation” and creates “ancillary jobs.”  The 2012 presidential election and the political
consequences of public blame for inaction on joblessness formed
an undercurrent in the speech. Even as Obama warned against
delay, he noted “the next election is 14 months away.” He said
he would take his case for passage of the bill “to every corner
of the country.”  On the Road  He speaks today in Richmond,  Virginia , in Cantor’s
congressional district. On Sept. 13 he’s scheduled to travel to
Columbus,  Ohio .  Hours before Obama addressed Congress and a national
television audience, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said policy makers will discuss at their next meeting this month
the tools they could use “to promote a stronger economic
recovery in the context of  price stability .” In a speech to
economists in  Minneapolis , Bernanke stopped short of signaling
what he believes is the central bank’s best option to aid the
economy.  Treasuries and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
declined after Obama detailed his plan. Ten-year yields climbed
two basis points to 1.99 percent as of 10:35 a.m. in  London . S&P
500 futures fell 0.3 percent.  Covering the Cost  Obama stressed that he would pay for the entire jobs
package with offsetting spending cuts and increases in  tax
revenue  over the next decade. He said he would announce the
offsets by Sept. 19.  Obama didn’t mention the total cost in his televised
address. Nor did he utter the word “stimulus,” though
Republican lawmakers were quick to draw comparisons with the
$825 billion spending and tax-cut program of 2009 that has
become unpopular with voters.  Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , the third-
ranking Republican in the House, dubbed the new plan “Stimulus
2.0.”  The package includes spending favored by Democratic
constituencies. It would include a $105 billion infrastructure
proposal for school modernization, transportation projects and
rehabilitation of vacant properties. Most of the economic impact
from the infrastructure spending would be next year though some
of it would come in 2013, according to an administration
official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  ‘Make a Difference’  “Ultimately, our recovery will be driven not by
 Washington , but by our businesses and workers,” the president
said. “But we can help. We can make a difference.”  The administration estimated that $35 billion it’s seeking
in direct aid to state and local governments to stem layoffs of
educators and emergency personnel would save the jobs of 280,000
teachers, according to a White House fact sheet.  The centerpiece of the plan is the cuts in payroll taxes,
which cover the first $106,800 in earnings and are evenly split
between employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion
paid by workers next year to 3.1 percent from 6.2 percent. The
rate had been cut 2 percentage points under the terms of a tax
deal reached last year, and that reduction is set to expire Dec.
31.  The White House also would use temporary  payroll tax 
reductions next year to offer incentives for new hiring and
assist small businesses.  Helping Smaller Firms  Businesses would get the same 3.1-point reduction on taxes
they pay on the first $5 million of their payroll, a limit that
skews the benefit toward smaller firms. The full 6.2 percent
employer contribution would be waived on the first $50 million
net increase in a company’s payroll.  The proposal includes additional tax credits for hiring
veterans and workers who have been unemployed more than six
months. The administration also wants to make it illegal for
employers to discriminate against applicants who are unemployed.  The fiscal boost from the jobs package next year would be
larger than in the first year of the 2009 economic stimulus,
said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  Zandi, who was briefed on the plan before the president’s
speech, forecast that passage of the entire jobs package would
add 2 percentage points to economic growth next year and bring
down the unemployment rate by 1 percentage point compared with
current policy, under which a temporary payroll tax cut and
extended  unemployment benefits  both expire Dec. 31.  Long-Term Unemployed  In a step aimed at the long-term jobless, Obama proposed
granting states authority to pay unemployment benefits to people
who have been out of work for more than six months while they
train for jobs at businesses at no cost to the employer for up
to eight weeks.  States also would be able to use unemployment-insurance
funds to make up for wages lost by workers whose hours were cut
back in lieu of a layoff and for those 50 and older who took a
lower-paying job after a layoff.  The White House wants to incorporate the changes in the
unemployment-insurance program along with a one-year
continuation of extended unemployment benefits. The extended
benefits cover jobless workers for up to 99 weeks.  The administration considered and rejected a temporary
repatriation holiday that would allow companies to return
overseas profits without paying corporate income taxes on the
proceeds. The White House concluded that it wouldn’t have as
great an impact on job growth as the new hiring incentives, the
administration official said.  The official said the small businesses targeted by the tax
incentives confront credit constraints and often have sustained
declines in the value of the collateral they can use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  