-- 
OECD Cuts Growth Forecasts for U.S., Japan

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/oecd-cuts-growth-forecasts-for-u-s-japan.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development slashed its growth forecasts for the
U.S. and Japan and said central banks around the world should be
ready to ease monetary policy if economies weaken further.  The U.S. will grow 1.1 percent in the third quarter and 0.4
percent in the fourth, instead of the 2.9 percent and 3 percent
predicted in May, the OECD said today in its interim economic
assessment. Japan will expand 4.1 percent in the third quarter
before stalling in the fourth, and the three biggest euro
economies will grow 1.4 percent and then shrink 0.4 percent.  The predictions highlight the global slowdown the day that
President Barack Obama will set out plans to revive growth in
the world’s largest economy and the European Central Bank and
the Bank of England conduct monthly policy meetings. Group of
Seven finance ministers will also discuss ways to revive growth
when they gather tomorrow in Marseille, France.  “Policy rates in most OECD economies should be kept on
hold,” the OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the
report. If signs of economic weakness emerge, “rates should be
lowered where there is scope. Where there is not such scope,
other measures could include further central bank interventions
in securities markets, even at diminishing returns, and strong
commitments to keep interest rates low,” he said.  Margins of Error  The OECD cautioned that the uncertainty around its
forecasts is “unusually large,” particularly for Japan and the
U.S. The various forecasts had margins of error that ranged from
1.1 percentage points to 2.7 points.  Central banks around the world are refocusing on supporting
growth. Yesterday the Bank of Canada said there is a
“diminished” need for it to raise interest rates, Sweden’s
Riksbank abandoned a planned increase and the Reserve Bank of
Australia signaled it is prepared to keep rates on hold.  Fears of a renewed global recession have caused stocks to
tumble around the world and forced Japan and Switzerland to
intervene to stop their currencies appreciating as investors
seek havens.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet will probably resist
calls to cut the benchmark interest rate today and may opt
instead to increase the supply of cash to euro-area banks as the
region’s debt crisis worsens, a Bloomberg News survey indicated.
Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt will keep the key rate at 1.5
percent, according to all 57 economists in the Bloomberg survey
said.  U.K. Rates  Bank of England policy makers, meanwhile, may maintain the
U.K.’s benchmark interest rate at a record low, according to all
57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate poll shows
the central bank will keep its bond buying plan unchanged.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. say policy makers
will resume asset purchases by November.  The OECD favors monetary stimulus at a time when most
developed countries are fighting to limit their levels of public
debt.  “The space for fiscal policy to react depends on the state
of public finances, the ease at which government debt can be
funded” and the underlying strength of the economy, the OECD
said. “Countries with limited fiscal space have restricted
scope for fiscal easing and some have to tighten amid cyclical
weakness,” it added.  The Germany economy will expand 2.6 percent in the third
quarter and shrink 1.4 percent in the fourth, the OECD predicts.
Italy will shrink 0.1 percent in the three months through
September and grow 0.1 percent in the final three months, the
forecasts showed.  The U.K. will grow 0.4 percent and 0.3 percent, while
France will expand 0.9 percent and 0.4 percent. Canada’s
expansion will be 1 percent and 1.9 percent in the two quarters,
the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 stirling1@bloomberg.net . 