-- 
Ohio State Won’t Decide on Gymnast Hamm Until Assault Case is Completed

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-08T17:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ohio-state-won-t-decide-on-gymnast-hamm-until-assault-case-is-completed.html
Ohio State University’s  athletic
department won’t discipline assistant gymnastics coach and U.S.
Olympic gold medal winner  Paul Hamm , who is accused of hitting a
cab driver and not paying his fare, until the case is completed.  Hamm, 28, who in 2004 became the first American man to win
the all-around gymnastics Olympics gold medal, was arrested
around 2 a.m. on Sept. 3 after police found him sitting in a
front yard in the Columbus, Ohio, suburb of Upper Arlington. The
driver told police that Hamm refused to pay a $23 fare, punched
him and damaged a window in his cab.  Hamm told police he had “maybe eight drinks,” and said
that “I’m going to kill you guys” as they handcuffed him,
according to a police video.  The incident comes four months after Ohio State football
coach  Jim Tressel  resigned amid allegations that he knew that
players -- including his starting quarterback -- were trading or
selling uniforms and other memorabilia to the owner of a tattoo
parlor and failed to report it to the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  until the season ended.  Six football players were suspended in the scandal and the
quarterback, Terrelle Pryor, left college and joined the
 National Football League ’s Oakland Raiders. Tressel had won a
national championship at the school and compiled a 106-22 record
there over 10 years.  Ohio State issued a statement today that said it was aware
of the arrest of Hamm, and “the department will allow due
process and then make a determination on a course of action.”  Hamm won the Olympic gold medal in  Athens  after a protest
from South Korean gymnast Yang Tae Young to the Court of
Arbitration of Sport was
rejected. Yang said a scoring error by the judges that gave Hamm
the lead should have been reversed after the games.  Hamm, who graduated from Ohio State magna cum laude with a
degree in accounting in 2007, is in his first year as a  coach 
with the school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  