-- 
Tokyo Station Makeover May Lure Tourists to Financial Area

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-09-09T07:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tokyo-station-makeover-aims-to-lure-tourists-to-hotel-financial-district.html
East Japan Railway Co. (9020) ’s 50 billion
yen ($645 million) re-fit of  Tokyo  Station may help transform
the financial district of Japan’s capital into a tourist
destination, said President Satoshi Seino.  “We want to make it a symbol of Tokyo,” he said in a
Sept. 7 interview. “We want people to come and see it and stay
in the hotel.” He declined to comment on sales forecasts.  Work on the station in Tokyo’s Marunouchi district, most of
which is due to be completed in June, includes the restoration
of rooftop domes destroyed in World War II and the construction
of a plaza that will be lit up at night. The enlarged 150-room
 station hotel  and a gallery will open in October 2012.  JR East,  Japan ’s largest train operator, also intends to
open a 13-story building with 13,800 square meters (148,500
square feet) of retail space at the station in August to help
offset a slowdown in travel growth caused by Japan’s shrinking
population. The Tokyo-based company plans to increase the share
of revenue it gets from shops, hotels and office buildings to
almost 40 percent by fiscal 2018 from 30 percent now, Seino
said.  “The number of people living in Tokyo is still
increasing,” he said. “We want to tap into that demand.”  Tokyo Developments  JR East is also constructing a new building at Tokyo’s
 Shinjuku station , the nation’s busiest. It has already completed
developments at other stations in the city, including Shinagawa.  Tokyo station handled an average of 384,000 passengers a
day in the year ended March 2010, making it the capital’s
 fourth-busiest  terminus, according to  JR East . The Marunouchi
district houses offices for companies including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. and Nippon
Life Insurance Co., Japan’s largest life insurer.  JR East rose 0.6 percent to 4,725 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo as the Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.6
percent. The railway operator has dropped 11 percent this year.  The company’s bullet-train services to northern Japan have
resumed service following the March 11 earthquake, which damaged
tracks, bridges and tunnels. The company deployed 8,500
engineers and spent seven weeks undertaking repair work.  Sales from railway operations rebounded last month to year-
earlier levels for the first time since the earthquake. They
slid  2.4 percent  in July, the fifth straight month of declines.  The company expects sales across all of it businesses to
decline 1.5 percent this fiscal year to 2.5 trillion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  