-- 
Tombini Signals More Brazil Interest Rate Cuts on Lengthy Global Slowdown

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-08T16:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tombini-signals-more-brazil-interest-rate-cuts-on-lengthy-global-slowdown.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled that
it may cut borrowing costs further on expectations the global
economic slowdown will help inflation slow in line with its
target next year, according to the minutes of its last meeting.  Policy makers cut the benchmark Selic target rate a half
point to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after raising it at their
previous five meetings this year. The move surprised all 62
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who expected rates to be left
unchanged.  “To mitigate in a timely way the effects coming from a
more restrictive global environment, moderate adjustments in the
basic rate are consistent with inflation converging to the
target in 2012,” the bank said in its minutes published today.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in the
minutes that while the current global economic slowdown may be
less acute than the crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, it might be more prolonged. As
such, the global environment should remain dis-inflationary. The
bank will also be helped in its inflation-fighting mission by
government efforts to contain spending, he said.  “It seems to indicate that there will be more cuts, that
this was not a one-off adjustment,” said  Alberto Ramos , a
senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 New York . “There’s an element of wishful thinking. Inflation
expectations have not improved. The recent activity prints show
that activity is still pretty solid.”  Market Reaction  Traders are betting on a percentage-point rate cut this
year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on  interest rate 
futures.  Yields on futures contracts maturing before July 2013 rose.
The contacts due January 2013 climbed 10 basis points to 10.69
percent at 12:08 p.m. New York time after the minutes showed the
central bank expects the impact of the global slowdown to be
only one-quarter as severe as in 2008.  “An acceleration in the pace of Selic cuts vanished from
the radar,” said Marcelo Gazzano, an economist with RBS
Securities in  Sao Paulo .  Barclays Plc. cut its forecast for the year-end interest
rate to 11 percent after the minutes were published, from a
forecast of 12.5 percent before the August policy meeting. The
central bank will cut rates half a point at each of its
remaining two policy meetings this year, Marcelo Salomon, chief
economist for Brazil at Barclays in New York said in an e-mailed
report.  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, also cut his year-end interest rate forecast to
11 percent.  Inflation Accelerates  Consumer prices rose 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The bank today in its minutes repeated its forecast that
the annual inflation will begin to slow in the third quarter,
though acknowledged that consumer demand remains “robust.”  World stock markets lost $5 trillion between the central
bank’s July and August policy meetings, as  Europe  grappled with
a sovereign debt crisis and global growth showed signs of
slowing. Brazil’s surprise cut following  Turkey ’s decision to
bring its benchmark rate to a record low 5.75 percent after an
unscheduled meeting Aug. 4.  Mexico  has also signaled that it may
lower borrowing costs.  Analysts from banks including Nomura Holdings Inc. said
Tombini may have yielded to political pressure after President
 Dilma Rousseff  called for lower rates a day before the meeting
and the government raised by 10 billion reais its  budget surplus 
before interest payments target this year.  Labor Market  Even as policy makers anticipate slower world growth and
declining demand for Brazil’s commodities exports, a tight labor
market and expanding continue to support strong consumer demand.  Unemployment in July fell to 6 percent, its lowest level
this year, while credit expanded at a 20 percent annual pace.
Average real wages rose 4 percent from a year earlier, and
workers in the automotive industry have won 20 percent wage
increases in recent weeks.  The world’s second-largest emerging market after  China  is
showing some signs of slowing, though economists are divided on
what impact the global slowdown will have. Industrial production
in July fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier, while the bank’s
economic activity index declined in June for the first time
since 2008.  Economists in a Sept. 2 central bank survey cut their 2011
growth forecast for a fifth straight week, to 3.67 percent,
after a 7.5 percent expansion last year that was the fastest in
more than two decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 