-- 
London Entrepreneur Sees Gold Mine in Unused Subway Stations

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-09-08T07:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/london-entrepreneur-sees-a-gold-mine-in-developing-unused-subway-stations.html
A former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
executive aims to turn 26 unused  London  subway stations and bomb
shelters into shops and tourist attractions after raising 200
million pounds ($319 million) from investors.  Ajit Chambers, chief executive officer of  Old London
Underground Co. , met Mayor  Boris Johnson  yesterday to discuss
the plan. Chambers agreed to provide more information on
potential sites, costs and the work needed to convert the
stations, according to an e-mail from Johnson’s office.  “We’ve set up the construction teams, the finance
availability and the investment to renovate underground space,”
Chambers said in an interview. He declined to identify the
investors.  Old London Underground plans to open the first site,
Brompton Road station, in time for the 2012  Olympic Games  in
east London, Chambers said. The station, owned by the Ministry
of Defence, has been shuttered since the mid-1950s after serving
as the headquarters of southern  England ’s anti-aircraft defenses
during World War II.  Each station would cost 17 million pounds to 34 million
pounds to renovate and they would all be opened within five
years, according to Chambers. That’s if he can convince Johnson
that developing empty parts of the London Underground network,
also known as the Tube, won’t come at public expense.  ‘Safety Challenges’  Transport for London, the Tube’s operator, “has already
looked closely at these proposals and highlighted the huge
safety challenges and massive potential costs they involve,”
the mayor’s office said. Johnson’s priority is “the upgrade of
the Tube and delivering the passenger improvements that
Londoners require.”  Chambers, 38, said he could generate more than 300 million
pounds in annual revenue from turning the derelict sites into
restaurants, gyms, museums and art galleries.  At the Brompton Road station he aims to open a members club
on the roof of the above-ground portion and house the London
Fire Brigade museum in its tunnels and shafts, he said in the
interview inside the disused property.  The  London Underground  is the world’s oldest subterranean
rail network, according to  Transport for London . Brompton Road
station opened in 1906 to ferry passengers along the Piccadilly
Line until its temporary closure during World War II, when it
was used as a war room.  Interrogation Room  Rudolf Hess,  Adolf Hitler ’s deputy, was interrogated there
by the Defence Ministry after he crash-landed his plane in
 Scotland  in 1941 seeking to broker a peace deal, said Glenn
Purkis, a Ministry of Defence employee who manages offices above
the defunct station.  The station, nestled between the affluent neighborhoods of
Knightsbridge and South Kensington, reopened after the war
before its use as a station ceased in 1955, Purkis said.  Aldwych in central London’s theater district would be among
the next stations to be developed, according to Chambers. The
stop, which was used as a bomb shelter during both world wars,
has been closed since 1994.  Chambers founded Old London Underground in 2009. He said
his plan will unlock the value of historic underground real
estate that had largely been forgotten.  “The investors are helping the U.K. put health and safety
into these spaces and in return they get to make money,”
Chambers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 