-- 
U.K. House Prices Rise as Cash Buyers Boost Demand for London Properties

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/london-leads-house-prices-to-three-month-high-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose to a three-
month high in August as cash-rich buyers in  London  boosted
demand in the capital, Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property
Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and Wales gained 0.3
percent from July, a second monthly increase, to 219,078 pounds
($352,000), the groups estimated in an e-mailed report in London
today. Values are down 2.2 percent from a year earlier.  While falling consumer confidence and the biggest squeeze
on Britons’ spending power since the 1970s is undermining
housing demand, prices are being supported by a lack of property
supply and record low borrowing costs. The  Bank of England  kept
its key interest rate at 0.5 percent yesterday.  “With increasing confidence that  interest rates  will
remain lower for longer, it is clear that opportunities are
emerging for buyers,” Acadametrics Chairman Peter Williams
said. Still, “we would not suggest anything other than a slow
recovery and it is quite clear that lenders will remain
cautious. Much now turns on the overall state of the economy.”  Out of the 10 regions in England and  Wales  tracked by
Acadametrics, all apart from London saw their average values
decline in the past three months compared with a year earlier.
Values in the capital rebounded 1.6 percent in July, the month
with the latest available regional data, after posting three
months of declines.  ‘Cash Buyers’  “Prices in London rose most, thanks to all the cash buyers
pushing up demand,” Richard Sexton, a director at property-
appraisal business  e.surv Ltd. , part of LSL, said in the report.
“People who already own property are driving these sales.
Mortgage finance is very cheap at the moment -- it’s just hard
to get if you don’t have a hefty deposit.”  The U.K. housing market may struggle to gain momentum as
the economic recovery shows signs of slowing and inflation
outpaces growth in wages, squeezing households’ finances. While
Acadametrics and LSL estimate that property transactions in
August rose 1.5 percent to 64,500 from the previous month, that
is about 40 percent below the long-term average, they said.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
their index of values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  