-- 
Monetary Stimulus Fuels Currency Volatility, RDQ Economics’s Ryding Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/monetary-stimulus-fuels-currency-volatility-rdq-economics-s-ryding-says.html
Currency volatility will remain
elevated until central banks around the world end stimulative
monetary policies, said  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in New York.  Ryding spoke at the Bloomberg Global Inflation Conference
in New York hosted by Bloomberg Link. He was on the panel with
Dean Curnutt, president of New York-based Macro Risk Advisors
LLC, and  James Rickards , senior managing director of Tangent
Capital Partners.  “As long as monetary policy in the U.S. and in  Europe  and
in the U.K. have got the spigots wide open, then you may take
turns in trying to do something on your currency, but in
absolute terms monetary policy is too easy in trying to fix what
is essentially a non-monetary policy,” Ryding said.  Central banks from the  Federal Reserve  to the  Bank of
England  have kept  interest rates  at record lows since the start
of the financial crisis. The Fed has purchased $2.35 trillion of
debt in an effort to stimulate the economy and the Bank of  Japan 
and Swiss National Bank have each intervened in the  currency
market  to try to curb their currencies’ appreciation.  These actions lead to increased volatility in the foreign
exchange market, making it riskier to invest, Ryding said.
Curnutt and Rickards joined Ryding in saying that gold is a
stable alternative.  Gold Role  “Gold has no risk, especially against inflation, and it
has no risk of devaluation,” Rickards said. “If you like money
you should have some gold.”  Implied volatility among currencies has averaged 14 since
September 2008 in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility
Index. The average for the five years before that was 9. Gold
rallied during the financial crisis and has increased 31 percent
this year.  The dollar has dropped 5 percent this year against its nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 0.2
percent and the Swiss franc has increased 3 percent.  “As we look at the actions of the  Swiss National Bank  this
week, you see again that volatility or risk just changes form,”
Curnutt said. “The SNB was very successful in moving the
currency, but they also tremendously damped the volatility.
Implied volatility on the Scandinavian currencies has actually
come up a lot.”  Franc Falls  The franc fell by a record against the euro on Sept. 6
after the SNB set a franc ceiling -- the first time such a limit
was set since 1978 --saying it would use “unlimited”
quantities of cash to cap the increase. The franc had
appreciated 13 percent this year against the euro before the
ceiling was set.  The currencies of Norway and  Sweden  have gained the most
this week against the other developed nations. The Norwegian
krone added 1.9 percent and Sweden’s krona appreciated 1.6
percent, according to BCWI.  Curnutt, Ryding and Rickards spoke in a panel discussion
titled “Currency Wars: Battle of the Weakest” at the
conference. Last year, six days after the Fed suggested at its
Sept. 21 meeting that it was ready to start buying bonds,
Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said governments were
engaging in a “currency war.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  