-- Monsanto May Win Appeal of French Corn Ban, Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-01-25T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/monsanto-may-win-appeal-of-french-gm-maize-ban-eu-court-says.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph of story published Sept. 8 to
say MON810 corn produces a pesticide.)  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and 10 other companies
may win a challenge against a French ban on the use of a strain
of genetically modified corn if the French government can’t show
it followed the correct procedures, the European Union’s highest
court said.  An EU nation must establish “the existence of a situation
which is likely to constitute a clear and serious risk to human
health,” the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg said in a ruling
today. Another condition is that the country inform the European
Commission and other EU countries of its measures.  The bloc’s 27 nations are split over the safety of food
produced from genetically modified crops. This is slowing the
process of winning EU permission to grow them and has prompted
complaints by the U.S. and other trade partners.  The case was triggered when St. Louis-based Monsanto in
2007 sought to renew an authorization it had previously received
for its MON 810 corn, which produces a pesticide. The
commission, the EU’s executive agency, in  1998 authorized  the
use of the maize.  The safety of MON810 has been confirmed consistently during
the past 15 years, Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail statement. “French farmers should no longer
be denied the choice to use it.”  Emergency Measures  France  introduced emergency measures in 2007 that banned
the use of Monsanto’s product in the country. Two more orders
followed in 2008 that outlawed the planting of the maize seed.
The company, with the support of 10 others, challenged these
measures. France’s Conseil d’Etat, the country’s highest
administrative court, last year sought the EU tribunal’s
guidance on the legality of the measures.  The decision on the validity of the measure will be given
by the Conseil d’Etat and until then “the French emergency
measure stays valid and the prohibition to cultivate varieties
of genetically modified MON 810 maize remains in place on French
territory,” the French environment ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  France’s Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet
said in a statement that the court’s decision “doesn’t question
the concerns about environmental risks linked to the GM
cultivation.”  The case concerns a strain “which hasn’t been checked
according to new European requirements and for which
uncertainties remain as to its potential effect on the
environment,” the ministry  said .  Other countries with safeguard measures on MON 810 are
 Austria ,  Germany ,  Greece , Hungary and Luxembourg, said  Frederic
Vincent , a spokesman for the Brussels-based commission.  Further Action  The EU regulator will “carefully examine” the ruling and
its implications for member nations with such measures in place,
said Vincent. The commission will then decide whether further
action is needed, he said.  Separately, the EU’s top court on Sept. 6 ruled that honey
made close to Monsanto’s GM crops must get EU regulators’
approval before being sold in the region.  That ruling could “very likely” affect the import of
honey into the EU, Vincent said yesterday.  The cases are: C-58/10, Monsanto SAS, Monsanto Agriculture
France SAS, Monsanto International SARL, Monsanto Technology LLC
v Ministre de l’Agriculture et de la Peche; C-59/10, C-60/10,
C-61/10, C-62/10, C-63/10, C-64/10, C-65/10, C-66/10, C-67/10,
C-68/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  