-- 
Hayward to Spark Oil Fight in Iraqi ‘Last Great Frontier’

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-08T15:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tony-hayward-to-spark-oil-fight-in-iraqi-last-great-frontier-.html
Tony Hayward’s $2.1 billion deal for
oil assets in Iraq’s Kurdistan region may spark a battle for
resources from the area as its export prospects brighten.  Vallares Plc, an investment firm led by the ex- BP Plc (BP/)  chief
executive officer who left the company following the Gulf of
Mexico spill last year, announced plans yesterday to buy Genel
Energy International Ltd., an oil producer in Kurdistan. Hayward
said more assets will likely be acquired in the northern Iraqi
region, “one of the last great oil and gas frontiers.”  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  and  DNO International ASA (DNO) 
received the first payments for exports this year as the
explorers tapped Kurdistan’s estimated 20 to 25 billion barrels
of oil and gas, enough to meet U.S. demand for more than three
years. While post-Iraqi war tensions between the government in
Baghdad and Kurdish authorities deterred entry by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and BP Plc, improved relations and
a series of discoveries now may draw them in.  The deal “is part of a growing appetite for Kurdish
assets,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities.
“It’s a new beginning for the Kurdish oil industry. In a few
years there will probably be as many players there as in the
southern part of Iraq, where Exxon, Shell and BP are involved.
Most companies want to participate.”  Kurdistan has 20 billion to 25 billion barrels of “oil in
place” and the reserves are unlikely to exceed 40 billion to 45
billion barrels, Natural Resource Minister Ashti Hawrami said at
a conference in March last year.  Cheap Reserves  Genel, based in Turkey and set to trade in London as Genel
Energy Plc, has proved and probable reserves of 356 million
barrels, a figure Hayward said would rise quickly given the
exploration potential of licenses it holds. The cost of finding
and developing the oil is $2 to $4 a barrel, low compared with
other regions of the world, the executive said yesterday.  The deal values Genel’s reserves at $5.90 a barrel, the
second-lowest among oil companies on the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas
index after JKX Oil & Gas Plc, a producer with assets in the
former Soviet Union. Premier Oil Plc’s market capitalization
values its reserves at $9.35 a barrel, and Afren Plc, which also
has assets in Iraq, are valued at $19.20 a barrel.  Exports Resume  Iraq resumed oil exports from the region earlier this year,
ending a yearlong halt caused by a dispute over oil revenue
between Kurdish authorities and Baghdad.  Kurdistan , a region of
ethnic minorities extending into northwest Iran and southeastern
Turkey, attracted more than $10 billion in energy investments
from more than 40 companies from 17 countries, Kurdistan
Regional Government Prime Minister Barham Salih said on May 5.  “Clearly Kurdistan five years from now will be a far more
important part of the Iraqi oil industry,” said Bijan Mossavar- Rahmani, chairman of DNO, the first foreign company to start
pumping oil from Kurdistan since the 1970s. “The process of
smaller players being replaced by or partnering up with larger
players” has started as  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)  enter the region.  Hayward said today that the company would use a third of
the $2 billion in cash on acquisitions and another third to
develop existing fields.  Gulf Keystone and  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , another London-based
explorer with assets in the region, have gained at least 13
percent since the Genel deal was announced yesterday, more than
double the 5.4 percent gain in the FTSE oil benchmark.  Pipeline Access  Limited access to major pipelines, as well as the revenue-
sharing dispute, has hindered operations of exploration
companies. DNO was forced to sell its oil locally at lower
prices. Hess, the New York-based oil company, was barred from
competing in Iraq’s fourth licensing after signing a production-
sharing agreement with the Kurdish Regional Government in July.  The dispute between the regional and central government is
“far from being solved,” Samuel Ciszuk, the London-based
senior Middle East and North Africa energy analyst at IHS Global
Insight, said in a telephone interview.  DNO received the first payment of $103.7 million for
February and March oil exports as part of an interim system in
place until an oil law is passed in Iraq. Chief Executive
Officer Helge Eide said that the company is putting further
investments to increase production at its Tawke field on hold
until the payment situation has been clarified.  Disagreement between regions and sectarian groups delayed a
nationwide oil law in Iraq, even as officials push to increase
production after almost two decades of sanctions and war.  Oil Law  A draft oil law was submitted to Iraq’s federal parliament
last month. The Kurdistan Regional Government and the federal
government together will collect 83 percent of the export
revenue, and agreed in principle to split it equally, Vallares
said yesterday.  Jersey, U.K.-based Vallares raised more than $2 billion in
a London initial public offering in June. The investment vehicle
was set up by Hayward, Julian Metherell, Nathaniel Rothschild
and fellow financier Tom Daniel, who contributed 100 million
pounds between them. The deal will allow the four founders to
almost double their investment when it goes through as they
receive 6.67 percent share capital in the new company.  “Kurdistan has clearly made its way onto the maps of mid-
size and larger oil companies,” Ciszuk said. “You have an
increasing number of mid-size companies, but the majors are
waiting on the sidelines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  