-- 
OPEC to Raise Exports Most in Two Months, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-08T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/opec-to-raise-exports-most-in-two-months-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude shipments by the most in
almost two months as consuming-nation governments end emergency
stockpile releases, according to Oil Movements.  Exports will rise 1.3 percent to 22.65 million barrels a
day in the four weeks to Sept. 24, the Halifax, England-based
tanker-tracker said today in a report. That compares with 22.37
million a day in the month to Aug. 27. Shipments typically
decline at this time of year as refiners undertake seasonal
maintenance. The figures exclude Ecuador and Angola.  Refiners are seeking additional supplies as governments end
their program of reserve releases to make up for the halt of
exports from Libya, Oil Movements said. The  International Energy
Agency  won’t ask its members to tap their stockpiles again,
Maria van der Hoeven, the new head of the energy adviser to 28
industrialized nations, said in an interview in Paris yesterday.  “It’s not big but we are continuing to see a counter-
seasonal increase in shipments,” Roy Mason, Oil Movements’
founder, said by telephone. “The cut-off in IEA supplies must
be helping.”  Exports from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will be 1.6 percent higher at 17.36
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Sept. 24, according
to Oil Movements estimates.  Crude on board tankers will average 467.79 million barrels
in the four-week period, up 0.3 percent from 466.25 million in
the period to Aug. 27, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will meet next on Dec.
14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  