-- 
Morgan Stanley Sees ‘Concerted Easing’ From ECB, Fed, BOE at G-7 Meeting

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-08T08:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/morgan-stanley-sees-concerted-easing-from-ecb-fed-boe-at-g-7-meeting.html
The  European Central Bank , the
 Federal Reserve  and the Bank of  Japan  may take concerted action
to tackle weak growth and falling equity prices as soon as this
week’s Group of Seven meeting, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The negative feedback loop between weak growth and soggy
asset markets makes a coordinated monetary-policy easing move
more likely,” London-based economists Manoj Pradhan and Joachim Fels said yesterday in a note to investors. “The burden of
propping up markets and the economy” falls on central banks.  Central banks are facing calls to loosen monetary policy as
threats from Europe’s fiscal crisis and a weakening U.S.
recovery intensify and roil financial markets. The Fed, the ECB
and the Bank of  England  took concerted steps along with four
others in 2008 to slash interest rates as the fallout from the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. became evident.  Morgan Stanley said central banks can now reprise joint
action and roll out a mix of rate cuts and quantitative easing.  “Strategic complementarity -- the willingness and ability
to ease if others are doing the same -- makes it easier for
banks to act jointly rather than unilaterally,” the two
economists said in the e-mailed note.  The ECB and the Bank of England, which meet today, are
expected to keep their main policy rates on hold. At the same
time, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  faces calls for a rate
cut and the BOE may consider additional stimulus.  Policy makers from the Group of Seven nations will convene
for talks in the French city of Marseilles tomorrow, providing a
forum where joint action may be approved.  The Fed, the ECB, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England
will all participate in any coordinated move, according to
Morgan Stanley.  “The Fed could lower its  interest rate  on excess reserves
to zero and announce some balance sheet measures,” the
economists said. “The ECB could cut its deposit rate and/or the
refi rate and announce additional term funding for banks. The
Bank of Japan and the  Bank of England  could both respond with
additional quantitative-easing measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  