-- 
Orioles Top Yankees 5-4 in 10th Inning of Make-Up Game From April Rainout

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/orioles-top-yankees-5-4-in-10th-inning-of-make-up-game-from-april-rainout.html
Robert Andino hit a game-winning
single and five Baltimore relievers combined for six hitless
innings as the Orioles beat the New York Yankees 5-4 in 10
innings.  Andino, 27, singled off Scott Proctor to score Nolan Reimold yesterday as the Orioles won their second game in a row,
a make-up of the April 22 game that was rained out. The Orioles
beat the Yankees 5-4 in 11 innings teams two days ago to
complete a three-game series.  The Yankees took a 4-1 lead in the third inning at Camden
Yards in Baltimore on a run-scoring single from Eric Chavez. New
York was held to one hit after that, a single from  Mark Teixeira 
in the fourth. Baltimore relievers allowed two baserunners in
the final six innings.  The Yankees (87-55) have the best record in the American
League and lead the Boston  Red Sox  by 2 1/2 games in the AL East
division. New York now travels to the west coast for three-game
series against the Los Angeles Angels and  Seattle Mariners . The
Red Sox wrapped up a four-game series against the  Toronto Blue
Jays  last night with a 7-4 loss.  The Yankees held a 4-3 lead in the eighth before Andino hit
a run-scoring single off Rafael Soriano. Earlier in the inning,
Yankees centerfielder  Curtis Granderson  threw Mark Reynolds out
at home, his second outfield assist at home in as many innings.  New York starter Ivan Nova failed to record a win for the
first time in nine starts after allowing three runs and five
hits in 5 1/3 innings. The Yankees had won each of Nova’s 12
previous starts.  Chavez and  Derek Jeter  each drove in a pair of runs in the
loss. Clay Rapada got his first win in relief, while Proctor was
charged with his fourth loss of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  