-- 
Morrison First-Half Profit Gains on Promotions

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-08T06:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/morrison-first-half-profit-gains-on-promotions.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc,
the smallest of the U.K.’s four main supermarket chains,
reported growth in first-half profit that beat analyst estimates
as it stepped up promotions to win cash-strapped shoppers.  Underlying pretax profit climbed 8 percent to 442 million
pounds ($705 million), the Bradford, England-based company said
today in a statement. The average estimate of 19 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was 438.7 million pounds. Sales at stores
open at least a year increased 2.2 percent, excluding fuel and
value-added tax, less than the first quarter’s 2.5 percent gain.  British grocers are offering discounts and promotions such
as Morrison’s “Price Crunch” campaign to lure shoppers whose
budgets are being squeezed by higher gasoline and food prices.
Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips is also trialling
convenience stores and testing fresh food ideas at one of its
outlets, while developing a 6 billion-pound own-brand business.  “Morrison, with its greater focus on the grocery segment,
should be a little more resilient,” than peers with a non-food
presence, Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital, said before
the release. He has a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  Philips said he anticipates the business climate will
remain challenging “for some time to come,” though he expects
to “deliver our expectations for the year.”  Morrison fell 2 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 289.4 pence in
London trading yesterday. The stock has risen 8.2 percent this
year, while larger rivals Tesco Plc and J Sainsbury Plc have
declined 12 percent and 22 percent, respectively.  Morrison said last month it appointed Credit Suisse Group
AG as its investment banking adviser. The retailer may bid for
some individual stores from Iceland Foods Ltd., the U.K.-based
frozen-food chain, the Financial Times reported in July.  A 77 percent stake in Iceland Foods is being offered for
sale by Landsbanki Islands hf, the owner of 67 percent, and
Glitnir Bank hf, a failed Icelandic bank which owns 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 