-- 
Most Greeks Critical of Government’s Economic Policy, Poll Shows

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-09-08T08:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/most-greeks-critical-of-government-s-economic-policy-poll-shows.html
Nine in 10 Greeks are dissatisfied
with the way the socialist government of Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  has handled the country’s economic crisis.  In a poll, 91 percent of people said they were dissatisfied
with the way the government has managed the country’s economic
crisis, while 82 percent said the country was headed in the
wrong direction. The survey was conducted by researcher  VPRC  for
 Epikaira  magazine.  Almost three-quarters, 71 percent, said they were
dissatisfied with the policies put forward by Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos, who replaced  George Papaconstantinou  in a
June 17 cabinet shuffle.  Venizelos expects Greece’s economy to shrink by about 5
percent this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund , and a
deeper contraction than in the past two years.   Greece  is aiming
at an additional 6.4 billion euros ($9 billion) in savings
through the end of the year to meet the 2011 deficit target,
part of a 78 billion-euro package of state-asset sales and
budget measures to avert a default.  According to the poll, 83 percent of people expect mass
demonstrations against austerity measures in the next few months
while 78 percent said their personal financial situation has
worsened during the past year.  When asked which type of government would be best for the
country at this point, 4 percent said the ruling  Pasok  party, 4
percent said the opposition  New Democracy Party , 15 percent said
a coalition between the two main parties, 11 percent said a
coalition of left-leaning parties and 44 percent said none of
the choices was acceptable.  A total of 1,003 people were surveyed from Aug. 31 to Sept.
5 and the poll has a margin of error of 3.16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  