-- 
Lott Joins Daschle as Partisan Rivals See Path to Deficit Accord

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lott-joins-daschle-as-partisan-rivals-see-path-to-deficit-accord.html
Former Senate Republican leader
Trent Lott expects a congressional supercommittee to succeed in
finding $1.5 trillion in U.S. budget cuts; former Senate
Democratic leader Tom Daschle gives it 50-50 odds.  The two former foes agreed more than they disagreed during
a joint interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With
Judy Woodruff” airing this weekend. Both said the
supercommittee will need more than just one member to abandon
his or her party bloc to succeed.  “They’re probably going to try to get two to four to hold
hands and jump together,” Lott said. While Lott said, “we can
pretty well figure out who they might be,” he declined to share
his predictions. “I wouldn’t dare do that to them right now.”  Daschle said he’d give even odds on panel members reaching
an agreement. “But if they do it, my sense is they would
probably do it with a larger than just one-person majority,”
the former South Dakota senator said. “I think you could get an
overwhelming vote if you reach consensus.”  With Congress getting back to work this week, Lott and
Daschle said they believed both chambers might flip to the other
party in 2012.  “The Republicans have an excellent opportunity to take
control of the Senate,” Lott, of Mississippi, said. “The House
is going to be very competitive. If Republicans think, ‘hey, we
got it, we’re keeping it, no matter what,’ they better be
careful.”  Daschle, 63, said polls “obviously favor” the Republicans
in the Senate. Not so the House, he said. “You look at the
generic numbers, the Democrats can take it back.”  Romney as President  Daschle, a longtime supporter of President Barack Obama,
predicted his fellow Democrat would win re-election next year.
Lott, 69, said he believes Mitt Romney, the former Republican
governor of Massachusetts, will be the next president.  Obama is facing an “uphill” battle to turn around the
economy, Daschle said in the interview a day before Obama’s
speech on jobs scheduled for tonight. He and Lott said the
president needs to engage with Congress and concentrate on
issues such as infrastructure development.  The last stimulus didn’t work because “too much of it was
given into social considerations,” Lott said.  The two former lawmakers lamented the state of relations
between Republicans and Democrats in Washington, attributing it
in part to the recent trend of lawmakers flying back to their
states every weekend instead of making their home in the capital.
There’s less socializing, they said.  “If you don’t know somebody, it’s pretty hard to work with
them,” Daschle said.  ‘Mean Spirited’  “We had our philosophical and our policy differences over
the years,” Lott said of Daschle. “It wasn’t mean-spirited.”  Still, Lott said he expects the bipartisan supercommittee
of six House members and six Senate members will succeed because
the alternative -- automatic across-the-board spending cuts --
is so serious.  “They more or less boxed themselves in,” Lott said.  Changes in tax loopholes that would effectively raise taxes
are possible, Lott said. That’s even after all six Republican
members of the panel signed a pledge not to raise taxes and
against a backdrop of Republican presidential candidates
promising not to accept any increases.  “None of them will be involved with the supercommittee,”
Lott said of the presidential hopefuls. “Somebody in this
country, somebody in this city has got to step up and say, we’re
going to produce a product, we’re going to do it now.”  Daschle said the American people are “yearning” for more
leadership in Washington.  “That means President Obama, that means the leaders in
Congress, it means showing some courage, it means stepping out
and taking some risk,” Daschle said. “I don’t know that we’ve
seen it adequately enough in some of the big tests our country
is currently facing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  