-- 
Lowe’s Upgrades Website, Adds 42,000 IPhones to Spur Sales

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-08T20:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lowe-s-upgrades-website-to-spur-sales-at-iphone-equipped-stores.html
Lowe’s Cos. is enhancing its website
and equipping store employees with iPhones as the second-largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer seeks to catch up to  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  and boost sales from its existing locations.  Next month, Lowe’s will introduce its MyLowes online tool
that customers will be able to use to store owner’s manuals,
warranties and paint formulas, Chief Information Officer  Mike Brown  said in an interview. The Mooresville, North Carolina-
based company is arming workers with 42,000 iPhone 4s to answer
shoppers’ questions and ring up purchases.  The company is working to catch larger Home Depot, which
gave employees Motorola Inc. handheld devices last year to let
them spend more time helping customers and less on behind-the-
scene duties. Atlanta-based Home Depot has had stronger same-
store sales than Lowe’s for nine straight quarters.  “Home Depot is ahead of Lowe’s in that regard,” said Tim Hoyle, research director for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Haverford Investments, which oversees $6.5 billion, including
370,000 Home Depot shares and 20,000 Lowe’s shares. “The two
are fierce competitors. To believe that Lowe’s can’t catch up
would be naive.”  After years of expansion, Lowe’s and Home Depot have
saturated many markets and are shifting  capital spending  from
opening new stores to technology that can help them squeeze more
sales and profit from existing outlets.  Capital Spending  Home Depot spent $60 million last year on the handheld
devices from Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola, which has
since been split into two companies. Total capital spending for
Home Depot was $1.1 billion last year.  Lowe’s will spend a record amount on technology in the
fiscal year through January, Brown said, while declining to say
how much. The company has said it will boost overall capital
spending 20 percent to $1.6 billion this year.  The retailer is replacing 72,000 computer screens with flat
panels in more than 1,700 stores, increasing bandwidth for
transmitting data and adding Wifi for shoppers’ smartphones,
Brown said. It’s adding thousands of items for sale online and
last month introduced a Spanish-language version of lowes.com
and an app for the iPhone and the iPod Touch.  “Forget about the competition, we are playing catch-up
with the customer psyche,” Brown, 48, said in an interview last
week at a store in Mooresville,  North Carolina , where Lowe’s
tested the iPhone.  ‘Help Me Manage’  Almost three years ago, Brown brought two boxes of his
personal receipts, appliance manuals and service warranties and
told a group of employees, “Help me manage” this paperwork.
The result was MyLowes, which will debut on lowes.com in
October.  Customers will be able to scan a special card to monitor
transactions, create room-by-room profiles of their homes and
plan projects with store employees.  “This is for people who want to organize their homes,”
said Jeff Chang, who has led the project since joining Lowe’s
last year from  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) , where he was in charge of
global e-commerce. It will keep “your paint details all
recorded in one place as opposed to having all of these cans in
your garage,” he said.  The  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones replace scanner guns based on
technology dating back to the early 1990s. Employees who
previously jotted down item numbers and logged into computer
terminals can now check product information, view how-to
plumbing videos and connect to lowes.com as they help shoppers,
said Brown, who was named chief information officer in January
after five years running store operations and lowes.com.  Store iPhones  Each store is getting about 25 of the devices which
eventually will be enabled for mobile calling, e-emailing and
text-messaging as well as processing credit and debit card
purchases, said Brown, who has been with Lowe’s for 26 years.  Home Depot customers can save shopping and project lists
under their My HomeDepot.com accounts. The company recently
starting shipping paint online, enabling customers to keep track
of formulas, said Jean Niemi, a company spokeswoman.  Lowe’s opportunity to win back sales may be smaller than
several years ago, with Home Depot now executing at a “much
higher level,” Gary Balter, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in
 New York , wrote in a note to clients Sept. 7. He rates both
stocks as “outperform.”  “The reality is that Lowe’s will likely continue to trail
Home Depot comps going forward,” Balter said.  Lowe’s fell 8 cents to $19.58 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have tumbled 22 percent
this year. Home Depot has declined 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  