-- 
Moynihan Says BofA to Be ‘Smaller, More Focused’ After Review

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/moynihan-says-bank-of-america-to-be-smaller-more-focused-after-review.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
struggling to contain losses from soured mortgages, will cut
employees and assets to make the biggest U.S. lender easier to
manage, said Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  About four dozen of the bank’s top executives were
scheduled to meet today at the firm’s  Charlotte , North Carolina
headquarters to review initiatives in Moynihan’s cost-cutting
plan, known as Project New BAC. Job cuts may total about 10
percent of the firm’s 288,000  employees  in the next two to three
years, said a person with direct knowledge of the discussions.  “It’s time to simplify the organization, streamline the
organization and make sure our business processes are relevant
when you have a smaller, more focused company,” Moynihan said
in a Sept. 6 interview. “We just don’t need to be the
biggest.”  Moynihan, 51, has already announced the first major shakeup
from his project -- a reorganization of six businesses into two
that cater to consumers and corporate or institutional clients.
The new lineup promoted Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell to
co-chief operating officers and left  Sallie Krawcheck  and  Joseph Price  without jobs.  Project New BAC is meant to make Bank of America simpler
for investors and clients to understand, as well as easier for
Moynihan and his deputies to manage, said another person with
direct knowledge of the plan. Moynihan has said he expects
“significant” cost savings, which the bank needs as the
economy slows and new federal regulations cut revenue.  Stock Slide  Bank of America’s stock has dropped 46 percent this year as
investors focused on costs tied to the 2008 takeover of
Countrywide Financial Corp. and speculated the lender may issue
new shares to bolster capital. Last month, American
International Group Inc. added to the woes, filing a suit
seeking to recoup more than $10 billion in losses on mortgage
bonds. Bank of America said AIG was to blame and that the New
York-based insurer was an “informed, seasoned investor.”  Such disputes “will take a lot longer -- and it’s in our
best interest to have it take longer,” said Moynihan, who has a
law degree and served a stint as the bank’s general counsel.
“You have to chop away at them, as the legal teams will do.
It’s going to stay with us for a long time because it’s not in
our best interest to do something there until we chop the cases
down and get people to be more realistic.”  Warren Buffett   Since starting as CEO last year, Moynihan has sold more
than $30 billion in assets, and last month raised $5 billion by
selling preferred stock and warrants to Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
run by billionaire Warren Buffett.  Bank of America leaders had been “fighting a different
battle” before, and that was to gain scale, Moynihan said in
the interview. His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , spent more
than $130 billion assembling a company with leading positions in
deposits, credit cards, mortgages, investment and corporate
banking and  wealth management . The firm had $2.3 trillion in
assets as of June 30.  “What you ended up with was a company that was too
complex, had a lot of parts that were inherited,” Moynihan
said. If the firm shrinks to “a $1.8 trillion balance sheet, we
don’t care. That’s different for this company’s culture.”  Shrinking the lender by that much would topple Bank of
America from its perch as the largest U.S. lender by assets. The
company has already ceded the title of biggest U.S. home lender
to San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co ., and became second-
largest by deposits at midyear behind New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., which currently ranks No. 2 in assets.  Merrill Lynch  One of Moynihan’s decisions -- to get out of managing
private-equity investments gained in the 2009 acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co. -- has saved millions of dollars a year, he
said. Moynihan said he was following a blueprint for asset sales
he gave to directors in 2009, as Bank of America directors were
interviewing candidates to succeed Lewis, who resigned at the
end of that year.  Bank of America is first examining cost-cutting
opportunities in the consumer-banking operations assigned to
Darnell, including deposits, mortgages and credit cards. The
second stage of Project New BAC begins next month and addresses
corporate and investment banking units managed by Montag.  Moynihan may disclose how much the company expects to trim
expenses at a Sept. 12 conference held by  Barclays Capital  in
 New York  or during Bank of America’s next earnings conference
call in October. Executives had set a preliminary goal of
reducing expenses by 20 percent in  consumer banking , two people
with knowledge of the efforts said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  