-- 
Moynihan Tries to Keep BofA Intact as Mortgage Loans Fall Apart

-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-08T03:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/moynihan-tries-to-keep-bank-of-america-intact-as-mortgage-loans-fall-apart.html
On the afternoon of Aug. 23, Gary G. Lynch, the global chief of legal, compliance, and regulatory
relations for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , was attending a meeting in
Washington when the floor heaved.  Although Lynch, a lanky 61-year-old attorney with swept-
back white hair, had never experienced an earthquake, he
possessed the good sense to get beneath a sturdy conference
table, along with several other people, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 12 issue.  “If the ceiling came down,” he recalled, “I thought we
were dead.”  The ceiling held, despite the magnitude 5.8 quake rippling
from its epicenter in Virginia. Minutes later, Lynch pulled out
his BlackBerry and discovered another startling development: a
rumor rattling Wall Street that Bank of America might get swept
into an involuntary, government-orchestrated rescue by its
smaller rival JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “This is really getting nuts,” he thought.  Lynch, who as the head of enforcement at the Securities and
Exchange Commission in the late 1980s brought Ivan Boesky and
Michael Milken to heel, knew he’d come under heavy fire when he
parachuted into BofA this July. His assignment: Defend against a
seemingly endless barrage of multibillion-dollar lawsuits and
government investigations concerning defective mortgage-backed
bonds manufactured at the height of the real estate bubble.  No sooner did one liability bomb explode than it was
followed by another. Now Lynch was doing duck-and-cover for
real, while the bank’s share price was pounded to within a
whisker of $6, down more than 50 percent since Jan. 1.  Wild Speculation  The wild speculation about a forced merger combined
ominously with financial analyst chatter that the mortgage
onslaught would drain BofA’s capital, requiring it to sell more
stock in desperation. Would Bank of America, which just weeks
earlier had reported a record second-quarter loss of
$8.8 billion, go the way of Bear Stearns Cos. or Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.?  It was starting to smell like 2008. Hotshot BofA investment
bankers gaped at $14 restricted stock units, granted in 2010 and
early 2011, which on paper had lost half of their value. They
began thumbing smartphones for contact info of potential
alternative employers. Managers interrupted vacations to rush
into the office and calm valuable dealmakers.  Calm of a temporary sort returned two days later, thanks to
a theatrical Buffett-ex-machina intervention. Three years ago,
Bear was sold for scrap, while Lehman was allowed to collapse
into bankruptcy, setting off a global financial crisis and
recession.  Vote of Confidence  Announced on Aug. 25, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman
 Warren Buffett ’s purchase of $5 billion in BofA preferred stock
-- on typical only-for-Warren terms, including a $300 million
annual dividend --- allowed the bank to edge back from the
abyss, much as Buffett’s $5 billion vote of confidence arrested
a run on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s stock in 2008.  On Sept. 6, only hours after he sat for an exclusive
interview with Bloomberg Businessweek, BofA Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  grabbed attention again by reshuffling
his management ranks, elevating a pair of new co-chief operating
officers and ousting  Sallie Krawcheck , the high-profile head of
 wealth management . After all the excitement, the bank’s shares
were up 19 percent from their nadir.  For now, Bank of America will not go the way of Lehman or
Bear. It has $400 billion in cash and liquid investments and,
more important, with $2.3 trillion in assets, it exemplifies the
sorry concept of “too big to fail.” No matter what anyone says
to the contrary, the U.S. government cannot afford to allow a
financial institution of that size to go down and drag the rest
of the country with it.  Too Complex  BofA’s difficulties are too complex, however, to be solved
by Buffett swashbuckling, executive replacements, or the
retention of a really sharp lawyer. America’s biggest bank is
inextricably intertwined with a still-debilitated U.S. housing
market and an  unemployment rate  stuck painfully above 9 percent.  “Bank of America is the purest reflection of the United
States economy of any of the largest financial institutions,”
said John A. Kanas, CEO of BankUnited Inc. BofA owns or services
one in five home loans in the U.S., runs more than 5,700 retail
branches, and serves 58 million customers. “As America goes,”
Kanas said, “so will Bank of America.”  Countrywide  Then there’s Countrywide Financial Corp., the worst
corporate acquisition in living memory. BofA’s former CEO,
 Kenneth D. Lewis , bought the California subprime cesspool in
2008; its stench has permeated the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based bank ever since. Rampant fretting over whether BofA has
sufficient capital and needs to sell more stock traces primarily
to fear that it can’t quantify its mounting write-offs and
losses connected to hundreds of thousands of mortgages gone bad.
So far, the aggregate Countrywide damage exceeds $30 billion.  “Obviously there aren’t many days when I wake up and think
positively about the Countrywide acquisition,” Moynihan said on
Aug. 10 during a conference call arranged to reassure anxious
investors.  Even some of his loyal aides said that the call, like a
series of other pronouncements he has made this year, didn’t
comfort many uneasy money managers. Moynihan received his CEO
stars in a battlefield promotion in December 2009, after Lewis
was perceived as losing investor confidence.  ‘The Mumbler’  A compact 51-year-old former rugby player at Brown
University, he has admirers who praise his herculean work ethic
and intelligence. Charismatic he is not. Moynihan displays
little if any humor in public and swallows many of his words.
His out-of-earshot nickname within the bank, according to
several employees, is “the Mumbler.”  Asked for a self-evaluation during the Aug. 10 conference
call, he said: “I think my performance with the management team
in terms of transforming the company, I think, has been strong.
Our performance on the share performance has not been strong.”  More serious than his bouts of verbal artlessness, Moynihan
has overpromised on critical occasions, most notably in
predicting prematurely that he would raise the bank’s penny-a-
share dividend this year. Such mistakes have obscured his
reasonable attempt to remake the bloated organization he
inherited.  To his credit he is different from the generation of
hubristic bankers typified by Lewis, 64, and former Citigroup
Inc. CEO Sanford I. Weill, 78. During a prolonged era of
bipartisan antiregulatory ideology, the Lewis-Weill cohort built
the behemoths that were too big to manage and ultimately too big
for  Washington  to allow to go under. The instability of those
institutions contributed to the panic of 2008 and its messy,
unfinished cleanup.  More Focused  Moynihan, who for six years toiled as Lewis’s lieutenant,
seems determined to learn from his former boss’s mistakes. The
younger man came into his job planning to sell off extraneous
assets acquired by Lewis. In the process he has made the bank a
more focused institution that in the long run ought to be less
dangerous to the financial system. Whether he has the dexterity
to survive the current crisis and complete the task is an open
question.  In the space of only a dozen years, Bank of America
transformed itself from an unremarkable regional business into a
financial supermarket of gargantuan proportions. Charlotte, in
turn, grew into the nation’s second-biggest banking center after
 New York .  Acquisition Spree  Lewis, who never concealed his Southerner’s disdain for
hifalutin  Wall Street  types, capped an extraordinary acquisition
spree in 2008, first by absorbing Countrywide, a subprime-
mortgage factory on the verge of bankruptcy. Then, with
encouragement from the Bush Administration, he took over Merrill
Lynch, the faltering brokerage and investment bank. Merrill
turned out to be Lewis’s undoing; he lost his job in 2009 when
questions arose over whether he fully disclosed its precarious
financial condition as he pushed BofA shareholders to approve
the $29 billion deal.  Moynihan had joined the ballooning BofA in 2004, when Lewis
paid $47 billion for FleetBoston Financial Inc., itself the
product of rapid-fire mergers and acquisitions. The Fleet
executive had a law degree from the University of Notre Dame but
set his sights higher than the legal department. Many of his
Boston-based former colleagues couldn’t --- or chose not to ---
adjust to life under the notoriously demanding Lewis.  Moynihan adapted. Years later, in his 2005 book
“Winning,” former General Electric Co. CEO Jack Welch held him
up as a model of corporate stamina: “He showed exactly what you
should show if you want to survive a merger--enthusiasm,
optimism, and thoughtful support.”  No Sleep  At Bank of America, Moynihan didn’t specialize. Like a
leather-helmeted footballer of yore, he played offense and
defense and, in a pinch, came in to punt. To make absolutely
sure he got no sleep, he often commuted to BofA’s large New York
outpost from Boston, where his family --- wife, Susan Berry, an
attorney, and three young children --- remained. His dedication
inspires awe in the office.  “Flash or pizzazz isn’t what clients want,” said Purna Saggurti, Bank of America’s chairman of global corporate and
investment banking. “Clients want content and a trusted
adviser.”  As Lewis’s grip on his empire loosened in 2009, Moynihan,
lacking deep roots in Charlotte or a proven CEO’s credential,
was a dark horse candidate to succeed him. But the bank’s
directors were feuding, and other candidates fell away.  Strategic Vision  In December, Moynihan walked into a New York hotel room to
meet with the board of directors’ search committee. He held a
single sheet of paper on which he had written a strategic vision
that actually could have fit on a note card: enough already with
the acquisitions, let’s get back to banking (or words to that
effect). He got the job.  Lewis hosted a large ceremony in Charlotte to introduce the
new CEO.  “Many of you know him,” the outgoing chief executive said
of Moynihan, “because he’s been in so many different jobs. And
so, hopefully, he’ll be in this job much longer than the last
three or four.”  The audience of Bank of America employees, many wearing the
company’s red-white-and-blue flagscape lapel pin, laughed.
Standing to the side of the auditorium stage, Moynihan smiled
tightly. The backhanded compliments continued.  “Another unique characteristic about him,” Lewis said,
“is that he wanted the job.”  Life Support  With that inauspicious endorsement, Moynihan took control
of a vast assemblage of businesses, which collectively had
received federal cash injections totaling $45 billion and
appeared to be on life support.  Then, with miraculous speed, Merrill began to recover. The
acquisition that brought down Lewis became a surprise turnaround
story. Federal bailout money was repaid. In April 2010, to
everyone’s relief, the rookie CEO announced a first-quarter
profit of $3.2 billion.  On a less happy note, Countrywide, a relative detail in
2008, was metastasizing into a disaster. When speaking
privately, Bank of America executives will now acknowledge that
Countrywide behaved deplorably during the real estate frenzy.  In June 2010, BofA agreed to pay $108 million to settle
federal charges that Countrywide overcharged mortgage customers.
The firm “profited from making risky loans to homeowners during
the boom years, and then profited again when the loans failed,”
the Federal Trade Commission said. As a formal matter, BofA
didn’t admit or deny the allegations, saying instead that it
agreed to the settlement “to avoid the expense and distraction
associated with litigating the case.”  Consumer Complaints  The expense and distraction were just beginning. In the
fall of 2010, with consumer complaints about mortgage abuses
increasing, BofA temporarily halted foreclosures across the
country. Moynihan said the bank was modifying Countrywide
mortgage terms to keep people in their houses -- 20,000
modifications a month by late 2010. Contrary to expectations,
though, home prices continued to slump in many areas, and
overall economic growth remained weak, despite the  Federal
Reserve ’s policy of keeping  interest rates  essentially at zero.  New threats came into focus. Even as state and federal
prosecutors revved up investigations of fraud in the issuing and
servicing of loans by Countrywide and its former competitors,
other antagonists filed complaints.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
the quasi-governmental housing-finance companies, said that
millions of mortgages they bought as part of their mission to
spur homeownership were turning out to be rotten.  Defective Loans  Fannie and Freddie wanted Bank of America and other lenders
to buy back billions in defective loans. In addition, there were
unhappy institutional investors that had purchased mortgage-
backed securities, a type of bond assembled from bundles of home
loans. When broke borrowers stopped paying on the mortgages, the
bonds defaulted.  Investors wanted compensation. On Oct. 18, one bondholder
group led by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management
Co. sent BofA a stern letter demanding the bank buy back
mortgages packaged into $47 billion of bonds. There was no
reason to think the BlackRock demand would be the last of its
kind.  A day later, BofA announced an $872 million third-quarter
provision to resolve mortgage-repurchase claims. That compared
with $1.25 billion in the second quarter and $526 million in the
first. Moynihan tried to allay nervousness over a perpetually
open spigot.  “It’s a half billion, half billion, half billion,” he
said during an investor conference call. “Those are the kinds
of numbers that would be more recurring.”  Ordinary Folk  In other words: Half a billion dollars per quarter may seem
like a lot to ordinary folk, but we can handle it.  Not that Bank of America would surrender those half-a-
billions without a fight. “It’s day-to-day, hand-to-hand
combat,” Moynihan told an investor conference in New York in
November 2010. All the same, he said in December, the bank
planned to increase its dividend as fast as possible -- a signal
that its capital levels were sound. “I don’t see anything that
would stop us,” he added.  In January, he had yet more encouraging news: The bank
would take an additional $3 billion provision to settle claims
from the government-sponsored enterprises Fannie and Freddie.  “We are pleased to put the GSEs behind us this quarter,”
Moynihan said on Jan. 21.  ‘Political Mistakes’  He spoke too soon.  “Brian, while he is a very experienced executive, is an
inexperienced chief executive,” said BankUnited’s Kanas, a
Moynihan fan. “He has made a couple of political mistakes,
overpromising.”  On March 23, Bank of America said in a regulatory filing
that the Federal Reserve had rejected its request for a dividend
increase in the second half of 2011. Among the four largest U.S.
lenders, a group rounded out by JPMorgan, Citigroup, and  Wells
Fargo & Co ., BofA was the only one that didn’t announce a higher
dividend after the Fed reviewed the companies’ financial health
in March.  In an interview with Bloomberg News, Jonathan Hatcher, a
credit strategist at Jefferies Group Inc., called the Fed action
“a soft warning shot” across Bank of America’s bow.  More warnings followed. In April, BofA announced a
$1.6 billion deal with Assured Guaranty Ltd. to resolve claims
tied to tainted mortgage-backed securities the insurance company
had covered. Outstanding mortgage-buyback demands climbed to
$13.6 billion, the bank said the same month. Then, in May, it
said in a regulatory filing that the cost of private-investor
demands might rise to between $11 billion and $14 billion, or
$4 billion more than the previously publicized range.  Sprung a Leak  Later in May, Moynihan said that the settlement with Fannie
Mae might have sprung a leak, as the larger GSE stepped up its
buyback demands.  “We still have some work to do” on resolving Fannie Mae
demands, Moynihan said. In June, BofA said it agreed to pay
$8.5 billion to settle claims by the BlackRock-Pimco group of
bondholders.  Bank of America generates an enormous amount of revenue --
$111.2 billion in 2010 -- so it can afford to settle a lot of
liability claims.  “The problem,” said William B. Smith, CEO of hedge fund
Smith Asset Management, “is the unknown.” By midsummer it
became apparent that no one, including Bank of America,
understood the ultimate damage attributable to Countrywide.  285,000 Employees  Smith Asset Management, nevertheless, owns BofA stock.
“For those of us who are bullish, we don’t believe the mortgage
hit is crippling,” CEO Smith said. “Those who are bearish
believe it is.”  Like a number of other investors, he takes solace from
market analysis showing that BofA’s breakup value exceeds its
current market value of about $76 billion. “Tear this thing
apart after you get down the road a bit,” said Smith, and the
stock could triple.  That’s not what Bank of America’s management or its 285,000
employees want to hear. Nor does the notion that Bank of America
might be worth more dismembered provide any consolation to
hundreds of thousands of homeowners behind on their mortgage
payments, some of whom accuse BofA or its black-sheep subprime-
mortgage unit of mistreating them.  “They were greedy,” said Don Barrett, a plaintiffs’
lawyer in Lexington, Mississippi, who represents borrowers
alleging they were defrauded.  ‘Need Closure’  Barrett calls the Countrywide acquisition a “bad”
decision. “If Bank of America is going to survive, they’d
better get closure,” he said. “They need closure with
investors, but they also need closure with the legitimate
borrowers.”  Moynihan’s private conference room on the 58th floor of the
Bank of America Corporate Center in downtown Charlotte has the
usual photo of its occupant with the incumbent U.S. president,
along with other CEO knickknacks. Moynihan has draped a canary-
yellow T-shirt where every visitor can see it. “Grind Together,
Shine Together,” the black lettering on the shirt instructs,
and Moynihan presents himself as a grind-it-out kind of guy.  He recognizes that he sees one company, while Wall Street
lately sees another.  “We have the strongest capital we’ve ever had in the
company for decades,” he said. “We have the strongest
liquidity.”  He sounds frustrated. The bank has $115 billion in Tier 1
common equity, which translates to a capital ratio of 8.2
percent under today’s rules. That’s more than enough to meet
current requirements and puts BofA well within range of tougher
international standards that will be phased in over coming
years, Moynihan said.  ‘Nothing Wrong’  “Litigation aside, there’s nothing wrong with this
company,” said Paul Miller, a former examiner for the Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Philadelphia who is now an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets & Co. in Arlington,  Virginia   How will Moynihan close the perception gap?  “We have to keep educating and pounding and pounding and
pounding,” he said. “The No. 1 thing for me was to make the
company clearer, more focused, get away from the acquisition
heritage of big is great, as opposed to great is great.”  No question he’s slimmed the bank down. He has sold off
assets valued at almost $40 billion. These include stakes in a
bank in Brazil for $3.9 billion and one in Mexico for
$2.5 billion; a $10.9 billion investment in BlackRock; a
$2.3 billion portion of an insurance company; more modestly
valued credit-card portfolios in the U.K., Spain, and Canada;
and, most recently, half of Bank of America’s stake in China
Construction Bank Corp., which sold for $8.3 billion.  Pointless Overhead  The Lewis-era binge left BofA with all kinds of pointless
overhead.  “Nobody sat down and said, ‘We want 63 data centers,’”
Moynihan said. “We inherited 63 data centers.” He intends to
get that down to the single digits.  He framed the Sept. 6 management shakeup as a streamlining
maneuver. Where there had been no chief operating officer, now
there will be two, promoted from within. David C. Darnell will
oversee businesses responsible for serving individual customers,
including deposits, credit cards, home mortgages, and wealth
management. Thomas K. Montag will supervise operations related
to corporations and institutional investors.  “They are accountable now for delivering our entire
franchise to all our customers and clients,” Moynihan said in a
written announcement. Joe Price, who had been president of
consumer and small business banking, was ousted along with
Sallie Krawcheck, the former wealth-management chief.  No Regrets  Moynihan was in no mood, however, to apologize. He said he
has no regrets about promising to raise the dividend and then
not being able to follow through. He waved off the criticism as
missing the larger point that shareholders will benefit in the
long run from a stronger, better capitalized bank. Similarly, he
dismissed suggestions that he’s an ineffective public
communicator.  His job is to make sure that every employee understands
that at all times they should be serving one of the bank’s three
customer groups: individuals, companies, and institutional
investors. Because he has pounded this home so consistently, he
said, “There’s 285,000 people could probably give that speech
right now.” Or maybe fewer. Moynihan has announced 6,000
layoffs so far this year, with more to come.  Eliminating Risks  The CEO doesn’t utter the word “Countrywide” voluntarily.
He won’t comment on one option --- putting the unit into
bankruptcy --- and he refers to the mess in shorthand: “We have
to keep taking uncertain risks and eliminate them, and that’s
what we’ve been doing in the mortgage area.” For Countrywide
details, he recommended talking to  Gary Lynch .  Bank of America’s top in-house lawyer works in a serene
sanctum high above Sixth Avenue in New York. The room features
cool white marble and white leather. Lynch has made a career of
remaining unruffled -- at the SEC during its 1980s insider-
trading investigations, later as a partner at the New York
corporate law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, and then as the
senior-most attorney at investment banks Credit Suisse First
Boston and Morgan Stanley.  It’s no wonder that Moynihan hired Lynch, but is the
attorney still glad he moved over to Bank of America? Lynch
laughed, a public relations man held his breath, and the lawyer
said yes.  Reps and Warranties  With professorial precision he proceeded to sort the
categories of legal risks facing BofA into three “buckets.”
Over time, he explains, the bank can gradually empty each
bucket. First, there are “representations and warranties”
claims, such as those made by the GSEs and the BlackRock-Pimco
bondholder group. Those parties want BofA to buy back mortgages
allegedly based on false information about borrowers or
property. Bank of America has negotiated compromise payments for
most of the reps-and-warranties claims.  Bucket No. 2 contains fraud lawsuits filed by investors who
bought mortgage-backed securities, which have lost value. A
lawsuit filed Aug. 8 by  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
New York-based insurance giant, sits in that bucket; AIG seeks
damages of $10 billion. Lynch says the bank will fight the vast
majority of such suits.  “I’d much rather be sued by AIG than by someone who has
never purported to be an expert on mortgages and risk
management,” he said. His point is that AIG is a sophisticated
financial player that should have known that subprime-backed
bonds could explode.  Rush to Court  Finally, there’s a bucket for government allegations that
Countrywide generated fraudulent foreclosure documents. BofA and
other large lenders are skirmishing with the 50 state attorneys
general in hopes of reaching a mass settlement whose collective
price tag has been estimated at $20 billion.  Sweeping a long arm over his imaginary litigation
receptacles, Lynch seemed sure of himself. Statutes of
limitation are running out, and that’s why so many lawyers
rushed to the courthouse in recent months, he said.  “We’re comfortable that these securitization cases will go
away or be settled for cents on the dollar,” he said. “At the
end of the day, do we have ample capital to get through this?
Absolutely.”  “If someone is going to say, ‘O.K., counselor, tell me
exactly what you’re going to pay out,’ I can’t do that, and I
wouldn’t try,” Lynch said.  What’s more, he said, the mortgage litigation won’t get
resolved in three months or six months or a year.  New Doubts  “Past cases of this type have been working through the
process for years,” Lynch said.  The problem, from his clients’ perspective, is that even
when Bank of America says it has something resolved, new doubts
clutter the bucket.  The state AGs’ settlement seems, in broad outline, like a
reasonable idea. Big lenders fork over cash to make borrowers
whole and modify the terms on some mortgages so people can keep
their homes. But lately, attorneys general in New York,
Delaware, and Nevada have broken ranks, saying they don’t want
to rush to a truce because they’re not through investigating
lenders’ misbehavior. Moreover, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman has challenged the propriety of the $8.5 billion
settlement with private bondholders, casting uncertainty on that
pact, too.  Moynihan’s Performance  For all the angst over Bank of America on Wall Street and
in the news media, regulators at the Federal Reserve and U.S.
Treasury Department, speaking privately because they aren’t
authorized to comment on particular banks, say they have watched
Moynihan’s performance and are mostly pleased by what they’ve
seen. In fact they applaud his shrinking the company and similar
moves by some of his competitors.  One of the paradoxes of the 2008 crisis has been that, in
its aftermath, a U.S. financial industry overpopulated with
institutions considered too big to fail became even more
consolidated. Mergers such as Bank of America’s acquisition of
Merrill and Countrywide, and JPMorgan’s absorption of Bear
Stearns and Washington Mutual Inc. have produced a quartet of
megabanks that together hold $7.7 trillion in assets, or
56.8 percent of the U.S. total, compared with 45.2 percent of
the total before the crisis.  Even with this added consolidation, and the potential risk
it perpetuates in the event of a true investor or depositor run
on any of the megabanks, regulators say there hasn’t been much
for them to do about Bank of America’s difficulties.  Dodd-Frank  New oversight tools created by the Dodd-Frank financial-
reform legislation enacted in 2010 are still being crafted. And
industry lobbyists are still trying to blunt rules on how much
capital banks must hold, how they sell mortgages, and what kind
of trading they can do for their own accounts.  To avoid future taxpayer bailouts, the law required major
banks to submit “living wills,” or plans for how they could be
efficiently dismembered in dire circumstances. But details on
the living-will process are still being debated; no wills have
been submitted to Washington. Regulators say Bank of America
hasn’t gotten into living-will territory because the bank has
cash on hand and the ability to borrow more.  So far the Dodd-Frank Act’s perverse effect has been to
heighten uncertainty without disentangling the combinations of
investment banking with consumer and commercial banking that
proved so perilous in the wake of the housing bubble.  One positive change is that there are more cops walking the
banking beat. About 30 examiners from the Fed’s Richmond,
Virginia branch are assigned full-time to monitoring Bank of
America, up from 14 in 2007. Fed staff members say they are able
to give closer scrutiny to the bank’s securities and loan
portfolios, as well as the risk associated with its assets and
the adequacy of its capital.  Economic Conditions  Earlier this year, when Fed officials requested options
BofA might consider if overall economic conditions seriously
eroded, the bank responded that one possibility would be to
issue a separate class of shares linked to the performance of
Merrill Lynch, according to BofA. Moynihan doesn’t think such a
step will be needed and similarly has no plans to sell more BofA
common stock, his aides said.  While Fed examiners are supposed to be keeping an eye out
for reckless practices within BofA, there’s a danger that other
government officials and politicians could hasten a fresh
financial meltdown as they seek their pound of assets from Bank
of America.  The state-AG foreclosure probe has identified troubling
past practices, but the handful of prosecutors holding up a
resolution could jeopardize the prize they desire. Likewise,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two of BofA’s other main
antagonists, are each almost 80 percent-owned by U.S. taxpayers
as a result of rescues at the depths of the financial crisis.  ‘We the People’  The GSEs are “we the people”; if they help take Bank of
America down, taxpayers will have to mop up. On Sept. 2, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Washington regulator of
Fannie and Freddie, joined the fray. In its own brace of
lawsuits, the FHFA accused Bank of America and 16 other lenders
of misleading Fannie and Freddie about billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities.  The problem for Moynihan, said Lou Barnes, “is that
everyone is suing him, he can’t know when the suits will stop,
and meanwhile -- hello? -- the economy isn’t bouncing back, and
it’s damned tough to get a home loan approved out here.”  Barnes, a banker and credit analyst at Premier Mortgage
Group in Boulder, Colorado, said that Moynihan “looks to be
doing as well as any little Dutch boy can -- sticking his
fingers in the dike.”  ‘Enough to Kill’  But more cracks keep opening up. Barnes ticks off the
latest statistics from Lender Processing Services Inc., a major
home-loan servicer: 4.1 million loans nationwide are at least 90
days delinquent or in foreclosure; delinquency rates are twice
their historical norm; foreclosure rates are eight times higher
than the historical average; more than 40 percent of 90-days-
plus delinquent loans haven’t made a payment in more than a
year.  BofA is more exposed to those scary figures than any other
bank. Moynihan “has got to know there are more losses ahead,
enough to kill a bank,” Barnes said. “No model exists for what
happens next.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brad Wieners at   bwieners@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  