-- 
Pakistani Women Serve Burgers, Run Corporations as Culture Opens

-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i
-- 
2011-09-08T19:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/pakistani-women-serve-burgers-run-corporations-as-culture-opens.html
When Naz Khan became  Pakistan ’s
first female money-market trader 19 years ago, KASB Securities
Ltd., the Bank of America Corp. affiliate that had hired her,
needed to build a women’s restroom in its Karachi office.  By the time Khan left last year to become chief financial
officer at Engro Fertilizer Ltd., KASB had so many women on
staff that they had to “get in line” to use the restroom.
Pakistan has long been a tough place for women seeking
employment beyond the farm or factory.  For decades the country’s conservative culture, with few
links to the outside world, prevented many girls from getting an
education and kept most women at home or in low-paying jobs. But
in recent years Pakistanis have gained a greater awareness of
how other societies treat women, as Internet use has expanded,
global corporations have entered the country, and scores of
television channels and  radio stations  have sprung up.  At the same time, galloping inflation has spurred many
women to seek jobs, Bloomberg Businessweek reported in its Sept.
12 issue. More of them than ever are finding employment, doing
everything from pumping gasoline and serving burgers at
McDonald’s to running major corporations.  About 22 percent of Pakistani females over the age of 10
now work, up from 14 percent a decade ago, government statistics
show. Women now hold 78 of the 342 seats in the  National
Assembly , and in July, Hina Rabbani Khar, 34, became Pakistan’s
first female Foreign Minister.  “The cultural norms regarding women in the workplace have
changed,” says Maheen Rahman, 34, chief executive officer at
IGI Funds Ltd., which manages some $400 million in assets.
Rahman says she plans to keep recruiting more women for her
company.  Staying in School  Much of the progress has come because women stay in school
longer. More than 42 percent of Pakistan’s 2.6 million high
school students last year were girls, up from 30 percent 18
years ago. Women made up about 22 percent of the 68,000 students
in Pakistani universities in 1993; today, 47 percent of
Pakistan’s 1.1 million university students are women, according
to the  Higher Education Commission . Half of all MBA graduates
hired by  Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL) , Pakistan’s largest lender, are now
women.  “Parents are realizing how much better a lifestyle a
family can have if girls work,” says Sima Kamil, 54, who
oversees 1,400 branches as head of retail banking at Habib.
“Every branch I visit has one or two girls from conservative
backgrounds.”  Blouses, Bedsheets  There’s still a long way to go. The employment rate for men
is triple that for women and Pakistan’s female literacy rate is
just 45 percent, vs. 70 percent for men. In agriculture, where
women account for three-fourths of all workers, female laborers
such as cotton and chili pickers earn less than 50¢ a day.  In the informal manufacturing sector--companies that make,
say, blouses, bedsheets, or soccer balls--women make up
57 percent of the workforce, but they spend more hours on the
job and receive lower pay than their male counterparts,
according to the Pakistan Institute of Labour and Economic
Research. In 2009, the agency says, women in light manufacturing
earned an average of 2,912 rupees ($34) monthly, about
40 percent of the average earnings for men.  Sexual harassment remains a big problem. Umul Awan, 25, an
equity dealer at United Bank Ltd. in Karachi, says women are
sometimes ridiculed by male colleagues for not having facts at
their fingertips that men would have difficulty summoning. “You
have to maintain your distance and create a stern image,” Awan
says.  Competitive Advantage  Lara Arif, 32, who sells fabric for women’s dresses from
her home in Karachi, avoids taxis when she visits clients.
Instead, she favors buses, with their crowds of people, or
rickshaws, which have no doors and so are easier to escape
should the need arise. “You have to be very reserved and remain
alert all the time,” she says.  Some companies believe hiring women gives them a
competitive advantage. Habib Bank says adding female tellers has
helped improve  customer service  at the formerly state-owned
lender because the men on staff don’t want to appear rude in
front of women. Makers of household products say female staffers
help them better understand the needs of their customers.  “The buyers for almost all our product ranges are women,”
says Fariyha Subhani, 46, CEO of  Unilever Pakistan Foods Ltd. (UPFL) ,
where 106 of the 872 employees are women. “Having women selling
those products makes sense because they themselves are the
consumers.”  To attract more women, Unilever last year offered some
employees the option to work from home, and the company has run
an on-site day-care center since 2003. Engro, which has 100
women in management positions, last year introduced flexible
working hours, a day-care center, and a support group where
female employees can discuss challenges they encounter.  “Today there is more of a focus at companies on
diversity,” says Engro Fertilizer CFO Khan, 42. The next step,
she says, is ensuring that “more women can reach senior
management levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  