-- 
Palestinians Seeking Statehood at UN May Get Same Rights as Pope

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/palestinians-seeking-statehood-at-un-may-get-same-rights-as-pope.html
Palestinian Authority  President
Mahmoud Abbas won’t walk away from the  United Nations  General
Assembly this month with the sought-after statehood. More
likely, he’ll get parity with the world’s smallest state led by
Pope Benedict XVI.  Support for the upgrade in Palestinian status at the UN
from “entity” to “non-member state” is likely if the matter
is brought to a vote in the  193-member assembly , where a two-
thirds majority, or 129 votes, is required.  Gaining equality with the only sovereign state that isn’t a
UN member, the  Holy See , may be more than symbolic. It may allow
the Palestinian Authority to sign treaties such as the Rome
Statute that set up the  International Criminal Court , according
to European diplomats speaking on condition of anonymity. Access
to the court in  The Hague  may provide legal cover for the
Palestinian Authority to seek war-crimes prosecutions of
Israelis for actions in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip , the
European diplomats said.  “The big question looming is whether it’s worth burning
bridges with the Americans to get something that may give them
access to some more treaties but would not change the reality on
the ground,” said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian
negotiator who is executive director of the American Task Force
on Palestine in Washington.  Vatican Status  The  Palestinian Authority  is now one rung below the Holy
See -- the central government of the Roman Catholic Church -- in
the UN pecking order. About 140 countries are likely to support
the bid for treatment as a state, Palestinian negotiator Nabil
Shaath said Sept. 4. The U.S. and  Israel  oppose the effort,
saying Palestinians and Israelis should negotiate the
establishment of a Palestinian state.  Esther Brimmer, U.S. assistant secretary of state for
international organization affairs, said yesterday in  Washington 
that the Obama administration “will continue to fight hard”
against efforts “to use the UN as the venue” to promote
statehood for the Palestinians.  Dubbed a “diplomatic tsunami” by Israeli Defense Minister
 Ehud Barak , the Palestinian bid for statehood will dominate the
gathering of world leaders later this month. It will highlight
President  Barack Obama ’s failure to deliver on a peace plan
that, at last year’s General Assembly, he said would lead to
“an independent, sovereign state of Palestine.”  With peace negotiations stuck, the Palestinians have
decided to take the matter into their own hands.  The membership bid by the Palestinian leader would be the
biggest action of its kind in 13 years when members of the world
body voted to confer additional privileges to the PA, a
permanent observer since 1974. These included the right to
participate in the general debate held at the start of each
session of the General Assembly, the right to co-sponsor draft
resolutions and the right to raise points of order on  Middle
East  issues. The PA still has no voting rights.  Frustrated Palestinians  Taking the issue to the General Assembly is a way to get
around the  Security Council , where the Obama administration  may
veto any Palestinian effort to win approval as a member state.  Going down this road is a sign of how frustrated
Palestinian leadership has become with Obama, said Hussein
Ibish, a fellow at the Washington-based American Task Force on
 Palestine , which advocates a peaceful end to the conflict.  Obama sent two Mideast envoys, David Hale and Dennis Ross,
who met with Abbas yesterday in an effort to avoid a diplomatic
showdown.  “There is still a dispute with the U.S. over going to the
UN,” said the chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erakat.  No Stunt  Obama’s popularity has plunged in the Arab World following
a wave of popular uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East,
a July survey conducted by Zogby International showed. Support
for Obama in  Egypt , one of six Muslim nations polled, dropped to
5 percent this year from 30 percent in 2008, when he was elected
president.  Abbas, who is preparing to hand over leadership of the
Palestinian Authority to a still-not-determined successor, said
in a May 13 opinion piece for The New York Times that “our
quest for recognition as a state should not be seen as a
stunt.”  His UN envoy,  Riyad Mansour , said all options remain on the
table. While the goal remains full UN membership, the status
granted South Sudan in July, the so-called Vatican option is
also on the table.  The lack of a specific plan in a sea of contrasting voices
has put Western governments in a difficult position when it
comes to formulating their own reactions, according to European
diplomats not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  Sympathetic Pope  The European Union is split among its 27 members on support
the Palestinian initiative.  Belgium ,  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal 
and  Spain  are among the most vocal in their support. Italy and
 Germany  are most likely to side with Israel while U.K. and
 France , both permanent members on the Security Council, are more
sympathetic to the Palestinian cause.  Equal UN status with the Holy See may be all the
Palestinian Authority and the 2,000-year-old institution would
have in common.  The city state encircled by Rome covers about 0.4 square
kilometers of territory and has less than 1,000 residents,
mostly clergy. The Palestinian Authority-governed  West Bank ,
also land-locked, stretches over 5,640 square kilometers and is
home to 1.7 million people, mostly Muslims. Hamas has controlled
the Gaza Strip along the Mediterranean Sea since 2007.  Pope Benedict has called several times for the Palestinians
to be granted a sovereign homeland. During a 2009 visit to
Israel in 2009, he defied the wishes of Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and visited the West Bank city of Bethlehem.  Still, on Abbas’ specific bid for statehood at the UN,
“Benedict has not and will not state a position,” spokesman
Father Federico Lombardi said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  