-- 
Perkins & Marie Callender’s Wins Approval to Seek Creditor Vote on Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-08T17:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/perkins-marie-callender-s-wins-approval-to-seek-creditor-vote-on-plan.html
Perkins & Marie Callender’s Inc.,
the restaurant owner and franchiser, won court approval to send
its restructuring plan to creditors for a vote.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware, indicated he will sign off on the
company’s disclosure statement, a description of the plan,
either today or tomorrow, once clarifying language has been
added.  Gross said he was “satisfied” that the disclosure
statement provided creditors with enough information to make a
decision about whether to support the restructuring proposal.
The company will seek court approval of its reorganization plan
at a hearing scheduled for Oct. 31.  Perkins was able to resolve all creditor objections and
“substantially enhanced” the disclosure statement, providing
better treatment for unsecured creditors, Hollace Cohen, a
company lawyer told Gross.  The slumping economy cut into consumers’ discretionary
spending, causing sales of Memphis, Tennessee-based Perkins to
decrease and forcing it to seek protection from its creditors,
according to court papers. The company listed assets of $290
million and debt of $441 million.  The company negotiated a restructuring proposal with note
holders before seeking bankruptcy protection, according to a
June 13 statement. All of the holders of 14 percent senior
secured notes agreed to support the proposal as well as more
than 80 percent of the holders of the 10 percent unsecured
senior notes.  New Term Loan  Under the proposal, Minnesota-based private equity firm
Wayzata Investment Partners LLC, holder of all the $103 million
in 14 percent senior secured notes, would get a new term loan in
the same amount.  The 10 percent senior unsecured note holders, owed about
$204 million, would receive new equity in the reorganized
company, or they may opt to receive cash instead of stock.
Wayzata owns in excess of 80 percent of the senior unsecured
notes, and would become the majority owner after the
restructuring.  The senior unsecured notes traded at 10 cents on the dollar
as of Aug. 4, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured creditors owed more than $20 million, would get
14 percent of their claims or a share of a $7 million cash pool,
whichever is less, according to the plan. Unsecured creditors
also have the option to choose to receive equity in lieu of the
cash payment. Unsecured creditors owed more than $5 million
would get a share of the new equity or may elect to reduce its
claim to receive cash.  Founded in 1958 as a pancake house in Ohio, Perkins has
12,350 full- and part-time employees at restaurants in the U.S.
Midwest, Florida, Pennsylvania and Canada. Buyout firm Castle
Harlan Inc. bought the company in 2005 for $245 million in cash.  In addition to about 600 restaurants, the company sells
pies, muffins, batters and other bakery products to customers
including supermarkets, court filings show. The company
announced it would close about 58 stores as part of the
restructuring.  The case is In re Perkins & Marie Callender’s Inc., 11-
11795, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 