-- 
Perry’s First Debate Solidifies Frontrunner Status With Romney

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-08T05:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/perry-s-first-debate-solidifies-frontrunner-status-alongside-rival-romney.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry ’s first
appearance in a Republican presidential debate solidified what
polls are already showing: Perry and Mitt Romney have emerged as
the two frontrunners.  Sparring between Romney and Perry last night dominated
almost all of one-hour-forty-five-minute televised debate
sponsored by NBC News and POLITICO. The two men attacked each
other’s economic policies, health-care positions and
qualifications to be president, offering contrasts in style and
substance.  As the newcomer to the field, Perry showed that he can
deliver jabs and absorb them, as he became an early target for
his competitors. “I kind of feel like the pinata here at the
party,” Perry said.  The debate marked the start to a more aggressive phase in
the primary campaign, with each man indicating he viewed the
other as his major obstacle to the party’s nomination.  “It’s really a two-person race,” said Republican
consultant Scott Reed after the debate held at the  Ronald Reagan 
Presidential Library in Simi Valley,  California . “The rest of
the folks were bystanders.”  The contest between the two men is likely to set the tone
for the fall campaign, as they each compete for voters, campaign
funds and endorsements from party leaders.  Romney and Perry kicked off the debate by trading jabs over
their job-creation records, citing each other’s gubernatorial
predecessors. The exchange revealed how each campaign has begun
to target the other.  Exchanging Jabs  “Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster than you
did, Mitt,” said Perry, attacking Romney’s record as a former
governor of  Massachusetts .  Romney fired back at the Texas governor with his own sound-
bite-ready statistic. “Well, as a matter of fact,  George Bush 
and his predecessor created jobs at a faster rate than you did,
governor,” he said.  The two men largely ignored the six other Republican
candidates on the stage at the library, which is the burial
place of party icon Ronald Reagan.  The debate marked the first time the candidates had all
shared a stage since Perry announced his campaign on Aug. 13 and
overtook Romney in public opinion polls.  Perry was supported by 27 percent of self-identified
Republicans while 22 percent backed Romney in a Washington
Post/ABC News  poll  taken Aug. 29-Sept. 1.  Perry’s Quick Rise  Political pollsters caution that the race remains fluid,
with few voters completely sold on any candidate. In the
Post/ABC survey, 34 percent said they strongly supported their
preferred candidate. Sixty-six percent categorized their support
as “somewhat,” indicating that they were still open to
changing their preference.  The unsettled nature of the race could provide an
opportunity for such candidates as  Jon Huntsman , a former Utah
governor and ex-ambassador to  China  for President  Barack Obama 
who has struggled to gain traction since announcing his campaign
on June 21.  Huntsman, who had promised to run a “civil” campaign,
went on the offensive, criticizing Romney and Perry for their
health-care plans and economic policies as governors of
Massachusetts and Texas.  Huntsman delivered one of his sharpest rebukes to Perry,
who has questioned the science behind  climate change  and the
role of humans in global warming.  “In order for the  Republican Party  to win, we can’t run
from science,” said Huntsman. “We can’t run from mainstream
conservative philosophy. We’ve got to win voters.”  Citing Galileo  Even “Galileo got outvoted for a spell,” Perry responded.
“Find out what the science truly is before you start putting the
American economy in jeopardy.”  Minnesota Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann , who leapt in the
polls after a June debate performance and a victory in the Ames
Straw Poll in  Iowa  in August, has seen her numbers drop since
Perry entered the race. She struggled to break into the debate
last night.  Bachmann and Perry are competing for support from Tea Party
activists and Christian conservatives.  “They overlap in their appeal,” said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute. “There’s a zero sum relationship between how
Bachmann does and how Perry does.”  In the debate, Bachmann attempted to remind the Tea Party
activists who rallied around her candidacy in June about why
they supported her.  Federal Spending  “I’ve been leading on this issue for the last five
years,” said Bachmann, when asked about cutting federal
spending. “We have to have a president with a core sense of
conviction that’s going to fight on these issues.”  Perry used the debate to defend the fiscally conservative
positions that have made him a darling of the Tea Party
movement. He reiterated his charge that Social Security is a
“ Ponzi scheme ” that has failed Americans and isn’t
sustainable. Former Bush political adviser  Karl Rove  and former
Vice President  Dick Cheney  are among leading Republicans who
have denounced Perry’s assertion.  Polling shows voters largely oppose cuts in entitlements
like Social Security. Romney was quick to tout his support for
the program, eager to draw a sharp contrast with Perry.  “Our nominee has to be someone who isn’t committed to
abolishing Social Security but who is committed to saving Social
Security,” Romney said. “Under no circumstances would I ever
say by any measure it’s a failure.”  Even as he squared off with Perry, Romney attempted to
portray himself above the fray. As his rivals attacked Perry for
issuing an executive order -- rather than seeking legislation --
to make Texas the first state to require schoolgirls to get
vaccinated against HPV, a sexually transmitted virus, Romney
sounded magnanimous.  “My guess is that Governor Perry would like to do it a
different way second time through,” he said. “We’ve each taken
a mulligan or two.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington , at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  