-- 
Perry Calls Social Security ‘Ponzi Scheme’ in His Debate Debut

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-08T18:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/perry-makes-presidential-debate-debut-spars-with-romney-over-jobs-record.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , leading
in polls of the Republican presidential candidates, called
Social Security a “Ponzi scheme,” questioned the science
behind global warming and sparred with rivals in his debate
debut as a White House contender.  Perry also clashed with former  Massachusetts  Governor Mitt Romney over their job-creation records, Social Security and
other topics during exchanges yesterday at the library and
burial place of party icon  Ronald Reagan .  “Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster than you
did,” Perry said to Romney, referring to the former Democratic
governor of Massachusetts who ran for president in 1988.  Romney, who has sought to present Perry as a career
politician, quickly shot back, citing a former Texas governor
who went on to be president.  “ George W. Bush  and his predecessor created jobs at a
faster rate than you did,” Romney said.  Perry, who after declaring his candidacy less than a month
ago replaced Romney as frontrunner in polling of Republican-
leaning voters nationwide, frequently found himself parrying
criticism and questions about a nearly three-decade political
career that includes some contentious pronouncements.  As Perry fielded pointed questions from the journalists
moderating the debate and criticism from some of his rivals, he
said: “I kind of feel like the piñata here at the party.”  Social Security  Questioned about his past indictments of Social Security,
Perry stood by his assertions that the program’s guarantees of
government retirement benefits for seniors constitute “a
monstrous lie” and “a  Ponzi scheme .”  “Maybe it’s time to have some provocative language,”
Perry said, adding that his goal was to fix the program for
future retirees.  Romney responded that he would never call Social Security a
failure.  “Our nominee has to be someone who isn’t committed to
abolishing Social Security but is committed to saving Social
Security,” he said. “I will make sure that we keep the program
and we make it financially secure.”  Romney said the federal retirement program “is working for
millions of Americans,” and he would “keep it working for
millions of Americans.”  Romney’s campaign intensified criticism of Perry’s Social
Security statements today, issuing a news release calling the
Texan’s position “reckless” and “wrong.”  “Governor Perry believes Social Security should not
exist,” the release said, while Romney thinks it should be
“fixed for current and future retirees.”  Climate Change   Perry, reiterating his skepticism that humans have
contributed to climate change, said that “the science is not
settled on this.” Objecting to Democratic-backed proposals to
curb greenhouse gases, he said, “The idea that we would put
Americans’ economy in jeopardy based on scientific theory that’s
not settled yet, to me, is just nonsense.”  The nationally televised debate, at the  Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library  in Simi Valley,  California , was sponsored
by NBC News and Politico.  The candidates, eight in total, squared off a day before
President Barack Obama is to present his job-revival plan to a
joint session of Congress. Obama initially scheduled his speech
for the same time as the debate, then changed it after
Republicans objected to the timing.  Huntsman Pitch  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., struggling to gain
traction in the race, offered himself as the candidate best
suited to assemble a coalition including the independents and
Democrats that Republicans would need to win the White House in
the 2012 elections.  Asked to name which of his rivals had said “crazy and
inane” things -- a description recently made by his top
campaign strategist -- Huntsman declined to do so. Still, he
suggested that Perry, with his questions about climate change
and doubts about the theory of evolution, fit the bill.  “All I am saying is that in order for the Republican Party
to win, we can’t run from science, we can’t run from mainstream
conservative philosophy,” he said. “By making comments that
basically don’t reflect the reality of the situation, we turn
people off.”  China  Issue  Huntsman criticized Romney on how the U.S. should deal with
China. In an economic plan Romney released yesterday, he said
that as president he would direct the  U.S. Treasury  to list
China as a currency manipulator and order the Commerce
Department to assess duties on Chinese imports if the Asian
nation didn’t quickly move to float its currency.  “Now is not the time -- during a recession -- to enter a
trade war,” said Huntsman, who served as Obama’s ambassador to
China before deciding to run for president earlier this year.  The cast of characters and dynamics of the Republican race
have been altered since the last candidate debate on Aug. 11 in
Ames,  Iowa .  Perry joined the contest two days later and quickly moved
to the front in national surveys of Republican-leaning voters.
In a  Washington  Post/ABC News  poll  released this week, Perry led
the field with support from 27 percent of Republicans and
Republican-leaning independent voters, followed by Romney at 22
percent. Prior to Perry’s entry, Romney had led in most polling.  Bachmann Challenge  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who had been
gaining in the polls, now is seeking to halt what the surveys
show has been a loss of support to Perry, particularly among the
Tea Party voters who are her strongest constituency.  She won the Iowa Straw Poll on Aug. 13, and in the wake of
her victory former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty ended his
candidacy. Perry officially announced his campaign in  South
Carolina  on the day of the straw poll and has overshadowed
Bachmann ever since.  In the debate, she mostly stuck to reiterating her views,
offering herself as a candidate with the “core conviction” of
shrinking  government spending .  She did criticize Perry’s 2007 gubernatorial decision to
bypass the  Texas  legislature and issue an executive order that
made the state the first to require pre-teen girls to get
vaccinations against the sexually transmitted human
papillomavirus -- commonly known as HPV -- that causes cervical
cancer.  “It is wrong for government -- whether it’s state or
federal government -- to impose on parents what they must do to
inoculate their children,” Bachmann said. “We have the best
results when we have the private sector and when we have the
family involved. We have the worst results when the federal
government gets involved, and especially by dictating, to impose
something like an inoculation on an innocent 12-year-old girl.”  Perry Concession  Perry conceded he could have handled the issue better.
“Should we have talked to the legislature first before we did
it? Probably so,” he said. “But at the end of the day, I will
always err on the side of saving lives.”  Romney resisted taking Perry to task on the matter, saying,
“We’ve each taken a mulligan or two.”  Representative Ron Paul of Texas promoted his libertarian
agenda, saying he would support the elimination of the federal
minimum wage. “It would help the poor” by leading to greater
 job creation , he said. He also said that as president he would
cease the practice of issuing executive orders “to write
laws.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke came under attack
at the debate, with former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich of
 Georgia  saying he would “fire him tomorrow” and Romney saying
he would “be looking for somebody new” in the post.  ‘Most Inflationary’  “He’s been the most inflationary, dangerous and power-
centered chairman of the Fed in the history of the Fed,”
Gingrich said. Bernanke has “shifted around money in secret
with no responsibility, no accountability,” with “disastrous”
consequences, he said.  Romney said Bernanke’s policies have been ineffective.  “Bernanke has over-inflated the amount of currency that
he’s created,” Romney said. His policies “did not work. It did
not get Americans back to work. It did not get the economy going
again.”  Perry caused concern among some Republicans about his
readiness for a presidential bid when, during his first week as
a candidate, he told a crowd in Iowa that Bernanke would face an
“ugly” greeting in Texas if he pushed for additional
“monetary stimulus.” Perry said he viewed such a policy as
“almost treasonous.”  Cheney Comment  Former Vice President Dick Cheney yesterday was the latest
leading Republican to criticize Perry for those comments,
terming it “inappropriate” in an interview with ABC News.
“I’m not sure if he were to get elected he’d want to use that
kind of language on the Fed chairman,” Cheney said.  The debate also included former Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania  and businessman Herman Cain.  The Republican race still could be roiled by former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, who made campaign-like appearances last
weekend in Iowa and New Hampshire, the states that will start
next year’s nomination voting.  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, has
said she is likely to announce her intentions about a possible
White House bid by the end of September.  Obama, 50, may be politically vulnerable in next year’s
election amid an  unemployment rate  that was 9.1 percent last
month and approval ratings near lows of his presidency.  Perry, who cut short scheduled campaigning this week to
oversee the disaster response to wildfires in Texas, received a
phone call yesterday from Obama, who offered federal assistance
to the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Simi Valley, California, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington, at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  