-- 
Peru Central Bank Keeps Rate at 4.25% for Fourth Month on Global Slowdown

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-08T23:51:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/peru-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-4-25-for-fourth-month-on-global-slowdown.html
Peru ’s central bank kept its
benchmark lending rate unchanged for a fourth month amid a
global slowdown and indicated a readiness to cut borrowing costs
at future meetings to protect the country’s economy.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, held the overnight rate at 4.25 percent, matching the
estimates of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This decision reflects the deceleration in economic
activity and heightening of international financial risks,”
policy makers said in their  statement  posted on the bank’s
website. “The central bank will modify monetary policy if these
trends continue.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and stagnation in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, may undermine Peru’s commodity-
dependent growth, policy makers said when they left rates
unchanged at their last meeting on Aug. 11.  Colombia , Chile and
 Mexico  have also halted rate increases in the past few months,
while Banco Central do Brasil cut its key rate for the first
time in more than two years.  “Growth is going to be slightly below potential given the
global context so you won’t have the pressure from domestic
demand,” said Alonso Segura, head of investment and strategy at
Banco de Credito del Peru, in a phone interview from  Lima .
“It’s premature to cut rates now but going forward the trend
will be downward.”  ‘Gradual Process’  The central bank expects Latin America’s sixth-biggest
economy to expand 6.3 percent in 2011, and 6 percent in 2012,
down from previous forecasts of 6.5 percent for both years,
Velarde told congress on Sept. 6. Over the past five years,
Peruvian growth averaged 7.2 percent.  A 35 percent surge in imports that increased company
inventories in the first half of the year masked a slowdown in
investment sparked by concern President  Ollanta Humala , who took
office July 28, would reverse policies that made Peru the
region’s fastest growing economy in the past decade.  The $153 billion economy expanded 6.6 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in more than a year, as construction
output stalled and manufacturing growth weakened.  Business sentiment  is improving after Humala appointed a
business-friendly Cabinet and struck a deal with mining
companies on increasing royalties.  “The uncertainty is clearing, but it’s a gradual
process,” said Segura. “In the fourth quarter, we’ll see a
more significant recovery in confidence and investment.”  ‘Can Act Quickly’  Electricity demand grew at the fastest pace in six months in
August, while retail sales also signal domestic activity is
“vigorous,” Velarde said.  The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.7247 per dollar today to
boost its gain since April 29 to 3.7 percent, the best
performance among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Though the central bank is focused on reining in inflation,
which is running at a two-year high of 3.35 percent, policy
makers stand ready to adjust rate policy if the global economy
deteriorates, Velarde said.  “We have an array of munitions on the monetary and fiscal
side and can act quickly if the more negative scenario
materializes,” Velarde said. “We can cut  interest rates , lower
 reserve requirements , and inject liquidity.”  Policy makers are concerned slower global growth may
exacerbate a deceleration in private investment that banks
including Barclays Capital Inc. expect to become more apparent
in the third quarter of this year.  ‘Context’ of Growth  The government has drafted what Finance Minister Miguel Castilla on Sept. 1 called “conservative” 2012 spending plans
in case metal prices drop, and is ready shore up demand if a
slowdown threatens metal exports and a projected $73 billion of
private investment over the next five years.  Slower activity and declining international food and energy
prices will keep monthly inflation around the central bank’s
target of 0.2 percent for the rest of the year, said Isaac
Foinquinos, an economist at  BBVA Banco Continental , in a Sept. 1
note to investors.  “The board will monitor the outlook for inflation and its
internal and external determinants and make adjustments to
monetary policy instruments in order to guarantee inflation
converges to the target range in a context of economic growth,”
policy makers said in their statement today.  ‘Scope’ to Cut  Consumer prices rose 0.27 percent in August on a monthly
basis, after jumping 0.79 percent in July. Annual inflation will
probably end 2011 at 4 percent, BNP Paribas analysts including
Italo Lombardi wrote in a Sept. 2 report.  The central bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3
percent.  The global slowdown led  Brazil ’s central bank to
unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate last week even as inflation
runs above target. The reduction marked the start of monetary
easing in the region, according to Bank of America.  With the exception of Colombia,  Latin America ’s central
banks will “move swiftly and cut policy rates much sooner”
than their Asian counterparts, the bank said in a Sept. 1
report. Peru’s central bank will reduce its key rate by 25 basis
points by the end of next year, Bank of America said.  “A rate cut is likely in the next six months because of
the external uncertainty and given business confidence is still
recovering from the elections,” said Segura. “There’s scope
for a cut to 4 percent, but not just yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 