-- 
Peru Court Shortens Prison Sentence for President’s Brother

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/peru-court-shortens-prison-sentence-for-president-s-brother.html
Antauro Humala, the brother of
Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala , will serve a reduced sentence
for the killing of four policemen, the  Supreme Court  said.  The court cut Humala’s prison term to 19 years from 25
years following an appeal, the court said in a  statement  posted
on its website yesterday.  Humala, a former army major, was jailed in September 2009
for killing the officers during the takeover of a police station
in the southern Andean town of Andahuaylas in 2005. At the
original trial, Humala was found guilty on six charges,
including voluntary manslaughter, rebellion and kidnapping. The
Supreme Court reduced the main charge to homicide and ordered
Humala to remain in jail until 2024.  The ruling will be a distraction for the president, who’s
barely a month into his administration, and risks damaging his
popularity among Peruvians who supported his election pledges to
clamp down on the corruption eroding  Peru ’s political and legal
system, said Julio Carrion, a professor of Latin American
politics at the University of  Delaware  in  Newark .  “Most Peruvians distrust judicial institutions and many
would conclude that the ruling came as a result of undue
influences,” Carrion said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Humala’s new administration needs to get traction. The ruling
will be a distraction for a president in need of seizing
political initiative.”  Humala’s presidential  approval rating  was 55 percent in an
Aug. 10-12 poll by Ipsos Apoyo, compared with 41 percent in July
and 70 percent two weeks after he won a June 5 runoff vote.  State Industries  Antauro Humala led a group of army reservists opposed to
foreign investment in Peru and sought to renationalize state
industries sold since 1992. The group called for the resignation
of then President  Alejandro Toledo , whom they accused of
corruption and having surrendered the country’s sovereignty to
investors from abroad.  Ollanta Humala, as a former lieutenant colonel, seized and
occupied  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s Toquepala mine for a week in
2000, to protest corruption in the government of then president
Alberto Fujimori. He has denied having any role in the
Andahuaylas revolt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  