-- 
Colts’ Peyton Manning Underwent Surgery Today to Fuse Neck Bones, NFL Says

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-08T20:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/peyton-manning-has-more-neck-surgery.html
Indianapolis Colts quarterback
 Peyton Manning  underwent additional surgery this morning to
stabilize bones in his neck and is out indefinitely, team owner
Jim Irsay said in an e-mailed statement.  Manning, 35, had vertebrae fused in his neck and will
remain on the team’s active roster until his prognosis becomes
more clear, Irsay said. The National Football League team
yesterday ruled the 11-time Pro Bowl quarterback out for the
team’s season-opening game against the Houston Texans, ending
his streak of 227 consecutive starts, the second longest for a
quarterback in league history.  Manning’s absence means  Kerry Collins , who came out of
retirement to sign with the Colts on Aug. 24, will be their
starter at quarterback. The team is a 9-point underdog to the
Texans, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, who had the teams
even in the opening line.  Manning hasn’t missed a start since his freshman year at
the  University of Tennessee  in 1994. His 227 consecutive starts
since joining the Colts in 1998 are the most among active
players and the second-longest for a quarterback in NFL history
behind  Brett Favre ’s 321. The last Colts player to start at
quarterback other than Manning was  Jim Harbaugh , who is now
coach of the  San Francisco 49ers .  “To say I am disappointed in not being able to play is an
understatement,” Manning said in a statement yesterday. “It
will be tough not to be out there playing for the organization
and our fans. I simply am not healthy enough to play, and I am
doing everything I can to get my health back.”  Fusing Procedure  During cervical fusion surgery, doctors relieve pressure on
the nerve roots and spinal cord by fusing two vertebral disks
together, according to the  Texas Back Institute . The process can
take as long as four hours and is often combined with a
procedure to enlarge the spinal canal, which holds the spinal
cord.  There is no timetable for Manning’s return, Irsay said in
the release. Two former Colts had the same procedure last winter
and both have resumed playing, according to the release, which
didn’t identify either player.  A four-time NFL Most Valuable Player, Manning has missed
only one snap because of injury during his NFL career, in 2001
when he broke his jaw. His streak of 208 straight regular-season
starts is the longest to begin a career, topping the previous
NFL mark of 207 by offensive lineman Gene Upshaw for the  Oakland
Raiders  from 1967 to 1981.  “It’s going to be a little different playing without
Peyton,” Colts coach Jim Caldwell told reporters yesterday.
“He’s obviously one of a kind.”  Previous Surgery  Manning had surgery in May to repair a bulging disc in his
neck, two months before he signed a five-year, $90 million
contract. He was cleared to practice on a limited basis on Aug.
29 before experiencing pain.  Manning’s 54,828 yards passing, 399 passing touchdowns and
4,682 completions are all first among active players.  The 38-year-old Collins is second to Manning among active
players with 40,441 passing yards. He’ll become the sixth
quarterback to take a snap for the Colts during Manning’s NFL
career, joining  Steve Walsh , Mark Rypien, Brock Huard, Jim Sorgi
and Curtis Painter, who will be the backup this week.  “I expect to run the offense, bottom line,” Collins, who
faced the Texans’ defense as quarterback for the American
Football Conference South-rival  Tennessee  Titans from 2006 to
2010, said yesterday. “That’s to make the plays when they are
there, be smart with the ball, make good reads, good decisions,
get us in the right plays when the situation calls for it.”  Eli Manning’s Streak  Manning’s younger brother, Eli Manning of the  New York
Giants , now has the longest active streak for quarterbacks at
110 straight starts, including the playoffs. Eli Manning said
yesterday that he hasn’t spoken to his brother in the past few
weeks, though they’ve exchanged  text messages .  “If you can go through 13 years without missing a game,
that’s impressive no matter what position or what sport,”  Eli
Manning  told reporters yesterday. “I know he wants to be out
there and he’s going to give it his all to get back out there.”  After playing in Houston, the Colts, who have made the
playoffs 11 times in the past 12 years, host the  Cleveland
Browns  on Sept. 18 and the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sept. 25.  “The team will do fine without me,” Peyton Manning said
in his statement yesterday. “I know for sure that I will miss
them much more than they will miss me.”  -- With assistance from Erik Matuszewski in New York. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  