-- 
Pfizer’s Arthritis Pill Matches Abbott’s Shot in Final Studies

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-09-08T20:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/pfizer-s-arthritis-pill-matches-abbott-s-shot-in-final-studies.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental pill for
rheumatoid arthritis was as effective as Humira from  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and showed no new side effects in study results the
company plans to submit for U.S. approval this year.  Nine study summaries were released today and will be
presented at the American College of Rheumatology conference in
 Chicago  in November. In one trial, both doses of Pfizer’s drug,
called tofacitinib, were slightly more effective than Humira
across six categories of improvement in symptoms and patient
mobility, though the study wasn’t big enough to establish the
pill’s superiority.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, designed tofacitinib
to compete with injectable drugs that dominate the market, led
by Humira from  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel, which New York-based
Pfizer shares. The new drug may bring in more than $2.6 billion
a year, said Catherine Arnold, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York.  “This is a game-changing drug,” Arnold said. “Our peak
sales of $2.6 billion are likely conservative.”  Humira will reach peak sales of about $8.5 billion in 2013
before sales decline as doctors grow comfortable with
tofacitinib and other new drugs, said Arnold, who has an
“outperform” rating on Pfizer’s stock and a “neutral” rating
for Abbott.  Pfizer fell 19 cents, or 1 percent, to $18.82 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Abbott declined 86
cents, or 1.6 percent, to $51.44.  Helps Application  “Pfizer believes the risk-benefit profile supports
regulatory submission for both the 5- and 10-milligram dose,”
 Victoria Davis , a spokeswoman for Pfizer, said in an e-mail.
“We are looking forward to filing in the U.S., EU and  Japan  by
the end of the year.”  Tofacitinib is the most-advanced pill in a family of
experimental drugs to target a protein, called JAK, which leads
to joint destruction in 1.3 million Americans with  rheumatoid
arthritis . Three biotechnology companies are trying to catch up
to Pfizer with similar treatments:  Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL) ,
Incyte Corp. and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  Pfizer’s pill is
the only one to complete the third and final stage of tests
generally needed for U.S. regulatory approval.  Unexpected Results  Humira performed unexpectedly poorly in the study, which
may not represent the true effectiveness of the drug, said
Elizabeth Hoff, a spokeswoman for Abbott. The proportion of
Humira patients showing a 20 percent improvement after six
months was 47 percent, compared with a typical proportion of 65
percent of patients with such improvement. Patients with 50
improvement only accounted for 28 percent of those studied,
compared with past studies showing 52 percent of patients.  “Looking at the scores, this isn’t what we typically
see,” Hoff said today in a telephone interview. “These are
very similar patient populations. You see a pretty significant
difference.”  The safety of tofacitinib was similar to what was seen in
previous studies, and deaths and side effects were toward the
lower end of a range of results from similar drugs, the company
reported. Much of the data from the individual studies was
reported previously.  Twelve deaths were reported among 3,030 patients who took
the drug, compared with 1 death among 681 taking a placebo and 1
death among 204 patients on Humira across the Phase 3 studies
completed by Pfizer. Patients spent more time on tofacitinib
than Humira or placebo and deaths per amount of time spent on
the drugs were statistically similar.  Serious Infections  Patients taking tofacitinib were more likely to have
serious infections compared with Humira or placebo. There were
0.029 infectious for every year a patient was taking the Pfizer
pill, compared with 0.015 infections for placebo and 0.017 on
Humira. In at least one trial, infection rates were greater for
those taking the higher of two possible doses of tofacitinib.  Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease in which the
immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue, causing
inflammation in and around joints. Treatments suppress the
immune system and can increase vulnerability to infection.  Shots known as anti-TNF therapy are standard care for the
80 percent of patients who don’t respond to methotrexate, a
generic drug that can block cell growth in people with certain
cancers and immune disorders.  Tofacitinib would add to Pfizer’s recently expanded
offerings in pain and inflammation. The company gained the
arthritis remedy Enbrel in the $68 billion purchase of Wyeth in
2009. The medicine was Pfizer’s second-best seller last year
with $3.3 billion in revenue. The drugmaker bought King
Pharmaceuticals Inc. last year for about $3.3 billion to add
additional painkillers to its range of products.  Pfizer is counting on revenue from its arthritis pill to
help offset losses when its top-selling Lipitor cholesterol
drug, with $10.7 billion in annual sales, faces competition
beginning in November from cheaper copies in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  