-- 
Poland Needs Budget Measures to Ease Credit-Rating Pressure, Fitch Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-08T13:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/poland-needs-budget-measures-to-ease-credit-rating-pressure-fitch-says.html
Poland ’s government must press ahead
with measures to cut the  budget deficit  as slowing growth
threatens revenue and pressures the country’s debt rating, said
Piotr Kowalski, the head of Fitch Ratings’s local unit.  The government’s revenue forecast is “too optimistic” for
next year and Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s plans to narrow the
gap “definitely aren’t sufficient,” Kowalski said yesterday in
an interview in Krynica, Poland. Fitch in March affirmed its A-
grade for Poland with a stable outlook, ranking the country’s
debt between the Czech Republic and Poland.  “Things in  Europe  have changed a lot since March, and the
outlook for the European economy is worse than it was,”
Kowalski, said. “To alleviate negative pressure on Poland’s
rating, we want to see steps that are feasible, are implemented
in reality and not just on paper and are sustainable.”  Tusk is counting on economic growth of 4 percent next year
to help him bring down the general government deficit to less
than 3 percent of gross domestic product from 7.9 percent last
year. Public debt, at 52.8 percent of GDP in 2010, is also
hovering near a legal ceiling of 55 percent of output, a level
that would trigger mandatory austerity measures.  Five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a
borrower’s ability to repay debt or hedge against losses, were
trading at 222.5 basis points yesterday, compared with
Slovakia’s 152.5 and the  Czech Republic ’s 113.6, figures from
data provider CMA show. The level of Poland’s default swaps is
“quite absurd,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said
in an interview with Bloomberg earlier this month.  ‘Increasingly Concerned’  While the government is “going in the right direction,”
current plans won’t get the deficit to within the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP on a  sustainable basis ,
Kowalski said.  Fitch in March warned that it had “become increasingly
concerned about the deteriorating trend in Poland’s public
finances.” The rating is lower than in neighboring Slovakia and
the Czech Republic, both of which are at A+ and higher than
 Hungary ’s BBB-.  Tusk faces a battle to become the first Polish prime
minister since the collapse of communism in 1989 to win a second
term in parliamentary elections scheduled for Oct. 9. Opinion
polls show that while his  Civic Platform  remains the country’s
most popular party, he may be forced to seek a new coalition
partner, making it more difficult to carry out his budget plan.  ‘Able or Willing’  “The question is whether the new government will be able
or willing to implement such a plan,” Kowalski said.  Support for the prime minister’s Civic Platform rose to 35
percent, while backing for the junior coalition partner the
Polish Peasants’ Party was unchanged at 5 percent, the minimum
for parliamentary representation, a Sept. 1-4  survey  of 983
adult Poles published in yesterday’s  Gazeta Wyborcza  found.  To form a coalition with the Democratic  Left Alliance ,
which garnered 9 percent in the same poll, Tusk would have to
overcome years of mistrust. The Alliance emerged from the Polish
United Workers’ Party that ruled Poland for more than four
decades after World War II, while Tusk and many other Civic
Platform leaders fought as anti-communist dissidents.  “The election is important to us because we’ll see
afterwards if and how serious the new government is about
implementing public finance consolidation,” said Kowalski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  