-- 
Zloty Slides to 22-Month Low as Trichet Warns on Europe Risks

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-08T16:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/polish-zloty-extends-decline-versus-euro-after-greek-comments.html
The Polish zloty tumbled to a 22-
month low against the euro as European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said “downside risks” to the euro-area
economy had intensified.  The zloty retreated as much as 1.1 percent to 4.2569, the
lowest intraday level since Nov. 6, 2009, and traded at 4.2522
as of 6:20 p.m. in Warsaw. It has lost 1.5 percent this week,
the most among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The euro area’s economy faces “high uncertainty,” Trichet
said at a press conference after the ECB left its benchmark rate
at 1.5 percent and cut its growth forecasts for this year and
next. German exports unexpectedly declined for a second month in
July, the statistics office said today.  “The zloty is being seen as a very liquid way to express
negativity on  Europe ,” said  Manik Narain , an emerging-market
strategist at UBS AG in  London . “The  euro zone  is looking
rather shaky -- growth is coming down and there is a lot of
political discord so when things get rough that could really
have a knock-on effect on central and eastern Europe.”  The euro-area economy will probably expand 1.6 percent this
year, compared with 1.9 percent growth forecast earlier,
according to the ECB. The outlook was lowered to 1.3 percent
from 1.7 percent for 2012, it said.  Poland sends 55 percent of its exports to countries that
share Europe’s common currency, according to statistics office
data. The country’s central bank yesterday left borrowing costs
unchanged for a second meeting as fears of an economic slowdown
overshadowed concern that price growth may quicken.  The Polish government must press ahead with measures to cut
the  budget deficit  as slowing growth threatens revenue and
pressures the country’s debt rating, Piotr Kowalski, the head of
Fitch Ratings’ local unit, said in an interview published today.  Government Deficit  Prime Minister Donald Tusk is counting on economic growth
of 4 percent next year to help him bring down the general
government deficit to less than 3 percent of gross domestic
product. It stood at 7.9 percent last year, the highest since at
least 1996, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government has no plans to cut the eastern European
nation’s economic growth forecast for 2012, Finance Minister
Jacek Rostowski told reporters today while attending an economic
conference in Krynica,  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  