-- 
Postal Unions’ Grassroots Clout Tested by Planned U.S. Job Cuts

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/postal-unions-grassroots-clout-tested-by-planned-u-s-job-cuts.html
Unions representing the U.S.  Postal
Service ’s 560,000 workers built political clout through campaign
contributions and a grassroots presence in every community in
the nation.  “For many years, it was the entry to the middle class for
minorities and women who couldn’t get through the glass
ceiling,” Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for
Postal Commerce, which represents postal customers, said in an
interview.  Now the unions, and their Democratic allies in Washington,
may be the biggest obstacle to the Postal Service’s plan for
financial solvency, which calls for shedding 220,000 employees
by 2015, including 120,000 who would be fired.  The Postal Service, a $65 billion business operating with a
week’s worth of cash, said Sept. 6 it may have to stop mail
delivery by August unless Congress and President Barack Obama’s
administration agree to steps such as ending Saturday service
and breaking union contracts that bar layoffs for most postal
workers.  The cost of labor, including retiree benefits, represents
80 percent of expenses for the Postal Service as mail volume
declines in an era of e-mail and instant messages. Unions for
postal workers are trying to resist concessions, as have
government employees in states facing deficits.  Giving Up Gains  “Postal unions, once so strong, find themselves, like
others, having to give up past gains in bargaining or risk
tremendous job losses,”  Gary Chaison , a labor professor at
 Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in an
interview. “As government workers with significant lobbying
power, they were able to negotiate major job protections, and
then lobby to have Congress approve the cost of their
agreements.”  The American Postal Workers Union, with 250,000 members
employed by or retired from the Postal Service, is the biggest
union that bargains with the agency, based on current employees.
In May, it ratified an agreement with a two-year wage freeze and
the elimination of some cost-of-living adjustments.  “In the postal realm, it almost is a family affair,”
Cliff Guffey, president of the union, said in testimony Sept. 6
at a Senate committee hearing. “We’re trying to work together
to save the post office.”  The union feels “a bit betrayed” by the service’s latest
cutback plans, he said.  $7 Million Contributed  Unions for postal workers contributed $7 million in the
2010 elections, 90 percent to Democrats, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.
That’s as much as was given by the National Education
Association, representing teachers, and was exceeded among
unions only by the $8.8 million from the  Service Employees
International Union , whose members include health-care workers
and janitors.  Democrats in the House urged this week that the Postal
Service honor labor agreements that prohibit firing most
workers.  Asking Congress to let the service break a months-old
contract would be “neither fair to Postal Service employees nor
helpful to the Postal Service’s credibility in future
negotiations,” Representatives Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the
top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, and Stephen Lynch of Massachusetts, wrote in a Sept.
6 letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe.  Rural, Urban Unions  In addition to Guffey’s union, workers are represented by
the National Rural Letter Carriers’ Association, the National
Association of Letter Carriers, which operates mainly in cities,
and the National Postal Mail Handlers Union, which works in
mail-processing plants and post offices. The National
Association of Postal Supervisors, which represents management,
isn’t subject to collective bargaining.  Before the Postal Service Reorganization Act of 1970, the
service was a full-blown government agency with representation
in the president’s Cabinet.  “It flourished at a time when the growth of mail was so
big, a certain amount of slop in the system was tolerated” in
terms of expenses, according to Del Polito of the postal trade
group based in Alexandria, Virginia, which represents customers
such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Capital One Financial Corp.  The role of the post office as an indispensable service
helped unions win favorable terms even though the law prohibited
them from going on strike, Chaison said.  ‘Taken Advantage Of’  “If their contracts were rejected, it would appear as if
they were being taken advantage of without a right to strike,”
he said.  The introduction of competition into mail services from
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  put new pressure on
the postal unions, Alan Robinson, executive director of the
Center for the Study of the Postal Market based in  Silver
Spring , Maryland, said in an interview.  Compared with 80 percent at the Postal Service, labor
represents 61 percent of costs at UPS and 43 percent at FedEx.
UPS has unionized truck drivers; FedEx drivers aren’t union
members.  Mail volume will decrease 2 percent this fiscal year, for a
drop of 22 percent since 2006, Donahoe said Sept. 6.  The rise of the Internet, not the influence of unions, is
at the root of the Postal Service’s woes, said Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor professor at the  University of California 
at  Santa Barbara .  E-Mail, Twitter  “The unions became strong because postal work is
industrial work, and you need a strong voice to make it
livable,” he said in an interview. “The reason the Postal
Service is in trouble is because we now have e-mail and other
free forms of communication.”  Even the American Postal Workers Union uses social-network
sites such as Twitter Inc.’s service, where it has been posting
pleas for supporters to lobby against job cuts.  The Postal Service, which has lost money for eight
consecutive quarters, may lose $10 billion this year, Donahoe
said, adding to last year’s $6 billion loss.  The losses will leave the Washington-based service unable
to make required payments to the federal government and puts it
at risk of default as it reaches its $15 billion borrowing
limit, Donahoe said.  Six Days  The service is supposed to be self-supporting, and it’s
required to deliver mail six days a week to all addresses in the
U.S. It’s also required under a 2006 law to make annual $5.5
billion payments to pay for health-care costs for future
retirees, a mandate it’s trying to weaken.  The Obama administration said Sept. 6 it is willing to
delay this year’s payment, due to the  U.S. Treasury  on Sept. 30,
by 90 days. Donahoe said even with a delay, the service will be
unable to make the payment.  The service sent a proposal to Congress last month with
changes including cutting 220,000 jobs by 2015, which would
require firing about 120,000 people. Unions criticized the plan.  “We will continue to work with the unions,” Donahoe told
reporters after this week’s hearing. “We think it was the
responsible thing to do to lay out our options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  