-- 
Primary Global Recruited From Publicly Traded Companies, Ex-Analyst Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-08T20:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/primary-global-recruited-from-publicly-traded-companies-ex-analyst-says.html
A former  Primary Global Research LLC 
analyst told a jury his firm actively recruited employees at
publicly traded companies to work as consultants so they’d pass
detailed inside information to fund managers who were clients.  Bob Nguyen, 32, of Stockton,  California , testified as a
prosecution witness against James Fleishman, a former Primary
Global executive on trial in Manhattan federal court for
allegedly participating in an insider-trading scheme.  Nguyen supervised experts from technology companies who
moonlighted at  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global,
which matches investors with specialists who provide insight
into specific markets. He said that after the financial crisis
of 2008, senior Primary Global officials urged staff to recruit
from public companies. Fleishman was present for those meetings,
Nguyen said.  “The financial crisis happened and we’re getting all these
potential experts who aren’t working,” Nguyen said. “The
message was we should be recruiting people who are at publicly
trading companies,” he said. “The reason was, they said, they
were ‘more insightful.’”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps asked Nguyen what he
understood “more insightful” to mean.  “What I understood was that they’d be more useful and
provide more data to clients,” he said.  Of the 15 people charged by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in the insider-trading probe of so-called
expert networkers and fund managers, 12 have pleaded guilty.
One, Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted at trial in June of  securities fraud  and conspiracy.
Fleishman is the second to go to trial.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  