-- 
Putin Starts Pacific Gas Link in Bid to Build Asia Energy Hub

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-08T14:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/putin-starts-domestic-gas-pipeline-from-sakhalin-to-vladivostok.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin  opened a domestic gas  pipeline  on the Pacific coast to
help develop the regional economy and build a hub to meet
growing demand for energy in Asia.  The link, OAO Gazprom’s first major route in the region,
will run from Sakhalin Island, where the company operates a
project with Royal Dutch Shell Plc, to Vladivostok and will be
able to carry 6 billion cubic meters a year.  “Today gas will reach the Primorsky region and serve the
citizens of Russia,” Putin told reporters today at a ceremony
on Russky Island, off Vladivostok, where he pushed a button
marking the start of flows through the link.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, is building
pipelines in the region at the government’s request to bring the
fuel to homes and industries in the infrastructure-poor east.
The state-controlled company plans to build a link merging with
the Sakhalin-Khabarovsk-Vladivostok pipeline that may support
gas exports to  Asia . Gazprom will start building the link from
Yakutia to Vladivostok next year, Putin said today.  Gazprom is in talks with  North Korea  and  South Korea  on
building a pipeline through the peninsula after years of seeking
a suitable supply route. The company is also seeking a price
agreement for supplies to  China  via a planned route to the west.  The Moscow-based company is also considering construction
of a liquefied natural gas plant in Vladivostok and laying a
pipeline to the Korean Peninsula to turn the region into a major
supplier of fuel to Asia. Gazprom and Shell produce LNG in the
region at the country’s only facility, part of their Sakhalin-2
project.  Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas export monopoly, has stymied plans by
Exxon Mobil Corp., which is developing the Sakhalin-1 project
with partners including state-controlled OAO Rosneft, to ship
gas to China. Gazprom has said it plans to purchase Sakhalin-1
gas for domestic needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  