-- 
Qatar’s Stocks Retreat on Speculation Gains Overdone, Oil

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-08T11:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/qatar-s-stocks-retreat-on-speculation-gains-overdone-oil.html
Qatar’s benchmark stock index
declined for the first time in three days on speculation a gain
this week prompted by a decision to raise salaries and pensions
for nationals was overdone.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest
lender by assets, retreated 1 percent. Commercial Bank of Qatar
QSC fell a second time this week. The  QE Index (DSM)  decreased 0.4
percent, the most since Sept. 5, to 8,366.39 at the 1 p.m. close
in Doha, trimming the gain for the week to 0.2 percent. The
index advanced 1.1 percent the previous two trading days. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of regional shares climbed 0.1 percent.  “The Qatari market is losing a bit of steam after two days
of relatively good performance on the back of the government
decision to increase government employees salaries and military
salaries,” said Samer Darwiche, a financial analyst at Gulfmena
Investments in Dubai. The move “is beneficial for retail; for
banks with high retail exposure.”  Qatar stocks increased basic salary and pensions of Qatari
civilian employees by 60 percent as of Sept. 1. Military
officers received a 120 percent raise and military personnel of
other ranks received a 50 percent increase, the state-run Qatar
News Agency said Sept. 6.  Price Controls  Qatari Business and Trade Minister Jassim bin Abdul Aziz Al
Thani said his ministry will intensify efforts to crack down on
“unjustified” price increases after the decision, Al Raya
newspaper reported, citing an interview with the minister.  Crude oil for October delivery fell as much as 0.8 percent
to $88.6 a barrel. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Commercial Bank of Qatar (CBQK)  lost 1.2 percent, the most since
Sep. 5, to 82.5 riyals. Qatar National declined to 141.9 riyals,
the lowest since Aug. 29.  In  Kuwait ,  Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL)  fell for the first
time in more than two weeks, declining 2.7 percent to 36 fils,
after the Kuwait-based investment bank was lowered to
“underweight” from “neutral” at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “Investors are not willing to put money in the market
before the weekend,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital. “The high volatility
due to the global economies’ uncertainty” also triggered the
weakness, he said.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.5 percent and  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased less than 0.1 percent.
Oman’s MSM 30 Index rose 0.3 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index gained 0.7 percent. Kuwait’s gauge advanced 0.9 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  