-- 
Illinois Governor Wins Dismissal of Pay-Freeze Suit by Public Employees

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T20:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/quinn-wins-dismissal-of-illinois-public-employees-lawsuit-over-pay-freeze.html
Illinois Governor Pat Quinn won
dismissal of a lawsuit by a public-employee union seeking to
reverse an order freezing the pay of 30,000 government workers.  The American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees council representing Illinois workers alleged that the
pay freeze violated its collective-bargaining agreements,
according to a federal complaint filed July 8 in the state
capital, Springfield.  “Requiring the state to issue pay raises would take money
already allotted for other purposes from an underfunded budget
and cause the state to run out of money even faster,” U.S.
District Judge Sue Myerscough wrote yesterday in a 26-page
ruling.  The union said it will appeal the decision, saying in a
statement that that the facts “clearly counter the judge’s
contention that the pay freeze is necessary to insure the
state’s solvency.”  The governor said at a Chicago press conference today that
he’s pleased with the court’s decision. He also said Illinois
will have to lay off more than 1,900 employees and close seven
state facilities including three mental health centers, two
developmental centers and two correctional facilities.  Lieutenant Governor  Quinn, a Democrat, was elected to his first full term last
year. He was elevated from lieutenant governor in January 2009
following the impeachment of predecessor Rod Blagojevich.  “We clearly do not enough money in the budget that was
appropriated by the legislature in the spring to pay the
personnel and the facility costs of a number of our facilities
and people who work for the state of Illinois,” he said.  He called the wage freeze “phase 1” of the state’s
budgeting and today’s announced closures and layoffs “phase
2.” The state has a $33.2 billion general fund budget for the
current fiscal year which ends on June 30.  The union had said in its complaint that the employees have
a contractual right to receive a 2 percent pay raise, which
along with longevity-based increases, would cost about
$75 million, according to state estimates.  ‘Supplemental Appropriation’  “The governor could simply seek a supplemental
appropriation if he believed one was necessary,” the union said
in the statement. “Such a step is common; nine supplemental
appropriations have been approved in just the past six years.”  The group also said the freeze is unfair because some
workers in the 14 departments and agencies subject to it do the
same kind of jobs as employees in other departments that aren’t
affected.  Myerscough ruled that the wage freeze promoted “cost-
containment,” which she called a legitimate government interest
that trumped the workers’ claims of disparate treatment.  The case is Council 31 of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO v. Quinn, 11-03203, U.S.
District Court, Central District of Illinois (Springfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  