-- 
Quinn Says 1,900 Layoffs Needed to Fill Illinois Budget Gap

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-08T19:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/quinn-says-layoffs-needed-to-fix-illinois-budget-avoid-partial-shutdown.html
Illinois  will have to lay off more
than 1,900 state employees and close seven facilities to avoid a
partial government shutdown next spring, Democratic Governor Pat Quinn said today.  “It’s time for a rendezvous with reality,” Quinn said at
a news conference in  Chicago . The state “clearly does not have
enough money.”  The governor’s proposed austerity measures set the stage
for a budget clash with state lawmakers, who three months ago
approved a $33.2 billion general fund budget that Quinn said is
inadequate to run state services through the end of the current
fiscal year, which ends June 30.  His job-cut threats are similar to those made by fellow
Democratic chief executives. In  New York , members of the state’s
biggest public union, the Civil Service Employees Association,
voted to approve wage and benefit concessions last month after
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  had vowed to fire almost 10,000 workers.
State-worker unions in  Connecticut  on Aug. 18 authorized a two-
year wage freeze and other changes after Governor Dannel Malloy
notified 3,000 workers of job losses.  Illinois joins other states anticipating less revenue as
the  U.S. economy  struggles to recover. California faces drastic
reductions in payments to universities, schools and social
programs if revenue continues to trail budget forecasts, the
state controller said after July collections fell short by about
10 percent.  Ohio Shortfall  Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, has asked aides to
monitor collections to determine whether the state needs to
reduce planned spending. Revenue in July trailed the budget
forecast by $16 million, or 1.3 percent, according to
preliminary data.  The facility closings in Illinois, including one prison and
three mental-health institutions, would be “around the first of
the year,” Quinn said, adding that this will give lawmakers
“time to reflect.” Laid-off employees could be hired back if the
Legislature appropriates the money, said  Kelly Kraft , a Quinn
spokeswoman.  The timing of the governor’s threatened actions was
unnecessary, said Anders Lindall, spokesman for AFSCME Council
31, which represents 40,000 state workers.  “The cuts, closures and layoffs threatened today would do
great harm to the people of Illinois,” Lindall said.  Billions in Bills  Illinois lawmakers ended their spring session June 1
without paying an estimated $6.2 billion in overdue bills to
vendors. Quinn, who had proposed a borrowing package to cover
the backlog, said earlier this week that the Legislature did not
approve enough money in the budget to keep the state operating
for a full year.  Lawmakers in January increased personal income taxes by 67
percent and the corporate rate by 46 percent to eliminate half
of a projected $13 billion deficit in the previous budget year.  “He has come here to lecture the General Assembly on how to
spend even more,” said state Senator  Matt Murphy , a Republican
from Palatine. “That tax increase that was sold as temporary --
how temporary does it look right now when it doesn’t even pay
the bills we have today.”  Senate President John Cullerton, a Democrat from Chicago,
said in a prepared statement that lawmakers will “study the
governor’s plans to determine what legislative action may be
needed.”  Budget Confrontation  A new budget confrontation has been looming since July 1,
when Quinn canceled 4 percent pay raises for 30,000 state
employees that were due to take effect that day, saying the
state didn’t have the money. AFSCME Council 31, the state’s
largest public employee union, challenged the move in court,
calling it a violation of a collective bargaining agreement.  A federal judge today rejected the union’s challenge.
AFSCME said in a statement that it will appeal the ruling.  Lawmakers are scheduled to return to Springfield, the state
capital, in October for the fall session.  Illinois is tied with  California  as the lowest-rated state
in the estimation of Moody’s Investors Service, at A1.  Standard
& Poor’s  has it at A+, one level above California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
Tjones58@@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  