-- 
Ralph Fiennes Stumbles in $1.6 Million ‘Tempest’: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/ralph-fiennes-stumbles-in-1-6-million-tempest-wesker-revived-u-k-stage.html
Trevor Nunn’s London production of
“The Tempest” with  Ralph Fiennes  has already racked up advance
ticket sales of 1 million pounds ($1.6 million).  That’s great for theater coffers, and not so great for
theater goers.  There are pretty doublets and jerkins to look at. Ariel
flits across the stage in a flying harness. Nobody trips over
the props. And it all has as much urgency and energy as a
refrigerator defrosting.  Fiennes seems a bit lost as Prospero, the magician at the
heart of the play. He raises his voice when he’s angry and
lowers it when he’s not, just as he should, and yet the
animating fire of inner life rarely seems to flicker. His final
valedictory speech is full of pauses which demonstrate feeling
without conveying it. It’s slow stuff.  This impression of unearned emotion runs through Nunn’s
direction too. When Sebastian (Chris Andrew Mellon) is tempted
to murder his sleeping brother Alonso, King of Naples (James
Simmons), there’s little sense of the weight of monarchical
hierarchy or terror. This isn’t the fault of the actors, who are
perfectly competent. It’s just that Nunn hasn’t provided a rich
dramatic universe of relationships for them to inhabit. They
might as well be planning to descale a kettle as murder a king.  Some of the actors fare better than others. Elisabeth
Hopper tries hard to show her youth and innocence as Prospero’s
young daughter Miranda. Too hard. The result is a performance of
wide-eyed smirks and telegraphic cutesiness.  Comedic Death  Nunn’s approach is death to the comedy scenes too. Both
Nicholas Lyndhurst (Stephano) and Clive Wood (Trinculo) are fine
comic actors. Their drunken routines still pass by in a fog of
pointless shtick.  It’s curious that a director famous for his musicals (“ Les
Miserables ,” “Cats”) should cast actors who can’t sing in
tune for the masques.  There’s one plus to this hands-off approach. Nunn employs
Giles Terera, a black actor, to play Caliban in an otherwise
white cast (bar the understudy). The audience can judge for
itself the consequences of Prospero’s paternalistic colonialism,
without any tub-thumping.  Other than that, it’s more of a squib than a tempest.  Rating: *½.  ‘The Kitchen’  With “The Tempest,” a great play gets a dull production.
Over at the National Theatre, it’s vice versa.  Arnold Wesker’s  1959 work “ The Kitchen ” is set among the
ovens, griddles and hobs at the back of a large restaurant.
There’s a mere scrap of plot which concerns Peter, a preparer of
boiled-fish, and his affair with married waitress Monique.  The rest of the play is taken up with snatches of scrappy
dialogue between the Italians, Germans, Frenchmen, and Jews who
work in the kitchen. There’s a political message buried
somewhere among the contrived and stilted exchanges about the
indignity of modern working conditions.  Director Bijan Sheibani works magic with it. On a realistic
set with gas flames and hobs, he uses several effective tricks
to fill the Olivier stage with spectacle. There are beautifully
choreographed ensemble scenes. There are freeze-frames to
highlight revelations. There are expressionistic dances.  The highlight comes at the end of Act 1 during a
particularly stressful lunch service, performed to a sinister
whirling waltz tune. The huge cast of 30 criss-cross amongst
each other shouting orders, chopping food, serving meat. It
becomes more and more hectic and outrageous, and ends with a
laugh-out-loud coup de theatre.  If Sheibani can do that with such unpromising material,
it’s tempting to wonder what he might make of “The Tempest.”  Rating: **.  “The Tempest” is at the Theatre Royal Haymarket.
Information:  http://www.trh.co.uk  or +44-845-481-1870  “The Kitchen” is at the National Theatre. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 