-- 
Rand Gains For Third Day to Euro as Trichet Sees ‘Downside Risk’ to Growth

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-08T14:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/rand-gains-for-second-day-to-dollar-before-policy-makers-address-growth.html
The rand advanced against the euro
for a third day as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude
Trichet  said “downside risks” to the region’s economy have
intensified. Bonds gained.  South Africa’s currency strengthened as much as 0.4 percent
to 10.0034 per euro, and traded 0.3 percent stronger at 10.0108
as of 3:56 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The 17-nation euro, the currency of 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports, extended declines versus the dollar and most
of its peers after Trichet said inflation risks are balanced,
and no longer to the upside, sparking speculation of a rate cut
that would widen the rand’s yield advantage. The ECB kept its
main  interest rate  on hold at 1.5 percent earlier.  Trichet’s comments “raised the possibility of a rate cut”
to bolster the euro region,  George Glynos , an analyst at
Econometrix Treasury Management, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “I was hoping for something more decisive from
the ECB” to bolster growth, he added.  The rand retreated 0.2 percent to 7.1534 per dollar,
declining for a second day, on concern Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen, dimming the outlook for global growth, and before
speeches by President Obama and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  today.  The rand retreated as much as 0.6 percent to 7.1819 per
dollar, and traded 0.2 percent down at 7.1534 at 3:57 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Bond Movement  “There is concern about the major meetings today, and a
general risk-off sentiment,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone.  Obama will address Congress today on a $300 billion plan
that includes tax cuts and direct aid to state and local
governments, while Bernanke will discuss the U.S. economic
outlook.  “We’ve heard anecdotal evidence of reduced liquidity in
the market, and that’s not surprising given concerns about the
European banking industry and the credit crunch-like conditions
in  Europe ,” Glynos said. “A lot of investors are seriously
unsure about the direction of the market.”  Bonds advanced on expectations more monetary easing and
fiscal stimulus in the U.S. will boost demand for higher-
yielding fixed-interest securities, and after Business Day
reported Deputy Reserve Bank Governor Lesetja Kganyago said
foreign investor demand for the nation’s bonds will continue due
to the nation’s relatively low debt and stable fiscal policies.  The 6.75 percent notes due 2021 climbed 82 cents to 94.64
rand, driving the yield down 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 7.55 percent.  “Foreigners will continue to find value in relatively
high-yielding local bonds,” Tradition Analytics strategists led
by Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in e-mailed comments. “The fiscal
risks facing  South Africa  are minimal compared with those facing
the Western world economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  