-- 
Reckless, Dumb and Scared: Coming of Age After 9/11: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-08T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/reckless-dumb-and-scared-growing-up-in-dysfunction-post-9-11-ezra-klein.html
You know how we know the terrorists
didn’t win? It’s not because we killed  Osama bin Laden . It’s
because we killed him and we didn’t really care.  Which is not to say that we won, either. It’s more to say
it’s been a weird decade.  According to the  Gallup  Poll, President  Barack Obama ’s
“Osama bump” in his approval rating was about five points and
lasted about five weeks. Think about that for a second:
President Obama ordered a daring SEAL raid that ended in the
execution of America’s deadliest foe and the president’s
approval rose five points for five weeks. The president can get
five points for five weeks by switching from white bread to
whole grains. He could probably get twice that from a single
appearance on “ American Idol .”  Consider where we were just three short years ago, when
 Dunkin’ Donuts  was forced to pull a commercial in which Rachael Ray wore a scarf that looked, to some conservative bloggers,
like a kaffiyeh. What’s a kaffiyeh, you ask? Michelle Malkin
described it as “the traditional scarf of Arab men that has
come to symbolize murderous Palestinian jihad.” “Good Morning
America” explained the controversy to its viewers by flashing a
picture of Ray next to  Yasser Arafat . Yep, Yum-O and Yasser: Can
you tell the difference?  (You think I’m making this up? It’s on  YouTube .)  That was politics in post-Sept. 11 America, and it was the
only politics I knew. When the planes hit the towers, I was 17.
My first vote was in 2002, when bin Laden was the star of many
political ads. And for all the talk of resolve and courage and
endurance, the post-Sept. 11 world struck me as almost crazed
with fear.  Young and Reckless  I was a little crazed with fear myself. I supported the
Iraq War based on the argument that  Saddam Hussein  was an
irrational tinpot imperialist who would use weapons of mass
destruction the moment he got them. I’m pretty sure I actually
parroted  Condoleezza Rice ’s famous line: “We don’t want the
smoking gun to be a mushroom cloud.”  The whole episode brings to mind another line from the Bush
era: Candidate  George W. Bush ’s admission that “when I was
young and reckless, I was young and reckless.” The post-Sept.
11 reality was worse than that. When we Americans grew scared,
we became reckless.  The policies that ensued haven’t lost their capacity to
amaze -- starting with the trillions of dollars in tax cuts that
were never paid for. Initially sold as a way to spend down a
surplus, as we tipped toward recession in 2001 they were resold
as the way to avoid a downturn. Many of the cuts were passed
before Sept. 11, of course, but in blowing that first big hole
in the federal budget, they made everything that came next all
the more remarkable.  We went on to enter not just one war, but two. And we
didn’t pay for either one. Nor did we pay when we added a
prescription drug benefit to Medicare, nor when we decided to
boost infrastructure spending. “Deficits,” explained Vice
President  Dick Cheney , “don’t matter.”  We stopped caring what other countries thought of us, and
to some degree, what we thought of ourselves. We tortured and
surveilled and dodged the courts. We derided our longtime allies
as “old  Europe ” and fooled ourselves into thinking we could
remake the entire  Middle East  in our image, and be  showered  with
flowers while we did it. Looking back, the whole period feels
like a fever dream.  Holiday From Rules  But we can’t quite seem to wake from it. We spent trillions
on foreign wars and allowed our physical infrastructure to
deteriorate and our technological infrastructure to fall behind
that of the rest of the developed world. We ignored the increase
in inequality and laughed off the decline in U.S. manufacturing.
We fed a credit bubble that would eventually pop our economy and
ran up the debt and eased monetary policy in ways that would
make an effective countercyclical response almost impossible.
Our problems today are not the result of Sept. 11, but they are
in many ways the result of Sept. 12.  After Sept. 11, there was talk that our “ holiday from
history ,” as George Will put it, had ended. And it had. But we
understood our new world too narrowly. We declared war on
terrorism and assumed that the righteousness of our struggle
gave us a holiday from the normal rules of governance. It
didn’t. And then our holiday from economic history ended, too.  The lesson of Sept. 11 was that we are vulnerable to
foreign threats. The lesson of Sept. 12 is that we are also
vulnerable to ourselves. Kids can get away with being dumb and
reckless. Superpowers, it turns out, can’t.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  