-- 
Republicans Ask Geithner for Report on U.S. Rules Reductions

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-08T19:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/republicans-ask-geithner-for-report-on-u-s-rules-reductions.html
Republicans on the U.S. House
Financial Services Committee asked Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to provide an update on rules that have been eliminated
or streamlined since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act.  “We’ve asked him to let us know which rules have been
eliminated and whether they’ve met their promises,”
Representative  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama , chairman of the panel,
said today at a press conference.  Bachus and his colleagues, in a letter sent today, are
citing a speech made on Aug. 2 of last year in which Geithner
said he would “streamline and simplify” financial regulations
wherever possible as agencies implement Dodd-Frank rules.  The lawmakers gave Geithner and the interagency panel he
chairs, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, until Oct. 1
to report on efforts to reduce or eliminate “unnecessary or
duplicative regulatory burdens.”  Republicans and Democrats have sparred over the merits of
the new law since its enactment in July 2010. Republican
lawmakers, who almost unanimously opposed the measure, have
pushed for changes to the law and in some cases full repeal,
saying it represents regulatory overreach in financial markets.
Congressional Democrats have resisted efforts to roll back the
new law, which includes rules for the  derivatives market ,
creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and
implements a new regulatory structure to identify risks to the
financial system.  “The FSOC, which you chair, needs to conduct a thorough
analysis of the current regulatory structure; eliminate outdated
or duplicative regulations; and perform a rigorous cost-benefit
analysis on every new regulation before they are finalized,”
the lawmakers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  