-- 
Revenue Bonds Catch Up to General-Obligation Debt: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/revenue-bonds-catch-up-to-general-obligations-as-growth-slows-muni-credit.html
Municipal debt backed by revenue
such as sales taxes is catching up with the performance of
general-obligation bonds in the past three months as signs of
slowing U.S. economic growth prompt investors to seek specific
income streams.  The trend may help this week’s largest deal, $463 million
of sales-tax bonds for mass-transit projects by the Harris
County Metropolitan Transit Authority, which serves Houston.  Tax-exempt securities backed by pledges of dedicated
revenue from taxes or fees returned 3.5 percent in the past
three months, 0.30 percentage point more than general-obligation
debt, according to a Standard & Poor’s/Investortools Municipal
Bond Index. General obligations are still ahead for 2011, by
0.11 percentage point.  “Most revenue-credit sectors are facing far lower
structural credit stresses than states and local governments are
and at the same time are offering greater yields,” Michael Zezas, a municipal strategist at New York-based Morgan Stanley,
said in a telephone interview.  “The combination of those two factors suggests to us that
revenue bonds are a better risk-adjusted bet for municipal-bond
portfolios,” Zezas said.  The  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book survey yesterday
that economic growth has slowed in some regions of the country.
The report covered the second half of July until Aug. 26.  Lowest Level  The Texas authority’s sales-tax bond transaction is being
offered as yields on tax-exempt securities fall to the lowest
levels in more than two years. Yields on 10-year top-rated
general obligations dropped to 2.1 percent yesterday, the lowest
since at least January 2009, when Bloomberg’s data for the
securities begins.  Revenue debt, including sales-tax-backed bonds, offers
investors a more reliable stream than local municipal general-
obligation bonds that rely mostly on property taxes, Tom Spalding, who oversees about $10 billion of municipal assets at
Nuveen Investment Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview.  “To the extent that the real-estate market has still not
recovered and it seems like the consumer is spending more in
line with last year, I think that we prefer to see that
dedicated revenue,” Spalding said.  Yield Spread  The bonds may yield 0.55 percentage point above Municipal
Market Data Group’s AAA rated tax-exempt index for debt maturing
in 2041, Spalding said. That would mean a yield of about 4.25
percent based on the 30-year index rate of 3.70 percent on Sept.
6, according to Thomson Municipal Market Monitor. The securities
are rated Aa2 or third-highest by Moody’s Investors Service.  An AA+ rated San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District
sales-tax bond sold in 2006 and maturing July 2036 traded Sept.
6 with an average yield of 4.34 percent, or 0.64 percentage
point above that day’s 30-year MMD curve. During fiscal 2011,
which ended June 30, weekday average  ridership  totaled 345,256.  Revenue bonds beat general-obligation securities the past
two years, after trailing them in 2008 and 2007, according to
S&P data.  The Harris County agency bonds are repaid by three-quarters
of the county’s 1 percent sales-and-use tax. The authority
expects sales-tax revenue to increase by 5 percent in fiscal
2012, which begins Oct. 1, after beating a forecast gain of 1.9
percent this year and a 4 percent drop in fiscal 2010, according
to a Moody’s report.  The transaction should be well received because the area’s
sales-tax collections have fared better during the economic
downturn than other parts of the U.S., Regina Shafer, who
manages $5.2 billion of municipal assets at USAA Investment
Management Co. in  San Antonio , said in a telephone interview.  Houston Economy  “The Houston economy has certainly weathered better than a
lot of other areas in the U.S.,” she said. “Even though there
was a decline in sales-tax revenue, coverage is very, very
strong.”  The system served 259,228 weekday bus and rail riders, on
average, this fiscal year according to the authority’s July 2011
 ridership report . Passenger traffic has declined each year since
fiscal 2007, according to Moody’s.  Bond proceeds will finance an extension of the system’s
light-rail line, purchase 100 hybrid buses, and refinance a
portion of outstanding commercial paper, according to Moody’s.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY , which oversees a 570-
mile toll road system, will sell as soon as today $350 million
of personal-income tax revenue bonds to finance highway and
bridge projects. The bonds are rated AAA,  Standard & Poor’s 
highest grade. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. LLC will lead banks
on the deal. (Updated Sept. 8)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  