-- 
Trichet Says ‘Downside Risks’ in Euro Area Have Intensified

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-08T13:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/trichet-says-downside-risks-in-euro-area-have-intensified.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy and the
sovereign debt crisis.  He made the remarks in Frankfurt today after the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.5 percent.  On monetary policy:  “We expect the euro area economy to grow moderately,
subject to particularly high uncertainty and intensified
downside risks. At the same time, short-term interest rates are
low. While our monetary policy stance remains accommodative,
some financing conditions have tightened. It remains essential
for monetary policy to focus on its mandate of maintaining price
stability over the medium term, thereby ensuring that recent
price developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures.”  “In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to the
economic outlook for the euro area are on the downside, in an
environment of particularly high uncertainty. Downside risks
mainly relate to the ongoing tensions in some segments of the
financial markets in the euro area and at the global level, as
well as to the potential for these pressures to spill over into
the euro area real economy. They also relate to further
increases in energy prices, protectionist pressures and the
possibility of a disorderly correction of global imbalances.”  “As regards the balance of risks for both growth and
inflation, the main changes are that a month ago we considered
that the balance for the risk of growth was balanced, which is
not the case today.”  “We were unanimous in considering that the interest rates
had not to be changed. We have, as you might imagine, very, very
thoroughly reflected on the situation, as regards the real
economy, and again as I already said we changed our judgment on
the qualification on the balance of risks. We also looked very
carefully at the balance of risks. And we changed the position
we had previously taken.”  On inflation:  “The Governing Council views the risks to the medium-term
outlook for price developments as being broadly balanced. On the
upside, the main risks relate to the possibility of higher than
assumed increases in oil and non-oil commodity prices as well as
increases in indirect taxes and administered prices, owing to
the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years. The main
downside risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected
growth in the euro area and globally.”  “We had last month the sentiment that there was an upward
risk for inflation, and today we have the judgment that the
risks for inflation are balanced.”  “Observers know we have a very solid situation in this
respect, avoiding the risks of inflation, the materialization of
the risks of inflation, and also the materialization of the risk
of deflation. We never saw either materialization of the risks
of deflation or real threat of deflation in the eyes of the
market. That is something which is important to underline.”  On liquidity for banks:  “We stand ready to provide liquidity as we have done in
the past, taking into account the need for the banking sector.”  “There’s no liquidity issue for the banking sector as a
whole.”  “If I look at eligible collateral European banks have, and
what is provided, you see that there is a possibility to obtain
liquidity that is a multiple of what we supply.”  “We’re very keen through these non-standard measures to
provide liquidity.”  On Italy:  “We have confirmation that there is implementation of what
has been said.”  “We have sent messages to the Italian government. I myself
have sent messages to the governor of the Banca d’Italia.”  “I had occasion to say before the final confirmation was
there how decisive it was that all the commitments that had been
taken would be implemented.”  On Greece:  “I make the working assumption that the Greek government,
receiving a very strong signal from the IMF, the commission,
from us, will do what is necessary and fully respect the
commitment that has been taken.”  On Switzerland:  “We are in a situation where the central bank of
Switzerland after due and appropriate discussion has taken a
decision in full responsibility. This is a decision we
respect.”  “I wouldn’t consider that you can compare the yen, as one
of the major currencies of the advanced economies, and the Swiss
franc, which is at the heart of Europe, which is a relatively
small economy.”  “I would say we’re in two different cases.”  On efforts to tackle the sovereign debt crisis:  “Our message for governments since the setting up of the
euro has been: be very, very attentive to respect the Stability
and Growth Pact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  