-- 
Trichet Prepares Draghi to Use Tools in ECB Box

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-09T08:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/trichet-clears-the-decks-for-draghi-to-use-all-tools-in-ecb-box.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet is clearing the decks for  Mario Draghi  to
step up the fight against  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis.  “If it remains a market crisis, the ECB may just give
banks more liquidity but if it spreads to the real economy, they
may even cut rates,” said Chris Scicluna, deputy head of
economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in London.
“If things get bad enough, Draghi’s first job in November may
be to cut rates. Trichet prepared the ground for it.”  Trichet, 68, yesterday left the door open for the ECB to
reverse its interest-rate increases earlier this year and add
new emergency liquidity lines to the euro region’s crisis-hit
banks. After last month expanding its bond-purchase program to
include Spain and  Italy  and offering banks emergency cash for
six months, Trichet acknowledged that the economic outlook has
since worsened and inflation risks have eased.  The euro dropped the most in a month yesterday and German
10-year bund yields plunged as investors speculated the ECB
could cut the benchmark from 1.5 percent or open up more
emergency funds for banks. The single currency traded at $1.3856
at 10:52 a.m. in  Frankfurt , little changed on the day. German
10-year bund yields dropped as much as six basis points to a
euro-era record of 1.821 percent today.  The economic outlook for Draghi, 64, when he takes over at
the helm of the ECB in November, looks very different to the one
when he emerged as the front runner after  Germany ’s Axel Weber
pulled out in February.  Global Recession  At the time, the Frankfurt-based ECB was preparing to raise
interest rates to stem inflation and Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, was in danger of overheating.  Now, Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  says current conditions remind him of those at the
depth of the global credit crisis in 2008.  The sovereign debt crisis is undermining confidence in
Europe’s financial institutions and driving up market borrowing
costs. Stocks have slumped around the world with investors
fretting about a renewed global recession and authorities in
 Japan  and Switzerland were forced to intervene to stop their
currencies appreciating.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
told Japan’s TV  Tokyo  in an interview yesterday that as long as
“our low  interest rates  aren’t transformed or translated into
the lending rates,” the central bank is “prepared to
intervene” in bond markets as a “temporary” measure.  ECB Tools  “The combination of downside risks to growth and balanced
risks for inflation leaves Draghi with a fair degree of freedom
to change monetary policy when he succeeds Trichet later this
year,” said Derek Allassani, an economist at National  Australia 
Bank in London.  The ECB yesterday cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6
percent from 1.9 percent and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent for
2012. Inflation forecasts were left unchanged at 2.6 percent for
2011 and 1.7 percent for next year. The central bank aims to
keep inflation just below 2 percent.  While Morgan Stanley chief European economist  Elga Bartsch 
in  London  said a rate cut could come as soon as Trichet’s last
meeting in October if downside growth risks materialize, others
including Societe Generale SA Chief European Economist  James Nixon  said the central bank is likely to use other tools such as
offering banks loans with longer maturities first.  ‘Keep Calm’  “Now is the time for the ECB to keep their calm when all
around them are losing theirs,” London-based Nixon said. “The
ECB’s tool kit is fairly well established at this stage, they
have that ready. They’ve got to keep what they’ve got in use and
let these measures run their course.”  The 23-member Governing Council decided last month to
extend unlimited allotment in its refinancing operations through
the end of the year and offer banks as much money as they need
in a six-month tender, an operation the ECB last used after
 Greece ’s first bailout program was announced in May 2010.  Other central banks are turning their attention to
supporting economic growth. The Bank of Canada said earlier this
week there is a “diminished” need for it to raise interest
rates, Sweden’s Riksbank abandoned a planned increase and the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia signaled it’s prepared to keep
borrowing costs on hold.  The  Bank of England  will be forced to add stimulus within
months, according to economists at Citigroup Inc. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The U.K. central bank yesterday kept its key
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent and left its bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) yesterday.  Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
said while further ECB rate increases are “off the table,” a
cut in the benchmark still “seems to be one bridge too far.”  “Things have to get a lot worse before Draghi, being the
first Italian ECB president, will draw the rate-cut bazooka,”
he said. “Trichet has left him with plenty of other tools.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  