-- 
Trichet Opens Path for Further Steps as Euro Region’s Growth Forecasts Cut

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-08T16:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/trichet-says-growth-outlook-worsens-in-euro-region-as-inflation-risks-wane.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said threats to the euro region have
worsened and inflation risks have eased, giving officials the
option to take further action should the debt crisis worsen.  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press conference
in Frankfurt today after the ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent. While monetary policy is still “accommodative,”
financing conditions have worsened in parts of the 17-member
euro region and the ECB stands ready to pump more cash into
markets if needed, he said.  The yield on German 10-year bunds fell to a record as some
investors speculated the ECB could cut interest rates or open up
more emergency credit lines for banks. The spreading debt crisis
is sapping confidence in  Europe ’s financial institutions,
driving up market borrowing costs and forced the ECB to widen
its bond purchase program to Italy and  Spain .  “The hiking cycle has been aborted and Trichet even
offered some goodies for rate cut fetishists,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “A further
worsening of the economy and deflationary tendencies could force
the ECB’s hand to act. The tightening bias is gone.”  The euro dropped as much as 1.1 percent and traded at
$1.3952 at 6:19 p.m. in Frankfurt. The currency has depreciated
4 percent against the dollar this year.  ‘Kitchen Sink’  The ECB today cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent
from 1.9 and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent for 2012. Inflation
forecasts were left unchanged at 2.6 percent for 2011 and 1.7
percent for next year. The central bank aims to keep inflation
just below 2 percent.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, President  Barack Obama  today will propose new payroll tax relief for employers
while limiting the benefit to small businesses, according to an
administration document obtained by Bloomberg News. Separately,
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is due to speak on the
economic outlook at 1:30 p.m. New York time.  “The situation has deteriorated so much that they should
throw the kitchen sink at it,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London . The ECB could
cut rates, offer banks unlimited cash for up to a year or use a
combination of those measures, he said. Today’s remarks “went
further in a ‘dovish’ direction than we had expected.”  Spreading Crisis  German 10-year bund yields dropped to a record low of 1.823
as Trichet spoke, before being two basis points lower at 1.89
percent at 5:13 p.m. in Frankfurt. Euribor futures rose, pushing
the implied yield on the contract expiring in June down five
basis points to 1.02 percent, signaling traders added to wagers
for lower borrowing costs.  Since the July rate increase, the debt crisis has spread to
Italy and Spain, the region’s third and fourth-largest
economies. Fears of a renewed global recession also caused
stocks to tumble around the world and forced Japan and
Switzerland to intervene to stop their currencies appreciating
as investors seek havens.  Other central banks are refocusing on supporting growth.
Yesterday the  Bank of Canada  said there is a “diminished” need
for it to raise  interest rates , Sweden’s Riksbank abandoned a
planned increase and the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  signaled it
is prepared to keep rates on hold.  The  Bank of England  will be forced to add stimulus within
months, according to economists at Citigroup Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The U.K. central bank today kept its key rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent and left its bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion).  With Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann saying conditions are reminiscent of those at the
depths of the global credit crisis in 2008, Trichet signaled the
ECB is prepared to deploy more measures to help cash-strapped
banks.  “We stand ready to provide liquidity as we have done in
the past, taking into account the need for the banking sector,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  