-- 
Trichet Loses His Cool at Prospect of Deutsche Mark’s Revival in Germany

-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 
2011-09-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/trichet-loses-his-cool-at-prospect-of-deutsche-mark-s-revival-in-germany.html
Almost 13 years after its demise,
the deutsche mark retains enough potency to haunt Jean-Claude Trichet’s final days as European Central Bank president.  Trichet, 68, lost his cool yesterday with a reporter who
asked whether  Germany  should abandon the euro and return to the
mark as  Europe ’s debt crisis roils markets and spooks voters.  “I would like very much to hear the congratulations for an
institution which has delivered  price stability  in Germany for
almost 13 years,” Trichet said in Frankfurt in an
uncharacteristically raised voice. “It’s not by chance we have
delivered price stability,” he said. “We do our job, it’s not
an easy job.”  Trichet has been at the forefront of efforts to save the
region’s single currency. As Greece’s fiscal crisis ricocheted
through European markets, he has spent much of the last two
years shuttling back and forth between Frankfurt and national
capitals for private meetings and a series of marathon summits.  The Frenchman, whose eight-year term ends Oct. 31., oversaw
decisions to cut interest rates to a record low and provide
banks with unlimited liquidity. He also took the unprecedented
step of buying the bonds of countries including Ireland,  Spain 
and Italy to lower yields. As the ECB’s involvement in crisis
fighting increased, Trichet has criticized governments for not
doing enough.  German Poll  “I’ve never seen Mr. Trichet get so angry before,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.
“Trichet underlined to the German public that the ECB is still
a trustworthy institution, as the question was punching hard
against that view.”  While the ECB has managed to keep inflation in the 17-
nation region just below 2 percent since 1999, 37 percent of
Germans said the country would be better off if it reintroduced
the mark, according to an Emnid survey for broadcaster N24,
published on Aug. 18. The same proportion said the country is
better off with the euro, while another 19 percent said that a
return to the mark wouldn’t change anything, the poll showed.  The ECB left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1.5
percent yesterday after its monthly meeting and the press
conference was Trichet’s second last before he is succeeded by
Italy’s  Mario Draghi .  He ended his six-minute response to the deutsche mark
question with a smile.  “Thank you for your excellent question, which was very
stimulating,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  