-- 
Tropical Storm Nate Grows Stronger, Katia and Maria Weaken

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-09T02:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tropical-storm-nate-grows-stronger-katia-and-maria-weaken.html
Tropical Storm Nate is expected to
become a hurricane today, forcing energy companies to begin
evacuating platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico . Tropical Storm Maria
and Hurricane Katia will probably weaken in the Atlantic.  Nate’s top winds are 70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour,
just under the threshold of 74 mph needed to be a hurricane,
according to an advisory from the  U.S. National Hurricane Center 
at 7 p.m. East Coast time. The storm has been lashing Petroleos
Mexicanos rigs in the Bay of Campeche and its final track is
still in question.  “There remains a very large spread in the guidance,”
according to a hurricane center forecast analysis. “However,
models have generally shifted westward.”  The  hurricane center track  takes Nate on a northwesterly
course toward the Texas-Mexico border. Most computer models take
the storm farther to the west, while at least one brings Nate
across the central Gulf of  Mexico .  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural-gas production. About 14.8 percent of the oil
and 6.8 percent of gas output are still shut because of Tropical
Storm Lee, which passed through the Gulf last week, the  Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said
today.  Gulf Evacuations  BP Plc and Apache Corp. began evacuations of some workers
in the Gulf because of Nate. The BP decision affects non-
essential workers at the Atlantis, Holstein and Mad Dog
platforms, according to a message on a telephone hotline today.
Apache’s removal of non-essential workers from facilities in the
far western Gulf hasn’t affected production, Bill Mintz, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  “It is a very uncertain situation right now,”  Tom Downs ,
a meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The computer model runs are bouncing all
over the place.”  Nate is 110 miles west of Campeche, Mexico, according to
the  hurricane center advisory .  Two of the major forecasting models used by meteorologists
showed different tracks for the storm, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . One model took Nate into the oil- and gas-producing
regions, he said. The other showed the storm heading into
Mexico.  No Consensus  “We don’t have any sort of agreement that is going to make
us feel comfortable,” Hartman said by telephone. “It still
bears watching.”  Downs said the exact track Nate takes may also influence
its strength.  “Texas is pretty much like a desert right now,” he said.
“The northwestern Gulf of Mexico is dry and it would be choked
off. Basically you have a stronger storm if it stays farther to
the south and a weaker storm that moves farther north.”  Tropical Storm Maria prompted  storm watches  throughout the
Lesser Antilles, including Antigua, Saint Kitts and Martinique,
according to the hurricane center. A storm watch means winds of
at least 39 mph, with heavy rain, may occur within two days.  The center warned residents of  Puerto Rico  and the Virgin
Islands to watch out for Maria. The storm is less organized, and
there’s a chance it may break up into what is called a tropical
wave, which means it won’t have the cohesion of a tropical
system and instead will be a mass of thunderstorms, according to
a hurricane center forecast analysis.  Maria’s Future  Maria was  490 miles  east of the Windward Islands with 40
mph winds, down from 45 mph earlier today, and moving west at 21
mph, according to the center. The storm may be downgraded to a
tropical depression in the next couple of days, the hurricane
center said.  In Bermuda, tropical storm watches posted because of
Hurricane Katia have been dropped, the center said. Katia’s top
winds have dropped to 85 mph from 90 mph earlier today.  It was  330 miles northwest  of  Bermuda  and is moving north
at 6 mph, according to a 5 p.m. advisory. The storm is expected
to move northeast into the Atlantic through the remainder of the
week. Katia is a Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale.  “The forecast takes the remnants of Katia north of the
British Isles in about four days,” according to the hurricane
center. “Katia will remain a powerful cyclone.”  It will be near the coast of  Norway  by next week and will
have 60 mph winds in five days, the hurricane-center forecast
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  