-- 
Russian Airplane Crash Clouds Putin Goal of Building World-Class Economy

-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 
2011-09-09T12:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/russian-airplane-crash-clouds-putin-goal-of-building-world-class-economy.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s goal of turning the economy into one of the top five in
the world may be threatened by mounting unease over the
country’s transport infrastructure.  The Sept. 7 crash that killed all but two of the 45
passengers aboard an 18-year-old Russian-made Yakovlev-42 plane
was the fifth jet airliner accident in the country in the past
year, bringing the number of casualties to 99, according to data
compiled by researcher Ascend Worldwide Ltd. Other transport
accidents included a July 10 shipwreck that killed 119 people.  The catastrophes highlight the failure to overhaul
infrastructure in the world’s largest country as the government
seeks to modernize the economy and remake Moscow into a global
financial hub to reduce dependence on energy exports.  “The number of deadly accidents rules out coincidence and
points to fundamental problems with ageing infrastructure and
the rule of law,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at
IHS Global Insight, said by e-mail. “This is certainly casting
a shadow on  Russia  aspiring to become a world class economy.”  The age of Russia’s domestically manufactured single-aisle
aircraft fleet is between 25 and 30 years, while the U.S. fleet
averages around 13 years, according Ascend, a London-based
aviation consultant company. Ascend fleet figures show a need
for at least 400 new commercial passenger aircraft in Russia,
said George Ferguson, senior aerospace and defense analyst for
Bloomberg Industries.  ‘More Difficulties’  Airline fleet renewal “is required at smaller carriers
further afield that will have more difficulties securing bank
loans or leasing commitments,” Ferguson said of Russia’s
commercial aviation industry.  Russia may turn to foreign aircraft producers to ensure
safety of  air travel  after the accident in the Yaroslavl region,
about 300 kilometers (185 miles) northeast of Moscow, President
 Dmitry Medvedev  said. The plane carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl
hockey team crashed after failing to gain altitude when taking
off from the Tunoshna airport on the opening day of the
Kontinental Hockey League season.  “The value of human life overrides other considerations,
including support for the domestic producer,” Medvedev said at
the crash site yesterday. “Of course it’s necessary to think of
our own but if they’re not up to the job, we need to buy
equipment overseas.”  Some say upkeep of aircraft and the systems installed on
them is more important than the age of the planes.  “As regards aircraft age, this isn’t necessarily a
burden,” Jurgen Hild, managing partner at Aviation Competence,
which advises the  airline industry , said by e-mail. “It’s more
aircraft maintenance and equipment and crew qualification,
training and operating procedures that provide for safety.”  ‘Strategic Priority’  Supporting the aviation industry is a “strategic
priority” for the government, which channeled 270 billion
rubles ($9 billion) in state funds to domestic producers between
2009 and 2011, Putin  said  Aug. 17 at the opening of the MAKS
international air show outside Moscow.  The  air force  suspended flights by MiG-31 fighter jets
earlier in September until a probe after a crash that killed two
pilots Sept. 6. A cargo spaceship crashed last month in the
first such accident with the vessel since it started flights in
1978. Russia lost its most powerful telecommunications satellite
in August, setting back the country’s efforts to promote the
wider availability of communications services.  The country’s transport infrastructure has also become a
target for terrorist attacks. A suicide bomber killed 37 people
at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport in January, while twin subway
bombings during the morning rush hour in Moscow killed 40 people
last year.  Presidential Election  The accidents are increasing pressure on Medvedev, who may
run in a presidential election in March. His approval rating
fell to the lowest level on record, dropping to 42 percent last
week from 46 percent in mid-August, a survey published Aug. 25
showed.  Approval for Putin, who may also bid to return to the
presidency next year, fell to 49 percent, the lowest since 2005,
when it last dipped below 50 percent, the Public Opinion
Foundation, also known by its Russian acronym FOM, said in a
 report  on its website. The survey was based on interviews with
3,000 people Aug. 20-21. No margin of error was given.  Still, the accidents may generate sympathy for Russia and
its leaders, Tomas Valasek, director of foreign policy and
defense at the London-based Centre for European Reform, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. While regional airlines may be
“decrepit,” the flagship carrier OAO Aeroflot has one of
 Europe ’s newest fleets, he said.  Nothing About Safety  “I don’t know how you draw generalizations for Russia from
this incident,” Valasek said. “It appears to have been a pilot
error and it says nothing about the safety of the airport.”  As the air accidents were concentrated on domestic routes,
where traffic has been increasing, there may not be an effect on
visitors from abroad, said  Mark Rubinstein , head of research at
Metropol IFC in Moscow.  “There have been a number of tragic accidents but it won’t
detract from Russia’s appeal as a destination for foreigners, he
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Even with limited immediate impact, the state of Russia’s
transport infrastructure may make it difficult to reach
Medvedev’s goal of boosting growth to as much as 10 percent
within five years from 3.4 percent in the second quarter to
match the pace of  Brazil ,  China  and  India .  “Despite the tough talk by the Russian leaders, positive
change in transport sector is going to be in short supply,”
wrote Gevorgyan at IHS. “The overhaul of transport, including
aircraft, sector is a difficult and long-term project.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  