-- 
Russian Hockey Season Opening Delayed After Plane Crash Kills Squad, Coach

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-08T09:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/russian-hockey-season-opening-delayed-after-plane-crash-kills-squad-coach.html
Russia ’s  Kontinental Hockey League 
delayed the start of its season after a plane carrying the
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl team crashed yesterday, killing 43 of the 45
people on board.  The season, which was to begin yesterday, will now open
Sept. 12, KHL Vice President Ilya Kochevrin said in a telephone
interview.  Lokomotiv, a three-time national champion, was en route to
its opening game in Minsk when its plane crashed shortly after
takeoff in the Yaroslval region, about 300 kilometers (185 miles
northwest of Russia.  News of the crash broke during the first period of the
league-opening game between Salavat Yulayev Ufa and Atlant
Moscow Region, which was then abandoned, the league said in a
 statement  on its website.  Lokomotiv was coached by former National Hockey League
player and coach Brad McCrimmon, a 52-year-old Canadian. The
team’s roster featured several former NHL players, including
Pavol Demitra, Ruslan Salei, Josef Vasicek, Karel Rachunek and
Karlis Skrastins.  The KHL started in 2008 and has attracted players including
former New York Rangers winger Jaromir Jagr, the ninth-leading
scorer in NHL history.  The league and the NHL have been at odds in recent years
over the KHL attempting to entice NHL players to break their
contracts and join the Russian league.  Tensions between the leagues peaked before 2008-09 season
when the KHL signed right wing Alexander Radulov, the 15th
overall pick in the 2004 NHL draft, away from the  Nashville
Predators  while he was still under an NHL contract.  Lokomotiv Yaroslavl joins  England ’s Manchester United
soccer club and the Marshall University football team as sports
teams affected by accidents.  United’s plane crashed taking off from a refueling stop in
Munich on a trip back from a 5-4 victory over Red Star Belgrade
in February 1958. Twenty-two people were killed, including seven
players, and another player died of his injuries 15 days later.  Seventy-five people were killed in November 1970 as a plane
carrying  Marshall ’s football team crashed while attempting to
land in Huntington,  West Virginia . Most of the team, the
coaching staff, flight crew and supporters were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  