-- 
Russia Economic Growth Slowed to 3.4% Last Quarter on Production

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-09-08T12:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/russia-economic-growth-slowed-to-3-4-last-quarter-on-production.html
Russia ’s economy slowed in the
second quarter as industrial-production growth eased.  Gross domestic product advanced 3.4 percent in the April-
June period from a year earlier, matching the preliminary
estimate, the Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed
statement today. The growth rate compares with 4.1 percent in
the first quarter.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is lagging
behind emerging-market peers Brazil, India and  China . Policy
makers should target growth of at least 8 percent within 5 years
to keep pace with the other so-called BRIC countries, President
 Dmitry Medvedev  has said. GDP expanded 4 percent in 2010 after a
record 7.8 percent contraction the previous year.  Industrial production advanced 4.8 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, down from a 5.9 percent increase
in the first three months, according to the statistics service.
Natural-resources output fell while manufacturing grew. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, fell 2.9 percent in the
April-June period, its first quarterly decline in a year.  Oil and natural gas contribute about 17 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product. Every $10 shaved off the price
of oil costs Russia about $25 billion in revenue and increases
the  budget deficit  by 1.5 percent of GDP, Commerzbank AG
estimated in an Aug. 12 report.  Bank Rossii left  interest rates  unchanged for a third month
in August, citing a balance between risks from inflation and a
slowing economy. Monetar policy makers plan to review interest
rates at meeting on Sept. 14, RIA Novosti reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified central bank official.  Russia’s economy may grow between 4.2 percent and 4.3
percent this year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Sept. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 