-- 
S.Korea Google Raid, German Rescue Decision, U.S.-India Pact: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-08T12:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/s-korea-google-raid-german-rescue-decision-finra-compliance.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Seoul office was
raided by South Korea’s antitrust regulator as part of a probe
into whether the owner of the world’s largest search engine
unfairly blocked competitors in the mobile-search market, a
person familiar with the investigation said.  The on-site investigation at Google’s office resulted from
April complaints filed by  NHN Corp. (035420)  and  Daum Communications
Corp. (035720) , South Korea’s two largest Internet search companies, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the probe
isn’t public. Robin Moroney, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Google,
and Kwag Se Boong, a Seoul-based spokesman for the  Fair Trade
Commission , declined to say whether the raid took place.  South Korea joins the U.S. and some European countries in
increasing scrutiny of Google, which owns Android, the most used
operating system for smartphones. The company has denied the
claims by NHN and Daum, which together control more than 90
percent of South Korean Web queries, that Google blocks carriers
and manufacturers from embedding search applications in Android
devices.  “We will work with the FTC to address any questions they
may have about our business,” Moroney said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Android is an open platform. We do not
require carriers or manufacturers to include Google Search or
Google applications on Android-powered devices.”  Reuters reported on the raid Sept. 6, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Regulators Propose More Oversight of Energy-Supply Deals  European Union regulators proposed greater oversight of
energy agreements between member nations and third countries to
strengthen the bloc’s negotiating power and ensure adequate
supplies.  The  European Commission  put forward draft legislation that
would establish “an information-exchange mechanism” covering
intergovernmental energy accords, according to a statement
published in Brussels yesterday. In a separate document, the
commission also proposed a strategy to strengthen energy
relations with EU partners.  The draft decision on an information-exchange mechanism
would build on a 2010 law that requires EU governments to notify
the commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, of their natural-gas
agreements with countries outside the region and to provide data
on gas companies’ contracts with foreign suppliers.  The EU, which relies on imports for half of its fuel, has
faced disruptions since 2006 to gas and oil from Russia as a
result of Russian price and fee disputes with Ukraine and
Belarus, through which the supplies pass. The push for more
centralized oversight of energy deals follows new European
legislation to break down national barriers in the EU gas and
electricity markets.  The draft law must be backed by EU governments and the
European Parliament, a process that can take a year or more.  For more, click here.  Consumer Groups May Sue S&P, Moody’s Should They Cut Italy  Two Italian consumer groups said they may sue Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service should the rating companies
downgrade Italy, saying they aren’t authorized to rule on the
country’s creditworthiness.  The ratings companies are already facing legal challenges
in Italy as prosecutors in the southern city of Trani are
investigating statements by S&P and Moody’s on the country’s
creditworthiness. S&P and Moody’s placed Italy’s rating under
review for possible downgrade in May and June, respectively.  The consumer groups are challenging whether the S&P and
Moody’s have the right to rate Italy, saying they lack a license
from the  European Securities and Markets Authority , the Adusbef
and Federconsumatori consumer groups said yesterday in a joint
e-mailed statement. ESMA earlier this year  became  the European
Union’s single regulator of credit-rating companies.  ESMA Chairman Steven Maijoor said U.S. credit-rating
companies won’t get a license for the EU unless they abide by
the bloc’s rules, Financial Times Deutschland reported on June
23, citing an interview.  UK Bank Panel May Seek Legislation on Unit Fire-Breaks, BBC Says  The  Independent Commission on Banking  is likely to
recommend that the government should create legislation almost
immediately requiring banks to ring-fence their retail
operations, while the implementation of the requirement may then
be phased in over a period of years, the British Broadcasting
Corp. reported in a blog on its  website , without saying where it
got the information.  Compliance Action  Sino-Forest Executives Face ‘Direct Hit’ From OSC in Fraud Probe  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  faces an extended trading ban and new
restrictions from a Canadian securities regulator that’s been
criticized for being too slow to clamp down on corporate fraud.  The Ontario Securities Commission, which said last month
that some officers and directors of the Chinese tree-plantation
operator may have acted fraudulently, halted trading of Sino-
Forest shares and temporarily banned five executives from buying
and selling securities. In a hearing in Toronto that begins at
9:30 a.m., Canada’s main securities watchdog may extend those
cease-trade orders in a probe that could lead to fines and the
permanent ouster of executives.  The OSC’s actions against Mississauga, Ontario- and Hong
Kong-based Sino-Forest contrast with its handling of past cases
such as Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and former Hollinger International
Inc. Chairman Conrad M. Black, in which it took action only
after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission stepped in.  The OSC has been headed since November by Howard Wetston, a
former judge in the Federal Court of Canada and ex-chairman of
the Ontario Energy Board. One of the regulator’s five  priorities 
for this fiscal year is to “intensify operational, compliance
and enforcement efforts,” which include reducing timelines for
completing investigations and bringing regulatory proceedings
forward.  Wetston, 64, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Sino-Forest shares have plunged 74 percent since June 1,
the day before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
alleged the company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest
has denied the allegations.  Carolyn Shaw-Rimmington, an OSC spokeswoman, didn’t return
a telephone call seeking comment yesterday on whether the
executives will appear at the hearing.  For more, click here.  Impala Fails to Meet Zimbabwe Ownership Laws, Minister Says  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Zimbabwean unit, known as
 Zimplats , has failed to meet new laws on asset ownership and may
have its mining license revoked, according to Indigenization
Minister Saviour Kasukuwere.  Kasukuwere said yesterday in a telephone interview that the
Ministry of Mines will dispatch a letter “very soon”
concerning Zimplats. The company’s exploration projects in the
country include the Ngezi South and North ventures, Hartley
Platinum and the Selous complex.  Zimbabwe, with the world’s second-biggest reserves of
platinum and chrome after neighboring South Africa, has demanded
all foreign or white-owned companies submit plans to sell 51
percent stakes in local assets for approval. The law, which
could see non-compliant businesses lose operating rights, may
threaten a recovery from a 10-year recession that ended in 2009.  The minister said he’ll ask the ministry to start the
process of revoking Impala’s license, the state-controlled
Herald newspaper reported yesterday.  The company is the biggest investor in Zimbabwe’s mining
industry and could invest as much as $10 billion more to expand
its output, David Brown, chief executive officer of Impala, said
in an interview on Aug. 25.  Bob Gilmour, a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based
company, declined to comment when contacted yesterday.  Jammin Java, Chaired by Bob Marley’s Son, Faces SEC Probe  Jammin Java Corp. (JAMN) , the gourmet coffee company whose
chairman, Rohan Marley, is the son of the reggae star Bob
Marley, faces a probe by the Securities and Exchange Commission
for possible involvement in a so-called pump-and-dump scheme.  The SEC staff is examining whether online newsletters
touting Jammin Java stock through blast faxes and investor
message boards contained false and misleading information,
according to documents filed Sept. 2 in federal court in
Oakland, California. The company said in a May SEC filing that
no one at Jammin Java authorized or paid for any stock reports,
and it “expressly repudiates the promotions.”  The probe was disclosed in a lawsuit by individuals trying
to block SEC subpoenas issued in the investigation.  Jammin Java’s share price rose from 17 cents in December to
$6.35 on May 12, after which it plunged to less than a $1 a
share, the SEC said in the documents.  The jump in the Los Angeles-based coffee wholesaler
coincided with the dissemination of newsletters lauding its
stock, the SEC said. A formal order of investigation was issued
in May directing staff to examine possible securities law
violations by Jammin Java, according to the documents said.  Stuart Smith, head of investor relations at Jammin Java,
declined to comment yesterday on the SEC documents. He cited a
company regulatory filing that had warned investors of
“unauthorized stock promotion campaigns.”  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, didn’t answer an e-mail
seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The cases are John Doe v. SEC, 11-8028 and 11-8029, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Courts  German Top Court Clears Nation’s Role in Euro Rescue Packages  Germany’s top court cleared the way for Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s coalition to participate in the current euro-area
rescue plans, while saying it must seek some additional
parliamentary approval for payouts under the funds.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe threw out
three suits targeting Germany’s share of the 110 billion-euros
($155 billion) in loans for Greece from euro-region governments
and the International Monetary Fund as well as a separate 750
billion-euro rescue fund approved last year in an effort to
prevent Greece’s debt crisis from spreading.  The ruling will aid Merkel’s efforts to gain support for
participation in a new round of European Financial Stability
Facility programs. She pledged last week to consult lawmakers
after her Cabinet agreed on a reworked plan that would raise
Germany’s share of EFSF loan guarantees to 211 billion euros
from a current 123 billion euros.  The court said its ruling yesterday shouldn’t be seen as
“blanket” authorization of future rescue packages and the
government must seek approval from the parliament’s budget
committee for the individual guarantees it assumes in each
bailout under the current EFSF.  The court said it rejected the suits because it found that
lawmakers kept enough powers to control the government. Also the
requirement to have the parliament’s budget committee clear
individual guarantees Germany assumes under the current EFSF
beefs up that control. Parliament didn’t deplete its right to
adopt the budget and control its implementation, thus it didn’t
disregard the principle of democracy, according to the court.  Lower-house lawmakers plan to hold a first reading of a new
EFSF bill today before it goes to a final vote on Sept. 29.  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs’s Pay Plan Hurts Shareholders, Lawyer Contends  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s compensation plan, which almost
doubled top executive Lloyd Blankfein’s pay last year, unfairly
rewards the investment bank’s employees at shareholders’
expense, a lawyer for investors said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
lost $50 billion in market value since 1999 while the company
has paid out billions in compensation to the firm’s 31,000
employees, including Blankfein, its chairman and chief executive
officer, John Harnes, an attorney for investors who have sued
over the pay plan, argued yesterday.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, “is being run for the
benefit of employees rather than shareholders,” Harness told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III. The judge heard
arguments on whether shareholders’ suits seeking to recoup
executive compensation should be thrown out and said he’d rule
later.  The firm, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007, was
pilloried by politicians and labor unions for its compensation
practices after getting taxpayer aid during the financial
crisis. In July, Goldman Sachs officials set aside $8.44 billion
for the company’s compensation pool in the first six months of
this year, according to its website. That was 9 percent less
than in the same period in 2010 as revenue tumbled 11 percent.  Blankfein and other firm executives agreed to forgo cash
bonuses in 2009 and take restricted stock grants as compensation
to mute criticism of the firm’s pay practices.  Gregory Varallo, Goldman Sachs’s lawyer, argued that
investors haven’t provided any evidence that directors engaged
in wrongdoing by creating the pay plan or encouraged excessive
risk-taking by the firm’s traders and bankers.  The case is In re the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Shareholder
Litigation, 5215, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Interviews/Speeches  U.S. Pursuing Antitrust Pact With India, American Official Says  The U.S. is working on an agreement with India to improve
international antitrust enforcement as it has with China and
Russia, the top Justice Department antitrust official said.  Officials will create a memorandum of understanding
allowing the U.S. and India to share information and expertise
on anti-competitive practices, Sharis Pozen, acting chief of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said yesterday in a
speech in New York.  Pozen made the remarks at a conference at  Fordham Law
School .  Trade between the countries more than doubled to $37
billion from 2003 to 2009, according to U.S. Commerce Department
data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade topped $32
billion.  The U.S. will act vigorously against anti-competitive
practices in the current economic climate, focusing on
industries that affect consumers, such as health care and
financial services, Pozen said.  For more, click here.  MF Global’s Maughan Says Basel III Is ‘Crippling’  Simon Maughan, head of sales and distribution at MF Global
Ltd. in London, said the liquidity provisions of proposed Basel
III rules are “crippling” for banks in Europe. Maughan talked
with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  They were joined by Michael Holland of Holland
and Co.  For the audio, click here.  Cameron Says U.K. Must Act to Overhaul Bank Regulation  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron talked about banking
regulation, policing and National Health Service treatment
waiting lists.  He spoke during his weekly question and answer session with
lawmakers in the House of Commons in London.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Finra Chief Counsel Riefberg Joins Fried, Frank Law Firm  Former Finra Chief Counsel Linda Riefberg joined law firm
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP’s enforcement and
investigations practice in New York.  Riefberg, 52, oversaw a broad range of investigations and
disciplinary actions while at the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s department of enforcement. She was a lawyer in the
enforcement division of the New York Stock Exchange, which
merged in 2007 with the National Association of Securities
Dealers to form Finra, the law firm said yesterday in a
statement.  Finra is the largest independent securities regulator in
the U.S, according to its website.  Dubai Names Saeb Eigner Chairman of DIFC Business Park Regulator  Dubai appointed Saeb Eigner as the chairman of the  Dubai
Financial Services Authority , the regulator of the Dubai
International Financial Center tax-free business park, to
replace Abdullah Mohamed Saleh.  Eigner was appointed deputy chairman of DFSA’s board after
Saleh was named governor of the DIFC in July, according to a
statement on DFSA’s website. Eigner is the founder and chairman
of Lonworld, a private finance, property and investment group,
as well as a governor of the  London Business School  and was
previously a senior manager at ANZ Grindlays Bank Plc in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 