-- 
SABMiller Fails to Get Takeover Panel Intervention in Hostile Foster’s Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-08T07:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sabmiller-s-review-request-in-hostile-foster-s-bid-rejected-in-australia.html
An Australian government body
rejected  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s application to review statements from
 Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  about earnings forecasts and debt levels
amid a A$9.25 billion ($9.8 billion) hostile bid.  “The panel concluded there was no reasonable prospect it
would make a declaration of unacceptable circumstances,” the
Melbourne-based  Takeovers Panel , which arbitrates on acquisition
disputes, said in a filing today. “The panel has declined to
conduct proceedings,” it said.  SABMiller, whose bid Foster’s has rejected as too low, had
wanted Australia’s biggest brewer to clarify what it called
“misleading and deceptive remarks” made in an Aug. 23
presentation about earnings forecasts and pro forma debt levels.
Foster’s said today the debt reflected cash received from
winning a dispute with Australia’s tax office, payments still to
come, an expected reduction of tax paid and the impact on its
cash flows.  “Foster’s strongly rejected SABMiller’s allegations,” the
company said in a separate statement today. “Foster’s takes its
obligation to provide accurate and timely disclosure to the
market seriously.”  A$835 Million Benefit  The Melbourne-based brewer said in the presentation that
the  tax refund  had a total benefit to the company of about A$835
million and would give it pro forma net debt of A$887 million as
of June 30. It also said revenue in the 12 months ending June
2012 will rise at a “mid single digit” pace with earnings
before interest and tax to rise faster than sales.  Foster’s rose 0.2 percent to A$4.85 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading, extending this year’s gain to 6.1 percent.  SABMiller’s offer is worth A$4.7675 a share, or A$9.25
billion for all the company’s stock, which is now trading
without the right to Foster’s 13.25 Australian cent dividend.  Foster’s, the brewer of Victoria Bitter and its namesake
lager, has said it’s open to discussing a “sensible” bid with
SABMiller.  SABMiller said Aug. 17 it will bring its takeover offer
directly to shareholders, offering to pay A$4.90 a share, or
A$9.51 billion, for all of Foster’s less any dividends. Foster’s
stock began trading without the right to the dividend on Sept. 1.  “SABMiller accepts the panel’s determination and is
pleased Foster’s has now clarified its debt position,” Lauren Thompson, a spokeswoman for FTI Consulting, SABMiller’s external
media adviser in  Australia , said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  