-- 
San Miguel Says to Stay Listed After Ang Says Brewer May Be Taken Private

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T09:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/san-miguel-considers-delisting-says-share-buyback-may-cost-800-million.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  pledged to remain a
publicly traded company, a day after President Ramon Ang said it
was considering going private because disclosure requirements
were hampering acquisition plans.  “San Miguel shall remain listed, owing to its iconic
status in the country,” the Philippines’ largest listed company
said today. The statement, citing Ang, was issued in response to
queries, it said. San Miguel said it also “contemplates” to
list all its operating subsidiaries, including new businesses.  Ang said in an interview yesterday that if he has his
“way,” San Miguel will buy back its shares and become
privately held by next year. Buying back the shares may cost
about $800 million, he said.  San Miguel  had a public float of 14
percent as of May 5, it said at the time. That’s worth about 40
billion pesos ($943 million) based on today’s share price.  “A listed company has more advantages than a privately
held corporation in terms of financing and attracting
investors,” said Astro del Castillo, managing director at
Manila-based First Grade Finance Inc.  The food and beverage company that’s expanding into oil
refining, power retailing and infrastructure is also in talks to
buy an overseas company with an enterprise value of $10 billion,
Ang said yesterday. The target has a “potential free cash flow
of between $2 billion and $3 billion a year,” he said. The
discussions may take “a few more months,” Ang said.  Return on Equity  Compliance with the Philippine Stock Exchange’s
requirements on disclosures has sometimes made it difficult for
San Miguel to make purchases, Ang said yesterday. The
 Philippines ’ most acquisitive company, which started as a brewer
more than a century ago, seeks to triple the 7 percent return on
equity it gets from its traditional food and drinks businesses.  San Miguel rose 1 percent to 122 pesos at the close of
trading in  Manila , paring gains after rising as much as 2.7
percent earlier. The stock has lost 26 percent this year,
compared with a 3.7 percent gain for the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index.  “If your balance sheet is strong like San Miguel, you
don’t need to be publicly listed,” Ang said yesterday at the
company’s headquarters in Manila. “If I have my way, I will
privatize it next year,” he said.  Listed companies are more prone to “leakage” of
information, and disclosures sometimes work to the advantage of
competitors, Ang said in the interview.  San Miguel had 127 billion pesos in cash and near-cash
items as of June and has a total of 186 billion pesos of bonds
and loans due by 2019, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s units such as  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , the country’s
biggest refiner, and  San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  will probably
remain listed, Ang said yesterday.  Ang declined to provide more details on the acquisition
target such as which industry it operates in or where it’s
based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at   revans6@bloomberg.net . 