-- 
Sberbank Agrees to Buy Volksbanken’s East European Units for Reduced Price

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-08T10:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sberbank-to-buy-volksbanken-east-europe-units-at-lower-price-2-.html
OAO Sberbank agreed to buy
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s eastern European operations,
excluding its unit in Romania, as Russia’s biggest lender seeks
to expand outside the former Soviet Union.  Sberbank will pay 585 million euros ($823 million) to 645
million euros, equivalent to Volksbanken International AG’s
combined equity, depending on performance this year, Volksbanken
said in statement today. The transaction is expected to close
this year, it said.  “This is a very important step in the implementation of
our strategy,” Sberbank Chief Executive Officer German Gref
told reporters in Vienna today. “This is not short term, we’ve
come to the region for a long period, for decades.” He said
the deal will be completed by Feb. 15, 2012, at the latest.  Moscow-based Sberbank, which outside Russia has consumer-
lending businesses only in Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, had
initially agreed to pay 670 million euros and lowered the offer
price after European bank shares plummeted, three people with
knowledge of the negotiations said last month, declining to be
identified because the talks are private. The Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index has fallen 22 percent since
the preliminary deal was signed July 14.  Stress Test  Volksbanken, based in Vienna, is under heightened pressure
to sell assets after failing the European Union’s bank stress
test in July. The lender, which received 1 billion euros of
state capital in 2009, said Aug. 25 that it won’t reach its
profit goal for the year after writedowns on Greek state debt.  The sale of VBI will raise Volksbanken’s capital ratio by
about 2 percentage points, or 300 million euros, Chief Executive
Officer Gerald Wenzel said at today's joint briefing with 
Sberbank.  As part of the deal, Sberbank will assume 2.5 billion euros
of financing by the current owners and Volksbanken will provide
the Russian lender with a 500 million-euro, five-year loan,
according to the statement.  VBI, which owns nine banks in eastern Europe, was 51
percent owned by Volksbanken. France’s Groupe BPCE owned 24.5
percent, DZ Bank AG and WGZ-Bank AG of Germany together also
held 24.5 percent.  VBI’s Romanian unit, which is excluded from the sale, will
be revamped for two to three years and then sold, Wenzel said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net :
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  