-- 
Scene Last Night: Robert Iger, Billy Crystal at Sept. 11 Dinner

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-08T15:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/scene-last-night-robert-iger-billy-crystal-at-sept-11-dinner.html
Billy Crystal last night described
some changes since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  “Ten years ago,  Lindsay Lohan  was just stealing our
hearts,” he said on a white-carpeted stage with white backdrop
at Cipriani  Wall Street . “Ten years ago, same-sex marriage was
the same sex, every night.”  The comedian’s well-received remarks came at the fourth
annual 9/11 Memorial Benefit Dinner, organized by the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum.  The event struck a delicate balance between humor and
solemnity. Robert A. Iger, president and chief executive officer
of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , said, while accepting an award for corporate
service, that the memorial “marks one of our darkest hours. It
also honors our strength and resilience.” Iger is a board
member of the 9/11 Memorial & Museum.  Kozo Takahashi, chairman and CEO of Sharp Electronics
Corp., also came to the stage as his company was honored as a
Global Partner for providing video panels for the 9/11 Memorial
Preview Site.  Among the more than 1,000 guests seated at square tables
decorated with white hydrangeas were New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ; former New York Governor George Pataki; Stacy Polley, a
partner at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ; Paul Britton, founder of
Capstone Investment Advisors, whose offices at 7 World Trade
Center look out on the memorial; and architect Maya Lin and
sculptor Martin Puryear, members of the Memorial Design
Competition Jury responsible for choosing the design by Michael Arad and Peter Walker.  ‘Water Is Life’  Dhani Jones, a professional football player, arrived via
subway, wearing a black suit and a “Reunite” bow-tie made by a
nonprofit he founded, Bow Tie Cause. Sales of the tie benefit
the memorial and museum. They are $57 and available on the
website bowtiecause.org. The memorial opens Sunday on the tenth
anniversary of the attacks; the museum is in development.  Jones visited the memorial yesterday, where the pools are
positioned on the footprints of the World Trade Center towers.  “The water is life pouring into tragedy, breeding new
life,” Jones said.  Moving forward was the prevailing theme.  “This is a happy event,” said John C. Whitehead, former
co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group. “We’ve rebuilt in a
wonderful way.”  Samuel Di Piazza, a vice chairman of Citigroup and board
member of the 9/11 Memorial & Museum, said the event is “fun
and thoughtful. This is not a place to mourn.”  Crystal on Economy  Crystal, also a board member of the 9/11 Memorial and
Museum, had fun with the distress in the  U.S. economy .  “I love coming down to Wall Street and visiting where my
money used to be,” he said.  “Don’t think of the money the Chinese have given us as
loans,” he continued. “Think of it as takeout.”  Joseph C. Daniels, president and CEO of the 9/11 Memorial &
Museum, said the dinner would break the previous record of
“north of $3 million.”  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the chairman of
the 9/11 Memorial & Museum. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  