-- 
SEC Files Action Against Deloitte Shanghai Unit

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-09-08T20:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sec-files-action-against-deloitte-shanghai-unit.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filed an enforcement action against Shanghai-based
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  CPA Ltd. for failing to produce
documents related to an investigation of its former auditing
client Longtop Financial Technologies Limited.  D&T  Shanghai  hasn’t provided any documents to the SEC,
which issued subpoenas to the firm on May 27, the agency said in
a statement today, citing a filing in U.S. District Court in
Washington. As a result, the SEC has been unable to access
“critical” information in its probe of possible fraud at
Longtop, the statement said.  Longtop, based in  Hong Kong , said in May that D&T Shanghai
quit because of errors in the company’s financial records. The
SEC also began an investigation. In July, the SEC and  Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board  met with counterparts in
 China  to discuss cross-border oversight.  Today’s action “essentially is a battle between the SEC
and Chinese regulators forcing D&T Shanghai to assert Chinese
law as an explanation for why it cannot produce records,”  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC lawyer now with Shulman Rogers Gandal
Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland , said in an interview.
“Auditing firms know that the SEC has the right to subpoena and
review and consider audit work papers. This is about bringing to
a head the dispute over access to information relating to audits
of Chinese companies.”  Fraud Examination  D&T Shanghai resigned as Longtop’s auditor after
discovering numerous improprieties during the year ended March
31, 2011, according to the SEC. The SEC issued a subpoena for
documents it said may contain basic information necessary to
determine whether there was a fraud, who was behind it and how
it was conducted, according to the court filing.  “Compliance with an SEC subpoena is not an option, it is a
legal obligation,”  Robert Khuzami , head of the SEC’s
enforcement division, said in a statement today. “The ability
of the SEC to conduct swift and thorough investigations requires
that subpoena recipients promptly comply with that legal
obligation.”  Longtop shares started trading over the counter in August.
They hadn’t changed hands since May, when the New York Stock
Exchange imposed a halt. The SEC is seeking a court order
directing D&T Shanghai to show cause why the court shouldn’t
enter an order requiring the firm to produce documents
responsive to the subpoena, according to the court filing.  A phone call after business hours to D&T Shanghai wasn’t
answered. An e-mail to Wilfred Lee, public relations senior
manager for Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, wasn’t immediately
returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  