-- 
Biggest Overhaul of Patent System Since 1952 Passes Senate

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-09T15:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/senate-passes-revamp-of-u-s-patent-system.html
The Senate passed an overhaul of the
U.S. patent system that President  Barack Obama  has called
crucial to his administration’s effort to boost job growth.  In an 89-9 vote yesterday, the Senate cleared a bill passed
by the House in June that would fundamentally alter the way
patents are reviewed and mark the biggest change to U.S. patent
law since at least 1952. The measure, called the America Invents
Act, now heads to the White House for Obama’s signature.  The legislation, H.R. 1249, would let the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office set its own fees and exercise greater control
over its budget, providing the agency with more funding to
address a backlog of almost 700,000  applications  awaiting first
review. Reducing the time it takes to give inventions legal
protection will speed new products to the market and spur
economic growth, according to the bill’s supporters.  “The creativity that drives our economic engine has made
America the global leader in invention and innovation,” Senator
 Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who sponsored the measure,
said in a statement. “The America Invents Act will ensure that
inventors large and small maintain the competitive edge that has
put America at the pinnacle of global innovation.”  The legislation, which culminates more than six years of
negotiations and lobbying, covers every step of the patent
process, setting new procedures to review issued patents while
curtailing some litigation. It has the support of large
companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and a group that represents  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   ‘Rational Patent System’  “The America Invents Act, coupled with recent court
decisions that provide more clarity and confidence for
inventors, puts our patent system in a much better position to
spur innovation and economic growth in the 21st century,”
Robert Weber, IBM’s general counsel, said in an e-mail. He
called the measure a “bipartisan, common-sense bill that will
significantly improve the U.S. patent system.”  The funding provision, which also would let the agency
increase fees paid by inventors and patent owners, is the
cornerstone of the bill and has been a unifying issue even for
those who oppose other provisions. Since 1990, the agency says,
more than $800 million in fees have been diverted by lawmakers
to non-patent purposes.  34-Month Wait  The patent office is funded entirely by user fees. The
Obama administration says the money is needed to hire more
examiners and improve agency computer systems to cut the current
34-month wait for patent approval.  “This legislation should enable us to access all of our
fees,” David Kappos, director of the patent office, said in a
statement. “Having access to all of our fee collections will
enable us to immediately start hiring new examiners, instituting
new patent acceleration tools, and aggressively modernizing our
IT infrastructure.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  Washington ’s largest business
lobbying organization, supported passage, as did the  United
Steelworkers . A group representing large technology companies
including Google Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  also  backed 
the measure.  “By promoting clearer, more certain and more consistent
 patent rights , this bipartisan legislation gives America’s
inventors the intellectual property guarantees they need to
raise funds, invest in research and development and launch
technologies that will help them expand and hire more workers,”
Acting Commerce Secretary Rebecca Blank said in a statement.  Job Creation  Representative  Lamar Smith , the Texas Republican who
sponsored the House version, said that once the president signs
it into law, the measure “will be one of the most significant
jobs creation bills enacted by Congress this year.”  Obama cited the bill’s passage in his speech last night to
a joint session of Congress. “You passed reform that will speed
up the outdated patent process, so that entrepreneurs can turn a
new idea into a new business as quickly as possible,” he said.
“That’s the kind of action we need.”  A group of technology companies that includes InterDigital
Inc. and  Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  had said the House-passed
measure doesn’t do enough to guarantee more funding for the
patent office since the agency still has to get congressional
approval to spend money it collects above its annual budget.  Coburn Criticism  “Hopefully, Congress will deliver on the funding the PTO
needs to administer its charge,” Brad Ditty, general patent
counsel for InterDigital, said in an interview. “One of the
things we’re concerned about is the PTO has a lot of difficult
work ahead of it, and without knowing what type of multiyear
funding situation they’re in, it could be difficult for them to
execute some of the more aggressive steps they need to take.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who tried
unsuccessfully to alter the bill to give the agency full control
over the fees it collects, said language in the House bill was
inadequate to keep Congress from diverting the funds.  Groups  representing  small businesses say the legislation
will benefit large companies over independent inventors, create
a rush to the patent office and establish onerous review
procedures that will weaken the power of patents to protect
inventions.  “This legislation will irreversibly damage the ability of
small-business owners and entrepreneurs to create, develop and
commercialize their innovations,” said Todd McCracken,
president of the National Small Business Association, a
Washington-based group that says it represents 150,000 small
businesses nationwide. “To think this bill will have anything
but negative implications on job creation is absurd.”  First to File  Under the bill, patents would be granted to the first
inventor to file an application, ending an often time-consuming
procedure to determine who came up with an idea first and
bringing the U.S. in line with patent laws in other countries.  All newly issued patents may be subject to a challenge from
third parties, a variation of a process used by the  European
Patent Office . Third parties would be allowed to submit
information for consideration during the application process.  The bill also would limit patents on tax-avoidance
strategies, though companies including  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB)  have said they would retain protections for their tax-
preparation software.  Finance Patents  Banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
would get new power to seek to cancel finance-related business
method patents that they argue are of questionable validity.
Companies that own such patents, including DataTreasury Corp.
and Trading Technologies International Inc., have accused the
banks of using their clout in Washington to avoid paying for
using someone else’s inventions.  The trade group for generic-drug companies including Mylan
Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. opposes the bill because
there’s a provision that lets patent owners retroactively
correct errors that might otherwise lead a court to invalidate
the patents.  The Washington-based Generic Pharmaceutical Association
also objects to language in the bill that would ease deadlines
for seeking a patent-term extension granted to compensate
drugmakers for the time it takes to get regulatory approval.  The provision would provide a clear victory to  Medicines
Co. (MDCO) , which won a court ruling that it was entitled to an
extension even though it missed a deadline for an extension on
the main patent for its only drug, the anticoagulant Angiomax.  Fresenius SE (FRE) ’s APP Pharmaceuticals unit is appealing that
decision after the government said it wouldn’t challenge the
judge’s decision in favor of Medicines Co.  Other provisions would limit lawsuits in which a
manufacturer is accused of putting expired patent numbers on
packaging and establish satellite offices the agency could set
up nationwide to tap into local workforces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  