-- 
Serbia Cuts Europe’s Second Highest Interest Rate on Inflation, Economy

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-08T14:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/serbia-cuts-europe-s-second-highest-rate-on-inflation-economy.html
Serbia ’s central bank lowered its
benchmark  interest rate , the second highest in Europe after
Belarus, as slowing export growth dims the outlook for the
economy and inflation concerns ease.  The Narodna Banka Srbije cut the two-week repurchase rate
to 11.25 from 11.75 percent, the Belgrade-based bank said on its
website today. Five of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast the decrease, while nine predicted a quarter-point
lowering and seven saw no change.  “The decision to further ease monetary policy was taken so
that inflation gets back to our target without major
volatility,” the bank said in a statement. “Future rate
movements will depend on risks, primarily tied to international
environment and Serbia’s fiscal policies.”  Serbia’s economy is slowing as exports lose momentum on
weakening demand in the European Union, the country’s main
market. Growth in the Balkan nation, which aspires to become an
EU candidate this year, slowed to 2.2 percent in the second
quarter from 3.4 percent in the first three months, according to
the central bank.  Monetary authorities across the region have been weighing
faltering growth prospects with price growth concerns. Polish
policy makers kept the seven-day interest rate unchanged
yesterday at 4.5 percent, while  Sweden ’s Riksbank kept its
benchmark rate at 2 percent, citing deteriorating global growth
prospects. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest left its main
rate unchanged at 6 percent for a seventh month in August.  Dinar Weakens  The Serbian dinar dropped after the decision, falling 0.6
percent to 101.65 versus the euro at 04:06 p.m. in Belgrade from
101.08 yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
Serbia’s economic growth this year to 2 percent from its
previous estimate of 3 percent this year. Serbia, the largest of
the former Yugoslav nations, is relying on a precautionary
credit from the IMF for stability amid the turmoil sparked by
the euro region’s debt crisis.  Inflation in July slowed to an annual 12.1 percent from
12.7 percent the month before and from the peak of 14.7 in
April. The Serbian central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, this year and 4
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, next year.  Cheaper Money  “Inflation concerns are easing in line with the bank’s
expectations and the economy is slowing, so I expect the bank to
lower rates and make money cheaper,” Predrag Stojanovic, acting
head of the Treasury department at lender Piraeus Banka AD in
Belgrade said before the decision.  The cut in borrowing costs and drop in the dinar comes as
the central bank seeks stability in the currency.  Carry trades with the dinar, where investors borrow in low-
yielding currencies and carry the funds into higher-yielding
markets such as the Serbian unit, may see their appeal “fade,”
Ratko Guduric, a deputy director at Vojvodjanska Banka AD., said
before the decision. “If they abandon their positions, the
dinar goes down.”  Last month, policy makers unexpectedly held the main rate
unchanged as concerns about the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe 
and market turmoil elsewhere outweighed a focus on inflation.
They also cited “fiscal risks” at home.  The Balkan nation asked the IMF for 3 billion euros ($4.2
billion) in financial assistance in 2009 at the onset of the
global recession to keep its economy afloat. Serbia also needs
to find a compromise solution with its former province of  Kosovo 
to gain EU candidate country status by year’s end and win
billion of euros in aid. Serbia still refuses to recognize the
Albanian-dominated Kosovo, which declared independence in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Belgrade at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  