-- 
Shortstop Genius Hits Ugly Slump in $650,000 First Novel: Books

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/shortstop-genius-hits-ugly-slump-in-650-000-novel-optioned-by-hbo-books.html
At a small Wisconsin college called
Westish, a gifted shortstop named Henry Skrimshander is about to
tie a record for errorless games when his throw to first goes
awry and beans a teammate in the dugout.  The accident serves to knit together five characters, like
the fingers of a baseball mitt, in  Chad Harbach ’s richly
entertaining and accomplished first novel, “ The Art of
Fielding .”  Henry’s mentor is Mike Schwartz, a hulking jock with a gift
for coaching who quotes Marcus Aurelius and aspires to law
school. He changes Henry from a kid with a singular fielding
talent into a well-rounded ballplayer.  The errant throw hits Henry’s self-described “gay mulatto
roommate,” the ever-droll Owen Dunne, whose injury allows
college president Guert Affenlight to use hospital visits as the
awkward entree to a clandestine affair. Completing the pentagram
is Affenlight’s daughter, Pella, who flees back to Westish from
a soured marriage and takes up with Mike.  The academic setting lets Harbach have fun with students
and faculty. Loner Henry is bemused by his classmates’ behavior:
“They traveled in large packs, constantly texting the other
packs, and when two packs converged there was always a
tremendous amount of hugging and kissing on the cheek.”  ‘Moby-Dick’  Harbach connects an imagined 1880 visit to the school by
 Herman Melville  and Guert’s Harvard dissertation on “the
homosocial and the homoerotic in 19th-century American
letters,” which becomes an influential book titled “The Sperm-
Squeezers.” Owen can’t resist calling it a “seminal” work.
Skrimshander is Norse for scrimshaw as well as the landlord’s
endearment for Ishmael early in “Moby-Dick.”  There’s enough baseball to satisfy fans of the classic
sports tale in which underdogs fight ever more impossible odds
when their prodigy falters. Henry’s bible is a book of Zen-like
pronouncements called “The Art of Fielding” by Aparicio
Rodriguez, the player whose record Henry threatens.  Harbach presents his own koans on the sport when Mike or
Henry is flailing at one of life’s curveballs -- and avoids
cliches much better than I just did. He conveys the grace of a
gifted player and the awe he can inspire. He gets downright
poignant at times, given Henry’s dodgy wing: “What other sport
not only kept a stat as cruel as the error but posted it on the
scoreboard for everyone to see?”  Sexual Complications  School and sports remain secondary, though, as emotional
and sexual complications beset the five central players and
Henry’s unreliable arm drags him into physical and psychological
decline. Yet even while the book darkens, Harbach seems to be
smiling at his creation, enjoying the many large and small
resonances, the pleasure of writing when it works.  Look at all the threads drawn together in these few words
where Henry fears he is losing Mike: “Pella and Schwartz made a
perfect whole, like the yin and yang on Owen’s favorite pajamas,
or the two halves of a baseball’s cover, two infinity-shaped
pieces of leather stitched together with love’s red thread.”  Guert’s December-May affair with Owen stirs a doubt that
reflects, with humor, their different roles, ages, vigor and
interests: “Sometimes Affenlight worried that Owen dallied with
him solely so that he could whisper in Affenlight’s ear about
campus-wide environmental initiatives.”  Wit and warmth propel “The Art of Fielding.” A couple of
plot choices felt off to me, and I sought at least one surprise
that didn’t come. Nits aside, I can’t name many books where I’ve
so enjoyed the company of the characters as I did these.  I credit the nine years Harbach says he spent writing the
novel. For the unsalaried co-editor of  n+1 , the literary journal
he helped found, the time invested has been repaid with a hefty
book contract of about $650,000 and  HBO ’s plans to turn “The
Art of Fielding” into a dramatic series. Read it first for
everything the TV screen will never capture.  “The Art of Fielding” is published by Little, Brown (512
pages, $25.99). To order the book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 