-- 
Siemens, Toshiba Czech Fines Were Legal, EU Court Aide Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-08T13:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/siemens-fuji-czech-cartel-fines-were-legal-eu-court-aide-says.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , Hitachi Ltd.,  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and other electric-equipment makers should have more than
900 million koruna ($52 million) in Czech fines upheld, an
adviser to the European Union’s highest court said.  “The Czech competition authority was entitled to impose
penalties under national law,” even though EU antitrust
authorities had also punished the cartel members, Advocate
General Juliane Kokott of the  EU Court of Justice, said  in a
non-binding opinion today. The Luxembourg-based EU court follows
such legal advice most of the time.  The Czech antitrust regulator fined at least 10 companies a
record 979 million koruna in 2007, a month after the EU
regulator had levied a 750.7 million-euro penalty ($1.05
billion) on them for colluding on prices of electric equipment.
The companies, also including  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , are
challenging the legality of the Czech fine, which was later cut
to 942 million koruna.  A Czech regional court in 2008 overturned the national
penalty, ruling that the companies couldn’t be fined twice, once
by the European Commission and once by Czech regulator. On
appeal by the Czech antitrust watchdog, a high court in 2009
annulled that ruling and said the regional court had to re-
examine the case.  The regional court referred the case to the EU tribunal
questioning whether EU or Czech law applied for the period
during which the cartel took place in the  Czech Republic  before
the country became part of the 27-nation bloc in May 2004.  ‘Same Offense’  The EU decision and the decision of the Czech competition
authority “do not relate to the same material acts, which means
that the Czech competition authority did not infringe the
prohibition against punishing the same offense twice,” the
court said in a statement on Kokott’s advice.  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  and Toshiba in July won an appeal
to overturn their EU fines of 118.6 million euros and 90.9
million euros, respectively. Fuji Electric Co. won a fine
reduction from 2.4 million euros to 2.2 million euros. Siemens,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company, lost an appeal in March
against its 396.6 million-euro fine, the highest in the EU
cartel.  “We’re disappointed with the conclusion that’s been
reached and we’ll now wait for the court’s decision,” said
Anthony Dawes, a lawyer in the Brussels office of law firm White
& Case LLP, who represented Toshiba.  Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker declined to comment as
did Mitsubishi. Spokespeople for Areva and Alstom didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment. Toshiba, Hitachi
and Fuji Electric didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment outside normal office hours.  The case is: C-17/10, Toshiba Corporation, Areva,
Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Alstom, Fuji Electric, VA TECH
Transmission & Distribution GmbH & Co. KEG, Siemens AG,  Hitachi
Ltd (6501) , Japan AE Power Systems Corp., Nuova Magrini Galileo SpA v.
Urad pro ochranu hospodarske souteze.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  