-- 
Sikorsky Charges U.S. Army $2,393 for $181 Black Hawk Part

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-08T20:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sikorsky-charged-army-2-393-for-181-black-hawk-plastic-part-audit-finds.html
Sikorsky Aircraft Corp . overcharged
the U.S. Army for 28 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter spare parts,
including $2,393.41 for a plastic wiring box cover worth
$181.70, according to the office of the Defense Department’s
Inspector General.  Sikorsky, a unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , charged the Army $7,814.88 for a rotor used
to cool radiator oil that cost another Pentagon agency
$1,536.65, according to the 65-page audit. Bloomberg News
obtained the report, a  three-page summary  of which the Inspector
General made public today.  The audit cited excessively priced parts and costs based on
pricing data that wasn’t current, complete or accurate from the
latest of three Sikorsky contracts with the Corpus Christi,
Texas, Army depot. The contracts were valued cumulatively at
about $1.1 billion. The initial contract award was made in
December 2002.  Army officials have a “myriad of issues to overcome to
ensure that prices are fair and reasonable,” said the audit,
which is signed by Bruce Burton, deputy inspector general for
acquisition management.  Overall “we calculated that Sikorsky charged the Army
$11.8 million, or 51.4 percent more than fair and reasonable
prices,” between 2008 and 2010, the audit said. About $158,531
of that excess was paid for the plastic wiring box covers.  ‘Excessive Prices’  “If not corrected Army officials will pay excessive
profits of approximately $16.6 million over the remaining two
years of the contract,” including $249,986 in future wiring box
overcharges, it said.  Sikorsky also charged progressively increased prices for
titanium sheath assemblies used to protect Black Hawk rotor
blades -- the helicopter’s most expensive item, the audit said.  Sikorsky’s assembly prices increased 114.3 percent to
$17,004.39 each in 2008 from $7,936.57 each in 2007. “Sikorsky
made a 28.6 percent profit supplying the item in 2010 and the
profit will increase annually by 4 percent through 2012 due to
the contract clause escalation,” the audit said.  The audit is the second since May to underscore the pricing
problems that can occur under contracts in which the Army, the
Air Force and the Navy purchase management services and parts
from private contractors instead of through the Pentagon’s
 Defense Logistics Agency .  Boeing Audit  The Inspector General’s office in a May audit disclosed
similar overpricing with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s maintenance contract with
the Corpus Christi depot, which handles Black Hawks and Boeing
CH-47 transport helicopters.  Both the Sikorsky and Boeing reports highlight areas of
potential cost savings as the Pentagon seeks to protect funding
for personnel and weapons programs from additional budget cuts.
Shay Assad, the Pentagon’s new director of pricing, said in an
interview he is already reviewing the Boeing audit.  Defense contractor overcharges in the 1980s undercut public
confidence in Pentagon management, as Senate committees
disclosed overpriced spare parts such as a $37 machine screw, a
$435 claw hammer and a $640 toilet cover assembly just as the
Reagan administration was starting to increase defense spending.  “It is important to note that of the more than 7,000 parts
covered under this contract, only a handful were found to have
discrepancies,” said Sikorsky spokesman Paul Jackson.  Full Compliance  “Sikorsky operates under a culture of full compliance and
continuous improvement,” he said.  Sikorsky has agreed to provide $1 million in refunds,
including some for the wiring box covers. The Army Aviation and
Missile Life Cycle Management Command, which manages the
contracts, “needs to correct prices and seek” another $11
million in refunds, the audit said.  The Army also must revise contract clauses to avoid another
$21 million in “excessive costs” that would be triggered by
escalation clauses, the audit said.  Sikorsky’s Jackson said “we have been cooperating fully
with the DoD IG and AMCOM throughout the process. We recognize
the DoD IG periodically examines the contracts of many companies
and that this contract is one of a series under review.”  “We negotiated this contract, worth over S1.1 billion, in
good faith with the goal to provide unparalleled service levels
at a reasonable price,” he said. “We believe we have
demonstrated our value to the Army customer in our performance
under this contract.”  Incentive to Charge  The overcharges stem from factors including the incentive
for Sikorsky under its firm fixed-price contracts to charge as
much as possible without passing on savings, the audit said.  Sikorsky repeatedly didn’t adequately negotiate lower costs
with its suppliers or pass on savings when it did, the audit
found.  The Defense Contract Audit Agency since 2006 “has
consistently documented that Sikorsky does not perform adequate
cost or price analysis” of subcontractor quotes, the audit
said.  The Army didn’t adequately analyze Sikorsky’s prices, the
audit said. The command didn’t have “adequate procedures to
ensure” Sikorsky’s costs were reasonable for use in
negotiations, it said.  Army Aviation Command official Ronald Chronister in written
July 7 comments included in the report said his organization
agreed to review the refund request and improve its cost
analysis.  “Recognizing the need to focus on the evaluation of
proposals and drive efficiencies in our large dollar
acquisitions,” the command established a new directorate of
cost and price analysis, he said.  Army Comment  Still, the Army Command “does not agree” with the
report’s overall thrust that the Sikorsky contract “is
ineffective, overly costly or inefficient,” said spokesman Dan O’Boyle in an e-mail statement today.  “While AMCOM will appropriately deal with any over-pricing
issues -- it is important to note the identified overpriced
parts represent about 5 percent of the total materiel cost, and
is focused on 28 out of 7,000 parts that are priced in the
contract.”  “Even though any overpricing is a concern, in a contract
of this magnitude it is important to view the total agreement
price which is considered reasonable in light of the overall
cost and performance,” he said.  “This contract has enabled the Army to significantly
decrease repair turnaround times for critical aircraft parts,
and significantly increase production rates of both parts and
aircraft,” O’Boyle said.  Better Analysis Needed  ‘  The Sikorsky and Boeing audits indicate that the Army needs
to do a more thorough job of cost and price analysis and examine
how prime contractors evaluate subcontractor prices, said IG
auditor Henry Kleinknecht in an interview. “It’s the prime
contractor’s job to negotiate a fair price,” he said.  “Unfortunately, this latest report is yet another example
illustrating the department’s broken and ineffective inventory
and accounting systems,” said Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware
Democrat who heads a financial management subcommittee.  “While the report’s findings are deeply troubling -
particularly as we are struggling with a massive federal debt
and deficit -- they are not surprising,” Carper said today in
an e-mail. “We have known for years the department is unable to
audit its books and is woefully behind in meeting Congress’
requirement that it be audit-ready by 2017.”  Carper said he’d highlight the Sikorsky audit in a Sept. 15
hearing he’s convening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  