-- 
Sino-Forest Executives to Face ‘Direct Hit’ From Regulator in Fraud Probe

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-08T14:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sino-forest-executives-face-direct-hit-from-osc-in-fraud-probe.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  agreed to extend a
trading ban on its shares imposed by a Canadian securities
regulator that’s been criticized for being too slow to clamp
down on corporate fraud.  The Ontario Securities Commission, which said last month
that some officers and directors of the Chinese tree-plantation
operator may have acted fraudulently, halted trading of Sino-
Forest shares and temporarily banned five executives from buying
and selling securities. The company’s lawyers consented to an
extension of the trading bans until Jan. 25, at a hearing in
Toronto today before  Canada ’s main securities watchdog.  The OSC is “acting very early and taking a direct hit
right at the company, not screwing around,” said Richard Powers, a business law and ethics professor at the  University of
Toronto . “Before any hearing, before anybody’s been found
guilty of a darned thing, they just said ‘we’re not waiting.’”  The OSC’s actions against Mississauga, Ontario- and Hong
Kong-based Sino-Forest contrast with its handling of past cases
such as Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and former Hollinger International
Inc. Chairman Conrad M. Black, in which it took action only
after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission stepped in.  The OSC has been headed since November by Howard Wetston, a
former judge in the Federal Court of Canada and ex-chairman of
the Ontario Energy Board. One of the regulator’s five  priorities 
for this fiscal year is to “intensify operational, compliance
and enforcement efforts,” which include reducing timelines for
completing investigations and bringing regulatory proceedings
forward.  ‘New Sheriff’  “There is a new sheriff in town,” said Powers, who met
Wetston in 2005 at Rotman School of Management’s  directors
education program  at the University of Toronto. “He is
exceedingly smart, he is tactful and he can be aggressive.”  Wetston, 64, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Sino-Forest shares have plunged 74 percent since June 1,
the day before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
alleged the company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest
has denied the allegations. A week after the report, the OSC
announced it was investigating “matters related to” Sino-
Forest, and on Aug. 26, the Toronto-based regulator halted
trading in the shares for 15 days.  ‘Outlandish’ Order  Sino-Forest closed at C$4.81 on the Toronto Stock Exchange
on Aug. 25, the last day before trading was halted. The shares
plunged 72 percent to $1.38 in U.S. over-the-counter dealing on
Aug. 26, before they too were halted, giving the company a
market value of $338.4 million. The company was valued at as
much as C$6.36 billion ($6.46 billion) in March.  In its Aug. 26 notice, the OSC initially ordered five
executives, including Chief Executive Officer  Allen Chan , to
resign. That demand was rescinded hours later when the regulator
was “persuaded” to wait for today’s hearing before issuing
such an order, Wendy Dey, an OSC spokeswoman, said at the time.  “To order that was outlandish,” Dirk Matten, a professor
at the York University’s Schulich School of Business in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview.  Chan stepped down as chief executive officer two days
later.  ‘Send a Message’  “I think they did it on purpose to illustrate, to send a
message to Sino-Forest that ‘we’ve had it with your delays,
we’re coming after you aggressively, and we can either do it
through our way or you can do it your way,” Powers said.  Stan Neve, a spokesman for Sino-Forest, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment yesterday.  The regulator probably won’t seek to ban the executives at
the hearing, a former OSC staffer said.  “We’re still in the realm of early-stage temporary
orders,” Kelley McKinnon, a partner at  law firm  Gowling Lafleur
Henderson LLP in Toronto and a former deputy director of
enforcement at the OSC, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Based on the notice of hearing the Commission has put out,
they’re not seeking to ban directors and officers.”  The OSC, one of 13 Canadian provincial and territorial
securities watchdogs, has more limited powers than its
counterpart at the SEC. The OSC had a staff of 478 last year and
expenses of C$84.8 million. For the year ended Sept. 30, 2010,
the  SEC  had 3,748 full-time employees and a budget authority of
$1.57 billion.  Higher Costs  “A provincial body cannot afford the costs of national
enforcement,” said  John Coffee , a law professor at  Columbia
University  in  New York . “It would be like asking the New York
State Attorney General to handle all securities fraud cases in
the United States.”  Canada is the only industrialized country in the world
without a single securities regulator. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has been pushing for a single agency to improve
enforcement and cut costs, although the plan has been met with
opposition by provinces including  Quebec .  Canada has had problems of underinvestment in securities
enforcement because of the fragmented system, which has led to
some failures in high-profile cases, Coffee said.  ‘An Embarrassment’  “Bre-X is a little bit of an embarrassment for Canada,”
Coffee said, referring to Canada’s biggest stock-market fraud.
The Calgary-based company’s claims of massive  gold reserves  in
 Indonesia  proved to be a hoax and the company’s shares plummeted
in early 1997. Former Bre-X geologist John Felderhof, the only
official to be charged, was found innocent of all counts,
including  insider trading  and issuing false press releases.  Black, the former chairman and chief executive officer of
Toronto-based Hollinger International, was prosecuted by the SEC
before Canadian regulators stepped in. Black was initially
sentenced in 2007 to 6 1/2 years in a U.S. federal prison for
mail fraud and obstructing justice. That term was reduced by
about three years after he successfully appealed two of the four
counts upon which he was found guilty.  “ Conrad Black  was prosecuted in the  United States ,”
Coffee said. “There is this funny pattern of Canada -- to the
extent that there is enforcement in Canada -- it often comes
laterally from the United States.”  The OSC is taking a different tack on Sino-Forest, Powers
said.  “The OSC has tended to take a very cautious approach,”
Powers said. “It would suggest that under Mr. Wetston, the OSC
is going to be much more aggressive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 