-- 
Sino-Forest Ban Extended by Regulator

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-08T21:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sino-forest-lawyers-agree-to-extend-osc-stock-trading-halt-until-january.html
Canada ’s main securities regulator
extended the trading ban on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ’s shares while it
pores over tens of thousands of documents as part of an
investigation into possible fraud at the forestry company.  Ontario Securities Commission Vice Chairman Mary G. Condon
lengthened the suspension to Jan. 25 at a hearing in Toronto
yesterday. Lawyers for Sino-Forest and former Chief Executive
Officer Allen Chan agreed to the move. Chan and four other
executives of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company will be unable to trade securities through that date.  There isn’t “adequate information in the market” for
Sino-Forest investors to make decisions, Karen Manarin, a lawyer
for the commission, said at the hearing. “The confidence of the
integrity and fairness of the capital markets may be compromised
if trading in securities of Sino-Forest is permitted at this
time.”  Shareholders including billionaire Richard Chandler must
now wait at least four months to trade their shares. The stock
has plunged 74 percent in Toronto since June 1, the day before
short seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters LLC  research firm said
in a report Sino-Forest overstated timber holdings. Sino-Forest
has denied the allegations. The commission halted trading on
Aug. 26 and Chan resigned as chairman and CEO two days later.  Sino-Forest has established an independent committee of
directors to examine and respond to the allegations in the Muddy
Waters report. The company said Aug. 15 the investigation would
take until the end of the year to complete.  ‘Significant Resources’  The commission’s staff sought an extension of the trading
ban to give it time to review the conclusions of the independent
review, Manarin said. The commission won’t disclose more details
of its investigation to avoid impeding its own probe or the
independent committee’s, she said.  “Our investigation is a major undertaking and staff has
committed significant resources to it,” she told Condon at the
hearing. “Our work includes interviewing many witnesses, some
of whom require interpreters, and the confirmation and review of
tens of thousands of documents, many of which are in simplified
Chinese or traditional Chinese.”  The commission’s staff has requested some information from
Sino-Forest that the company has yet to provide, Manarin said.
Stan Neve, a New York-based spokesman for Sino-Forest, declined
to comment on the extension of the trading halt.  Paulson Stake  Officers and directors of Sino-Forest “appear to have
misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated some of
its timber holdings,” the commission said Aug. 26. The
regulator also demanded on Aug. 26 that Chan and four other
executives resign. It rescinded the order later the same day,
citing the requirement to hold a hearing first.  Shareholders have lost at least C$3.3 billion ($3.35
billion). Hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s
biggest shareholder, told clients that it sold its entire stake
in June after losing C$462 million on the investment.  Chandler spent at least C$148.5 million to nearly double
his stake in the company to 48 million shares since July 19,
according to regulatory filings, and is now Sino-Forest’s
biggest investor. Richard Barton, a Hong Kong-based spokesman
for Chandler, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request
for comment.  Sino-Forest last traded at C$4.81 Aug. 25 on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. The shares traded over the counter in the U.S.
on Aug. 26 and fell to $1.38 before being halted, giving the
company a market value of $338.4 million.  The other four Sino-Forest employees banned from trading
are Vice Presidents Albert Ip, Alfred C.T. Hung, George Ho and
Simon Yeung.  Sino-Forest’s lawyer at the hearing was Robert Staley and
 Allen Chan ’s was Emily Cole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 