-- 
Sleepless Satellite CEOs Count on Drones to Tackle Record Capacity Growth

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-09-08T09:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sleepless-satellite-ceos-count-on-drones-to-tackle-record-capacity-growth.html
Satellite operators  SES SA (SESG)  and
 Intelsat SA , dubbed “market darlings” for some of the highest
profit margins in the technology industry, are pushing services
such as military drones in preparation for the biggest increase
in satellite capacity in at least 10 years.  More than 200 commercial communication satellites will be
launched by 2020 as a surging number of television stations
boosts demand for broadcasting services, Euroconsult estimates.
The increase in capacity will accelerate to 7 percent annually
in the next three years, from 3 percent in the five years
through 2010, said Chief Executive Officer  Pacome Revillon .  SES,  Eutelsat Communications (ETL)  SA,  Intelsat  and Telesat
Holdings Inc., the biggest fixed-service satellite companies,
say the flurry of launches is necessary to meet demand and
address capacity bottlenecks. CEOs gathering at the  World
Satellite Business Week  conference in Paris next week will
debate how they can draw on emerging markets and new services to
safeguard profit margins and boost their stock prices.  “There is a statistical risk of 4 percent to 5 percent
failure for a launch,” SES CEO Romain Bausch said in an
interview. “That’s what literally keeps me up at night, as an
extra satellite makes such a difference in terms of revenue.”  SES has embarked on the biggest expansion in the industry.
The Luxembourg-based company plans to increase capacity by 23
percent through 2014 compared with the end of 2010. Eutelsat is
adding 20 percent in the same period, while Intelsat will put on
4 percent incremental space through 2013. Including Telesat,
which declined to comment on potential capacity increase, the
operators plan to launch about 27 satellites.  Margins  About 290 commercial satellites are in orbit, 36,000
kilometers (22,400 miles) above the equator and 153 of them are
used for TV broadcasting, according to estimates by  Will Smith ,
a London-based analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.  SES’s profit margin, based on earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, reached 74.7 percent in
2010, while Eutelsat had a margin of 79.3 percent in the 12
months through June. That compares with 32 percent for Vodafone
Group Plc, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and 29.8
percent for Apple Inc., the world’s largest technology company,
according to Bloomberg data.  The high profitability and stable business made satellite
operators safe investment targets as the sovereign debt storm is
battering  Europe  and global markets.  Few Sells  Eutelsat has risen 14 percent this year and SES has gained
5.1 percent, compared with a 15 percent drop in the Bloomberg
European Communications Index, which includes 50 companies
ranging from phone operators such as Telefonica SA, TV company
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and network makers including
Ericsson AB. German pay-TV operator Sky Deutschland AG was the
best performer with a 30 percent increase.  Today, Eutelsat rose 0.7 percent to 31.07 euros as of 11:23
a.m. in Paris trading. SES gained 0.5 percent to 18.72 euros.  Of 24 analysts covering Eutelsat, two had a “sell” rating
in the past year. One out of 23 advised selling SES shares.  To keep the support of investors, operators need new
services and continuing strong demand to manage the increase in
capacity, says Richard Speetjens, a  fund manager  at Robeco Groep
NV, which oversees about 150 billion euros ($211 billion).  “Supply may temporarily outstrip demand and this may cause
some issues,” said Speetjens. “But they’ll continue to be
market darlings.”  One significant growth market for satellite operators are
unmanned drones, Intelsat CEO David McGlade said. “There will
very strong growth as there will be less and less pilots around
the world.”  Robot Submarines  U.S. defense officials and contractors are pushing for
drones that are more autonomous than today’s models, including
airplanes that fly their own missions, driverless trucks that
follow troops into battle and battery-powered robot submarines.
The global unmanned aerial vehicle market will probably almost
double over the next decade to $11.3 billion, according to Teal
Group Corp., a Fairfax, Virginia-based consulting firm.  The U.S. government is Intelsat’s biggest client, and the
 Department of Defense  represents a large portion of that
business, McGlade said.  Unlike military drones commonly used in  Afghanistan , such
as the Predator made by San Diego-based General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems Inc., technology may enable future versions
to survey targets, assess threats and even attack on their own.  ‘Bandwidth Hungry’  “Longer term, unmanned aerial vehicles will become fully
ingrained into the modern military,” Jefferies’s Smith said.
“These applications are bandwidth hungry as they involved the
transfer of large data files, video, and imagery.”  The push into new markets is already having an impact on
prices, according to Futron Corp. analyst Ian Christensen.
Capacity pricing in  Africa  is projected to fall 5 percent to 20
percent in the coming years, as prices in Europe and  North
America  remain stable, with a “slight downward pressure” in
the U.S., he said.  Intelsat’s McGlade says the challenge is to fine-tune the
launch schedule to avoid an oversupply that would hurt profit.  “Too little capacity is no good and too much is no good
either,” McGlade said. “There are times when you’d like to
have extra capacity ,but if we were flooded with it there would
be spiraling declines in returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  