-- 
Solar Company Failure Shows Less Federal Aid Works Better: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-08T00:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/solar-company-failure-shows-that-less-federal-aid-can-work-better-view.html
The worst and best of U.S.
government policy on solar energy has been on display lately. In
a cringe-worthy failure, California solar-panel maker Solyndra
filed for bankruptcy this week, just two years after winning
$535 million of federal loan guarantees.  Solyndra’s rapid rise and fall should have played out
entirely in the private sector. Silicon Valley is thick with
venture capitalists willing to finance risky, iconoclastic
startups.  Indeed, Solyndra raised a staggering $1.1 billion from
private sources since its founding in 2005. The extra federal
support ended up having the well-intentioned but unfortunate
effect of allowing the company to ramp up manufacturing quickly,
even as evidence was emerging that it had badly misread the
changing economics of the solar-panel market.  A few years ago, prices for the silicon wafers used in most
flat-panel solar systems were soaring. Solyndra proposed
building an entirely different panel, using tubes coated with
thin films of copper-indium-gallium-selenide that would pick up
light from any direction.  Solyndra predicted that its tubes would be far cheaper than
the silicon alternative. No such luck. Silicon prices have
plunged nearly 90 percent from their peak in 2008, making
conventional panels the better bargains.  Solyndra now blames its cost disadvantage on the Chinese
government’s willingness to subsidize its solar-panel industry.
So have two other U.S. solar companies that went belly up in
recent weeks,  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  and SpectraWatt Inc. Such
complaints sound petulant, given that all three companies
benefited from  Washington ’s support. The truth, as  Anthony Kim 
of Bloomberg New Energy Finance puts it, is that “the
technology did not work as well or as cheaply as hoped.”  A day after Solyndra’s failure, it was heartening to see
the  Department of Energy  award a total of  $145 million  to 69
solar energy projects taking place inside universities,
government research labs and major corporations. Many of those
grants are for as little as $750,000 apiece, and none is larger
than $13 million. Each targets a current impediment to cheaper
solar power -- and then provides initial support for a dozen or
more different ideas that might lead to breakthroughs.  Steering small amounts of money to many early-stage
researchers is the best way for government to operate. Misfires
don’t cost much. Successes can be huge. Private-financing
alternatives are patchy at best, because these researchers’
ideas might not pay off for a decade or more. The benefits of
this sort of pioneering government support can be seen in the
Defense Department’s early work on  computer networks , which
helped make the Internet possible.  Solyndra’s stumbles, on the other hand, underscore how
poorly governments fare when they try too hard to pick
industrial winners.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 