-- 
FBI Raid on Solyndra May Herald Escalation of Watchdog Probe

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/solyndra-s-california-headquarters-raided-by-fbi-agency-spokeswoman-says.html
An FBI raid on Solyndra Inc., a
solar-panel maker that failed after receiving a $535 million
loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department, may signal the
escalation of a probe into the Obama administration’s clean-
energy program.  Agents for Energy Department Inspector General Gregory Friedman, who has called the department’s clean-energy loan
program lacking in “transparency and accountability,” joined
in the search yesterday at the Fremont, California, headquarters
of Solyndra, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.  Republicans critical of the program stepped up their
attacks following the raid, and two House Democrats questioned
the integrity of the company, indicating a potential political
crisis for the president. A foundation headed by an Obama
campaign contributor was a principal investor in Solyndra.  “The FBI raid further underscores that Solyndra was a bad
bet from the beginning and put taxpayers at unnecessary risk,”
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who heads the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, said yesterday in a
statement. “President Obama’s signature green jobs program went
from a darling of the administration, to bankruptcy, to now the
subject of an FBI raid in a matter of days.”  Friedman, a watchdog within the Energy Department, said in
a March report that a lack of adequate documentation for loans
“leaves the department open to criticism that it may have
exposed the taxpayers to unacceptable risks associated with
these borrowers.”  Obama Contributor  The Energy Department gave Solyndra the most federal
backing awarded a solar manufacturer. The George Kaiser Family
Foundation, a charitable organization based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma ,
and backed by donations from billionaire George Kaiser, holds
about 35.7 percent of Solyndra, according to a company filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Kaiser made 16
visits to the president’s aides since 2009, according to White
House visitor logs.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  executed a search
warrant at Solyndra, bureau spokeswoman Julie Sohn said in an
interview. Sohn said she couldn’t provide details about the
investigation. Solyndra, which shut its factory and fired 1,100
people, said in its filing for bankruptcy protection that it had
liabilities of $783.8 million.  ‘Misleading Claims’  Investigations by the panel over six months were frustrated
by “misleading claims on Solyndra’s viability by administration
officials, company executives and congressional Democrats,”
Upton said in the statement with Representative  Cliff Stearns , a
Florida Republican who heads the committee’s oversight panel.  Dave Miller, a Solyndra spokesman, and Debra Grassgreen,
the company’s bankruptcy attorney with Pachulski Stang Ziehl &
Jones LLP, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on
the raid. White House spokesman Eric Schultz declined to comment
on the raid, referring questions on  law enforcement  to the
 Justice Department  and on loans to the Energy Department, which
also declined to comment.  Selection of companies to receive U.S. backing are “merit-
based decisions made by career staffers at the  Department of
Energy , and the process for this particular loan guarantee began
under President  George W. Bush ,” Schultz said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 1.  “Every project that receives financing through the Energy
Department goes through a rigorous financial, legal and
technical review process,” Schultz said.  Republicans had questioned the loan guarantee to Solyndra
even before the inspector general’s report in March, which
criticized Obama’s loan program for poor documentation and
record-keeping without singling out specific decisions.  ‘Smelled a Rat’  “We smelled a rat from the onset,” Stearns and Upton said
in a statement on Aug. 31, when the company announced its
intention to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization.  Democratic Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and
Diana DeGette of  Colorado  said yesterday that Solyndra Chief
Executive Officer Brian Harrison assured them in a meeting less
than two months ago that the company was in a “strong financial
position.”  “He did not convey to us the perilous condition of the
company, and the committee should know why,” Waxman and DeGette
wrote in a letter yesterday to Stearns.  “At that time, he said the company was projected to double
its revenues in 2011, there was ‘strong demand in the  United
States ’ for its shipments, and the company was expected to
double the megawatts of panel production shipped this year,”
according to the letter. “These assurances appear to contrast
starkly with his company’s decision to file for bankruptcy.”  The Energy and Commerce committee yesterday asked Harrison
to testify at a Sept. 14 hearing on Solyndra in  Washington .  Obama Contributor  In a Sept. 1 letter requesting all documents on White House
communications with Solyndra, its board and investors, Upton and
Stearns said “a major investor in Solyndra, George Kaiser, was
a bundler for President Obama’s 2008 campaign.”  Kaiser raised, or bundled, $50,000 to $100,000 for Obama’s
2008 campaign, according to a list that had been posted on
Obama’s 2008 campaign website. He gave $2,300 personally,
according to the  Federal Election Commission .  White House Visits  White House visitor logs show that Kaiser had 16 meetings
with Obama aides, 11 of them in 2009. His first recorded visit
to the White House was March 12, 2009, when he met separately
with  Austan Goolsbee , a senior economic adviser to Obama,  Pete Rouse , a senior adviser to the president, and Heather Higginbottom, deputy director of the Domestic Policy Council.
The next day he met with  Jason Furman , a member of Obama’s
National Economic Council.  That month, the Energy Department awarded Solyndra the $535
million loan guarantee to commercialize its cylindrical solar
panels.  In June, Kaiser met with senior Obama adviser  Valerie Jarrett , policy adviser David Pope and Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel . His most recent meeting covered by the White House logs
was on April 11 of this year, with Rouse.  Christian Gronet, the chairman of Solyndra, met with Greg
Nelson, from the White House office of public engagement on
Sept. 22, 2009. The visits cited in the White House logs were
reported yesterday on the Daily Caller website.  The  George Kaiser Family Foundation  said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 1 that George Kaiser “is not an investor in
Solyndra and did not participate in any discussions with the
U.S. government regarding the loan.”  The foundation said it
“invests in a globally diversified portfolio across many
different asset classes.”  Solyndra has said it failed because it couldn’t compete
with larger rivals in other countries as prices for solar panels
plunged and demand slowed.  The company borrowed $527.8 million from the U.S. Federal
Financing Bank, a unit of the  U.S. Treasury Department that’s
its biggest lender.  In January, the Energy Department agreed to let $385
million in taxpayer support for Solyndra take a back seat to
funds from new investors in an effort to keep the company
operating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  