-- 
Sonia Gandhi Returns to India After Surgery

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-08T05:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/sonia-gandhi-returns-to-india-after-surgery.html
Sonia Gandhi ,  India ’s most powerful
politician, returned to  New Delhi  about a month after undergoing
surgery overseas for an undisclosed condition, amid waning
support for the ruling  Congress  party she heads.  During Gandhi’s absence, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government faced anger over its strident response to a 13-day
hunger strike by anti-corruption campaigner  Anna Hazare  that
garnered nationwide backing. The popularity of the Congress in
India’s cities may have fallen by a third following the standoff,
according to an opinion poll by research company Nielsen
Holdings NV and Star News television channel.  “The distress in the government and the party was
visible” with Gandhi incapacitated, said G.V.L. Narasimha Rao,
managing director of New Delhi-based Development & Research
Services. “She has to not only recover medically, but she also
needs to draw up a plan to revive the party politically.”  Gandhi, 64, who has been Congress president since 1998,
came back early morning today, the party’s General Secretary
Janardhan Dwivedi said in a phone interview. She had undergone
an operation abroad, the party announced on Aug. 4, without
elaborating. Indian media reported she was treated at a hospital
in  New York .  Before leaving India, she temporarily named a four-member
team to run party affairs that included her son  Rahul Gandhi ,
who has been taking on a more prominent political role in recent
months.  While Gandhi will continue as president of the Congress,
she will give “more space” to Rahul in managing party affairs,
Rao said. She is likely to need at least “a couple of months”
to make a full recovery, the Times of India reported Sept. 6,
without saying where it got the information.  Gandhi Dynasty  The confrontation between the government and protesters
demanding tougher laws against corruption deepened after
Hazare’s brief arrest on Aug. 16. Nationwide demonstrations and
candle-lit vigils -- fueled by social media websites and 24-hour
coverage on television -- put Singh’s government on the
defensive. Hazare ended his fast Aug. 28 after lawmakers agreed
to meet some of his demands when drafting legislation.  The widow of assassinated former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia is the fourth member of the Nehru-Gandhi family to
lead Congress, which has dominated Indian politics since
independence from British rule in 1947. She was named the
world’s ninth-most powerful person by  Forbes magazine  last year.  The Italian-born Gandhi unexpectedly turned down the
position of prime minister after  leading Congress  and its allies
to victory in the 2004 elections, amid concerns her ancestry
would be attacked by Hindu nationalist opponents. She instead
selected Singh to lead the country while staying as Congress
president.  As head of the country’s National Advisory Council, a body
that advises on planned legislation, Gandhi has focused on
health policies,  job creation  and expanding the scope of
subsidized food programs for the more than 800 million Indians
the  World Bank  says live on less than $2 a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  