-- 
South Korea’s Lee Says ‘There’s No Perfect Solution’ to Tackle Inflation

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-09-08T15:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/south-korea-s-lee-says-inflation-cures-are-difficult-to-find.html
South Korean President Lee Myung Bak
said it’s difficult to find ways to curb inflation that may
exceed the 4 percent target this year, as the central bank left
interest rates unchanged on concerns global growth is slowing.  “There’s no perfect solution to tackle inflation, but if
we try our hardest we can find ways to mitigate it,” Lee said
in a panel discussion broadcast on KBS Television in Seoul last
night. “Inflation is expected to reach a little over 4 percent
this year.”  South Korea’s central bank held off from raising interest
rates for a third straight month yesterday and said it may not
be able to increase borrowing costs until “external” factors
such as Europe’s debt crisis are under control. Consumer prices
jumped 5.3 percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest
gain in three years, with inflation exceeding the Bank of
Korea’s target ceiling every month this year.  Lee held an emergency cabinet meeting on July 20 to discuss
ways to contain inflation as the rising cost of living and a
widening wealth gap have driven his approval rating to less than
half its level than when he was elected in Feb. 2008. He is
under pressure to regain popular backing as his party faces next
year’s parliamentary and presidential elections.  World Bank  Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery are
clouding the outlook for exports. World Bank President Robert Zoellick said this week the world is “moving into a dangerous
period” as stocks extended a slump that wiped $6.6 trillion off
global equity values in the three months ended Sept. 5.  The won fell 0.3 percent to close yesterday at 1,075.13 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.7 percent. The index
plunged 12 percent in August, the biggest monthly drop since the
global financial crisis in 2008.  Recent economic reports suggest that while overseas demand
for South Korean goods is holding up, corporate executives’
sentiment is worsening as the global economic outlook dims.  Exports continue to drive the economy, expanding a more-
than-expected 27.1 percent in August, while industrial
production rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier in July, less
than analysts’ median estimate of 6.2 percent. Manufacturers’
confidence for September fell to a 21-month low, a Bank of Korea
report last month showed.  “The external situation is such that we see downside risks
to our economy as being larger than before,” central bank
Governor Kim Choong Soo told reporters after the policy
decision. “We can’t move interest rates as long as external
conditions are unstable.”  The bank held the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at
3.25 percent even as three rate increases this year failed to
keep inflation from accelerating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  