-- 
South Korea’s Lee Says Project for Russia Gas Pipeline May Be Speeded Up

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/south-korea-s-lee-says-russian-gas-project-may-be-speeded-up.html
Plans to build a natural-gas
pipeline from  Russia  to North and  South Korea  may be
accelerated, according to South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak .  “North Korea and Russia are holding talks now and we’re
also making progress” on the gas project, Lee said in a panel
discussion broadcast on KBS Television in Seoul last night.
“Things are likely to progress faster than we expected.”  Korea Gas Corp., the world’s biggest importer of liquefied
natural gas, and Russian gas-export monopoly OAO Gazprom have
been trying to identify a supply route since at least 2003, when
they signed a cooperation accord. Other options include an
undersea pipeline, and LNG supplies.  The two Koreas would first have to improve relations that
soured last year over the sinking of a South Korean warship and
shelling of one of its islands.  “A  gas pipeline  linking Russia and the two Koreas could
prove a turning point for inter-Korean relations,” Hong Joon
Pyo, chairman of the ruling Grand National Party, told lawmakers
Sept. 7. “The North can earn about $100 million a year to
rebuild its economy, while the South can lower its natural gas
price by about 30 percent.”  Russia is offering North Korea gas, electricity and railway
projects to induce the isolated regime to restart nuclear non-
proliferation talks.  Study Project  The regime may agree to the construction of a pipeline from
Russia that would carry as much as 10 billion cubic meters of
gas a year, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  told reporters
last month after a meeting with North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il .
The countries will establish a joint working commission to study
the project, he said.  Lee named on Aug. 30 a former ambassador to  China  in
charge of North Korean affairs, in a move that may signal an
easing of policies toward his neighbor before next year’s
elections in South Korea.  Russia had sought to sign a deal with China in June on
long-term deliveries of the fuel before price disagreements
delayed an accord.  “Moscow’s plan for a trans-Korean pipeline may be intended
to bring competitive pressure to bear on China as it continues
to negotiate prices with Gazprom for Siberian supplies,” Julia Nanay, an analyst at Washington-based PFC Energy, said by e-mail
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in  Seoul  at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  