-- 
Statoil Picks Concept for $9.6 Billion U.K. Mariner Project

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-09-08T14:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/statoil-picks-concept-for-9-6-billion-u-k-mariner-project-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest energy
producer, selected a development concept for its $9.6 billion
U.K. Mariner and Bressay fields project after earlier
threatening to scrap plans because of new U.K. taxes.  The British authorities have “made some adjustments on
rules for write-offs, which are advantageous to us and have
neutralized the effect of the first proposal” for tax
increases,  Peter Mellbye , Statoil’s head of international
development and production, said today in a telephone interview
from Aberdeen.  The U.K. in March raised taxes on oil production profit to
62 percent from 50 percent to pay for a lower consumer levy on
gasoline. Statoil responded by putting its development plans for
Mariner and Bressay on hold and said it would be less likely to
buy British assets. The company  said  today it expected to make
an  investment decision  on Mariner by the end of 2012, with
output starting in 2016.  Production is likely to be 70,000 to 80,000 barrels of oil
a day for the Mariner heavy oil field, Mellbye said. Mariner and
Bressay combined will produce about 110,000 barrels a day.  Statoil plans to develop Mariner with a production,
drilling and quarter platform based on a steel jacket, with a
floating storage unit, Mellbye said. The company has
commissioned a pre-engineering study and contracts will start
being awarded early in 2013, he said. A total of 145 reservoir
targets for production or injection are planned for Mariner.  ‘Interesting Area’  An investment decision for Bressay will be made in 2013,
with output scheduled to start end of 2017, he said. The two
U.K. fields have combined resources of about 600 million
barrels, Mellbye said earlier this year.  “The U.K. is still an interesting area for us, so we’re
working on developing our portfolio to the extent that we can,”
Mellbye said. “We’ll look at the upcoming licensing rounds.”  Statoil is involved in exploration in about 21 licenses in
the U.K. and employs 243 people in the country, according to its
annual report.  Statoil is partner with  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Nautical Petroleum Plc (NPE) 
in the Mariner field, while  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  holds a stake
in Bressay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  