-- 
Storm Nate Hits Rigs as Katia, Maria Churn

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-08T18:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/storm-nate-hits-rigs-as-katia-maria-churn.html
Tropical Storm Nate strengthened as
it whips oil rigs in  Mexico ’s Bay of Campeche, prompting alerts
along the Yucatan coast, while Tropical Storm Maria and
Hurricane Katia weakened as they bring rain and high winds to
islands in the Atlantic.  Nate has almost stopped moving and is lashing Petroleos
Mexicanos rigs with winds of 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour,
according to the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  in Miami. The
track the storm will take remains in question, and a
reconnaissance plane is heading for Nate to take measurements
that may help determine its course through the  Gulf of Mexico .  “It is a very uncertain situation right now,”  Tom Downs ,
a meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The computer model runs are bouncing all
over the place.”  The latest  hurricane center track  takes Nate on a
northwesterly course toward the Texas-Mexico border.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. About 14.8 percent of the oil
and 6.8 percent of gas output are shut, the  Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said today.
Tropical Storm Lee passed through the Gulf last week.  Nate’s Position  Nate is 125 miles west of Campeche, Mexico, and is moving
southeast at 1 mph, according to a  hurricane center advisory  at
2 p.m. East Coast time.  Two of the major forecasting models used by meteorologists
showed different tracks for the storm, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland .  One model took Nate into the oil and gas producing regions,
causing a reaction in energy markets, he said. The other showed
the storm heading into Mexico.  “We don’t have any sort of agreement that is going to make
us feel comfortable,” Hartman said by telephone. “It still
bears watching.”  Downs said the exact track Nate takes may also influence
its strength.  Track’s Impact  “Texas is pretty much like a desert right now,” he said.
“The northwestern Gulf of Mexico is dry and it would be choked
off. Basically you have a stronger storm if it stays farther to
the south and a weaker storm that moves farther north.”  Farther to the east, Tropical Storm Maria prompted  storm
watches  throughout the Lesser Antilles, including Antigua, Saint
Kitts and Martinique, according to the hurricane center. A storm
watch means winds of at least 39 mph, along with heavy rain, may
occur within two days.  The center warned residents of  Puerto Rico  and the Virgin
Islands to watch out for Maria. The storm is less organized, and
there’s a chance Maria may break up into what is called a
tropical wave, which means it won’t have the cohesion of a
tropical system and instead will be a mass of thunderstorms,
according to a hurricane center forecast analysis.  Maria was  605 miles  east of the Windward Islands with 40
mph winds, down from 45 mph earlier today, and moving west at 22
mph, according to the center.  Hurricane Katia is still bringing rain to Bermuda and heavy
crashing surf to the island as well as the U.S. East Coast, the
hurricane center said.  Katia is  330 miles west-northwest  of  Bermuda  with top winds
of 85 mph, down from 90 mph, and is moving north at 16 mph. The
storm is expected to move northeast into the Atlantic through
the remainder of the week. Katia is a Category 1 hurricane on
the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  “The forecast takes the remnants of Katia north of the
British Isles in about four days,” according to the hurricane
center. “Katia will remain a powerful cyclone.”  The hurricane center forecast calls for the storm to have
60 mph winds in five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  