-- 
Storm Lee Remnants Bring Torrental Rains, Floods to Already Wet U.S. East

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-09-08T21:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/storm-lee-s-remnants-bring-rains-flooding-to-u-s-east-coast.html
The remnants of Tropical Storm Lee
brought torrential downpours and flooding to the U.S. East
Coast, closing roads from  Maryland  to New England and forcing
thousands to evacuate.  In  Pennsylvania , where every town along the Susquehanna
River has experienced flooding, Governor Tom Corbett said the
state is at its highest level of alert since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.  “Heavy rains and flooding are expected to persist over
parts of northern mid-Atlantic states and southern New England
today,” the  National Weather Service  said in an  advisory  at 11
a.m. New York time. Flood and flash-flood warnings are now in
effect in those states.  Six to 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) of rain fell in the
Washington-Baltimore area in the past 24 hours, while showers
spread north from Dover,  Delaware , to Pittsfield,  Massachusetts ,
said Kristina Pydynowski, senior meteorologist for AccuWeather
Inc. Many rivers and creeks were already filled by last week’s
rampage of Hurricane Irene. At least four deaths have been
blamed on Lee, the  Associated Press  reported.  Waterways through the East are rising, including the
Susquehanna, which is expected to climb above major flood stage,
said Alex Sosnowski, another AccuWeather meteorologist.  ‘Fragile Watershed’  “The combination of previous record rainfall, current
tropical downpours from Lee, urban development and an already
fragile watershed will lead to historic flooding in parts of the
Northeast this week,” Evan Myers, AccuWeather’s chief operating
officer, said on the  company’s website.   Remnants from last week’s  storm  have caused havoc for two
days at the  U.S. Open  in New York City and flooding from the
Gulf Coast to New England. The rain and flooding have snarled
traffic throughout the region and is causing delays at airports
in the Northeast.  Three deaths have been reported in Pennsylvania, where
officials began calling for the mandatory evacuation of 100,000
people in the Wilkes-Barre region, said Cory Angell, a spokesman
for the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency. The agency
also called on residents in the eastern half of the state to
stay off roads and remain indoors where possible. Sections of
Interstates 80 and 81 are closed, and “hundreds” of local
roads aren’t passable, he said.  Health Emergency  “Some flood gauges cannot give us reliable data because
they are now so far underwater,” Corbett said today in a
statement. “We face a public health emergency because sewage
treatment plants are underwater and no longer working.”  New York  positioned rescue workers, swift-water boats and
helicopters with hoists to respond quickly in the event of flash
flooding. Governor Andrew Cuomo yesterday said the Department of
Environmental Conservation is placing flood-control gates in
eight upstate locations and the Town of Union is also installing
them. Emergency management officials ordered mandatory
evacuations in Binghamton.  In Trenton,  New Jersey , rescue crews used boats to pluck
some people from homes near the Delaware River and sections of
the city were being evacuated, State Police Captain Frank Davis
said. Other portions of the state may be evacuated as low-lying
areas see rising water, he said.  ‘Long Haul’  Areas of New Jersey flooded by Irene are being evacuated
again, Governor  Chris Christie  said today during a speech to
mayors in Princeton. The state’s inland rivers aren’t expected
to crest until the weekend, he said.  “These were the same people who suffered from  Hurricane Irene 
and were just about to catch their breath,” Christie said. “We
have to be ready for the long haul on this.”  New Jersey continues to be under a state of emergency, and
some government offices in Trenton adjacent to the Delaware have
been evacuated, Christie said. Residents in 16 communities in
eight of New Jersey’s 21 counties began evacuations today and
roads were closed throughout the state, Davis said.  Flooding in the wake of the hurricane displaced 16,000
people in New Jersey. It also prompted a visit from President
 Barack Obama  to survey the damage and make a federal disaster
declaration for New Jersey, New York,  Vermont  and nine other
states as well as the  District of Columbia .  Rainfall of as much as 4 inches is expected today in the
Northeast, with isolated amounts of as much as 6 inches, the
Weather Service advisory said. The system is expected to
“slowly dissipate by the end of the week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  