-- 
Suing Banks Is Next Best to Letting Them Fail: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-09-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/suing-banks-is-next-best-to-letting-them-fail-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The  Vietnam War  gave us the
expression, “We had to destroy the village in order to save
it.” The same kind of thinking might help explain the U.S. bank
rescues of 2008: We had to save the banks in order to sue them.  Last week, the conservator for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
filed  lawsuits  against 17 financial institutions to recover
losses on faulty mortgage bonds sold to the two government-
backed housing financiers. One of the defendants was Ally
Financial Inc., the lender formerly known as GMAC that once was
the finance arm of General Motors Co.  If the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  recovers  damages  from
Ally for Freddie Mac, it will be a win for taxpayers. Yet it
also will be a loss. That’s because Ally is still majority-owned
by the  U.S. Treasury .  It’s a ridiculous situation, for sure. Then again the FHFA
is doing what it’s supposed to do: preserve and conserve the
assets of Fannie and Freddie. It’s not the agency’s fault that
Congress passed the Troubled Asset Relief Program and gave the
Treasury Department new powers to keep Ally and its ilk alive.  Congress could have let those companies die, as they
deserved to. It didn’t, though. So now the inevitable  claims 
are working their way through the courts. The government’s
roles as both a referee and a player in the financial markets
remain as conflated as ever.  Great Worries  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , still majority-owned by
the Treasury Department, last month accused  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  of fraud in a suit over losses on mortgage bonds, many of
them packaged by Countrywide Financial Corp. One of the markets’
great worries is that Bank of America might not have enough
capital to cover all the mortgage-repurchase liabilities it
assumed when it bought Countrywide in 2008. The lawsuit by AIG,
which is seeking $10 billion, piles on to those concerns.  That AIG filed a lawsuit isn’t the problem. What’s perverse
is that the Treasury continues to hold a stake in AIG -- three
years after it joined with the Fed to save the giant insurer
from bankruptcy -- while AIG sues a company the Treasury
Department oversees. Bank of America wouldn’t even be around for
AIG to sue had it not been for the Treasury’s rescue money.  The same kinds of weird conflicts are evident in the $8.5
billion settlement that Bank of America struck in June with the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and other holders of defective
Countrywide mortgage bonds. Among the parties that have filed
objections to the deal are the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and AIG, giving new meaning to the term divided government.  Time to Wonder  It’s only natural to wonder from those anecdotes if U.S.
regulators want to help the banking industry or push it back to
the brink. This week,  Paul Miller , a bank analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, said the FHFA, Fannie and Freddie “need to stop
punishing banks for their lending practices from several years
ago” on the grounds that they are impeding an economic
recovery, “even though they may have a legal right to do so.”  What’s the FHFA supposed to do, though, if not exercise its
legal rights? Had the agency chosen to forgo what it sees as
legitimate claims against Ally, Bank of America and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , to name a few of the defendants it’s suing, this
would mark another surreptitious subsidy for the companies’
shareholders. While the government may have saved the banks, it
didn’t extinguish their liabilities from lawsuits.  Lawsuit Too Far  In contrast to the latest suits, the FHFA went even further
last year when it allowed Freddie to sue the  Internal Revenue
Service  over a $3 billion tax claim. A trial date in that suit
is set for December in U.S. Tax Court. In essence, one arm of
the Treasury is directly suing another arm. However the case
turns out, it will be a wash for the Treasury, which has
injected about $65 billion into Freddie to keep it afloat.  That boneheaded lawsuit is distinguishable from the cases
filed last week, where the FHFA says Freddie and Fannie got
ripped off by private-sector actors that committed securities-
law violations. The agency accused several firms of fraud,
including  Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan , and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   So why haven’t other federal agencies such as the
Securities and Exchange Commission filed complaints against the
same banks for allegedly defrauding Fannie and Freddie? And
where’s the justice for the Fannie and Freddie executives who,
with their regulator’s approval, kept saying their companies
were healthy even while they were dying?  The government has so many conflicting agendas, we may
never get satisfactory answers to those questions. All of this
is part of the legacy of the unprecedented federal  interventions 
in 2008, as well as a reminder of what a colossal mistake it was
in the first place to create Fannie and Freddie with all their
privatized profits and socialized losses.  The proper role of government in a free-enterprise system
is to police market participants at arm’s length, not join their
ranks and choose winners and losers. That’s a line we crossed a
long time ago, though. The great outrage isn’t that a federal
agency is suing some of these too-big-to-fail banks for damages.
It’s that we ever bailed them out at all.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  