-- 
Supercommittee May Kick Off Tax Overhaul as It Focuses on Debt

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/supercommittee-may-kick-off-tax-overhaul-as-it-focuses-on-debt.html
The short time frame and political
realities facing Congress’s deficit-reduction supercommittee
limit its ability to revamp the tax code now, leaving the group
looking for an overhaul that could be completed next year.  The 12-member supercommittee holds its first meeting today
in an effort to find $1.5 trillion in cuts in areas including
defense spending and Medicare. On taxes, the group is likely to
consider setting targets for major changes to be considered over
the next year, before Bush-era income tax cuts are set to expire
at the end of 2012.  “That’s certainly possible,” said Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who chairs the House Ways and Means
Committee and serves on the supercommittee. Such an approach
“would have a date certain for tax reform that would be outside
of the 100-day window” for the panel to agree on a plan, he
said. Camp has been holding hearings on a tax overhaul and said
he wants to keep major tax legislation out of the
supercommittee’s proposal.  Congress created the committee last month in legislation
raising the federal debt limit. The panel was instructed to
recommend, by late November, a 10-year deficit-cutting plan that
would get an up-or-down vote in the House and Senate in
December. If the panel can’t agree or Congress doesn’t enact its
proposals, across-the-board budget cuts will take effect in
2013.  A tax-code plan that only sets overall targets would push
much of the substantive work into the 2012 election year. Still,
the panel would have to set the overall amount of money raised
and structure of a tax plan, matters that already divide the
political parties.  ‘Number of Options’  “There are a number of options available to us which would
allow us to do a serious initiative on tax reform,” Senator
John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat on the supercommittee, told
reporters. “And I think it’s very difficult to see how you’re
going to do the adequate job without some consideration of
that.”  Other lawmakers have attempted this year to propose targets
and deadlines to spur a tax code overhaul.  The bipartisan “Gang of Six” Senate members in July
called for a plan that would have set tax-cut targets and
instructed the Finance Committee to report a bill to fit the
overall plan.  Tax Targets  Those targets included a three-rate tax structure for
individuals with a maximum top rate of 29 percent and retention
of some tax breaks for health, charities, homeownership,
retirement and low-income workers. The corporate rate would have
been between 23 percent and 29 percent. Members of that group
included Virginia Democrat Mark Warner and Idaho Republican Mike Crapo.  “We ought to force the reform to take place and set the
parameters that require it to happen, but then let us have the
time in the appropriate committees of jurisdiction to build it
correctly,” Crapo said in an interview yesterday.  Similarly, as part of budget talks that collapsed in July,
President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, discussed targets for a tax overhaul. They couldn’t
agree on a plan or what would happen if Congress didn’t meet the
goals.  Obama and congressional Democrats have sought to let the
Bush-era income-tax cuts expire for high-income earners after
2012 while keeping them for everyone else. Separating the tax
cuts into the two income categories should be the enforcement
mechanism for tax changes, said a Democratic aide who couldn’t
speak publicly about internal deliberations. Republicans have
resisted that approach.  New Revenue  Republicans aren’t likely to agree to a tax overhaul that
would generate new revenue, unless the money can be seen as
coming from economic growth, said a Republican aide on condition
of anonymity. Official scoring rules prohibit Congress from
considering a tax proposal’s economic growth effects in
estimating how much money it would raise.  Bridging the gap on revenue targets will be the toughest
problem, Crapo said.  “There’s not an easy answer to several pieces of this,”
he said.  Another potential risk in setting targets for a tax
overhaul is that reaching them might prove mathematically or
politically impossible.  Simpson-Bowles Commission  The Gang of Six and Obama’s 2010 fiscal commission led by
Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles used an overall approach that
has never been scored by the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation. Their approach would lower tax rates, eliminate a
number of deductions and raise about $1.1 trillion more revenue
than would a plan that allowed the tax cuts for high-income
taxpayers to expire.  John Buckley, former chief tax counsel to Ways and Means
Democrats, said the interactions among various provisions could
make it hard to get such a proposal to add up.  “I could be very wrong, but I don’t see where the revenue
comes from, either in the Bowles-Simpson thing or the Gang of
Six, unless they are willing to repeal the mortgage interest
deduction today with no transition rules,” said Buckley, who
now teaches at Georgetown University’s law school.  Even setting a target that assumes the elimination of tax
deductions picks a political fight, because it would address
popular provisions such as the tax breaks for home-mortgage
interest and charitable contributions.  Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, has warned colleagues for several
months that the biggest tax breaks are not loopholes that
somehow sneaked in.  “They are talking about your ability to purchase a home,
or save for retirement, or give to your church, or put away
money for your children’s education,” Hatch said in a Senate
floor speech July 11. “That is what we are talking about. That
is where the money is.”  Hatch’s adviser on tax policy, Mark Prater, has been
appointed staff director of the supercommittee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  