-- 
Swiss Bank Vontobel Targets U.S. Clients in Face of Tax Dispute

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-08T15:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/swiss-bank-vontobel-targets-u-s-clients-in-face-of-tax-dispute.html
Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , a Zurich-based
bank and asset manager, aims to attract more American clients
even as Switzerland struggles to reach a solution to a tax
dispute with the U.S., Chief Executive Officer Zeno Staub said
today.  The firm, whose shareholders include the founding family,
wants to increase the number of American private-banking clients
by more than 30 percent over the next three years, Staub told
reporters in  London  today.  “We are committed to the U.S. private client market,” he
said. “We expect it to grow above the average of the rest of
the business.”  Vontobel, which also has an asset management business in
 New York , says its focus on performance and quality of advice
will encourage American citizens to open accounts in
 Switzerland . Private clients seeking to diversify away from
dollar-denominated investments find the Alpine nation
attractive, even as officials in Bern and  Washington  spar over
how to resolve an international tax dispute, Staub said.  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation around
alleged  tax evasion  by account holders at Credit Suisse Group
AG, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank. It has demanded detailed
information related to 10 Swiss wealth managers, according to a
report in SonntagsZeitung on Sept. 4, which cited correspondence
between the two governments.  The way in which authorities in Washington are seeking
information from Switzerland is “legally unacceptable,” Swiss
President Micheline Calmy-Rey said in a speech on Aug. 22.  Increasing Appetite  Clients hold about one quarter of assets in cash and show
no sign of increasing appetite for risk in markets roiled by
 Europe ’s sovereign debt problems and a lackluster global
economic recovery, said Staub.  Staub said he aims to increase Vontobel’s assets under
management from 78.7 billion Swiss francs ($90.8 billion) to
over 100 billion francs by 2014. The firm’s private bank may
increase assets to 50 billion francs from 28.8 billion francs by
2014, by adding new money and making acquisitions, he said.  Vontobel currently manages about 1 billion francs for U.S.
citizens booked through Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at +31- 