-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb for Third Day; UBS, Novartis Shares Advance

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-08T16:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/swiss-stocks-decline-led-by-syngenta-credit-suisse-climbs.html
Swiss stocks advanced for a third
day, led by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , amid speculation that
President Barack Obama may inject more than $300 billion into
the world’s largest economy to bolster growth.  UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, climbed more than 1 percent. Novartis, Europe’s second-
largest drugmaker by revenue after Roche AG, advanced 0.8
percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, rose 27.65, or 0.5 percent, to
5,528.91 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge had rallied
for the previous two days after the central bank set a ceiling
on the Swiss franc’s exchange rate against the euro. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also advanced 0.5 percent today,
reversing earlier declines of as much as 0.7 percent.  “The markets soon pulled back into positive territory,
however, with expectations high that this evening’s speech by
President Obama to Congress will come up with some tangible
measures to boost jobs growth,” said  Michael Hewson , a markets
analyst at CMC Markets in London.  Investors are awaiting indications from President Obama and
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke as to the health of the
U.S. economy. Obama plans to unveil his proposals for promoting
job growth in an address to a joint session of Congress tonight.
Separately, Federal Chairman Bernanke is due to speak on the
economic outlook at 1:30 p.m. New York time.  The  European Central Bank  left interest rates unchanged and
cut its 2011 growth forecast as the region’s debt crisis
worsens. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet resisted calls to
lower interest rates even after saying “downside risks” to the
euro area have intensified.  The Bank of England kept its key rate at a record low of
0.5 percent and maintained its bond-purchase program today.  UBS gained 2.1 percent to 11.17 francs. Credit Suisse
advanced 1.2 percent to 21.53 francs.  Novartis rose 0.8 percent to 49.22 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  