-- 
U.K. Regulator Starts Inquiry Into Motor Insurance Premiums

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-08T15:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-k-regulator-calls-for-evidence-about-motor-insurance-premiums.html
A British antitrust regulator is
starting a probe into rising U.K. private motor insurance
premiums, ahead of possible action to improve the way the market
works.  The  Office of Fair Trading  will gather evidence about
annual price increases over the next five weeks and work with
the Ministry of Justice and the Financial Services Authority
during the inquiry, it said today in a statement. The OFT plans
to publish its findings in December, it said.  “The OFT wants to establish the full facts, the reasons
behind any increase, and whether there are any consumer or
competition issues that need to be addressed to improve the
functioning of the market,” it said today.  Motor insurance premiums in the U.K. have risen 40 percent
in the past year to about 900 pounds ($1,435) following soaring
claims costs and rising fraud, according to the  Automobile
Association Ltd.  Insurers have helped fuel these costs by
selling customers’ details to no-win no-fee lawyers, who then
encourage accident victims to claim.  Most Affected  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , which has 2 million U.K. motor insurance
customers, may be the most affected by the probe, according to
Eamonn Flanagan, a Liverpool-based analyst at Shore Capital
Group Ltd. Admiral owns the confused.com price comparison
website and gets half its profit from administration fees and
policy add-ons such as legal cover.  “This could prove quite uncomfortable for Admiral, which
owns one of the largest aggregators and whose profitability
relies heavily on the sale of ancillary products,” said
Flanagan, who has a “sell” rating on the stock.  Admiral dropped 2.4 percent to 1,364 pence in London
trading, making it the worst-performing member of the FTSE 350
Nonlife Insurance Index today.  Axa SA (CS) , the U.K.’s seventh-largest motor insurer, in June
said it would “lead by example” and banned payments from
lawyers for customers who have been injured in an accident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 