-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb After BOE, ECB Meetings as Retailers Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-08T15:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-k-stocks-extend-biggest-rally-since-2010-retailers-advance.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a third day
after a rally in retailers helped offset the  Bank of England ’s
decision not to extend stimulus and concern by the  European
Central Bank  that economic threats had intensified.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  and William Morrison Supermarkets Plc
both climbed at least 2 percent after results topped estimates
while bid speculation drove  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  higher.
 Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  declined as regulators said they will begin a
probe on the car insurance industry.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and  Johnson
Matthey Plc (JMAT)  fell as analysts downgraded the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  climbed 0.4 percent to 5,340.38 at 4:30
p.m. in London after swinging between gains and losses more than
five times today. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 0.4 percent,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.3 percent.  “There was a glimmer of hope that the BOE might announce
the commencement of a second round of quantitative easing,”
said London-based Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital
Spreads. “It wasn’t forthcoming but the market did hold up
well. Despite the major risks faced by equity markets the recent
strength can be attributed to investors building up their
expectations that further stimulus packages are imminent.”  The BOE’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by
 Mervyn King , maintained the target of its bond program at 200
billion pounds ($319 billion) as forecast by all economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. It also held the benchmark interest rate
at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Separately, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said threats
to the euro-region’s economy have “intensified” and inflation
risks have eased as the region’s debt crisis worsens.  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press conference
in Frankfurt today after the ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent and cut its growth forecasts for this year and next.  Retail Stocks  Home Retail  gained 2 percent to 117.8 pence after sales
declines eased at its Argos catalog chain. Revenue at stores
open at least a year fell 8.6 percent in the 13 weeks ended Aug.
27, compared to a 9.6 percent drop in the first quarter.  Analysts had predicted a decline of as much as 11 percent,
Arden Partners’ Nick Bubb said in a note.  Morrison gained 4.2 percent to 301.6 pence after the
smallest of the U.K.’s four main supermarket chains reported a
7.8 percent rise in underlying pretax to 442 million pounds,
beating analysts’ estimates.  Marks & Spencer, Britain’s largest clothing retailer,
climbed 2.6 percent to 321.9 pence, extending yesterday’s 4
percent advance. The Independent today reported speculation that
private equity firms including  Apax Partners  may make a bid for
the retailer, without saying where it got the information.  OFT Probe  Admiral, the car insurer that owns the confused.com
website, fell 2.4 percent to 1,364 pence after the Office of
Fair Trading said it will start a probe into rising U.K. private
motor insurance premiums, ahead of possible action to improve
the way the market works.  The OFT will gather evidence about annual price increases
over the next five weeks and work with the Ministry of Justice
and the Financial Services Authority during the inquiry. The
watchdog plans to publish its findings in December.  Schroders dropped 2.1 percent to 1,446 pence after analysts
at Deutsche Bank AG lowered their recommendation for the U.K.’s
largest independent money manager to “sell” from “buy.” The
bank also downgraded shares of Ashmore Group Plc to “hold”
from “buy.”  Even so, the stock still gained 4.8 percent to 420 pence
after the FTSE Group yesterday announced the fund manager will
be added to the FTSE 100 after trading ends on Sept. 16.  Johnson Matthey fell 1.3 percent to 1,603 pence as Morgan
Stanley lowered its recommendation for the maker of auto-
catalysts to “underweight” from “equal-weight.”  Takeover Speculation  Shares of  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Logica Plc (LOG)  also advanced today
amid takeover talk. Tullow Oil gained 4.8 percent to 1,227
pence, extending yesterday’s 7.8 percent advance, after the
Guardian reported renewed speculation that China’s Cnooc Ltd.
could make a bid for the oil producer, without citing anyone.  Logica jumped 5.7 percent to 87.1 pence as FT Alphaville
noted “dubious” speculation of a bid from  Cap Gemini SA. (CAP)   Jefferies Group Inc.’s Graeme Clark said in an interview he
doesn’t see a bid from Cap Gemini as credible as the French
company was continuing to “focus on developing its operations
in growth markets.”  Glencore International Plc rallied 7.6 percent to 436.5
pence after First Reserve Corp. sold $800 million convertible
bonds in the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier and bought shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  