-- 
Pound Strengthens as Bank of England Holds Interest Rates, Asset Purchases

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-08T16:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-k-s-pound-weakens-before-bank-of-england-rates-decision-gilts-advance.html
The pound rose from an eight-week
low against the dollar and gained versus the euro after the Bank
of England kept interest rates unchanged and fended off calls to
increase its asset-purchase program to boost the economy.  Sterling strengthened against all but one of 16 major peers
as the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held bond purchases
at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion), as forecast by all except
one of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Such a program,
or quantitative easing, tends to weaken currencies by pushing
down interest rates and increasing the supply of money in the
financial system. The decision to keep borrowing costs at 0.5
percent was predicted by all 57 economists in a separate survey.  “People were biased toward something happening and the
fact that we haven’t seen anything is providing a bit of cover
for sterling,” said Jeremy Stretch, executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London. “The bank would want to see a bit more data and see
how the global environment fares before they look to reassess
policy.”  The U.K. currency strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.6049 after
earlier falling to $1.5913, the weakest level since July 13. The
pound appreciated 1.2 percent to 87.12 pence per euro at 4:40
p.m. in London, after slipping 0.4 percent yesterday.  U.K. 10-year bond yields gained two basis points to 2.36
percent. They dropped to a record 2.237 percent on Aug. 18. Two-
year note yields were two basis points lower at 0.56 percent.  Bond Buying  The central bank stopped buying securities in early 2010 as
the economy emerged from recession. While Adam Posen has been
the only policy maker to vote for further purchases, the
darkening economic outlook prompted Spencer Dale and Martin Weale last month to end their push for an increase in rates.  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the three
months through August, from 0.6 percent in the three months
through July, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said yesterday. The inflation rate was at 4.4 percent
in July, more than twice the central bank’s target.  “We can’t forget that they’ve been given an inflation
target and they are significantly above that and have been for a
prolonged period,” Graeme Caughey, head of government bonds at
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, said in an interview in
Edinburgh. “It’s not our view that the economy is sufficiently
weak that further QE would be necessary.”  Short-Sterling Futures  Short-sterling futures were little changed, with the yield
on the June 2012 contract two basis point higher at 0.95
percent. It has increased from 0.76 percent a month ago,
signaling investors boosted wagers on higher rates.  The pound has depreciated 6.7 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine major peers, the second-worst performer
after the dollar, which fell 10.5 percent, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The U.K. Institute of Directors said today the Bank of
England should expand its asset-purchase plan by 50 billion
pounds to prevent the economy slipping back into recession after
reports showed manufacturing and services weakened in August.
The British Chambers of Commerce is also pressuring the central
bank to do more to help the economy, saying there are
“arguments” for additional stimulus.  Gilts have returned 2 percent this month, compared with 1.8
percent for German government bonds and 0.8 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  