-- 
U.S. Trade Deficit Probably Shrank in July

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-trade-deficit-probably-shrank-in-july-on-pickup-in-exports.html
The U.S. trade deficit probably
shrank in July as exports increased for the first time in three
months, economists said before a report today.  A gap of $51 billion is projected after a $53.1 billion
shortfall in June that was the widest in more than two years,
according to the median of 74 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of the Commerce Department report. Another release
may show the number of people filing initial claims for
unemployment insurance fell last week.  The global slowdown and fallout from the European debt
crisis may limit the international flow of goods and services
the rest of this year. With a diminished benefit from exports at
the same time American consumers and businesses cut back, U.S.
manufacturing may be hard-pressed to spur the recovery.  “Exports will continue to grow, although we’re not going
to see the same growth we did in the past couple of years,”
said Robert Stein, a senior economist at First Trust Portfolios
in Wheaton, Illinois. “Producers in the U.S. are now more
dependent on domestic demand because emerging markets are
slowing from breakneck speed, Europe is teetering on the edge of
recession and Japan is in a lost second decade.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Deficit estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from $55 billion to $46 billion.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments decreased to 405,000 last week from 409,000 in the
prior period, according to the median forecast of economists
ahead of Labor Department data at 8:30 a.m. Claims have averaged
415,000 so far this year.  Obama Plan  President Barack Obama plans to spark improvement in the
labor market with a $300 billion combination of tax cuts, direct
aid to states and cities, and infrastructure spending. Obama is
set to lay out his plans in an address to Congress today.  Imports in July may reflect increased shipments of auto
parts from Japan as the nation recovers from its March
earthquake and tsunami. Automobile-related goods have been
entering the U.S. at about 50 percent of the rate before the
natural disaster, according to Richard Steinke, executive
director of the Port of Long Beach.  The trade figures may reflect a reduction in demand for
crude oil as the price per barrel approached $100 in July. The
average price of imported petroleum rose about 1 percent in July
from the prior month.  A labor market that stagnated in August is also weighing on
the ability of U.S. households to spend on goods made overseas.
Payrolls were unchanged last month, and the unemployment rate
held at 9.1 percent, Labor Department figures showed Sept. 2.  Campbell Soup  “While the economies in our primary markets have generally
improved since the lows of the economic crisis, many consumers
remain cautious,” Denise Morrison, president and chief
executive officer at  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , said on a Sept. 2
conference call with analysts. “The recovery has not progressed
at the pace or intensity consumers had hoped for. As a result,
consumers remain careful about their purchases and feel the need
for resourcefulness and vigilance.”  Campbell, the world’s biggest soup maker, said fourth-
quarter profit declined 12 percent as sales dropped.  A weaker dollar may have limited benefit to U.S. exporters
as growth cools in emerging markets. The Institute for Supply
Management’s barometer of export orders for manufacturers fell
to a two-year low in August, the group said Sept. 1. The dollar
has dropped about 7.4 percent in the 12 months through July
against a weighted basket of currencies from the country’s
biggest trading partners.  Global Economy  Slower growth in developed countries raises the risk
manufacturers will temper production. Gross domestic product in
the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in three months ended
June from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent. In
Canada, the U.S.’s largest trading partner, the economy shrank
in the second quarter for the first time since the recession two
years ago.  Concern about the global economy has depressed share
prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has slumped 12 percent
since the end of April through yesterday.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  