-- 
U.S. Officials Receive ‘Credible’ Terror Threat

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-09-09T02:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-homeland-security-reports-9-11-terror-threat.html
The U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security  has “specific, credible but unconfirmed threat
information” as the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks nears, agency spokesman Matt Chandler said in a
statement.  The threat concerns a possible al-Qaeda-sponsored attack
targeting New York or  Washington  on or near the anniversary of
the attack, said a different U.S. official, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The official said the
intelligence concerns a possible vehicle-borne attack, perhaps
on a transportation hub or bottleneck, and cautioned that the
options may be broader than a car or truck bombing.  Another intelligence official, who also spoke on condition
of anonymity, said the information hasn’t been fully vetted.  President  Barack Obama  was briefed on the threat today and
received updates throughout the day, according to a statement
from a White House official who asked not to be identified.  Obama directed counter-terrorism officials to redouble
their efforts, which had already been increased in advance of
the anniversary of the 2001 attacks on  New York  City’s World
Trade Center and the Pentagon outside Washington, D.C., the
White House official said.  New York police will increase security after receiving
information of the possible targeting of New York for an attack
keyed to the Sept. 11 anniversary, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  ‘Eyes Wide Open’  “Terrorists view the anniversary as an opportunity to
strike again,” Bloomberg said today at a press conference. “In
the next few days we should all keep our eyes wide open.” The
mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  The first intelligence official said the report is credible
largely because of al-Qaeda’s longstanding interest in important
anniversaries and symbolic targets.  Chandler said in a statement: “Sometimes this reporting is
credible and warrants intense focus; other times it lacks
credibility and is highly unlikely to be reflective of real
plots under way.”  “Regardless, we take all threat reporting seriously, and
we have taken, and will continue to take all steps necessary to
mitigate any threats that arise,” Chandler said.  Attorney General Eric Holder said in May that intelligence
retrieved from the compound in  Pakistan  where al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden was killed suggested that he wanted to harm
people around the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.  White House counter-terrorism adviser  John Brennan  told the
PBS NewsHour’s Judy Woodruff today: “We know that al-Qaeda
wants to try to hit us here in the homeland again; they have
been thwarted numerous times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  