-- 
Senate Banking Panel Approves Obama’s FDIC, Financial-Regulation Nominees

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-08T19:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-senate-panel-approves-slate-of-obama-regulatory-nominees.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee
approved seven nominees for top finance regulatory positions,
including President Barack Obama’s picks to lead the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  The Senate panel approved by voice vote Martin J. Gruenberg
and Thomas J. Curry, the nominees for the FDIC and OCC jobs, as
well as Daniel M. Gallagher and Luis Aguilar, two nominees for
seats on the Securities and Exchange Commission. The nominations
now move to the full Senate for consideration.  “These are exactly the kind of well-qualified individuals
we need in place as we work toward a robust economic recovery,”
Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat and the chairman of
the committee, said today in a statement.  The Obama administration has been without several confirmed
financial regulators as U.S. and European markets struggle with
sovereign debt concerns and political fights over raising the
U.S. debt limit. Gruenberg, the former vice chairman of the
FDIC, is operating as the acting chairman of the agency, and
 John Walsh  is the acting comptroller. The  Federal Reserve ,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau also are awaiting confirmation of appointees.  The panel approved Obama’s nominees for two spots on the
SEC -- Gallagher, a securities lawyer and former SEC deputy
division director, and Aguilar, an incumbent Democrat on the
commission. Gallagher, a Republican, is a partner in the
 Washington  office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  Insurance Seat  Roy Woodall, a former Kentucky state commissioner, was
approved by the panel to fill the insurance position on the 15-
member Financial Stability Oversight Council. Gregory Karawan, a
senior vice president and general counsel for  Genworth Financial
Inc. (GNW) , and Anthony D’Agostino, the chief operating officer of  UBS
AG (UBS) ’s Global Quantitative Analytics group, were approved by voice
vote to be directors for the Securities Investor Protection
Corp.  “The stability of our financial system, and of the
economy, is vital, so I hope they will receive the same
bipartisan support on the Senate floor,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  