-- 
Weather Delays Push U.S. Open Into Third Week for a Fourth Straight Year

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-open-tennis-to-end-at-least-one-day-late-for-fourth-straight-year.html
The roofless  U.S. Open  was pushed
into a third week for the fourth straight year by two days of
rain that forced organizers to delay the men’s and women’s
finals by a day.  The men’s championship match now will be played Sept. 12,
with the women’s final set for Sept. 11. The men’s final has
been moved to Monday because of weather in each of the past
three years.  “You can’t fight, you can’t complain; it’s Mother
Nature,” men’s top seed Novak Djokovic said in a news
conference.  The changes to the tennis season’s final Grand Slam
schedule were “caused by the inclement weather this week,” the
U.S. Tennis Association said yesterday in a statement. All
matches were wiped out three days ago by rain and play was
limited to 10 games two days ago because of mist.  The situation was further complicated yesterday when the
court at Louis Armstrong Stadium, the U.S. Open’s second-biggest
venue, was ruled unplayable because of water seepage.  None of the 17 competition courts at the National Tennis
Center in  New York  has a retractable roof.  The Australian Open has two such covers, at the Rod Laver
Arena, which opened in 1988, and the Hisense Arena, which was
added to the tournament in 2001. A retractable roof will also be
built over Margaret Court Arena in time for the 2015 edition.  Wimbledon added a moving roof to Centre Court in 2009,
while the  French Open , the other Grand Slam tournament,
announced plans in February to build a roof over the main court.  Pressure to Play  The lack of a roof at the U.S. Open might lead officials to
push players onto court in less-than-ideal conditions,  Andy Murray , the men’s fourth seed from Britain, said in a news
conference.  “There’s a lot more pressure to get matches on regardless
of what the weather is like,” Murray said. “At Wimbledon and
 Australia  you’re guaranteed tennis now, so there’s not as much
of a panic to get matches on.”  The schedule was revised after consultation with players
and  CBS Sports , which broadcasts the U.S. Open finals, and was
done “in an effort to be fair to the players and our
ticketholders,” Tournament Director Jim Curley said in a
statement released by the USTA.  Djokovic said it will be tough for him to play for Serbia
in a Davis Cup tie against  Argentina  from Sept. 16-18 in
Belgrade if he makes the U.S. Open final.  “I’m not really happy about that,” Djokovic said. “It’s
just too much, really.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  