-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Sept. 6 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-08T13:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-sept-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Overview:  For most of those under the influence of drought as
depicted by the U.S. Drought Monitor this week, the weather
across the country last week can be summed up as either very hot
or very wet. On the heels of  Hurricane Irene , Tropical Storm Lee
brought very beneficial rains to the Gulf Coast and Southeast
before hooking up with a cold front from the west that brought
copious rains up and down the Appalachian Mountains from Georgia
to southern Pennsylvania. Oppressive heat and fires were the
story in the country’s mid-section and southern Plains as no
relief was seen there this past week. In a bit of cruel irony,
it was the strong and persistent winds of Lee, which just missed
the mark of the drought’s epicenter in  Texas ,  Oklahoma  and New
Mexico, that fanned the large number of fire outbreaks in Texas.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast:  Soaking rains on the order of 4-8
inches or more fell across a good portion of the region bringing
1- to 2-category improvements to the D0-D1 areas in eastern
 Kentucky , western North Carolina, southern, western and northern
Virginia, West Virginia’s southern, eastern and Panhandle
regions, western Maryland,  Pennsylvania  and western/upper  New
York . Some pockets of D0 do remain in northern Pennsylvania and
western New York. The rains of Lee served as a balancing act of
sorts for these regions in general as the heaviest rains from
Hurricane Irene fell mostly to the east of Lee’s rains in and
around the coastal areas.  South Carolina , however, missed out on the tropical moisture
leading to a slight push of D3 northeastward along the Georgia
border and within the Savannah River Basin region. The past 2 to
4 months have been extremely dry and impacts are being reported
in alfalfa and pasture conditions along with stock ponds going
dry. According to USDA, nearly 70% of South Carolina’s topsoil
condition is at the “short” or “very short” level and 45% of
pasture and range land is still in the “poor” or “very poor”
condition categorization.  Southeast and Delta:  Tropical Storm Lee made a major mark from
eastern Louisiana across Mississippi and into western/northern
 Alabama  and northern  Georgia  as well. Much of southeastern
Louisiana, Mississippi and western Alabama are now drought free.
Rainfall totals frequented 5 inches or more in many of these
areas and led to some improvement in western and northern
Louisiana with a 1-2 category improvement. Western Alabama and
northern Georgia also saw marked improvement on the order of 1-2
categories. That said, the recent core of intense D3 remains
intact across eastern Alabama, Georgia and parts of the  Florida 
Panhandle. Speaking of, the western reaches of the Florida
Panhandle also heavy rains and subsequent improvement on the map
this week. This also helped out down the coast of FL where D0-D2
were pushed north and eastward off the coastal counties.  Ohio Valley and Midwest:  Southern and eastern Kentucky saw the
bulk of the benefit from TS Lee with large areas of improvement
from D2 to D1 or D0. Eastern Tennessee and eastern Kentucky, in
particular, are now drought free as they also saw rainfall
totals greater than 5 inches. Pockets of D0-D1 remain across
western Tennessee and Kentucky, however. Elsewhere in the
Midwest, rains of 1-4 inches led to some improvement in parts of
southeastern  Minnesota  and northeastern Iowa where the D0 has
been reduced this week. Moving west from there though,
southwestern Minnesota saw an expansion of D0 as die northern
Minnesota on the heels of hot temperatures and dryness have led
to a push westward of D0 along with the introduction of D2 in
the Arrowhead region. Further south, southwestern  Missouri  has
remained very dry the past few months and has experienced well
above-normal temperatures leading to expansion of D2 there.  Northern and Central Plains:  Just a few changes this week after
some recent intense heat followed by a nice break from the heat
later in the period. It has also been very dry for some leading
to expansion of D0 in east-central South Dakota. A small pocket
of D1 has also been introduced this week in that same region
given the trend. To the south in  Nebraska  and  Kansas , D0 expands
slightly in the Nebraska Panhandle connecting up with the D0 in
western South Dakota after above-normal temperatures have been
combined with a lack of any rainfall. Another area of D0 has
developed in central Nebraska as a result of late season heat
and dryness has caused some concerns on pastures, corn and soy
beans as we head into harvest. In Kansas, D2 now fills in the
southeastern corner as it connects up with the new D2 in
northeastern Oklahoma and southwestern Missouri as mentioned
above.  Southern Plains:   Conditions continue to remain bleak in
Oklahoma and Texas with very little help being seen on the
horizon after the near miss of Tropical Storm Lee. The only
change of note in Oklahoma, as noted above, was in the filling
in of D2 completely within the northeastern corner as it meshes
with the expansion of D2 in southeastern Kansas and southwestern
Missouri given the oppressive heat, high winds and lack of any
significant rains the past few weeks.  Texas also sees very little change this week with only a small
area of the Texas Panhandle moving from D2 to D3. The big story
has been the fires in Texas though, which were fanned by the
backside winds of TS Lee. Year-to-date, 18,719 fires have burned
over 3.5 million acres resulting in 2,897 structure losses
according to the Texas Forest Service. The 3.5 million total
Texas acres burned represents over 50% of the national total
acres burned. In addition, 96% of Texas’s pasture and rangelands
are rated as “Poor” or “Very Poor” while Oklahoma shows 90% in
this category.  The West: It was a relatively quiet week across most of the
West. The Four Corners region was above-normal temperature-wise,
but the Pacific Northwest enjoyed unseasonably cooler weather.
The common denominator is that the entire West saw very little
in the way of precipitation. This has led expansion and
introduction of D0 into southern Nevada as seasonal and year-to-
date totals are now lagging behind the curve and vegetation has
been stressed. Water supply is in very good shape region wide
though.  New Mexico  continues to deteriorate the most given the
inactive monsoon season thus far leading to an expansion of D3-
D4 in the southwestern corner of the state.  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico:  In Alaska, cooler temperatures
that past several weeks, coupled with good rainfall has led to a
reduction of D0 leaving a small remnant in the Fairbanks region.  In Hawaii, persistent dryness has led Moderate Drought (D2) to
expand on the Big Island and has been introduced to Maui this
week. In addition, D0 conditions now cover all of Molokai and
have been introduced and cover all of Oahu and Kauai as low
rainfall has dried things out and brush fire incidents are on
the rise in these areas. Pasture condition also continue to
worsen on the Big Island and Maui leading to substantial forage
losses for ranchers.  Puerto Rico remains unchanged this week.  Looking Ahead:  The next 5 days (through April 11) are calling
for a pretty quiet week across most of the West in what has been
a relatively quiet monsoon season two-thirds of the way in.
Another disturbance in the Bay of Campeche in the southwestern
 Gulf of Mexico  seems to be revving up and could press northward
over the coming days bringing a chance for more relief to the
southeast as a potential Tropical Storm. It is too early to tell
exactly where though. Florida, the upper Midwest and the
Northeast are also good candidates for ample precipitation
during this period. Temperatures are expected to be slightly
below-normal (1-3 degrees) for the entire southern half of the
country with the northern third expected to see readings 3-9
degrees above normal.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (September 13-17) is calling for
better chances of above-normal temperatures across the western
half of the United States and most of Alaska as well. Parts of
the Southeast (AL, MS), Ohio Valley (TN, KY, IN, OH) and eastern
Great Lakes regions are expected to be below-normal. As for
precipitation, the eastern seaboard from Florida to  Maine  could
see above-normal rainfall as can the Intermountain West and
Great Basin. Below-normal amounts are still likely across Texas
and southern Oklahoma along with the Pacific Northwest and
across the northern tier states from Montana to Minnesota.
Alaska is also showing better odds of above-normal
precipitation.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  