-- 
U.S. Consumer Borrowing Rose by $12 Billion in July, Twice Amount Forecast

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-09-08T19:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-consumer-borrowing-rose-by-12-billion-in-july-twice-amount-forecast.html
Consumer borrowing in the U.S. rose
by the most in more than three years in July, led by a gain in
non-revolving credit that includes  student loans .  Credit increased $12 billion after a revised $11.3 billion
rise in June, the  Federal Reserve  said today in  Washington .
Economists projected a $6 billion gain, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The rise in non-revolving
loans was the most since November 2001.  Revolving credit showed the biggest decrease in six months,
indicating Americans may be cutting back on non-essential items
as limited job and wage growth depresses  consumer confidence .
Employment and income gains may be required to help spark the
household spending and the recovery.  “The softness in revolving credit is indicative of a
cautious consumer,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at
Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York . As for the overall gain,
“school loans are part of it, as is auto finance.”  The July gain was the biggest since April 2008, the Fed’s
figures showed. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 32
economists ranged from gains of $1 billion to $17 billion after
a previously reported $15.5 billion June increase. The Fed’s
report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such as
residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit.  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, rose by $15.4 billion in July, and
revolving debt, which includes credit cards, fell by $3.4
billion. The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate,
such as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  Economic Outlook  “The consumer is caught between a rock and a hard place
and this does not bode well for the economic outlook,” said
Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The total increase in credit reflected a $15.6 billion non-
seasonally adjusted rise, to $385.7 billion, in the federal
government category of borrowing, which includes school loans.
The unadjusted figures also showed smaller increases in non-
revolving borrowing at commercial banks, finance companies and
 credit unions , which may reflect a pickup in car sales during
the month.  Americans picked up the pace of car buying in July. Vehicle
sales climbed to a 12.2 million annual rate during the month
from an 11.41 million pace, according to industry data.  The Fed said yesterday in its  Beige Book  economic survey
that the economy expanded at a slower pace in some regions as
shoppers limited their spending and factories curbed production.  Beige Book  “Economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace,
though some districts noted mixed or weakening activity,” the
Fed said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the
economy was weaker than anticipated and that policy makers will
review ways to bolster growth and reduce unemployment at their
Sept. 20-21 meeting.  Bernanke said “only a portion” of the economy’s weakness
stemmed from temporary factors such as a surge in energy prices
earlier this year. Persistent headwinds are also holding back
the recovery, including high unemployment, tight credit and a
flagging housing market, he said.  Gregg Steinhafel , chief executive officer of  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
said the economic recovery was “uneven and uncertain” when the
retailer and credit card issuer reported its August same-store
sales exceeded forecasts on Sept. 1. In the company’s second
quarter, expenses for bad debt totaled $15 million, down from
$138 million a year earlier, Target said in a separate
announcement on Aug. 18.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, expanded at a 0.4 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, the smallest increase in more than a year, according to
Commerce Department data issued Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  