-- 
U.S. Stocks Retreat as Bernanke Avoids Offering New Growth Plans

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-08T20:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-stock-futures-drop-after-s-p-500-posts-biggest-increase-in-two-weeks.html
U.S. stocks fell, after the biggest
gain in two weeks for benchmark gauges, as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  disappointed investors by not detailing
new plans to boost growth in the world’s largest economy.  Financial and industrial shares had the biggest losses
among 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and DuPont Co. retreated at least 2.1
percent, pacing declines in companies most-tied to economic
growth.  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  tumbled 5.7 percent after the
company said holders will sell 25 million shares.  The  S&P 500  fell 1.1 percent to 1,185.90 at 4 p.m. in New
York as all 10 of its groups declined. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slid 119.05 points, or 1 percent, to 11,295.81. Stocks
extended losses as Bernanke stopped short of signaling what he
thinks is the Fed’s best option to aid the economy, repeating
points from his speech on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “People wanted some sort of announcement that they could
rely on and say -- OK, that’s specifically what the Fed is going
to do,” Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at
USAA Investment Management Co. in San Antonio, which oversees
about $50 billion, said in a telephone interview. “You didn’t
get the substance. Until we get clarity, the market will
continue to gyrate back and forth. This manic-depressive market
activity will probably continue.”  Benchmark gauges yesterday had the biggest gain since Aug.
23, as investors speculated that President Barack Obama’s plan
to inject more than $300 billion into the economy will bolster
growth. Obama plans to unveil his proposals for promoting job
growth in an address to a joint session of Congress later today.  ‘Sustainable Trajectory’  While Bernanke said Congress and Obama must put the federal
government’s finances on a “sustainable trajectory” over the
long term, he warned that policy makers should not disregard the
“fragility” of the economic recovery.  The Fed chief also said policy makers will discuss the
tools they could use to boost the recovery at their next meeting
this month and stand ready to use them if necessary. Policy
makers “are prepared to employ these tools as appropriate to
promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of  price
stability ,” he said in the text of a speech to economists in
Minneapolis.  U.S. stock futures dropped earlier as European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  resisted calls to lower  interest
rates  even after “downside risks” to the euro area
intensified. The economy faces “particularly high
uncertainty,” Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today. The ECB cut its growth forecasts for this year and next.  ‘Wheelchair’  “This market is looking for assistance and what it wants
is a wheelchair and someone to push it,” Burt White, who helps
oversee $330 billion as chief investment officer at LPL
Financial Corp. in Boston, said in a telephone interview.
“People are hoping that central banks will deliver that.”  Stocks also fell today as claims for U.S. unemployment
benefits rose last week, a sign the labor market is struggling
to gain traction more than two years after the recession ended.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-dependent on economic growth dropped 2.2
percent. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, also a proxy for
the economy, lost 1.3 percent. The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks
slumped 2.7 percent.  JPMorgan fell 3.8 percent to $33.51. Boeing declined 3.2
percent to $62.81. DuPont retreated 2.2 percent to $46.40.  Dollar General  Dollar General lost 5.7 percent to $35. The dollar store
chain said in a regulatory filing that holders will sell 25
million shares. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based company
won’t receive any proceeds from the sale.  Pall Corp. (PLL)  fell 9.8 percent to $44.03, the biggest decline
in the S&P 500. The supplier of filters for drugmakers and
refineries said fourth-quarter profit was 76 cents a share,
excluding some items. Analysts on average estimated 88 cents a
share, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Yahoo! Inc. rose 6.1 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$14.44.  Third Point  LLC bought a 5.2 percent stake and urged the
board to resign, saying directors erred in spurning takeover
bids and hired a chief executive officer who wasn’t up to the
job.  Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock fired CEO  Carol Bartz  by
telephone on Sept. 6, a decision that left investors and
analysts questioning the company’s future strategy. Bartz was
hired to help Yahoo reinvigorate the Web portal’s sales growth
and stock price, following a decision in 2008 to reject a $47.5
billion offer from Microsoft Corp.  “Yahoo’s current board of directors has made a number of
decisions that have directly harmed the company and resulted in
a stock price far below the company’s intrinsic value,” Third
Point, a  New York  investment firm, said today in a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  