-- 
U.S. House Chairman Warns of Impact of Increasing Defense Cuts

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-house-chairman-warns-of-impact-of-increasing-defense-cuts.html
The chairman of the U.S. House Armed
Services Committee is warning against indiscriminate cuts in
defense spending without a national security review to inform
any budget reductions.  “If you are going to do it responsibly, that’s what you do
instead of throwing out a number,” California Republican Howard P. “Buck” McKeon told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.
“You’d have some kind of idea of what the impact of that number
would be.”  President  Barack Obama  signed a measure into law on Aug. 2
that calls for trimming $350 billion from planned defense
spending over 10 years. The law calls for a special
congressional supercommittee to find $1.5 trillion in deficit
reduction throughout the federal government.  McKeon said he is concerned that $350 billion is “high in
and of itself.” He said he would fight to stave off any deeper
cuts than that.  Armed Services committee staff members have already been
working with the supercommittee to lay out the impact of defense
cuts, McKeon said.  “There is a danger of a bidding war downward without
understanding what the consequences are going to be,” said
Representative Mac Thornberry, a Texas Republican, who also
spoke at the press event. Thornberry is a member of the armed
services panel.  If Congress fails to act on the special committee’s
recommendations, the deal calls for an automatic cut of an
additional $500 billion in defense spending, not including
interest.  ‘Doomsday Mechanism’  McKeon said he has been communicating with Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta , who has raised alarm over what he called
a “doomsday mechanism” that would trigger the additional $500
billion in defense cuts.  Panetta “has reached out more than I would have
expected,” McKeon said. “He does not want to be the secretary
that hollows out the military.”  McKeon’s panel, as well as the Senate Armed Services
Committee and the appropriations panel are expected to submit
their recommendations to the supercommittee by mid-October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  