-- 
U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in July More Than Forecast, to $44.8 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-08T21:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-trade-deficit-narrowed-more-than-forecast-to-44-8-billion.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed more
than forecast in July as exports climbed to a record, offering a
bright spot for an economy at risk of a bigger slowdown.  The gap shrank 13.1 percent, the most since February 2009,
to $44.8 billion from a revised $51.6 billion shortfall in June,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . Exports
rose as companies shipped more capital goods and automobiles
overseas.  Jobless claims unexpectedly rose last week and consumer
sentiment waned, indicating the biggest part of the economy will
struggle to gain momentum through the end of the year, separate
reports showed. President  Barack Obama  tonight will propose more
than $300 billion of tax cuts and spending measures aimed at
creating jobs and shoring up the recovery.  “The July trade numbers suggest trade could boost growth
in the third quarter,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .
Still, “the risks still seem to be tilted to the downside with
the best-case scenario being growth just muddles along. Job
growth is pretty lackluster at this point.”  First-time applications for  unemployment benefits  rose last
week, a sign the labor market is struggling to gain traction.
Jobless claims climbed by 2,000 to 414,000 in the week ended
Sept. 3, Labor Department figures showed. The monthly average
climbed to the highest since mid-July.  More Pessimism  A struggling labor market helps explain why Americans’
sentiment slipped to the second-lowest level this year. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index eased to minus 49.3 last week
from minus 49.1. While the drop was within the survey’s three-
point margin of error, the index has been stuck below minus 40 -
- the level associated with recessions or their aftermath --
since the end of February.  Stocks fell, after the biggest gain in two weeks for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  disappointed investors by not detailing new plans to
boost growth. The  S&P 500 Index  dropped 1.1 percent to 1,185.9
at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  The trade gap was projected to shrink from an initially
reported $53.1 billion in June, according to the median forecast
of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from
deficits of $55 billion to $46 billion.  After eliminating the influence of prices to render the
figures used in calculating gross domestic product, the trade
deficit narrowed to a three-month low of $45.3 billion from
$50.3 billion. The number was less than the $47.3 billion
deficit averaged in the second quarter, indicating trade may
provide a boost to the economy.  Third Quarter  “Trade could add favorably to economic activity during the
third quarter,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist at
TD Securities in  New York . “The slowdown in the global economy
may not be as great as we thought a few months ago, which
certainly is encouraging.”  Barclays Capital Research raised its tracking estimate for
third-quarter growth to 2.5 percent after the trade figures from
2 percent.  Exports increased 3.6 percent to $178 billion in July,
boosted by sales of telecommunications equipment, civilian
aircraft, autos and industrial engines. U.S. shipments of
capital goods and autos and parts to overseas customers were the
highest on record.  Imports fell 0.2 percent to $222.8 billion from $223.4
billion in the prior month.  The figures showed a reduction in demand for crude oil as
the price per barrel exceeded $100 in July for a fourth month.
The average price of imported crude oil was $104.27, compared
with $106 in June, today’s report showed. U.S. companies
imported 350,657 barrels in July, the fewest since April.  Goods Imports  Imports in July reflected $22.3 billion in shipments of
auto parts, the most since February 2008. Parts deliveries from
 Japan  have started to recover after the nation’s March
earthquake and tsunami. Automobile-related goods have been
entering the U.S. at about 50 percent of the rate before the
natural disaster, according to Richard Steinke, executive
director of the Port of  Long Beach .  A labor market that stagnated in August is weighing on the
ability of U.S. households to spend on goods made overseas.
Payrolls were unchanged last month, and the  unemployment rate 
held at 9.1 percent, Labor Department figures showed Sept. 2.  “While the economies in our primary markets have generally
improved since the lows of the economic crisis, many consumers
remain cautious,” Denise Morrison, president and chief
executive officer at  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , said on a Sept. 2
conference call with analysts. “The recovery has not progressed
at the pace or intensity consumers had hoped for. As a result,
consumers remain careful about their purchases and feel the need
for resourcefulness and vigilance.”  Soup Maker  Campbell, the world’s biggest soup maker, said fourth-
quarter profit declined 12 percent as sales dropped.  Slower growth in developed countries raises the risk
manufacturers will temper production. Gross domestic product in
the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in three months ended
June from the first quarter, when it increased 0.8 percent.
Economic growth in  Canada , the U.S.’s largest trading partner,
shrank in the second quarter for the first time since the
recession two years ago.  The  trade gap  with  China  widened to $27 billion, the
highest since September, from $26.7 billion as a gain in imports
outpaced an increase in exports. The deficit with Canada
increased to $3.2 billion from $2.8 billion, while it shrank
with the European Union. Exports to South and Central America
were the highest ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  