-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Climbed by 2,000 to 414,000 Last Week

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-08T12:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-rose-to-414-000-last-week-1-.html
Claims for U.S. unemployment
benefits rose last week, a sign the labor market is struggling
to gain traction more than two years after the recession ended.  Jobless claims rose by 2,000 to 414,000 in the week ended
Sept. 3, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims
to 405,000, according to the median forecast. The number of
people on unemployment benefit rolls and those receiving
extended payments fell.  Companies are stepping up the pace of firings, raising the
risk that  consumer spending  will slow further. Job growth
stagnated last month and the unemployment rate held unchanged at
9.1 percent, the Labor Department reported last week. The Labor
Department said there was no national effect from  Hurricane
Irene .  “It’s suggesting sluggishness rather than a dramatic new
weakening,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global
Inc. in New York. “Recessions are associated with claims
shooting up and so far that hasn’t happened.”  Stock-index futures declined after the report. The contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing this month fell 0.5
percent to 1,193.10 at 8:32 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.99 percent from 2.04
percent late yesterday.  Survey Estimates  Jobless benefits applications were projected to fall from
the 409,000 initially reported for the prior week, according to
the median forecast of 41 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Estimates ranged from 400,000 to 435,000.  There were no special circumstances affecting last week’s
claims data, a Labor Department spokesman said as the figures
were released. Due to the Labor Day holiday,  California ,
 Virginia , Hawaii and the  District of Columbia  were estimated for
that day, the spokesman said.  Today’s data showed the four-week moving average, a less-
volatile measure than the weekly figures, rose to 414,750 last
week from 411,000.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
fell by 30,000 in the week ended Aug. 27 to 3.72 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
78,500 to 3.6 million in the week ended Aug. 20.  Unemployment Rate   The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits
remained unchanged at 3 percent in the week ended Aug. 27,
today’s report showed.  Twenty-one states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 32 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Slowing job growth is adding to pressure on Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and President  Barack Obama  to
rouse an economy that’s at risk of stalling two years after the
last recession ended. Total payrolls were unchanged last month,
the weakest reading since September 2010, the Labor Department
said Sept. 2.  President Obama, in a nationally televised speech set for
later today, plans to propose sparking job growth by injecting
more than $300 billion into the economy next year, mostly
through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and direct aid to
state and local governments, according to people familiar with
the matter.  Bank Dismissals  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we
can control” amid market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  on Aug. 19. “We owe it to our customers and
our shareholders to remain competitive.”  Other jobs are being lost through acquisitions or
government downsizing.  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , a Dallas-based bank
holding company, is eliminating roughly 300 jobs, primarily in
Houston, in connection with its July acquisition of Sterling
Bancshares Inc., said spokesman Wayne Mielke in a telephone
interview.  “Any time you get an acquisition like this, there is bound
to be some workforce overlap,” said Mielke.  The U.S. Postal Service said this week it may not have the
cash to carry the mail beyond next August if Congress doesn’t
let it take steps like ending Saturday delivery and withdrawing
from a government health-care plan. The  Postal Service  last
month said it wants to eliminate 220,000 jobs, or 39 percent of
its full-time workforce, by 2015.  “If nothing is done, the Postal Service will run out of
money and be forced to slash service and employees,” Senator
Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent and chairman of the
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said at a
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  