-- 
U.S. Doctors Paid More Than Overseas Peers on Higher Charges

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-doctors-paid-more-than-overseas-peers-on-higher-charges.html
U.S. doctors earn more than their
European, Canadian and Australian counterparts, with American
orthopedic surgeons outpacing their peers by a wider margin than
primary-care doctors, a study found.  Primary-care doctors in the U.S. made an average of
$187,000 in 2008, according to the study in the journal  Health
Affairs . Orthopedic surgeons made $442,000. That rate was more
than double what the surgeons in Australia,  Canada ,  France  and
 Germany  made. U.K. orthopedists made on average about 73 percent
as much as their U.S. counterparts.  The disparities are partly due to the inability of private
insurers and U.S. health programs’ to extract concessions from
orthopedists, wrote co-authors  Miriam Laugesen  and Sherry Glied.
The five other countries studied all have variations on state-
run health systems.  “Public-sector fees for hip replacement surgery in other
countries are about half as high, on average, as Medicare fees
in the United States,” the authors wrote. Private insurance
fees account for much of the difference for primary-care
doctors, they said.  For example, Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly
and disabled, paid an average of about $60 for a primary care
office visit in 2008, second to the  United Kingdom  at $66, and
double the fee for France’s public health-care system.  Insurers’ Payments  Private health plans in the U.S. pay the most of any
country studied. A U.S. doctor received an average of $133 for
an office visit from private insurers, compared with $129 in the
U.K., and almost four times as much as doctors in France,
according to the study from Laugesen, a health policy professor
at  Columbia University  in  New York , and  Glied , the assistant
secretary for planning and evaluation at the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services.  Americans with the highest education levels tend to make
more than their peers in other countries across all industries.
As a result, doctors demand more to keep up with high-earners in
different industries,  The physician incomes were calculated by subtracting
doctors’ practice expenses from their treatment revenue, which
were tallied from Medicare and public program data, as well as
private insurer rates through HealthGrades.com, a third-party
data provider, the authors said in the study.  More Patients  Doctors outside the U.S. earn less while treating a larger
share of their countries’ populations, the authors wrote. In
 Australia , primary-care physicians made an average of $93,000,
the lowest of the six countries studied, while orthopedic
surgeons made $188,000, second from the bottom. French
orthopedic surgeons were the lowest paid in that specialty, at
$154,000 per year on average, while primary-care doctors there
made $96,000, the second-lowest figure.  The cost of a medical education in the U.S., which isn’t
financed by the government to the extent it is in other
countries, doesn’t explain the disparities, the authors wrote.  U.S. primary-care doctors made about $5,700 more than the
annual cost of their training spread out over their lifetime.
Orthopedic surgeons made five times what they had to pay for
their training, according to the study.  “Although the tuition cost of medical education in the
 United States  borne by individuals is substantial, it cannot
fully account for the observed differences between the earnings
of US physicians and physicians in all other countries,” the
authors wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 