-- 
U.S. Consumer Sentiment at Second-Lowest Level of Year in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-08T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-consumer-comfort-index-falls-to-second-lowest-this-year.html
U.S. consumer confidence last week
fell to the second-lowest level this year as Americans grew more
pessimistic about the world’s largest economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.3 in the
period to Sept. 4 compared with minus 49.1 the previous week.
This year’s low of minus 49.4 was reached in May, when gasoline
prices were the highest in three years. While the drop was
within the survey’s 3-point margin of error, the index has been
stuck below minus 40 -- the level associated with recessions or
their aftermath -- since the end of February.  Job creation  stagnated in August, the  unemployment rate 
held above 9 percent and hourly wages retreated, giving
households little to cheer about. Pessimism stretches across
social, economic and political lines, posing a threat to
 consumer spending  that accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “Falling sentiment indicates signs of growing distress in
the consumer sector,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in  New York . The results reflect “a labor
market that has seized up and the lagged effects of inflation
that is effectively reducing the purchasing power of
households.”  The Labor Department today said applications for jobless
claims increased by 2,000 to 414,000 last week. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for
claims to fall to 405,000.  Stocks dropped as jobless claims increased and the  European
Central Bank  said risks to the economic recovery have
intensified. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1
percent to 1,196.97 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Trade Deficit  Another report showed the  U.S. trade deficit  shrank more
than forecast in July as exports climbed to a record, helping
allay concerns the economy is faltering. The gap narrowed 13.1
percent, the most since February 2009, to $44.8 billion.  The confidence gauge, which began December 1985, has
averaged minus 45.3 this year, compared with minus 45.7 for 2010
and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the last recession ended, the
report showed.  The index of Americans’ views of the state of the economy
dropped to minus 88.7 last week, the worst reading since April
2009, from minus 87.3 the prior week. The gauge of personal
finances climbed to minus 5.8 from minus 6.1. A measure of the
buying climate rose to minus 53.5 from minus 54.  The gauge “has slid from very bad to plain awful since
mid-July,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. It reflects “the public’s deep economic discontent
crossing social lines.”  Lower Incomes  Confidence among the lowest-income earners, or those making
less than $15,000 a year, dropped to minus 90.8, a record low in
data available since the mid-1990s. For those who earn more than
$100,000 a year, the index worsened to minus 18.2, the 17th
consecutive week of negative readings that in part reflect stock
market losses.  Unemployed Americans’ confidence index dropped to minus
61.6 last week, the lowest level since November.  Labor Department figures released on Sept. 2 showed
payrolls were unchanged, the weakest reading since September
2010. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 68,000.  The jobs report has raised the political stakes for
President  Barack Obama  as he prepares to address a joint session
of Congress today. The Bloomberg confidence survey results
suggest “he’ll face a tough audience,” Langer said.  Democrats’ Sentiment  Sentiment among Democrats declined to minus 62.2 last week,
the lowest reading since February 2009, a month after Obama took
office. Confidence among Republicans dropped to minus 48.4. For
political independents, the confidence index rose to minus 41.9.  The struggling job market is weighing on households, adding
to pessimism about the economy among executives at companies
like Church & Dwight Co., the Princeton, New Jersey-based maker
of Arm & Hammer baking soda and Trojan condoms.  Consumer spending power is “as bad as ever, and I think
it’s going to get worse,” James Craigie, chief executive
officer, told investors yesterday at a conference hosted by
 Barclays Capital  in  Boston . “I wouldn’t be surprised at all if
unemployment goes over 10 percent within the next six to 12
months. This is as ugly or uglier business environment I’m
seeing than ever in the past.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  