-- 
U.S. Pushes to Keep Libya Arms From Terrorists, Brennan Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-08T16:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-pushes-to-keep-libya-arms-from-terrorists-brennan-says-1-.html
The U.S. is working with  Libya ’s
transitional government to keep terrorists from obtaining
weapons or taking other advantage of the rebellion against
 Muammar Qaddafi ,  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top
counterterrorism adviser, said today.  “We are concerned about the potential for certain weapons
to get into the hands of terrorists,” Brennan told reporters
at a roundtable organized by the Christian Science Monitor in
Washington. “We have worked very closely” with transitional
authorities “to press them to take the appropriate steps to
secure those weapons stockpiles. We’re continuing to make this a
high priority.”  The new leadership in Libya is “working aggressively to
again identify any type of opportunities that the terrorists
might take advantage of,” Brennan said. “Libya is a large
country” with a “large number of weapons” and “it’s going to
take some time in order to ensure that they’re going to be
appropriately secured.”  Four months after U.S. special forces killed al-Qaeda
founder Osama bin Laden at his compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan ,
Brennan said there is no evidence that the Pakistani government
knew the terrorist was hiding in that country.  “I have not seen anything that indicates that the
Pakistanis were aiding his refuge in Abbottabad,” he said. “I
don’t see it.”  Terrorist Threat  Meeting with reporters three days before the 10th
anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S.,
Brennan said that the steps the U.S. has taken on security,
intelligence gathering, law enforcement and the military have
weakened al-Qaeda’s core and “made it much more difficult for
al-Qaeda or any other terrorist group to carry out an attack
here.”  At the same time, Brennan noted dangers posed by smaller
al-Qaeda-related or -inspired groups in the Arabian Peninsula,
 Iraq  and  Africa , and he said the U.S. must continue to monitor
threats within its borders.  He estimated that there are “a couple dozen, maybe” al-
Qaeda operatives in Yemen focused on overseas attacks. The
numbers in Pakistan are “more significant” and in the
“hundreds,” he said.  Brennan declined to discuss whether the U.S. was safer
because of President George W. Bush’s decision in 2003 to invade
Iraq.  No Looking Back  “I try not to look back, I try to look forward,” Brennan
said. The U.S. is working with the Iraqi government so that it
can thrive and guard against terrorism, he said.  “We are where we are,” he said. “You can’t, you know,
remake history. But I do think now we have an obligation to
follow through” with U.S. commitments to the Iraqi people.  Obama will mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks
with visits to the World Trade Center site in  New York City ;
Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , where United Airlines Flight 93
crashed after passengers fought their hijackers; and the
Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia.  The president also is to speak in  Washington  at a memorial
concert that was moved to the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts from the Washington National Cathedral because
of a crane accident on the cathedral grounds yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  