-- 
U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall to Lowest on Record, Freddie Mac Says

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-09-08T15:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/u-s-mortgage-rates-tumble-to-the-lowest-on-record-with-30-year-at-4-12-.html
U.S. mortgage rates tumbled to the
lowest in at least four decades as stagnant job growth and
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening drove investors
to the relative safety of  government bonds .  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 4.12
percent in the week ended today from 4.22 percent, Freddie Mac
said in a statement today. That’s the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based company’s records dating back to 1971. The
average 15-year rate fell to 3.33 percent from 3.39 percent.  Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds, a benchmark for consumer
loans including mortgages, touched an all-time low Sept. 6 on
signs that the U.S. economic recovery has stalled and the euro
region is struggling to contain its debt burden. Low borrowing
costs have done little to lift the housing market as the
unemployment rate sticks above 9 percent. No new jobs were added
in August, the Labor Department said last week.  “Homebuyers are not responding to these record-low
 interest rates ,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The reason
interest rates are dropping recently is that the outlook for the
economy has gotten weaker. A smart person would be very careful
about buying a home unless he thinks his job is very secure.”  The previous low for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.15
percent for the week that ended Aug. 18. Data from the  National
Bureau of Economic Research  measuring Federal Housing
Administration loans indicate that long-term borrowing costs are
the lowest since the 1950s, according to Chad Wandler, a
spokesman for Freddie Mac.  Applications Decline  Mortgage applications dropped 4.9 percent in the week ended
Sept. 2, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said yesterday. The
Washington-based group’s refinancing index fell 6.3 percent
while the purchase gauge rose 0.2 percent, a second straight
gain after falling to the lowest level since December 1996.  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
in July fell 1.3 percent, the first decline in three months, the
National Association of Realtors said Aug. 29.  “The housing market remains challenging primarily due to
uncertainty caused by general domestic economic and political
concerns, stock market volatility and turbulent international
economic conditions,” Ara K. Hovnanian, chairman and chief
executive officer of homebuilder Hovnanian Enterprises Inc.,
said in a statement yesterday. “We see very few indicators that
any recovery in the housing market has begun.”  Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac ’s larger rival, found in a survey
that 78 percent of Americans said the economy is on the wrong
track in August, up from 70 percent the previous month. Twenty-
two percent of respondents said they expect their financial
condition to worsen in the next year, up from 20 percent in
July, according to a report released today by the mortgage-
 finance company .  Twenty-seven percent of respondents expect  home prices  to
decline in the next year, the largest share in the monthly
survey since August 2010. While 69 percent said it was a good
time to buy a home, only 9 percent said it was a good time to
sell.  Fannie Mae  polled 1,001 Americans in telephone interviews
from Aug. 2 to Aug. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  