-- 
Tudor Alumni to Start Emerging-Market Investment Firm in London

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-09-08T17:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/tudor-alumni-whittaker-macfarlane-to-start-emerging-market-firm-in-london.html
Tudor Investment Corp. executives
Nigel Whittaker and John Macfarlane are leaving the $11 billion
hedge fund run by  Paul Tudor Jones  to start a firm that will
invest in emerging markets, according to a letter sent to
investors.  Zafferano Capital LP will be based in London and invest in
the shares and credit of public and private companies, according
to the letter dated Sept. 7, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. Brent De Jong, former chief executive officer of
Ashmore Energy International Ltd., will also join the firm.  “As a strategic partner, we will have a strong and close
relationship with Zafferano and are excited about the new
venture,” Jones said today in a statement. Tudor partners are
investing an undisclosed amount in Zafferano and will also own a
stake in the management company, according to three people
familiar with the arrangement, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Zafferano, which has more than $100 million in assets
committed, will start investing in early 2012 through hedge
funds and private equity, the people said.  Whittaker, 50, who was a portfolio manager and head of
emerging-markets corporate credit at Tudor, will be Zafferano’s
co-chief investment officer. He joined Tudor in 2004 and since
2008 has overseen parts of Tudor’s Legacy portfolio, which was
created that year to liquidate hard-to-sell assets. He will
remain a consultant to Greenwich, Connecticut-based Tudor until
at least the end of the year to oversee the sale of the rest of
the emerging-market credit positions. Four members of his team
will join Zafferano Capital once all the positions are sold, the
people said.  Italian for Saffron  Whittaker earlier worked at Ashmore Group Plc in  London ,
where he met De Jong. The 36-year-old De Jong will be
Zafferano’s co-chief investment officer based in Houston and
will concentrate on private-equity investments, the people said.  Macfarlane, 57, will be the chairman of Zafferano, which is
Italian for saffron. He will be based in the New York City area.
Macfarlane joined Tudor in 1998 from Salomon Smith Barney
Holdings Inc., and was the firm’s chief operating officer before
being named vice chairman in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  