-- 
Lululemon Envy Has Retailers From Gap to Nordstrom Chasing Yoga Devotees

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-09-09T20:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lululemon-envy-has-retailers-from-gap-to-nordstrom-chasing-yoga-devotees.html
Gap, Nike and Nordstrom may have
something in common: Lululemon envy. Seeking to lure shoppers
willing to spend $98 on stretchy yoga pants, these retailers are
mimicking the strategy of  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the sports
apparel company known for its pricey yoga gear.  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Salvation chain of athletic-wear stores is
selling $64 training capris and features a yoga-studio format
similar to that of Lululemon.  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Athleta stores sell $60
women’s yoga tops and offer free yoga classes -- another
Lululemon innovation.  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) ’s Zella line, dedicated to
yoga attire, hired a Lululemon alum to introduce the effort.  By adding yoga gear to their mix, the three big retailers
are angling to grab a larger share of women’s athletic apparel
sales, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 12 issue.
While consumers continued to restrain their spending, U.S. sales
of women’s athletic clothing rose 2.6 percent last year, to
$30.5 billion, says market researcher NPD Group.  “This trend is 100 percent driven by Lululemon,” said
 Andrew Burns , an analyst at equity research firm D.A. Davidson
in  Portland , Oregon.  While yoga has been around for millennia, Lululemon
“helped turn it into a social thing for women by making them
feel like they looked good while doing it,” says Jill Miller, a
Los Angeles yoga instructor.  The Vancouver-based company was founded by entrepreneur
Chip Wilson in 1998 after he took a yoga class and found
clothing then available wasn’t ideal for yoga.  Cult-Like Following  With a canny blend of fashion and lifestyle marketing --
besides the free yoga classes, it spotlights local
“ambassadors” who “embody the Lululemon lifestyle” -- the
retailer has built a cult-like following. Lululemon’s revenue
grew 57 percent last year, to about $712 million. Revenue for
fiscal 2011 may increase as much as 33 percent to $950 million,
the company said today in a statement. The shares fell $2.63 to
$55.06 at 4:21 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Rivals appear to be undercutting Lululemon on price. A
jacket in Nordstrom’s Zella line goes for $98, $20 less than a
Lululemon version. While Lululemon sells yoga pants for $98, San
Francisco-based Gap’s Athleta brand sells a comparable pair for
$59.  “I think we differentiate ourselves from other brands
because of our wider selection,” said Scott Key, a senior vice-
president at Gap’s Athleta unit. “It’s more accessible, more
affordable.” He denies borrowing from Lululemon.  ‘Zen Webinars’  Nike, which is based in Beaverton,  Oregon , and Gap also are
following Lululemon’s practice of tapping into yoga’s spiritual
ethos, an effort to make customers feel that they’re part of a
community. Athleta’s website features a blog on how to stay
“Chi” as well as a series of “Zen webinars.”  Nordstrom, which is based in  Seattle , poached Lululemon
product manager Libby Vance to design the Zella line. Before her
departure in 2009, she introduced Lululemon-esque looks for
Nordstrom shoppers, including reversible jackets with two-looks-
in-one and spandex pants that won’t ride up while doing the
Downward-Facing Dog. Nordstrom and Nike declined to comment for
this story.  The big question for Lululemon and its rivals is whether
yoga still has room to grow. Lululemon’s revenue logged a
compound annual growth rate of 52.3 percent from 2005 to 2009.
Sales growth at Lululemon stores open more than 12 months have
slowed this year and the company is boosting online sales,
hoping they will hit 8 percent of total revenue by next year.
That’s a tougher goal as new rivals emerge.  Moreover, women are starting to spend more on dressy
clothing for work and special occasions, says Adrienne Tennant,
a Janney Capital Markets analyst in  New York , leaving less cash
to spend on yoga togs.  “There is a high level of fashion risk tied to this
trend,” said Burns, the D.A. Davidson analyst. “As consumers
have less discretionary funds, or preferences change, the whole
trend could fall apart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  