-- 
Hungary’s Economy Stalled in Second Quarter on Slowing Exports

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-08T07:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/hungary-s-economy-stalled-in-second-quarter-on-slowing-exports.html
Hungary ’s economic growth stalled in
the second quarter after exports slowed and investments fell,
forcing the government to cut its forecast for the pace of
expansion through 2012 and take steps to plug budget holes.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the first
quarter, the Budapest-based statistics office said in a revised
report today, matching its preliminary estimate. The economy
expanded 1.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  The government this week lowered its economic-growth
forecast to 2 percent for this year and 2012 from 3.1 percent
and 3 percent, respectively. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
Cabinet is discussing measures to plug budget holes resulting
from slower growth. Output petered out amid concern the debt
crises in  Europe  and the U.S. will derail the global recovery.  “Declining investments and slowing export growth” were
the main reasons behind the economy stalling, statistician Peter
Szabo told reporters today.  Construction output slumped 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier and the financial industry’s output
slumped 4.6 percent. Agricultural production rose 24 percent in
the quarter from the April-June period of 2010.  The final consumption of households rose 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier after declining in the two
previous quarters. Export growth slowed to 8.8 percent from 14.4
percent in the first quarter. Investments dropped 8.1 percent.  Exports, Industry  Exports to the euro region powered Hungary’s recovery from
its worst recession in 18 years, propelling the economy to the
fastest growth since 2006 in the first quarter, with factories
run by Audi AG and Nokia Oyj boosting production.  Growth in Hungary’s industrial production, the biggest
component of GDP with a weight of as much as 25 percent, slowed
to 2.7 percent in July from 12.5 percent a year earlier. Retail
sales dropped 0.5 percent in June and contracted for 41
consecutive months through June 2010.  Orban this week announced measures to erase part of a $1.8
billion budget hole, pledging to cut next year’s deficit to
below 3 percent of economic output and reduce debt. Hungary will
raise excise duties, halt public procurements and collect more
value-added tax to partially cover this year’s budget gap.
Further measures will be announced on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  