-- 
Lurie Built NFL’s Eagles From Rat-Infested Loser to Winner Harvard Admires

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/lurie-built-nfl-s-eagles-from-rat-infested-loser-to-winner-harvard-admires.html
Jeffrey Lurie toured the offices of
the  Philadelphia Eagles  for the first time as owner in 1994 and
found the National Football League team sharing windowless space
in Veterans Stadium with live rodents.  “It was a very common thing for me to be on the phone and
say, ‘There goes another rat, right across the carpet,’” Lurie,
a film producer, said in a telephone interview. “I’m thinking,
‘I just wired $185 million dollars and read on the front page of
the Wall Street Journal what a fool I was.’ And I had no reason
to believe I was not a fool at that point.”  Seventeen years later, Lurie’s Eagles are title favorites
among Las Vegas bookmakers for the season that begins tonight
when the  New Orleans Saints  visit the defending-champion  Green
Bay Packers . Even though his team committed $225 million in
salaries and acquired six Pro Bowl players in two weeks,
Philadelphia’s on-field success owes more to Lurie’s turnaround
of corporate culture than the signing of free agents such as
cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha , according to Rosabeth Moss Kanter,
the Harvard Business School professor.  Lurie, who turns 60 today, and team President Joe Banner
first solved institutional problems, then built a culture of
sustained excellence based on accountability, collaboration and
initiative, says Kanter, who studied the team for a chapter on
corporate turnarounds in her 2004 book,  “Confidence: How
Winning Streaks and Losing Streaks Begin and End.”  Since Lurie
bought the team, the Eagles have reached the playoffs in 11 of
his 16 full seasons, second in the NFL to the  Indianapolis Colts 
over that time.  ‘Mutual Support’  “Athletes can play above their level of talent or below
their level of talent depending on what surrounds them,” Kanter,
68, said in an e-mail. “Those who feel they are part of a
beautifully functioning team, with mutual support and
camaraderie, can rise to the occasion.”  Lurie says he paid a then-record price for the team, which
has never won the Super Bowl, because good management would
yield rewards. The NFL at the time had many passive managers;
Lurie said he thought the then-new system of free agency and
capped payrolls would require an aggressive front office.  He put a list by his bed. He needed a new headquarters, a
stadium and a scouting staff to attract players. He needed
leaders, a coach and a quarterback. And he needed to create “a
winning culture.”  Hotel Upgrades  Lurie and Banner first took care of little things, Kanter
said. They did salary reviews on time, booked the team into
better hotels and upgraded pregame food.  “If you can respect people enough to create a family
culture, they realize the time and energy is well worth it,”
Lurie said.  Lurie and Banner studied men such as Bill Walsh, who relied
on offense, and  Bill Parcells , who preached defense, and learned
that the Super Bowl-winning coaches had different ideas about
football and similar ideas about leadership. They were detail
oriented and unafraid of mistakes.  After a 3-13 season under Ray Rhodes, they hired a coach
and a quarterback with those traits.  Andy Reid , an assistant
with the Packers, wasn’t the big-name fans wanted. When Reid
chose Syracuse University quarterback Donovan McNabb over
Heisman Trophy-winning running back Ricky Williams in the 1999
 NFL draft ,  fans booed .  Community Standing  The team also improved its standing in Philadelphia.
Lurie’s Eagles have spent at least $22 million on charity in the
Delaware Valley since founding the  Eagles Youth Partnership  in
1995, according to the team’s website.  Efforts to build a new stadium and headquarters began to
pay off, Kanter writes. In 2000, the city and state agreed to
contribute about $564 million toward new facilities for the team
and baseball’s Phillies.  In 2001, the team opened the NovaCare Complex, a training
facility and headquarters. The locker room had cherry fittings
and no support columns, because Reid wanted an open environment.
The fitness center was open to all employees when players
weren’t using it. The lobby was decorated with images of Mother Theresa, Jonas Salk and  Martin Luther King .  “I wanted everyone who comes through there to recognize
incredible leaders,” Lurie said. “It’s also meant to put one’s
ego into perspective.”  Winning Years  Lincoln Financial Field opened in 2003 and the Eagles
continued to succeed. Reid has  won about 60 percent  of his games
and NFL coach-of-the-year honors twice. His teams, led by McNabb,
reached the conference championships five times. McNabb made six
Pro Bowls and became the team’s all-time leader in wins, passing
yards and passing touchdowns before he was traded to  Washington 
last year.  Michael Vick , whom the team signed after he spent 18
months in prison for his involvement in a dog-fighting ring,
succeeded him and made the  Pro Bowl  last season.  Forbes magazine yesterday valued the franchise at  $1.16
billion  and in July ranked the Eagles the world’s 11th most-
valuable sports team.  Lurie said that this summer’s hiring binge was planned back
in 2008. His coaches figured out that, because of rules
associated with the NFL’s labor agreement, the 2011 offseason
would have twice as many available players as usual. And because
the 2010 season was played without a lid on team payrolls, some
teams wouldn’t have room available when the cap returned at $120
million with the 2011 labor contract.  Contract Details  The Eagles began structuring deals with current players
such as cornerback Asante Samuel and tackle Jason Peters that
left salary space in 2011. They used that to sign Asomugha, the
top player available, along with Pro Bowl selections including
receiver  Steve Smith , running back Ronnie Brown and quarterback
 Vince Young .  The Eagles’ championship odds at the Las Vegas Hilton’s
Race and Sports Book dropped to 6-1 from 12-1 last month after
the acquisitions. All will be on display when the Eagles open
the season against the  St. Louis Rams  on Sept. 11. The Packers
and  New England Patriots  also have 6-1 odds.  Russ Lande, former scout of the Cleveland Browns and St.
Louis Rams, said hiring too many stars can have a negative
effect on team chemistry, even for a club that won the division
with a 10-6 record last year.  “Since free agency became big, almost to a team, the one
or two teams that are great in the summer signing free agents,
almost all of them fail in the regular season,” said Lande, now
an analyst for Sporting News magazine. “I’ve got a feeling
they’re going to be one of the disappointments this year.”  No Danger  Kanter said the Eagles aren’t in danger, because the
culture Lurie built minimizes me-first behavior from the stars.
They’ve “benefited from their owner’s values,” she said.  Lurie said he hopes to add a  Super Bowl  trophy to  the
Academy Award he won  with his wife, Christina Weiss Lurie, this
year as co-executive producers of  Charles Ferguson ’s documentary
“Inside Job,” an account of the 2008 financial crisis. He said
he’s not worried about integrating his new players.  “We were able to create a culture where we had a lot of
smart people dedicate themselves to what it would take to create
a winning franchise over a long period of time,” he said. “The
only way you’re able to do that is if, as you might say in
business, you’re not fearing next quarter’s results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 