-- 
Uruguay Plans Wind Farms Worth $1.3 Billion to Cut Power Costs

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-08T22:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/uruguay-plans-wind-farms-worth-1-3-billion-to-cut-power-costs.html
Uruguay may build $1.3 billion of
wind farms in the next four years after developers said they
could provide electricity cheaper than conventional energy
sources.  National power company  Usinas Y Transmisiones del Estado 
may purchase electricity from 600 megawatts of projects that
participated in an auction for new wind farms, four times more
than expected, Ramon Mendez, director of energy at the Ministry
of Industry, Energy and Mining, said in a telephone interview.  Companies including  Spain ’s Enerfin Sociedad de Energia SA
offered to provide power for as low as $62.35 a megawatt-hour,
prompting the government to consider buying more wind power.
Aeolic energy is beating conventional power sources on price in
head-to-head contests elsewhere in  South America . Wind was the
cheapest source of energy in a similar auction in  Brazil  last
month.  “The bids are amazing,” Mendez said. “I was quite
surprised when I first saw them.”  The average cost of electricity generation in Uruguay is
$73 a megawatt-hour and this may drop to $45 in 2015 as the
country gets more of its energy from wind, biomass and liquefied
natural gas-fueled power plants, Mendez said today in an e-mail.  A stagnant market for new wind farms in  Europe  and the U.S.
has offered Uruguay an opportunity to install cheap power
projects as turbine makers try to outbid each other for supply
contracts, he said. This has allowed developers in Uruguay to
offer their electricity at unprecedented low prices, Mendez
said.  Falling Prices  “We’re very happy to get this energy as soon as
possible,” he said. “It’s possible costs will rise in the
future” as the global market for  wind energy  picks up
elsewhere, he said.  Uruguay may have as much as 850 megawatts of wind farms
online by 2015, about a third of what’s currently installed in
the country, he said. It has about 100 megawatts commissioned or
under construction, he said.  Turbine prices in the first half of 2011 have fallen to
940,000 euros ($1.3 million) a megawatt-hour, 7 percent lower
than the average for 2010, according to information compiled by
Bloomberg.  For some of these Uruguayan projects to be viable turbine
prices, which comprise about 75 percent of a project’s cost,
will have to fall to $1.2 million, Maria Gabriela da Rocha
Oliveira, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  Sao
Paulo , said in a telephone interview today. It costs about $1.7
million to roll out one megawatt of wind farm in Uruguay
currently, Mendez said.  Auction Bids  Seventeen companies proposed 1,097 megawatts of wind farms
in last month’s auction, Usinas Y Transmisiones del Estado said
on its  website . The auction was originally seeking 150 megawatts
of wind farms.  Bids were as much as 28 percent below those offered in a
separate auction for 150 megawatts of wind farms completed in
January, when prices varied between $85 and $87 a megawatt hour,
UTE said in a statement.  Uruguay produced 51 percent of its electricity from
hydroelectric dams in 2008, the  International Energy Agency  said
on its website. About 39 percent came from oil imports and the
remaining from biomass, the IEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  