-- 
Usiminas Jumps in Sao Paulo After Report CSN Has Offered to Buy 26% Stake

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-09-08T20:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/usiminas-jumps-in-sao-paulo-after-report-csn-has-offered-to-buy-26-stake.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM3) ,  Brazil ’s second-largest steelmaker, gained in Sao Paulo
trading after a news report that Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
offered to buy an additional 26 percent stake in its rival.  Common shares in Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-
based company is known, rose 1.75 reais, or 8 percent, to close
at 23.65 reais today, the biggest gain on Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index. The company’s preferred shares, the most traded
type of stock, rose 2 percent.  CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch offered to
acquire a 26 percent stake in Usiminas from Camargo Correa SA
and Votorantim Participacoes SA, O Estado de S. Paulo reported,
citing unidentified people involved in the process. CSN already
has more than 11 percent of Usiminas’s voting stock.  Camargo Correa and Votorantim haven’t yet responded to the
offer, made several weeks ago, according to O Estado. The two
shareholders have informed  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , which also holds
a stake in Usiminas, of the proposal, it said. The value of the
proposed deal wasn’t disclosed, according to the newspaper.  Sao Paulo-based CSN, Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker by
output, has been buying shares in its bigger rival since at
least January, when it said it may boost its investment in
Usiminas to a level that could alter management or the control
structure. The company said Aug. 19 that it raised its stake to
15.15 percent of Usiminas’s preferred shares and 11.29 percent
of the common stock, up from 10.2 percent and 10.84 percent,
respectively, as of July 27.  Improved Margins, Savings  Buying a controlling stake in Usiminas would give CSN an
opportunity to help improve its rival’s steel operating margins,
which are lower than its own, said Rafael Weber, an equity
analyst at brokerage Geracao Futuro Corretora. The companies
could also generate logistics and distribution savings and
combine their mining projects, he said.  “Together, the iron-ore businesses of CSN and Usiminas
would become a very significant asset from a volume
perspective,” Weber said today in a telephone interview from
 Porto Alegre , Brazil. “It would be a very strong company from
the mining side too.”  Usiminas Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said May 31
the company’s controlling shareholders don’t plan to sell their
stakes and will keep their current position for “many years.”
He said on Aug. 2 that CSN’s increased stake in Usiminas doesn’t
alter the control of the company.  Shareholders’ Agreement  Nippon Steel, Votorantim and Camargo Correa control the
company through a shareholders’ pact, with a combined stake of
53.8 percent of Usiminas’s voting stock, according to the
company’s  website . The group renewed its controlling agreement
through 2031, with the possibility to extend it every five years
after that, Usiminas said in a filing Feb. 18.  A CSN official in  Sao Paulo , who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, said in an e-mail today the company
doesn’t comment on “market speculation.” External public
relations officials for Votorantim and Camargo Correa in Sao
Paulo declined to comment.  CSN rose 24 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 15.79 reais,
paring its drop for 2011 to 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  