-- 
Vallares to Buy Companies, Develop Fields With $2.2 Billion

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-09-08T15:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/vallares-to-buy-companies-develop-fields-with-2-2-billion.html
Genel Energy Plc, the oil company
being formed from Vallares Plc’s purchase of Turkey’s Genel
Energy International Ltd., will use its $2.2 billion in cash on
acquisitions and developing existing fields, Chief Executive
Officer Tony Hayward said.  The new company will allocate one-third of the cash to
accelerate development of its six oilfields in the Kurdistan
region of Iraq, the former  BP Plc (BP/)  CEO who quit after last year’s
Gulf of Mexico spill, said today at a news conference in
Istanbul.  An equal amount will be spent on acquisitions of some of
the 41 oil companies operating in the region, which Hayward
yesterday described as “one of the last great oil and gas
frontiers.” The remainder will be used to buy companies in the
Middle East.  Vallares, a so-called blank check company founded by
Hayward, financier Nathaniel Rothschild and banker Julian Metherell, raised 1.35 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) from
investors in June. Yesterday’s $2.1 billion deal will be
completed as an all-share reverse takeover and leave current
holders of Vallares and Genel Energy with equal stakes.  ‘Dominant Position’  “We will be participating in the inevitable consolidation
among the 41 companies in the Kurdish region,” Hayward said.
“There will be a series of consolidations and we want to have
the dominant position in the region by building a bigger
company.”  The acquisitions, which may be in the form of equity stakes
or oilfield assets, may begin shortly after the company
completes its listing on the London Stock Exchange that’s
expected to take place in October, Hayward said. The merged
company expects to take its place among the exchange’s top 250
or 100 companies, he said.  Genel Energy will also seek acquisitions outside the
Kurdish region, especially in the Middle East and North Africa
in the wake of the so-called Arab Spring, a wave of insurgencies
for democracy in several nations in the region, Hayward said.  Kurdistan has 20 billion to 25 billion barrels of “oil in
place” and the reserves are unlikely to exceed 40 billion to 45
billion barrels, Natural Resource Minister Ashti Hawrami said at
a conference in March last year.  Pipeline  Mehmet Sepil, president of the new company, told the news
conference that a 240-kilometer (150-mile) pipeline will be
built to link the existing oilfields of Taq Taq, where it
produces oil with Addax Petroleum Corp., with Dohuk near the
Turkish border.  Genel Energy International, owned 56 percent by Turkish
billionaire Mehmet Emin Karamehmet and 29 percent by Sepil, has
so far invested about $600 million in the Kurdish oilfields in
northern Iraq, Sepil said. It produces oil from two of the six
fields it holds licenses in and has been paid as much as $700
million by the Kurdistan Regional Government to date, he said.  The oil industry law currently before the Iraqi government
will probably be passed by the end of the year, according to
Sepil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 