-- 
Venezuela Says Smurfit Kappa Won’t Be Compensated for Forestry Seizure

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-09-08T14:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/venezuela-says-smurfit-won-t-be-compensated-for-forestry-seizure.html
Venezuela won’t compensate  Smurfit
Kappa Group Plc (SKG)  for the seizure of 12,000 hectares of forestry
plantations the Irish cardboard maker controlled in the South
American country, Agriculture Minister Juan Carlos Loyo said.  The government has taken steps to remove Smurfit from three
different farms and won’t negotiate over the issue, Loyo said in
comments carried by state television last night.  “The lands belong to the state,” Loyo said. “We’re going
to have a dialogue with the Smurfit company, but we’re not going
to negotiate. They should be on less fertile land.”  President Hugo Chavez ordered the removal of Smurfit from
all its agricultural properties in Portuguesa state on Aug. 31
as he deepens a push to seize large land holdings from private
owners. Venezuela confiscated 1,500 hectares (3,707 acres) from
the Dublin-based paper products company in 2009 and a cattle
ranch from U.K.-based Vestey Group Ltd. in 2005.  Smurfit’s eucalyptus plantations have dried sources of
water for irrigation in Portuguesa that should be used to grow
vegetables, Chavez said last week.  As happened in the previous expropriation case, Loyo said
Smurfit probably wouldn’t seek an injunction on the government
takeover because the courts were unlikely to be sympathetic.  Smurfit Kappa isn’t making any comment, Brian Bell,
managing director at Dublin-based Wilson Hartnell Public
Relations, which represents the cardboard maker, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  The company’s shares rose 0.71 percent to 4.86 euros in
Dublin trading at 9:31 a.m. New York time.  The government has turned seized land over to farmer
cooperatives. Critics of Chavez’s policies say food production
has waned amid the land grabs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 