-- 
Porsche Shares Plunge After Volkswagen Merger Fails Over Pending Lawsuits

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-09T15:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/vw-says-porsche-merger-no-longer-expected-in-2011.html
Porsche SE plunged the most in more
than two years after saying efforts to combine with  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  by the end of 2011 had failed because of pending lawsuits.  The merger has been held up by lawsuits in the U.S. and an
investigation by German prosecutors linked to Porsche’s botched
effort to buy VW. The two carmakers agreed to combine in 2009
after Porsche racked up more than 10 billion euros ($13.8
billion) of debt in the attempt to take over VW.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. A lawyer
representing claimants in  Germany  said today the plaintiffs had
officially filed a suit seeking 1.1 billion euros in damages.
Porsche, which has repeatedly denied all wrongdoing, identified
the possible German lawsuit as a concern earlier this year.  “The lawsuits are posing risks that cannot be
quantified,” said  Tim Schuldt , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Equinet AG who recommends selling VW stock and has a ‘reduce’
recommendation on Porsche shares. “We won’t see results on the
suits until next year. Moving ahead with a merger in such an
unpredictable environment would be the wrong thing to do.”  Porsche preferred stock plunged 5.98 euros, or 14 percent,
to close in  Frankfurt  trading at 37.99 euros, the biggest drop
since May 7, 2009. The shares are down 26 percent this year,
valuing the Stuttgart, Germany-based company at 11.7 billion
euros. VW’s preferred shares fell 4.20 euros, or 3.9 percent, to
103.75 euros, giving it a market value of 45.8 billion euros.  New Agreement  The two carmakers will now need to come up with a new
agreement if they intend to combine VW with Porsche’s holding
company, which owns 50.7 percent of VW’s common shares and 50.1
percent of the Porsche car-making business. The original deal
required the final decisions by the end of 2011.  VW and Porsche also have the option to forego a full merger
and instead fold Porsche’s auto-making business into the VW
group while leaving the holding company to manage the Volkswagen
shares. The two carmakers have already deeply integrated their
operations, with VW paying 3.9 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in
December 2009 for 49.9 percent of Porsche’s automotive unit.  “Porsche will in any case become part of VW but the
probability of a full-blown merger has definitely lessened,”
said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based analyst with M.M. Warburg,
who recommends buying VW stock and has a “hold” on Porsche
shares. “A full-fledged merger always allows for greater cost
savings as companies could cooperate more effectively.”  German Suit  The German suit, filed in a Braunschweig court against
Porsche and VW, was brought by a company bundling claims from 41
banks, insurance companies and investment funds, Franz Braun, a
Munich lawyer representing the plaintiffs in the case, said
today in an e-mail. The plaintiffs claim they were harmed by
market manipulation in the trading of VW shares and disclosure
rule violations.  Porsche, which has not yet received court documents related
to the new lawsuit, dismissed the actions as “unfounded,” said
Frank Gaube, a spokesman for the sports-car maker. VW has also
not received any official court confirmation, Christine Ritz, VW
investor relations chief, said.  Porsche is also fighting German legal obstacles and a U.S.
investigation into share-price manipulation allegations linked
to the failed effort to buy VW. Stuttgart prosecutors in
February said their still ongoing probe had “solidified”
suspicions Porsche didn’t adequately inform the market between
2007 and 2009 about its intentions to take control of VW.  Legal Hurdles  “The continuing legal hurdles mean that it is currently
impossible to quantify the economic risks of a merger,” VW said
in a statement late yesterday.  The two carmakers are already intertwined even without a
merger.  Ferdinand Piech , whose family controls Porsche, is the
VW supervisory board chairman, while  Martin Winterkorn  serves as
chief executive officer of both VW and the Porsche holding
company. The two also share technology and plants, with VW
building part of the Cayenne sport-utility vehicle at its
factory in Bratislava, Slovakia.  “Both companies are attractively valued, whether Porsche
is integrated or not,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Bankhaus Metzler
analyst in Frankfurt. “The cooperation between the two
companies can continue well and good as it is.”  Cash Payment  As part of the original deal struck in August 2009, VW can
pay cash for the remaining stake in Porsche’s automobile
operations through a put/call structure allowing the sports-car
maker to sell the rest of its core business to VW. Those options
could be exercised between November 2012 and January 2015.  While this option would allow VW to fully fold Porsche’s
automotive business into the VW group, it would leave Porsche’s
holding company to manage the VW shares and take legal and
financial responsibility for the outcome of the lawsuits. The
price to follow this route would be linked to the valuation of
the auto-making business at the time of the purchase.  VW said a necessary revaluation of the put/call structure
for accounting reasons will have a “clearly positive
contribution” to third-quarter figures whereas Porsche said it
will likely post a “negative group result” for the first nine
months.  Porsche SE’s third-quarter earnings may be reduced by about
1.6 billion euros because of the revaluation of the holding
company’s remaining stake in its car-making operations, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The exact impact of the non-cash adjustment of the auto
unit’s valuation on Porsche’s books will be released when the
holding company publishes results in late October, the person
said, declining to be identified discussing the matter before an
official announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Dusseldorf at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  