-- 
Webb, Churchill and the Birth of the Welfare State: Sylvia Nasar

-- B y   S y l v i a   N a s a r
-- 
2011-09-08T00:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/webb-churchill-and-birth-of-the-welfare-state-commentary-by-sylvia-nasar.html
“You are young, pretty, rich,
clever, what more do you want?” Beatrice Potter’s poor relation
asked her with a trace of exasperation. “Why cannot you be
satisfied?”  Like the heroine of Henry James’s 1881 novel, “Portrait of
a Lady,” Beatrice had been brought up with an unusual freedom to
travel, read, form friendships and satisfy her “great desire for
knowledge.” Born in 1858 as the ninth daughter of a railway
magnate and political liberal, she was “brought up in the midst
of capitalist speculation” and “the restless spirit of big
enterprise.”  She longed for a “real aim and occupation.” Her early
mentor was Herbert Spencer -- the libertarian philosopher who
coined the term “survival of the fittest” -- who encouraged her
to pursue a career as a “social investigator.” She took the
advice to heart, and by the time that career was over, Beatrice
had invented the think tank, supplied the young  Winston Churchill  with a reform platform, and conceived the modern
welfare state decades before the New Deal.  Treadmill of Labor  Yet as a young woman, Beatrice yearned for a masterful man.
She fell violently in love with Joseph Chamberlain, who was 20
years her senior, handsome and the most charismatic politician
in  England .  Beatrice was schooled in Spencer’s strict minimalism with
respect to government, and she disliked Chamberlain’s populist
politics and demands for government activism on behalf of the
unemployed. And she knew very well that the commanding
Chamberlain was looking for a woman who would stand by her man -
- not one with a mind and agenda of her own.  Hopelessly in love, Beatrice was devastated when he
rejected her. She tried to master her obsession by plunging
first into charity work and later into a massive survey of
 London ’s poor. When her father suffered a stroke and required
her constant care, her despair deepened to suicidal depression.
She reflected bitterly that the plight of women resembled that
of working men with “active brains doomed to the treadmill of
manual labor.”  ‘Hooting Howling Mob’  An electrifying surge of violence in London dispelled her
suicidal mood. On Feb. 8, 1886, 10,000 unemployed workmen and
thousands of radicals rallied peacefully in Trafalgar Square,
surrounded by 2,500 police. When the demonstrators poured into
the main streets, they began “cursing the authorities, attacking
shops, sacking saloons, getting drunk, and smashing windows,”
according to a newspaper account. The police were unprepared and
grossly outnumbered. For hours, a “hooting howling mob” ruled
the  West End .  Queen Victoria’s charge that the episode constituted “a
momentary triumph for socialism” was hyperbolic, but the
eruption of anger stimulated a revival of middle-class activism.
It ultimately led Beatrice to try her hand at investigative
journalism. “Social questions are the vital questions of today,”
she wrote. “They take the place of religion.”  She decided to go undercover to share the experiences of
sweatshop workers. To prepare for the role, she plowed through
piles of “Blue Books, pamphlets and periodicals bearing on the
subject of sweating.” She moved to a shabby East End hotel, and
spent eight to 12 hours a day learning how to sew at a
cooperative tailoring workshop only to flit off to fashionable
West End dinner parties at night.  When she felt prepared, she dressed in dingy clothes and
set off on foot to find a job. Within 24 hours, Beatrice was
sitting with a dozen other women at a large table making a mess
of sewing buttons on pairs of trousers. Her eyes hurt, her back
ached and she found the heat from the gas lamps stifling. When a
shrill voice finally cried out, “Eight o’clock by the Brewery
clock,” she received a shilling, the first money she had ever
earned. And when “Pages of a Workgirl’s Diary” was published in
a liberal journal, its success and the newspaper coverage of her
escapade were delicious.  Beatrice was a 32-year-old spinster when Sidney Webb, the
brainy son of a London hairdresser, proposed they write a book
on labor unions together. She knew that Webb was the intellect
behind a coterie of young men who were manipulating the
mainstream parties “to voice a growing desire for state action.”
The Fabians, as they were known, called themselves socialists,
but they wished to tame the “Frankenstein” of free enterprise
rather than kill it, and to tax the rich rather than wipe them
out.  ‘Everybody Comes Here’  After a year of telling Sidney “I do not love you,” and
Sidney’s promising that life together would consist of
abstemious living, copious research and constant socializing --
presumably in lieu of sex and babies -- Beatrice reluctantly
married him.  “It seems an extraordinary end to the once brilliant
Beatrice Potter,” she wrote on returning from the registry
office, “to marry an ugly little man with no social position and
less means, whose only recommendation so some may say is a
certain pushing ability.”  Her marriage instead became the key to her professional
fulfillment. The Webbs constituted themselves as a husband and
wife think tank, directing research assistants, analyzing data
and writing by day, while lobbying politicians and journalists
in their own political salon at night.  “Everybody comes here,” says a regular in H.G. Wells’ 1910
roman a clef, “The New Machiavelli,” calling the Webbs’ salon a
“center of reference for all sorts of legislative proposals and
political expedients.”  The idea of the welfare state, typically attributed to
Roosevelt’s New Deal or the 1944 British Labor Party government,
was actually Beatrice’s invention in these years. Seizing on the
economist Alfred Marshall’s suggestion that “the cause of
poverty is poverty,” she defined the problem in absolute rather
than relative terms in a book she wrote with Sidney called “The
Prevention of Destitution.”  National Minimums  Inequality, and poverty in the sense of having less than
others, is inevitable, they wrote. But destitution is not.
Eliminating destitution would prevent the poverty of one
generation from passing automatically to the next, and could be
accomplished by establishing national minimums, including a
national  minimum wage  -- the essence of the modern welfare
state.  Before Marshall, the founding fathers of political economy
had held that government provision for the poor was incompatible
with a market economy. John Stuart Mill argued that if the
government intervened by taxing the affluent to subsidize wages,
the working population would increase, causing more unemployment
and even higher taxation. Moreover, as  Karl Marx  also pointed
out, the use of taxes to subsidize pay would reduce efficiency
by removing competition and the fear of unemployment.  But by defining poverty in terms of absolutes, Beatrice
could overcome these objections. In contrast to the socialist
state, she believed, the household state was perfectly
compatible with free markets and democracy.  Beatrice and Bulldog  “I never do my own brainwork that anyone else can do for
me,” Churchill bragged in 1904, the first time he sat next to
Beatrice at dinner. She wrote him off then as “egotistical,
bumptious, shallow-minded and reactionary.”  But, as the son of a leading conservative and a rising
political star, Churchill sensed the Tories’ growing irrelevance
and realized that the Liberals were ready to move to the left
with the rest of the nation. Without trade-union votes they
couldn’t stay in power, and that meant that they had to address
the social question -- somehow.  Two years later, Churchill was stumping for election as a
Liberal, preaching what he called the “cause of the left-out
millions” and urging the government to draw a line below which
“we will not allow persons to live and labor” -- precisely the
policy that Beatrice had been urging on him.  Liberals won a majority by a landslide. Beatrice supplied
Churchill with the rationale for the “assumption by the state of
responsibility for an increasing number of services,
administered by a growing class of experts, and supported by an
expanded apparatus of the state,” according to historian Eli
Halevy. Legislation of “almost revolutionary importance” started
to pass at Churchill’s prodding.  Among these measures, Halevy wrote, was the “first attempt
to introduce a minimum wage into the Labor code of  Great
Britain , which formed part of the Webbs’ formula for the
‘National Minimum.’”  The welfare state, as envisioned by Webb and embraced by
politicians like Churchill, depended on private sector
productivity and income growth to generate  tax revenue  without
undermining enterprise. When World War I broke out in 1914, it
disrupted what had been an increasingly integrated,
interdependent world economy. And it threatened to reverse the
achievements of the Victorian economic miracle -- and to
discredit the ideas that enabled mankind to make its first
successful attempt to escape its age old fate of deprivation.  (Sylvia Nasar, a former New York Times economics reporter
and the author of “ A Beautiful Mind ,” teaches journalism at
 Columbia University . This is the second in a five-part series
excerpted from her new book, “ Grand Pursuit: The Story of
Economic Genius ,” to be published by  Simon & Schuster  on Sept.
13.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sylvia Nasar at  szn1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 