-- 
Wyden Asks Obama for Dumping Duties on China’s Solar Panels

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-08T19:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/wyden-asks-obama-for-dumping-duties-on-china-s-solar-panels-1-.html
Senator  Ron Wyden  asked President
Barack Obama to investigate imports of solar panels from  China 
in a bid to help U.S. producers compete with a flood of imports.  Without that support from Obama, the domestic U.S. industry
may be put out of business by Chinese companies benefiting from
unfair government subsidies, Wyden wrote today in a letter.  “The American solar industry is facing unparalleled
challenges and without the leadership of your administration
this industry may disappear,” Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, wrote
in the letter. “Letting that happen is unacceptable.”  Solar-panel imports from China are on pace to more than
triple this year from 2010, Wyden said. The senator is seeking
administration support after three solar-panel manufacturers
failed, citing competition from overseas competitors.  Solyndra
LLC, which won a $535 million federal loan guarantee in 2009,
sought bankruptcy protection Sept. 6, six days after closing a
factory and firing 1,100 employees. Solyndra’s Fremont,
 California , headquarters were raided today by federal agents.
Solyndra said it failed after it was unable to compete with
foreign companies backed by their governments.  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  of Marlboro, Massachusetts, and
SpectraWatt Inc. of Hopewell Junction,  New York , filed
separately for bankruptcy reorganization last month, blaming
price declines and competition from solar-panel makers in China.  Wyden asked Obama to bring dumping and countervailing duty
cases against imports of solar panels from China, use a
safeguard provision to cap imports or file a complaint against
China at the World Trade Organization against its subsidies.  “Please know that if your administration is unwilling to
take the appropriate steps, with haste, I will advance a
legislative effort,” Wyden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  