-- 
Yahoo Shares Climb After Third Point Buys Stake, Urges Board to Step Down

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-08T20:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/yahoo-rises-after-third-point-reports-stake-seeks-board-moves.html
Yahoo! Inc. shares jumped after
 Third Point  LLC bought a 5.2 percent stake and urged the board
to resign, saying directors erred in spurning takeover bids and
hired a chief executive officer who wasn’t up to the job.  “Yahoo’s current board of directors has made a number of
decisions that have directly harmed the company and resulted in
a stock price far below the company’s intrinsic value,” Third
Point, a  New York  investment firm, said today in a filing.  Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock fired CEO  Carol Bartz  by
telephone on Sept. 6, a decision that left investors and
analysts questioning the company’s future strategy. Bartz was
hired to help Yahoo reinvigorate the Web portal’s sales growth
and stock price, following a decision in 2008 to reject a $47.5
billion offer from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “Investors don’t trust in the board to make the right
moves,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in New
York. He has a “hold” rating on Yahoo and doesn’t own the
stock. “Concern over the board’s dismal performance is an
overhang on the name.”  The board “made a serious misjudgment in approving the
hiring of Carol Bartz,” Third Point said in the filing. The
company also committed a “gross error” by turning down the
Microsoft takeover offer, the firm said.  Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for Third Point, declined to
elaborate on the statement. Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, also declined to comment.  Falling Behind  Bartz, who took over as CEO in January 2009, failed to keep
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. from siphoning off  Internet users 
and advertising revenue. Bartz, 63, also rankled investors with
her handling of assets in  Asia , including a stake in Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. and Yahoo Japan Corp. She feuded publicly
with Alibaba Group CEO Jack Ma, who spooked Yahoo investors when
he spun off one of his company’s most valuable assets, the
payment tool Alipay, without compensating Yahoo shareholders.  During Bartz’s tenure, Yahoo’s stock gained 6.7 percent,
compared with a 34 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Since Bartz was fired, the shares have climbed almost
12 percent. Today, Yahoo’s stock rose 83 cents to $14.44 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  In an interview with Fortune published today, Bartz said
Yahoo’s board “f---ed me over” and that its directors were
“spooked by being cast as the worst board in the country”
after they were criticized for turning down a deal to sell the
company to Microsoft. “Now they’re trying to show that they’re
not the doofuses that they are,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  