-- 
Yuan Climbs Ahead of Inflation Data, Full Convertibility Hint

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-08T09:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/yuan-climbs-on-speculation-policy-makers-will-tolerate-gains.html
China ’s yuan advanced the most in a
month on speculation policy makers will allow currency gains to
tame inflation and after Chinese officials were cited as saying
full convertibility will happen in five years.  Chinese officials told European Union business executives
that the yuan will achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU
Chamber of Commerce in China President Davide Cucino said
yesterday. The country’s consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent
from a year earlier in August after having risen 6.5 percent the
prior month, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg before official data due tomorrow. The
increase in July was the most since July 2008.  “Inflation is still hovering at a high level even if it’s
easing,” said Kenix Lai, a senior market analyst at Bank of
East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Yuan appreciation is a better
inflation-curbing tool than interest-rate hikes for China as the
global economic outlook remains unclear.”  The yuan rose 0.16 percent to close at 6.3840 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the biggest one-day gain since Aug. 11, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency is allowed
to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the central bank’s
fixing.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan climbed 0.08
percent to 6.3603. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped
0.03 percent to 6.2938, a 1.4 percent premium to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Full Convertibility  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate 0.12 percent stronger at 6.3889 per dollar, the first
strengthening in five days.  “We were told by those officials by 2015,” Cucino told
reporters in Beijing yesterday, declining to identify the
government departments involved. He said the step-by-step
process was indicated at a meeting in the last several weeks.  A freely traded currency would mark one of the biggest
policy shifts since policy makers embraced private enterprise
three decades ago. Such a timeline would help China deflect
criticism from U.S. and European lawmakers that the world’s
second-biggest economy is gaining an unfair advantage in global
trade by artificially keeping the yuan undervalued. It would be
a year faster than the schedule expected by 57 percent of 1,263
global investors in a Bloomberg survey published in May.  “Making the yuan fully convertible will lead to foreign
inflows into China and a stronger yuan,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Hong Kong-based strategist at  Scotia Capital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  