-- 
Yuan Will Be Fully Convertible by 2015, Chinese Officials Tell EU Chamber

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T15:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/yuan-to-be-fully-convertible-by-2015-eu-chamber.html
Chinese officials told European
Union business executives that the yuan will achieve “full
convertibility” by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce in  China 
President Davide Cucino said.  “We were told by those officials by 2015,” Cucino told
reporters in Beijing yesterday, declining to identify the
government departments involved. People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said that while there is no timetable for
convertibility, the offshore yuan market is “developing faster
than what we had imagined.”  China has accelerated the use of the yuan in international
trade and investment to curb its reliance on the dollar. A fully
convertible currency is one of the criteria the U.S. and
 Europe  are demanding from china as a condition for allowing it
to be part of the International Monetary Fund’s currency basket.
A 2015 target would be a year faster than the schedule expected
by 57 percent of 1,263 global investors in a Bloomberg survey
published in May.  “Making the yuan fully convertible will lead to foreign
inflows into China and a stronger yuan,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Scotia Capital. “Making the yuan
fully convertible is also the key step in pushing it as a
reserve currency and enhancing its use in global trade.”  The yuan advanced 0.16 percent to 6.3840 per dollar as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai . The currency gained 6.4 percent in the
past year and touched a 17-year high of 6.3705 on Aug. 30. Its
0.9 percent advance in August was the biggest in 2011.  Acceleration Tolerated  The latest timeframe would be more aggressive than China’s
12th five-year plan through 2015, released in March, which said
the nation was aiming at “gradually realizing the renminbi’s
convertibility under the capital account.” China “has no
defined timetable for the yuan to be fully convertible,” Zhou
said. “It will be a gradual process.” Zhou is in  London  for an
official visit with Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan.  “This does sound a bit too early,” said  Stephen Green ,
head of Greater China research for Standard Chartered Plc in
 Hong Kong . “Even Taiwan and  South Korea  don’t have full
convertibility yet. And if you look at the volatility in global
markets right now that looks set to continue for the next few
years, this target seems unlikely.”  Currency Basket  The People’s Bank of China said on Aug. 1 it will manage
the yuan more actively against a basket of currencies, instead
of just the dollar, and allow market forces to play a greater
role. The central bank fixes a  reference rate  for the yuan and
limits daily gains or losses to 0.5 percent from that level. The
country also limits conversion for investment purposes, and has
amassed record foreign-exchange reserves of $3.2 trillion by
selling yuan to curb its appreciation.  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden told his counterpart Xi Jinping on Aug. 18 during his state visit that China must
address its undervalued  exchange rate  and remove import barriers
to spur trade and investment, administration officials said.  China has started a program to promote use of the currency
in global trade. The government issued draft guidelines in
August for foreign direct investment in the country using yuan
raised offshore and plans to let qualified fund managers invest
such funds in China’s stocks and bonds. A similar program
already allows licensed companies to convert a quota of foreign
exchange into renminbi for investment in Chinese markets.  Barclays Capital  wrote in a Sept. 5 note that China will
likely achieve basic convertibility of the capital account over
the next five years, although restrictions on the amount of
money that fund managers can move across the border may remain.  Wang met with U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in Britain today. Wang will support efforts by
U.K. banks to establish a yuan offshore trading center in
London, the Financial Times reported yesterday, citing
unidentified British officials.  “The  City of London  has expressed its interest to help
develop yuan’s offshore business,” Zhou said. “We are very
encouraged.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  