-- 
Zimbabwe’s New Mine Laws May Prevent Platinum Surplus, Standard Bank Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-09-08T14:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/zimbabwe-s-new-mine-laws-may-prevent-platinum-surplus-standard-bank-says.html
Zimbabwe, threatening to withdraw
the mining license of its largest platinum company, Zimplats,
may produce less of the metal next year, preventing a global
surplus, Standard Bank Plc said.  “Lost supply from Zimplats could be the difference between
a platinum market remaining in a deficit next year and a
possible surplus,” Walter de Wet, head of commodity research at
the bank, said today in a note. While forecasting a 75,000-ounce
shortage in 2012, the bank sees a “real risk” of excess supply
if U.S. and European economies go into a recession, he said.  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , a unit of  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , may be the first miner to lose its license in the country
under a new law that requires foreign companies to transfer 51
percent of their local operations to black Zimbabweans, the
state-controlled  Herald  reported today, citing Indigenization
Minister Saviour Kasukuwere. More than 50 others may lose their
permits as their ownership proposals aren’t acceptable, it said.  Impala is the world’s largest producer of platinum after
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. The corrosion-resistant metal, used
in jewelry and anti-pollution devices for cars, is one of a
group of metals that also includes palladium and rhodium.  “Losses in Zimbabwe should see palladium move into a
larger deficit and it may see rhodium in a deficit in 2012
already (instead of 2013),” De Wet said.  Zimbabwe will probably produce 350,000 ounces of platinum
next year, or 6 percent of global mine supply, and 280,000
ounces of palladium, or 5 percent of the total, according to
Standard Bank. Zimplats may produce about 180,000 ounces of the
country’s platinum and 150,000 ounces of its palladium, the bank
said.  Impala and Anglo American Platinum mine most of their metal
in South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  