-- 
Impala’s Zimplats Proposes Arbitrator to Help Resolve Zimbabwe Law Dispute

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-09-08T16:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/zimplats-proposes-arbitrator-to-resolve-dispute-on-zimbabwe-ownership-law.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s
Zimbabwean unit proposed that an independent arbitrator be
approached to resolve a dispute over ownership that could see
the company lose its license to mine in the country.  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM)  Deputy Chairman Muchadeyi Masunda
said he held “constructive” talks with Empowerment and
Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  earlier today. The
Minister on Sept. 6 notified Impala, the world’s second-largest
platinum producer, that he had asked the Mines Minister to
cancel the company’s license for failing to submit an acceptable
plan to transfer control to local black Zimbabweans.  “We agree that it’s not possible and not in anyone’s
interests to stop operations at Zimplats,” Masunda said in a
telephone interview from Harare, the capital. “We have never
said we are opposed to empowerment, but what we need is clarity
on a given policy and predictability on the policy.”  Zimbabwe , which has the world’s second-biggest reserves of
platinum and chrome after neighboring  South Africa , wants all
foreign or white-owned companies to submit plans to sell 51
percent stakes in local assets to black Zimbabweans. More than
50 mining companies may lose their permits as their ownership
proposals aren’t acceptable, the state-controlled Herald
reported today, citing Kasukuwere.  Impala’s operating licence hasn’t been canceled and talks
“between management and the relevant authorities in this regard
are ongoing despite the Minister’s letter of 6 September 2011,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Biggest Investor  Johannesburg-based Impala is the biggest investor in
Zimbabwe’s mining industry and could invest as much as $10
billion more to expand its output, Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said last month.  “The only major area of disagreement is the
implementation, in its current form, of the Release of Ground
Agreement of 2006,” Impala said today. “The government
acknowledges the existence and validity of the agreement, but
wants to renegotiate certain terms.”  Zimplats agreed with the government in 2006 to release a
portion of its mining claims in exchange for a combination of
black empowerment credits and cash. Impala said in a June
statement that year the area contains 99 million ounces of
platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.  The ground is “valuable” and can be turned into a
profitable open-pit mine, Brown told investors in Johannesburg
last month.  Deficit or Surplus  Impala’s dispute may affect global platinum supplies,
Walter de Wet, head of commodity research at  Standard Bank  Plc,
said today in a note.  “Lost supply from Zimplats could be the difference between
a platinum market remaining in a deficit next year and a
possible surplus,” De Wet said. While forecasting a 75,000-
ounce shortage in 2012, the bank sees a “real risk” of excess
supply if U.S. and European economies go into a recession, he
said.  Zimbabwe will probably produce 350,000 ounces of platinum
next year, or 6 percent of global mine supply, according to
Standard Bank. Anglo American Platinum Ltd. is the world’s
largest supplier of the metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  