-- 
Zuma Appoints Mogoeng as South Africa’s Chief Justice Ignoring Objections

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-09-08T17:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/zuma-appoints-mogoeng-as-south-africa-s-chief-justice-ignoring-objections.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
appointed Mogoeng Mogoeng as the nation’s chief justice,
ignoring objections from academics and civil rights groups that
criticized his judicial record.  “Chief Justice Mogoeng brings to the position 14 years of
experience as a judge,” Zuma said today in a televised news
conference from the capital,  Pretoria . “We congratulate the
chief justice and thank him for availing himself for national
duty.”  The top judge’s post became vacant on Aug. 14 after Sandile Ngcobo declined reappointment because a bid by Zuma to extend
his tenure led to a court wrangle. Zuma nominated Mogoeng and
confirmed his appointment after consulting with the Judicial
Service Commission, whose members include lawyers, judges and
representatives of political parties.  Dikgang Moseneke, the deputy judge president of the
Constitutional Court, was overlooked for the post. Newspapers
owned by Independent News & Media Plc reported last month that
at least three other judges serving in the country’s highest
court declined nomination to the post because they were not
prepared to take the job ahead of Moseneke.  ‘Constitutional Vision’  Mogoeng “is not the best person for the job in the eyes of
a lot of the legal community,” Cathy Albertyn, a law professor
at the  University of Witwatersrand , said today in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg. “He wasn’t able to express any
kind of constitutional vision. It’s a pity that we have set the
constitutional test at a level that doesn’t allow us to insist
on the best candidate.”  An ordained pastor, Mogoeng, 50, has been a member of the
country’s highest court since 2009. He trained at the University
of Zululand and the University of  South Africa , and previously
served as a judge in South Africa’s Labor Appeal Court and as
Judge President of the High Court in the North West Province.  “I vow to be faithful to the Republic of South Africa, to
uphold and protect the constitution and the human rights
entrenched in it, and to administer justice to all persons alike
without fear, favor or prejudice,” Mogoeng said at the
televised conference with Zuma. “I do so confident that God
will help me accomplish this important assignment.”  Rights Groups  Mogoeng’s nomination was criticized by women’s and civil
rights groups, including Section 27, Sonke Gender Justice
Network and the Lesbian and Gay Equality Project, because of his
previous rulings in rape cases.  As a  High Court  judge, Mogoeng suspended a two-year jail
sentence given to a man who was convicted of raping his
estranged wife, ruling that only minimum force was used and the
woman submitted to his advances, according to the groups.  Another man convicted of forcing his wife to have sex had
his 10-year sentence halved by Mogoeng on the grounds that the
act couldn’t “be legally categorized” as rape because they
were married, the groups said.  Mogoeng defended his record during a nationally televised
two-day interview with the Judicial Service Commission, and
denied he was insensitive to gender-based violence.  “I have presided in at least seven other cases involving
rape of women in which I imposed or confirmed substantial
periods of imprisonment, ranging from 10 years to  life
imprisonment ,” he told the commission on Sept. 3.  Opposition Party Challenge  Mogoeng responded “in a dignified manner to the heated
public commentary on his candidature,” Zuma said. In doing so
he “protected the integrity of the Constitutional Court and the
judiciary. The judiciary should not be part of mud-slinging and
the other public spats that happen from time to time in
society.”  The Democratic Alliance, the biggest opposition party,
indicated that it may challenge the validity of Mogoeng’s
appointment.  “We are deeply concerned that the president did not engage
in appropriate consultation, nor take into consideration
objections voiced by political parties, civil society
organizations and the legal fraternity,”  Helen Zille , the
party’s leader, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are equally
concerned that the Judicial Service Commission turned down our
proposal to interview more than one candidate. We are currently
considering the implications of what we consider to be a
defective process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  