-- Abercrombie, Teen Chains Halting Monthly Sales Reports
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-02-02T21:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/abercrombie-teen-retail-chains-halting-monthly-sales-reports.html
Teen retailers Abercrombie & Fitch
Co.,  Aeropostale Inc . and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc . will
stop reporting monthly sales after tomorrow, which may make it
harder for investors to evaluate the companies.  “The more information the better,” said Michael Baron, an
analyst for Baron Capital Inc. in  New York . “More information
helps us determine the true value of the company.”  Many retail executives say reporting sales from stores open
at least a year puts too much focus on short-term results, said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst for Wall Street Strategies Inc. in New
York. In addition, many retailers don’t include sales generated
on the Web or on mobile devices, he said.  Because the three teen retailers are stopping at once, “it
makes it easier for others to follow,” said Sozzi, who in an
interview called monthly reporting “archaic.”  “The shift enables American Eagle to align its reporting
schedule with the company’s long-term strategic focus,” Jani
Strand, a spokeswoman for American Eagle, said in an e-mail.  Abercrombie & Fitch and Aeropostale declined to comment on
the decision to halt the practice.  While investors consider same-store sales a key growth
indicator because new and closed stores are excluded, retail
chains aren’t required to post them each month and can stop or
start releasing them when they want. The key figure is called
comparable-store sales and each retailer has its own definition
for which locations are included. In general, most companies use
stores open at least a year, eliminating new and closed stores.  Declining Sales  Since 2008 chains including  AnnTaylor Stores Corp .,  Chico’s
FAS Inc . and  Pacific Sunwear of California Inc . have stopped
reporting monthly same store sales. In some cases, the halt
coincides with declining sales.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . stopped
reporting monthly sales in May of 2009. Sales at Wal-Mart’s
namesake U.S. stores open at least a year have fallen for six
consecutive quarters.  Reporting same-store sales each month is “good for
investors if it’s a growth company because it can support the
stock,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who oversees $17 billion
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “For mature
companies, it reflects noise and may hurt the stock price in the
short run.”  Aeropostale, which is based in New York, has posted three
straight declines in same-store sales. Pittsburgh-based American
Eagle’s dropped 11 percent in December, while  New Albany , Ohio-
based Abercrombie & Fitch increased sales 15 percent.  Abercrombie fell $1.60, or 3.2 percent, to $49.13 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Aeropostale
dropped 7 cents to $23.92, while American Eagle fell 21 cents to
$14.46.  Heavy Snowfall  Same-store sales at U.S. retailers in January may have
increased 2.6 percent for a 17th straight gain, according to
analysts’ estimates for more than 30 chains compiled by Retail
Metrics Inc. Heavy snowfall in the northeast may have weighed on
results, said Amy Noblin, an analyst for Weeden & Co. in
Greenbrae,  California .  “I don’t think it’s going to move the needle much,”
Noblin said. January makes up about 20 percent of the quarter’s
revenue and “November and December were good enough,” she
said.  Editors: Robin Ajello, James Callan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  