-- Maersk Pirate Abduwali Muse Deserves 27-Year Sentence, His Lawyers Say
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-02-02T20:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/maersk-pirate-abduwali-muse-deserves-27-year-sentence-his-lawyers-say.html
Abduwali Muse, a Somali pirate who
pleaded guilty to hijacking the container ship Maersk  Alabama ,
should get 27 years in prison when he is sentenced this month,
his lawyers said, citing his youth and poverty.  Muse admitted in May to two counts of hijacking maritime
vessels, two counts of kidnapping and two counts of hostage
taking. He faces 27 years to 33 years and nine months in prison
under a range agreed to by his lawyers and the U.S.  “The temptations of piracy were overwhelming for
Abduwali,” his lawyers, Fiona Doherty and Philip Weinstein,
said in papers filed today in federal court in  Manhattan . “He
had so little to lose. Without any real status or education, he
had no means of creating a stable life for himself.”  Muse was born in 1993 and was just 16 years old at the time
of the hijacking, according to defense lawyers. He was only one
of a group of “hired hands,” and “poverty was the sole
motivation behind Abduwali’s involvement in this case,” the
lawyers said.  He is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 16 by U.S. District
Judge  Loretta Preska , according to the filing. A U.S. magistrate
earlier rejected Muse’s claim that he was underage. Muse told
one of his hostages that he was 24 years old, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Brendan McGuire said last year.  Prosecutors allege Muse was the leader of the group of
pirates who overtook the Maersk Alabama on April 8, 2009, and
held its captain captive for five days.  ‘Led Hostage-Taking’  Muse was the first pirate to board the ship, fired at
Captain Richard Phillips from the deck, forced him to stop the
ship, and demanded that he hand over $30,000 from the ship’s
safe, prosecutors said in court papers. The group later kept
Phillips in a lifeboat off the Somali coast.  He “led the hostage-taking of crew members, threatened
them with firearms and in at least one instance, an improvised
explosive device,” McGuire said at a hearing in January 2010.  Muse, who prosecutors say was armed with an AK-47 assault
rifle, was taken aboard the USS Bainbridge for treatment of his
injured arm and was apprehended by U.S. sailors when Navy
snipers shot dead the three kidnappers in the lifeboat, the
military said. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  brought him
to  New York  that month.  Prosecutors allege that in March 2009, Muse and others
boarded an unidentified ship in the  Indian Ocean  armed with
weapons and took hostages. Muse is accused of threatening to
kill everyone aboard with an improvised explosive device if the
authorities came.  ‘Traumatic’ Deaths  The U.S. says Muse and others left the first ship on a
small boat and met a second unidentified ship that was in the
area. Muse and three others left that second ship and boarded
the Maersk Alabama, prosecutors said.  Muse’s attorneys argue that neither he nor his fellow
pirates were holding a gun to Phillips when his co-conspirators
were killed. Muse had no idea the ship was a U.S.-flagged
vessel, his lawyers said.  “Abduwali believes that he was betrayed by the Navy, who
had come to an agreement with him that his companions would not
be harmed,” they wrote. “Watching the three men be killed in
this context was traumatic for Abduwali.”  Muse grew up poor in Somalia and lived with a variety of
family members in childhood, Doherty and Weinstein said. To
punish him, his father often left tied to a tree and told him
“that a lion would come to eat him,” the lawyers wrote.  He eventually worked as a fishermen in the Somali coast
area known as Puntland, “where pirate militias have their roots
in the fishing communities,” the lawyers said. He has suffered
severe mental-health problems during his two years in U.S.
custody, according to the filing.  “We understand that significant punishment is warranted
given the suffering endured by the members of the crew,” they
said. “However we ask the court to evaluate Abduwali’s
involvement in this case with an appreciation for the lack of
opportunities available to him.”  U.S. prosecutors haven’t yet filed their sentencing memo to
the court.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  The Maersk Alabama is owned by  Maersk Line Ltd. , a Norfolk,
Virginia-based unit of Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S.  The case is U.S. v. Muse, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 