-- Africa Better Prepared for Jump in Food Costs, World Bank Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-02-02T08:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/africa-better-prepared-to-withstand-jump-in-food-costs-world-bank-says.html
  Africa ’s increased investment in
agriculture over the past few years has left it in a better
position to weather the jump in global good prices in 2010, the  World Bank ’s African vice president said.  Global food costs rose to a record in December on higher
sugar, grain and oilseed prices, the  United Nations  said on Jan.
5, exceeding levels reached in 2008 that sparked riots in
African nations including Somalia,  Burkina Faso  and Cameroon.  “The situation is different to 2008-09 when many of the
African countries were really caught in a bind,” Obiageli
Ezekwesili said in an interview yesterday in Addis Ababa, the
Ethiopian capital. “Today what we have is a more ebullient
harvest environment.”  Rising food costs were one of the concerns of the
protesters in Tunisia that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben
Ali to flee the country on Jan. 14, and also of those currently
demanding the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak in  Egypt .
Increased  food production  in the rest of Africa reduces the
likelihood of social unrest spreading further south.  Investment since 2008 in infrastructure, irrigation,
fertilizer and seed technology has reduced reliance on grain and
rice imports, particularly in West African countries, Ezekwesili
said.  Farming Rediscovered  The 2008 unrest led to “a rediscovery of the importance of
agriculture and food security,” Ezekwesili said. “Those that
have made the reorientation have seen much more progress. A
significant number of African countries are now able to have
agricultural productivity growth of 3 percent per annum. It was
below 1 percent before.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy accused commodity
speculators of “extortion and pillaging” in an address to the  African Union  on Jan. 30, blaming them in part for the jump in
world food prices. The premier promised to take action against
traders during his leadership of the G8 and G20 this year.  Instead of clamping down, “light touch regulation” to
improve information on the quantity and quality of food stocks
should be introduced, Ezekwesili said.  “Having a system that allows transparency helps to reduce
the opportunities for rent seeking and speculation that are
inimical to the needs of the poorer people,” she said.  Spreading the benefits of projected economic growth of 5
percent for the continent this year to the 70 percent of
Africans working in agriculture will also help stave off social
unrest, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 