-- Albino Snake, Bondage Enliven Lush Brussels ‘Parsifal’: Review
-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 2011-02-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/albino-snake-bondage-enliven-lush-brussels-parsifal-review.html
Friedrich Nietzsche, accompanied by a
live, wriggling white serpent, greets the audience in a new
staging of Wagner’s “Parsifal” at the Brussels opera house.  Romeo Castellucci’s production of Wagner’s 1882 mystical
pageant at  La Monnaie/De Munt  is a radical reading of the
composer’s jumble of Christian and pagan symbols. It moves from
a pantheistic wood in the first act to a grim sadomasochistic
laboratory in the second and a crowd on the march in the third.  The philosopher’s giant portrait disappears -- the snake
will return -- and we discover the Knights of the Holy Grail
camouflaged as shrubbery in the forest that fills the stage.
They await an innocent, pure hero to save their wounded chief.
Parsifal (Andrew Richards) stumbles onto the scene, the forest
evaporates, and he finds himself contemplating the cosmos.  Castellucci, co-founder of the Italian theater troupe
 Societas Raffaello Sanzio , designed the decors, costumes and
subtly effective lighting for his first ever opera staging. He
dispenses with traditional medieval imagery. Forget cloaks,
helmets and chalices.  Instead, we get striking, sometimes perplexing imagery in a
different setting for each act. The focus on lavish visuals
results in a dazzling theatrical experience, yet it crimps the
storyline and is likely to rile fervent Wagnerians.  Evil Conductor  Parsifal is less an enlightened savior than a humble
everyman on a path of self-discovery. He encounters the evil
Klingsor, portrayed as a baton-wielding conductor, in a bleak
white space where near-naked women are being tied up and
suspended in air.  Parsifal resists advances from the beauty Kundry (Anna
Larsson) -- who is escorted by the snake -- in a startling 3-D
video scene, and attains a moment of realization while undoing
the elaborate bondage of a blonde woman.  Some 200 extras in street clothes jam the stage in the
final act. Led by Parsifal, they march on a treadmill as
soloists and members of the chorus emerge to sing amid them. The
crowd drifts away and Parsifal is left alone, quizzical.  Hartmut Haenchen elicits a smart, analytical performance
from the orchestra with an almost Baroque attention to detail
and color that drew cheers from the audience.  Richards’s voice sounded a bit thin, although his restraint
fit the portrayal of Parsifal as a man in the crowd. Larsson was
impressive as Kundry, with vocal mastery that radiated sober
power and emotion without thundering. Jan-Hendrik Rootering was
a solemn, moving Gurnemanz.  A special mention for the chorus, which plays a key role in
the staging while singing eloquently. The curiosity prize goes
to Japanese-bondage choreographer Dasniya Sommer.  Rating: ***.  “Parsifal” is at La Monnaie/De Munt in Brussels through
Feb. 20. The production is supported by  Toyota Motor Corp .
Information:  http://www.lamonnaie.be  or +322-(0)70-23-3939.  (Jim Ruane is Editor-at-Large for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane in Brussels at 
 jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 