-- Taleb Says He’s Comforted by Russia, Nervous About U.S., China
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-02-02T18:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/taleb-says-he-s-nervous-about-chinese-economy-very-nervous-about-u-s-.html
  Nassim Taleb , author of “Black
Swan,” said ballooning debt in the U.S. and the risk of asset
bubbles in  China  make the Russian economy look comforting by
comparison.  “When I look at the future, I feel comforted by a country
like  Russia ,” Taleb said today in Moscow at a conference
organized by Trioka Dialog. He said he feels “a little nervous
about China, and very nervous about the  United States .”  Russia has “resilience” after going through “several
crises over the past hundred years,” whereas the U.S. “can’t
sustain shocks,” said Taleb, whose 2007 best-seller argued that
most people underestimate the frequency of rare events that have
a major effect on markets.  The  Federal Reserve  is injecting $600 billion into the U.S.
financial system by purchasing Treasuries in a second round of
quantitative easing to stimulate the economy. Chinese Premier
Wen Jiabao pledged today to rein in speculation on property, and
the country’s central bank has raised benchmark rates twice
since mid-October and boosted reserve requirements for banks to
damp inflation.  ‘Worse Than Greece’  The budget deficit in the U.S. is worse than the fiscal
problems in Greece, which received a bailout last year from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  to stem its
soaring borrowing costs and avert the risk of a default, Taleb
said.  The U.S. is covering its fiscal shortfall “partly by
printing, partly by going to find the fool to buy the bonds. So
really we have a very fragile situation in the United States,
without, unlike  Greece , having the IMF on top,” the New York
University professor told the conference.  Russia’s Finance Ministry sold 53.2 billion rubles ($1.8
billion) of ruble-denominated bonds due in 2013 today, the
largest amount of so-called OFZ notes ever sold, according to
central bank data going back to 2003. Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said that Russian state debt was at 9.5 percent of gross
domestic product.  Lawrence Summers, a former U.S. Treasury secretary, said
today in Moscow that he expects the U.S. economy to grow faster
than the 3 percent “consensus forecast” of economists. The
U.S. will provide “significant impetus” to the global economic
recovery in the next few years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  