-- Manchester United's Gary Neville Retires After 20 Years at the Soccer Club
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-02-02T19:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/manchester-united-s-gary-neville-retires-after-20-years-at-the-soccer-club.html
  Manchester United  defender Gary Neville retired today after 20 seasons with the 18-time English
soccer champion.  Neville, 35, played 602 games after joining United in 1991.
He won eight Premier League titles, three F.A. Cups and the
Champions League, but had been hampered by injury the past few
seasons. His final game, only his fourth in this campaign, came
in a New Year’s Day win at West Brom.  “I have been a Manchester United fan all my life and
fulfilled every dream I’ve ever had,” Neville, who was named
United captain in 2005, said in a  statement  on the club’s
website. “Obviously I am disappointed that my playing days are
at an end, however it comes to us all, and it’s knowing when
that time is and for me that time is now.”  Neville also made 85 appearances for the England national
team from 1995 to 2007, playing in two World Cups and three
European Championships.  “Gary was the best English right-back of his generation,”
United manager  Alex Ferguson  said. “His impact on the club has
been huge, his presence in the dressing room and leadership
qualities have been an asset to me as a manager.”  Neville was a member of United’s “Class of 1992” which
won the F.A. Youth Cup, along with his brother Phil,  David Beckham , Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt and  Paul Scholes . The group
would go on to become first-team regulars and help United equal
Liverpool’s record number of English league titles.  “There have also been so many great players that I have
had the privilege to train and play alongside,” Neville said.
The experiences we’ve shared will be with me for the rest of my
life.”  Neville didn’t specify his future plans, although the  Daily Mail  reported last month that he may take an analyst role
at Sky television, following the dismissal of Andy Gray in a row
over sexism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 