-- Braugher, Sawn Off Leg Grab Attention in ‘Whipping Man’: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/andre-braugher-sawn-off-leg-get-our-attention-in-whipping-man-review.html
Three Jews and an antebellum mansion
full of secrets propel “ The Whipping Man ,” an engrossing new
Reconstruction-era drama presented off-Broadway by the  Manhattan
Theatre Club .  First-time playwright  Matthew Lopez  packs a lot into this
three-character play, with a knockout set by John Lee Beatty
that could be on loan from the  National Civil War Museum .  A thunderstorm crackles outside as a wounded confederate
soldier (Jay Wilkison) limps into the charred Richmond,
Virginia, mansion in April 1865. Emancipated slave Simon (Andre Braugher, of TV’s “Men of a Certain Age”), on guard with a
rifle, previously served the house and the soldier, Caleb, who
grew up in it. Caleb’s family is gone and so is Simon’s,
presumably to return once order settles in.  Caleb’s leg is dangerously discolored. Simon and another
former slave, John (Andre Holland), anesthetize Caleb with
whisky and amputate. The onstage sawing gets your attention.  Over two hours, the physical and emotional wounds of
slavery are bared, along with the limits of southern liberalism.
A dramatic Passover Seder highlights the parallels between the
Jews’ exodus from  Egypt  and the liberation of U.S. slaves.  Caleb’s family is Jewish and welcomed slaves into the
faith, but also kept a “whipping man” on retainer as an
enforcer.  Judaic Studies  While the acting overall is top-notch, Braugher’s
commanding, articulate Simon at times seems more a Ph.D.
candidate in Judaic studies than a once-captive illiterate.  David Mamet has said the job of a dramatist is to make the
audience wonder what happens next. In “The Whipping Man,”
Matthew Lopez does his job well.  Through March 27 at 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-
581-1212,  http://www.nycitycenter.org/content/tickets/ . Rating:
***  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 