-- Angelo Mozilo Settles Lending Suit for $6.5 Million
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2011-02-03T00:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/angelo-mozilo-settles-lending-suit-for-6-5-million.html
Former Countrywide Financial Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  and ex-Chief Operating
Officer David Sambol agreed to $6.5 million settlement to
resolve a predatory lending lawsuit filed by  California .  Money from the accord will be used for a relief fund to aid
foreclosures and mortgage delinquencies, state Attorney General
Kamala Harris said today in a statement.  Mozilo denied in court and continues to deny the fraud
allegations against him, his lawyer,  David Siegel , said in an e-
mailed statement. Siegel said the settlement will be paid by
Countrywide and requires no payment from Mozilo.  “Evidence and witnesses confirmed that Mr. Mozilo is a man
of integrity who would not personally engage in or authorize any
deceptive practice, and thus, the allegations made against him
had no basis in fact,” Siegel said. “Nevertheless, Mr. Mozilo
respected Countrywide’s decision to fund this settlement in
order to end the on-going costs of litigation, and we are
pleased to put this matter behind Mr. Mozilo.”  Countrywide, the mortgage lender acquired in 2008 by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp ., announced
that year a settlement of fraud complaints filed by 11 states,
including California, in which the company agreed to cut the
amount borrowers owe and their  interest rates  at a cost of
$8.4 billion.  “We will use the current settlement to help Californians
affected by the mortgage crisis by providing grants to help
homeowners facing foreclosure with relocation assistance and
providing money to state and local agencies to prosecute
mortgage fraud,” Harris said in her statement.  Last year, Mozilo paid $67.5 million to resolve U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he publicly
reassured investors about the quality of Countrywide’s loans
while knowing that the mortgage lender was fueling its growth at
least since the beginning of 2005 by letting its underwriting
guidelines deteriorate and originating an increasing number of
risky subprime loans. Mozilo didn’t admit any wrongdoing.  The SEC said Mozilo sold $140 million in Countrywide shares
from November 2006 through October 2007 at an inflated price
because he hadn’t disclosed the increasing risk he knew the
lender faced from defaulting mortgages.  The case is People of the State of California v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 08-cv-04861, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California   Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 