-- AOL Declines After Announcing Additional Expenses for Patch.com Websites
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-02-02T18:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/aol-fourth-quarter-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-on-reduced-expenses.html
  AOL Inc ., the  Internet company  spun
off from  Time Warner Inc ., declined the most since November
after saying it will have additional expenses this year related
to expanding and acquiring websites.  The introduction of new Patch.com local-news websites and
deferred expenses stemming from previous purchases will result
in extra costs of $50 million, Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson said today on a conference call after the company
announced fourth-quarter earnings.  “That’s the big disappointment,” Ken Sena, an analyst at
Evercore Partners Inc. in New York, said in an interview. “What
happens is everyone has to lower their 2011 numbers because of
the commentary on the call.”  AOL declined 71 cents, or 3 percent, to $23.14 at 1:08 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, after falling as
much as 4 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 5, 2010.  AOL’s fourth-quarter advertising sales dropped 29 percent
to $331.6 million, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. AOL reduced operations in  Germany  and  France  and
eliminated low-margin advertising products, helping fourth-
quarter profit increase.  “We went through a very difficult period of bringing costs
down, but we’re now starting to refocus on growth,” Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said in a telephone interview.  Net income climbed to $66.2 million, or 61 cents a share,
from $1.4 million, or 1 cent, a year ago, AOL said. Profit from
continuing operations was 60 cents, exceeding the 56 cents
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our results beat expectations but we didn’t beat my
expectations,” Armstrong said.  U.S. Display Ads  U.S. display ads fell 8 percent in the fourth quarter after
a 7.6 percent drop in the third quarter.  Total revenue fell 26 percent to $596 million, exceeding
the $588 million average of 11 analysts’ estimates.  Operating expenses during the quarter, including
restructuring costs, declined by $259.3 million from a year ago,
according to the statement.  AOL is investing in specialized websites and producing
original video content to generate Internet traffic and lure ad
revenue. Last year, the company acquired news blog TechCrunch
and 5Min Media, a network of online videos.  “We made a lot of infrastructure acquisitions last year,”
Armstrong said. “We’ve been beefing up the scale. We can
benefit from more content brands and more scale in terms of
different brands that consumers love. You’ll see us continuing
to invest in content.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 