-- Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Thai Baht, on Improving Export Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2011-02-02T08:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/asian-currencies-advance-led-by-thai-baht-on-improving-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies rose, led by the
Philippine peso and  India ’s rupee, after reports showed
manufacturing gains in the U.S. and  Europe , boosting the
regional export outlook.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly increased in January at the
fastest pace in more than six years, reinforcing forecasts by
the International Monetary Fund for a stronger recovery this
year. A similar gauge in the euro region climbed to its highest
level since April. Financial markets in China,  Taiwan ,  South
Korea  and Vietnam are closed today and for the rest of the week
for the Lunar New Year holidays.  “The markets are very buoyant on U.S. growth at the
moment,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in  Singapore  at Westpac Banking Corp. “But given the size of the
move you’ve seen over the past 24 hours, I probably think we’ll
likely see a bit more of a consolidation.”  The peso climbed 0.6 percent to 43.965 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. India’s
rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 45.60, Thailand’s baht appreciated
0.2 percent to 30.85 and Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.3 percent to
3.0425.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, was little
changed today, just shy of a 13-year high reached yesterday.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
rose to 60.8, exceeding the median forecast of 58 in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists and the highest since May 2004.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The U.S. economy will
expand 3 percent this year, compared with 2.8 percent in 2010,
according to an IMF forecast published on Jan. 25.  Thai Stock Buying  A gauge of manufacturing in the euro region rose to 57.3 in
January from 57.1 the previous month, London-based Markit
Economics said yesterday.  The baht rose to its strongest level in almost a week after
overseas investors bought more local stocks than they sold for
the first time in three days. Global funds purchased a net $33.7
million of the equities, according to stock exchange data. The
U.S. buys 10.4 percent of Thailand’s overall exports, the
biggest after  China , government data show. Overseas sales make
up about two-thirds of Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy.  “There is a risk-on mood again in the market, boosting the
regional currencies and the baht,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a
foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl, the nation’s
biggest lender. “Good U.S. data boosts confidence in the global
recovery.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar rose 0.3 percent to
S$1.2724 and Indonesia’s rupiah advanced 0.1 percent to 9,020
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 