-- Dollar Gains as Most U.S. Stocks Fall on Egypt Riots; Spanish Bonds Rally
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2011-02-02T21:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/asia-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-growth-copper-cotton-gain-to-record.html
The dollar rose while most stocks
fell in the U.S. as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  sought to
regain control of Cairo’s streets. Spanish bonds advanced on
optimism European leaders will resolve the region’s debt crisis.  The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against those
of six major U.S. trading partners, snapped a two-day losing
streak and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.3 percent
to 1,304.03 at 4 p.m. in New York. The rally in  Spain ’s 10-year
bond drove the yield down 12 basis points to 5.10 percent. Crude
oil rose nine cents to settle at $90.86 a barrel, near its
highest price in more than two years. U.S. Treasuries fell.  The S&P 500 halted a two-day rally after yesterday’s
advance sent its valuation to almost 15.7 times its companies’
reported operating earnings, near the highest since June.
Today’s decline came as supporters of Mubarak clashed in central 
Cairo with demonstrators demanding an end to the 30-year-reign
of the president, who said yesterday he won’t step down until
an election in September.  Unrest in  Egypt  “is the sort of event risk that is
difficult to hedge, so many will prefer to be better safe than
sorry,” said Arnab Das, the head of global market research at
Roubini Global Economics in London. “Another trade or oil
shock, so soon after the systemic global financial crisis and
last year’s double-dip fears, could hit global recovery, fragile
as it is.”  Dollar Strengthens  The dollar strengthened against 11 of 16 major peers,
gaining 0.2 percent to rebound from an almost three-month low
versus the euro and increasing 0.3 percent against the yen. The
10-year U.S. Treasury note yield rose four basis points to 3.48
percent as the government said it will sell $72 billion of notes
and bonds next week and an ADP Employer Services report
indicated the economy is poised to add jobs for a second
straight month.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020
increased 13 basis points to 6.63 percent at 4:06 p.m. in  London . Egypt’s central bank will pay interest on treasury bills
until banks reopen in the country, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported, citing Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez.  The cost of insuring Egypt’s sovereign debt rose 38.7 basis
points to 378.9, according to CMA prices for credit-default
swaps. The Market Vectors Egypt Index exchange traded fund, a
U.S. ETF that tracks Egyptian stocks, tumbled 3.7 percent.  U.S. Equities Slip  About seven stocks retreated for every five that rose on
U.S. exchanges. Broadcom Corp. slumped 5.6 percent after the
biggest maker of chips for television set-top boxes reported
margins that missed analysts’ estimates. Aflac Inc., the world’s
largest seller of supplemental health insurance, dropped 2.4
percent as operating income trailed forecasts.  Cotton futures surged to a record on mounting supply
concerns after flooding in Pakistan and  Australia  slashed crops.
Cotton futures for March delivery rose 4 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to $1.7622 a pound.  Corn and soybeans rose to 30-month highs in  Chicago  as a
strike by port workers in  Argentina  disrupted crop shipments.
Rice climbed to the highest price in 13 months.  Most European stocks fell as companies from Electrolux AB
to Scania AB announced results that disappointed investors.
Electrolux led a selloff in Swedish stocks, sinking 7.9 percent
after forecasting “modest” growth in  North America  and Europe
this year, while Scania slid 2 percent after warning the
stronger kronor will hurt the first quarter. Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc rose 5.9 percent as it plans to pay more in dividends.  Irish, Spanish Bonds  Irish bonds led a surge by securities from  Europe ’s high-
deficit countries as political leaders prepared a pledge to
defend the euro and bridge differences over the mandate of the
European Financial Stability Facility.  Yields on Irish 10-year bonds slid 20 basis points to 8.82
percent, the lowest in more than a week, even as Standard &
Poor’s cut the nation’s credit rating. Portuguese bonds rose as
borrowing costs fell at the nation’s sale of short-term debt,
while German two-year yields were at the highest since August
2009 as data showed the fastest producer-price growth in two
years for the euro region.  The drop in the euro came as  Germany  ruled out allowing the
European Financial Stability Facility to fund bond buybacks,
reviving concern the region’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen.  Spain will never need to tap a European Union bailout fund
and will succeed in cutting the euro region’s third-largest
budget gap and shoring up its savings banks, Deputy Finance
Minister Jose Manuel Campa said.  Asian stocks rose, driving up a regional benchmark index by
the most in two months, after companies reported higher earnings
and a report yesterday showed U.S. manufacturing expanded more
than forecast, boosting confidence in a global economic
recovery. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker,
advanced 3.3 percent in Tokyo after saying U.S. sales rebounded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 