-- Aussie Will Drop on Slow First-Quarter Growth, Wells Fargo Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2011-02-02T19:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/aussie-will-drop-on-slow-first-quarter-growth-wells-fargo-says.html
Investors should bet the Australian
dollar will fall against its U.S. counterpart as the nation’s
economy slows, pushing the Aussie toward its January low,
according to Wells Fargo & Co.  “The 1.01 level is a useful and attractive entry point for
the trade,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
Wells Fargo in New York. “Australian GDP will be near zero or
possibly negative quarter-on-quarter growth in the first
quarter.”  Investors should target the Australian dollar retracing its
1 percent gain the past two days to the low of 98.04 U.S. cents
reached Jan. 12. The Aussie has fallen 0.4 percent today to
$1.0068 as Cyclone Yasi, with winds stronger than those from  Hurricane Katrina , struck  Australia ’s coast, which follows
deadly flooding in Queensland.  “The central bank overall downplayed the negative impacts
to the economy of the flood,” said Bennenbroek, the most
accurate foreign-exchange forecaster in the six quarters ended
Dec. 31. “The cyclone is compounding some of the caution
impacting the Australian dollar.”  Business confidence plunged in December to the lowest level
in 19 months as floods in Queensland damaged the state’s mining,
transport, agriculture and tourism industries.  Economic Pace  Wells Fargo said it expects fourth quarter gross domestic
product to rise 0.5 percent quarter-over-quarter. That compares
with a gain of 0.2 percent the previous quarter.  A stronger currency contributed to the biggest drop in
exports in more than seven years, the country’s Sydney-based
Bureau of Statistics said in November.  The Aussie has strengthened 22 percent against the dollar
since trading at a 10-month low of 80.67 U.S. cents in May. The
currency fell 2.6 percent last month as futures traders cut
their bets by 27 percent that the Aussie will strengthen versus
the greenback.  The country’s central bank left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent on Jan. 31, where it’s been since
November, after increasing the cash rate by 0.25 percent after
each of the bank’s past eight policy meetings.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
dliedtka@bloomberg 