-- Thorpe Returns to Competitive Swimming in Bid to Make London 2012 Olympics
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2011-02-02T05:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/australia-s-thorpe-returns-to-competitive-swimming-in-bid-to-make-olympics.html
Ian Thorpe, who quit competitive
swimming in 2006 with nine Olympic medals, is making a comeback
to try to compete at his third Summer Games in  London  next year.  Thorpe , 28, said he’s willing to tolerate public intrusion
into his life, which made him reject the sport four years ago,
in his bid for Olympic success. He’ll train mostly in  Abu Dhabi 
and focus on the 100-meter and 200-meter freestyle events, with
a priority on the shorter distance, he said at a televised news
conference today.  “I’ve realized how much fire and passion I have and how
much I love performing,” Thorpe said. “It hasn’t been
something I’ve taken lightly in making a decision. I want to
deliver the best result for Australia.”  Known as “Thorpedo,” the swimmer retired in November 2006
at the age of 24, saying he had lost the desire to compete. He
said he changed his mind after recognizing his need to race and
watching the success of swimmer Geoff Huegill, who shed a third
of his bodyweight to come out of retirement and win gold at the
Commonwealth Games last year.  Having declared his intentions to swimming’s international
governing body, Thorpe should be free to compete in nine months.
He said he probably doesn’t have time to get in shape for longer
races, such as the 400 meters freestyle, which he won at the
Athens Olympics in 2004.  ‘Good Shape’  Thorpe needed to officially announce his return by the end
of May because international rules required him to be registered
for anti-doping tests at least nine months before Olympic trials
in March 2012.  His first race may be overseas at a World Cup event in
November, Swimming  Australia  said in a statement, welcoming
Thorpe back to competition.  “Ian looks to be in pretty good shape,” said National
Head Coach Leigh Nugent, who has given Thorpe training programs
for the past two months. “Now that he’s confirmed his intention
to compete, we can really increase his training.”  Today’s announcement follows an elaborate ruse to hide
Thorpe’s true intentions. The swimmer has been visiting eight
different pools to conceal his mounting training regime and had
told friends to deny in public his plans.  ‘Lying Through Teeth’  “I’ve told everyone else around me to lie through their
teeth, to be able to give me the space to make this decision,”
he said. “I’m returning to competitive swimming slightly more
mature. I’m on track to be an elite swimmer again.”  Thorpe last raced at a major meet at the 2004 Olympics in  Athens , where he won two golds, one silver and one bronze to
lift his Olympic medal tally to nine, an Australian record. He
also captured 11 world championship titles and 10 golds at the
Commonwealth Games.  Thorpe’s success in the pool helped make him the world’s
highest-profile swimmer until the arrival of record 14-time
Olympic champion Michael Phelps. Thorpe had a portfolio of
sponsors including Adidas AG, Swatch Group AG’s Omega brand and
So Natural Foods Ltd. before quitting.  He told Sydney’s Daily Telegraph in February last year that
he had suffered cashflow problems after shedding endorsement
deals to focus on his university studies, though had received
help from his bank to restructure his finances. At today’s press
conference, he denied he was returning to the pool for financial
reasons.  Sydney-born Thorpe, powered through the water with size 17
feet, rose to prominence at the 2000 Sydney Games when he won
three golds and two silvers. His gold medals in Athens helped
him surpass runner Betty Cuthbert and swimmers Dawn Fraser and
Murray Rose as the most successful Australian in Olympic history.  The last of his  world records  fell at the 2009 World
Swimming Championships in  Rome  when  Germany ’s Paul Biedermann
set a new 400-meter freestyle mark with a time of 3:40.07,
beating Thorpe’s swim at the 2002 Commonwealth Games by 0.01
second.  “The thing that is driving me is to be able to perform
again,” he said. “I’ve never not liked swimming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  