-- Aussie Gains as Permits, Trade Data Signal Resilience; N.Z. Dollar Falls
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2011-02-03T05:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/australian-dollar-holds-losses-versus-greenback-as-yasi-strikes-coastline.html
  Australia ’s dollar rose against most
of its major counterparts as data on building permits and trade
added to signs of resilience in the economy.  The  New Zealand dollar  touched a one-week low versus
Japan’s currency after the nation’s unemployment rate rose in
the fourth quarter. Demand for both currencies was tempered as
reports of violence at anti-government protests in Egypt curbed
demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The  trade surplus  and building approvals are very good
numbers,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency
sales at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “The economy is doing
very well, which means the Australian dollar continues higher.”  The so-called Aussie was at 82.45 yen as of 4:43 p.m. in
Sydney from 82.38 yen in  New York  yesterday. Australia’s
currency traded at $1.0100 from $1.0101. New Zealand’s dollar
slipped to 77.15 U.S. cents from 77.33 cents. The so-called kiwi
was at 62.98 yen from 63.07 yen, after earlier falling to 62.92,
the lowest since Jan. 25.  The Aussie will reach $1.0330 before it goes back to parity
with the greenback, Nomura’s Magnus said.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in Australia advanced 8.7 percent in December
from November, when they fell a revised 3.9 percent, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. A separate report showed the
trade surplus was A$1.98 billion ($2 billion) in December,
compared with the median estimate of A$1.6 billion in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Rate Expectation  Swaps traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
will raise its benchmark by 29 basis points over the next 12
months, up from 22 basis points yesterday, according to a Credit
Suisse AG index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at its Feb. 1 monetary-policy meeting after lifting rates seven
times from October 2009 to November last year.  New Zealand’s jobless rate increased to 6.8 percent from
6.4 percent three months earlier,  Statistics New Zealand  said
today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a reading of 6.5 percent.  “The recovery is quite patchy and this has been quite a
volatile number,” said  Tim Kelleher , vice-president of
institutional banking and markets at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Auckland. “The kiwi will stay on the back-foot,
but it should hold above 77 U.S. cents.”  The kiwi extended its decline after Finance Minister Bill
English signaled his government’s steps to shrink a fiscal
deficit should reduce the need for monetary tightening by the
central bank and ease pressure on nation’s currency.  The current  exchange rate  is an “impediment” for the
country’s exports, English said in an interview in Wellington
today.  Egyptian Protests  Australia’s currency erased gains versus the greenback as
supporters of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  clashed violently
in central Cairo with demonstrators demanding an immediate end
to his reign.  Gunfire erupted in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, with sustained
bursts of automatic weapons fire starting around 4 a.m., the  Associated Press  reported. The Al Jazeera network showed footage
of bodies being pulled on the street.  “The report might have cooled risk sentiment in the market
a bit,” said Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond
department in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co. “That’s why
growth-related currencies like the Aussie and kiwi have been
trading heavy. But it’s also too uncertain to price in the
current situation in  Egypt .”  Cyclone Yasi  Demand for the Aussie was also limited as Cyclone Yasi,
with winds more powerful than those of  Hurricane Katrina , struck
the nation’s northeast coastline today. The cyclone came just
weeks after the worst floods in 50 years hit the state of
Queensland.  “The cyclone will probably further dent March quarter
gross domestic product following the floods in January,” Kate King, a Sydney-based senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd.,
wrote in a research note today.  Yasi has been downgraded to a Category two storm,
Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said on its website.  Australian bond futures fell. The 10-year contract for
March delivery declined 0.06 to 94.380 on the  Sydney Futures
Exchange . The implied yield gained to 5.62 percent.    New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations rose five basis points to 3.795 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 