-- Australia Wheat Suffers From Drought in Battle With Miners West of Floods
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2011-02-02T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/australia-wheat-suffers-from-drought-in-west-as-east-deals-with-flooding.html
As Australia’s worst floods caused as
much as $20 billion of damage to eastern states, 3,000
kilometers (1,900 miles) to the west farmer Pete Mills is
battling a Chinese mining company for water after a decades-long
drought.  “It’s ironic that they’re underwater and we can’t get
enough of it,” said Mills, 44, as flies buzzed around his
battered cowboy hat in the 35 degree Celsius (95 Fahrenheit)
heat. “It’s noticeably getting worse. I’m worried this new mine
is going to take the water that’s left.”  The A$1.8 billion ($1.8 billion) iron-ore project, a
venture between China’s fourth-largest steelmaker Anshan Iron &
Steel Group and Perth’s  Gindalbie Metals Ltd ., has applied to
use water from the same underground supply that irrigates
Mills’s 4,000-hectare wheat and sheep farm.  At stake is the output of the country’s biggest wheat-
growing state at a time when global food shortages have pushed
prices to records. The drought has already prompted the
government of Western Australian state Premier  Colin Barnett  to
cut its economic growth forecast for the year to June 30 to 4
percent, from 4.5 percent.  Anshan and Gindalbie’s  Karara  mine is the first of at least
eight magnetite iron ore projects planned for the state’s Mid
West grain belt in the next decade. Mines need water to help dig
out and process the ore, remove waste rock and to suppress dust
to meet air quality rules.  “We haven’t had many conflicts between mining companies
and other water users in the past because there hasn’t been a
big  mining industry  in the Mid West,” said Phil Kneebone,
spokesman for Western Australia’s government-run  Water Corp. ,
which supplies drinking water to communities. “Mining companies
do use a lot of water.”  Western Australia  produced A$2.08 billion of wheat in the
year ended June, 2010, according to the state’s Department of
Agriculture and Food. The industry is dominated by CBH Group, a
growers’ co-operative that’s the state’s largest grain handler.
Competing with the state’s farmers are about A$170 billion of
mining projects in the pipeline over the next five years.  Queensland Floods  It’s a far cry from the devastation in the east of the
country, where flooding since November killed as many as 32
people. Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  says the reconstruction
effort will cost at least A$5 billion, and some economists
estimate A$20 billion may be needed to repair the damage as the
flooding also hit Victoria and New South Wales. More damage is
expected as category five cyclone Yasi brings hurricane-force
winds and rain to Queensland.  In Western  Australia , which covers more than a third of the
continent, the story is the opposite.  About $50 billion worth of mining and energy projects need
water, according to  Department of Water  Director General Maree
De Lacey. Mining is the largest user, taking 27 percent of total
licensed water compared to 22 percent for agriculture, she said.
Six years ago, agriculture used 37 percent and mining 26 percent.  Grain and Minerals  Australia’s export earnings  from energy and minerals in
the three months to Sept. 30 totaled A$44 billion, while the
value of wheat exports for the year to June 30, 2011, is
forecast to be about A$4.7 billion, according to the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences.
World food prices rose to a record in December on higher costs
for sugar, grain and oilseeds, the  United Nations  reported on
Jan. 4.  Gindalbie, in which Anshan Steel holds a 35.9 percent stake,
says it applied to use 5.3 gigaliters, or 11 percent of the 49
gigaliters available in the Parmelia aquifer, from which Mills
and other farmers draws their water through bores.  “Karara has spent around $3 million conducting extensive
tests on the aquifer and the sustainability of our water usage
plans,” Gindalbie corporate affairs manager Michael Weir said
in an e-mail. When the mine starts, it will generate A$363,000
of export revenue for the state for each megaliter of water used,
he said.  Mills said the project will use water from only one part of
the aquifer, draining as much as 87 percent of that area’s total
allocation and leaving farmers with little.  First of Many  The Karara mine and other magnetite  iron ore  projects will
be serviced by A$4 billion of the new Oakajee port and rail
infrastructure project to be built by Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp .
and Australia’s  Murchison Metals Ltd ., which are also developing
the Jack Hills project in the area.  Magnetite is a lower grade and needs more processing than
the hematite ore found to the north in the Pilbara region, from
where  BHP Billiton Ltd ., Rio Tinto Group and other miners
shipped iron ore worth A$33.7 billion in the 12 months to June
30, 2010. Demand for magnetite from Chinese steelmakers has
increased as the nation’s refineries are geared to take the ore.    Citic Pacific Ltd ., an arm of  China ’s biggest state-owned
investment company, built a 51-gigaliter desalination plant for
its A$5.2 billion Sino Iron magnetite project in the Pilbara.  ‘Hot, Hard and Flat’  “Western Australia is a very hot, hard and flat county on
which it’s hard to store water,” said Peter Strachan, who heads
Perth-based independent advisory firm StockAnalysis.
“Processing these magnetite ores is going to be pretty greedy
for water.”  Figures from the government-run  Bureau of Meteorology  show
a significant decrease in rainfall since the mid-1970s,
according to bureau forecaster Patrick Ward. Dams servicing the
Perth area are less than 30 percent full.  “The winter rains have become more unreliable and that
seems to be a trend that will continue,” Ward said. “Some
areas where agricultural crops are marginal might soon tip over
so they’re unsustainable.”  The state’s second government-run desalination plant is due
to start in the second half of the year.  “The greatest restraint on Perth and  Western Australia  is
water,” Barnett told reporters in November in Perth, where
homeowners are allowed to water their gardens with automated
irrigation systems for 20 minutes a week. “We’ve had our driest
year ever, so that’s created an acute problem.”  On his farm about 350 kilometers to the north of Perth,
near Australia’s largest  inland grain storing facility , Mills is
helping petition the government for water rights.  “I’m worried that this is just the start and other
projects that are planned in the area will take all the
groundwater,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 