-- Tax Break Proposals Abound Even in a U.S. Congress Trying to Curb Changes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/tax-break-ideas-abound-as-obama-lawmakers-vow-to-curb-them.html
House Ways and Means Chairman David Camp wants to rewrite the tax code by removing breaks and
lowering rates. So do President Obama, Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus  and tax-policy experts across the political spectrum.  Many members of Congress have different agendas. The 112th
Congress is less than a month old, and lawmakers in both
chambers and of both parties have proposed at least 57 new,
extended or expanded tax breaks.  Representative Cliff Stearns, a Florida Republican,
proposes making the first $200 of interest earned tax free in
2011 and the first $400 tax free after that. Democratic
Representative Joe Baca of  California  supports a $10,000 tax
credit for small fruit-and-vegetable farmers. Republican Senator
David Vitter of  Louisiana  offered a bill to allow a deduction
for home-schooling expenses.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, is proposing tax credits for
companies that hire recently discharged military veterans.  “The goal is to get as much as you can before the music
stops,” said William Gale, a tax policy expert at the  Brookings
Institution , a Washington-based group that does research and
analysis on U.S. public policy.  Targeted Breaks  Baucus said a proposal that lowers rates and broadens the
tax base can still include targeted breaks.  “There are important provisions that do accomplish proper
policy,” he said. “So it’s a question of judgment and where
you draw the line.”  Stearns said he supports changing the tax code to make it
simpler, fairer and more competitive. However, he said in a
statement, “I realize that such an overhaul is unlikely in the
near term, and so I offer legislation that enhances the current
tax code.”  The flurry of early tax bills, most of which are unlikely
to become law, demonstrates the challenge facing advocates of a
broad overhaul of the  tax code .  They must persuade members of Congress to give up what Camp
called “a dizzying array of credits, deductions, exclusions and
exemptions” that benefit “congressionally blessed industries
and activities, both big and small.”  The so-called tax expenditures enshrined in the code cost
the government  about $1 trillion a year  in forgone revenue,
almost the same amount generated by the individual income tax,
according to Syracuse University professor Leonard Burman.  Guiding Benefits  For Republicans who pledged during the election campaign to
cut  government spending , the tax code is an attractive way to
guide benefits to favored groups.  “If you’re working within the current structure of the
code, that’s the way we try to provide incentives and encourage
competitiveness,” said Mark Weinberger, a former assistant
secretary of the Treasury who is the global vice chair for tax
at  Ernst & Young LLP .  For example, Missouri Republican Jo Ann Emerson, who chairs
the spending subcommittee that oversees the  Internal Revenue
Service ’s budget, wants to give military retirees a refundable
tax credit for Medicare premiums. Connecticut Democrat Rosa DeLauro proposed allowing manufacturers to create tax-advantaged
accounts for reinvestment.  Gale said many lawmakers proposing targeted tax breaks
realize that they won’t be enacted. Instead, he said, they are
responding to pressure from constituents and interest groups and
doing what they can by filing a bill.  ‘Constituent Service’  “Everyone is going to bow in the direction of tax reform,
because that’s a good thing,” he said. “And how can you be
against it? But likewise, it’s a constituent service to
introduce a subsidy for that constituent.”  Weinberger said leaders of a tax overhaul will have to
encourage lawmakers to buy into the broad economic benefits of
the idea, even if it requires sacrificing favored provisions.  “There has to be a trust and belief in a common vision
that everybody is going to have a stake in the ultimate outcome
of  tax reform ,” he said.  Even if Congress enacts an overhaul that removes special
tax breaks, the experience after the last such overhaul in 1986
shows that provisions return after lobbying campaigns.  Representative Shelley Berkley, a Nevada Democrat, said
during a Jan. 20 Ways and Means hearing that advocates for race
car tracks and taxis that use propane gas “kind of camped out
in my office” as Congress debated extending provisions they had
sought last year.  “If we actually lower the  tax rate  for corporations and
companies throughout the  United States , is that going to be
enough?” she said. “Or are they still going to be coming to me
explaining how they still can’t make ends meet, they’re going to
go under and they need to have additional tax breaks? Because
that’s going to kill us when it comes to our deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  