-- BofA Is Said to Near Sale of Balboa Insurance Business to Australia's QBE
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-02-03T00:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/bank-of-america-is-said-to-near-sale-of-balboa-to-qbe-insurance.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. lender by assets, is near an agreement to sell its Balboa
insurance unit to  Australia ’s  QBE Insurance Group Ltd ., said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The companies are in advanced talks and may reach a deal as
soon as this week, said one of the people, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.
Balboa, obtained by Bank of America with the 2008 purchase of
Countrywide Financial Corp., is among the largest providers of
coverage on foreclosed homes and properties occupied by
distressed buyers.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
under pressure last year from regulators to raise capital, sold
assets including  First Republic Bank  and a stake in BlackRock
Inc. The company needs to focus on retail customers, commercial
borrowers and  investment banking , Moynihan said in an interview
in December on Bloomberg Television.  “He’s getting rid of all ancillary businesses which he
sees as not core to retail banking, commercial banking and
capital markets,” said  Nancy Bush , an independent banking
analyst at NAB Research LLC in Annandale,  New Jersey . “The
company desperately needed to be streamlined, and now you’re
looking at capital that can be used elsewhere.”  The Balboa purchase being negotiated involves an up-front
payment and a contingent amount determined by the unit’s future
performance, the person said. The talks may still fall apart,
and the exact price couldn’t be determined.  Shares Halted  The unit generated $410 million of earnings in 2009 and had
almost $2 billion of capital, Matthew Burnell, an analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co., said in a July 19 note.  QBE has paid an average premium of 31 percent in 44
takeovers worth a combined $7 billion since 1996, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. has been its favored
destination, accounting for $3.7 billion of those acquisitions,
the data show.  In Sydney, QBE requested its shares be halted from trade
today, pending a statement on 2010 earnings, recent Australian
catastrophes, acquisition activity, reinsurance protection and
2011 financial targets. It closed at A$16.94 yesterday, the
lowest since Dec. 1.  QBE has grown to operations in 49 countries and 13,500
employees through more than 125 acquisitions in the past three
decades, according to its  website . The firm has done 10
acquisitions in the U.S. since 1996, worth a total of $3.7
billion, according to Bloomberg data. The biggest was the $1.2
billion acquisition of the U.S. operations of Axa’s Winterthur
unit in 2007.  Other Interest    Assurant Inc . and White Mountains Insurance Group Ltd. were
among firms that had expressed interest in Balboa, said one of
the people. Vera Carley of Assurant declined to comment. Brian Kensil of White Mountains didn’t immediately return a call.  Robert Stickler, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment, as did Sabrena Tufts,
a New York-based spokeswoman for QBE’s Americas operations.
Calls to the insurer’s Sydney headquarters outside of regular
business hours weren’t immediately returned.  Bank of America may join bailed-out Citigroup Inc. and Ally
Financial Inc., formerly known as GMAC Inc., in raising money
from insurance units after posting losses on home loans.
Citigroup held a public offering for  Primerica Inc . in March,
raising more than $300 million. Ally struck a deal in 2009 to
sell its property-casualty insurance business to American
Capital Acquisition Corp.  Writedown  Banks require mortgage investors to purchase insurance
protecting seized houses against vandalism and storm damage.
Balboa competes with  Munich Re , QBE and Assurant, the No. 1
seller in the U.S. of so-called force-placed insurance.  Countrywide bought Balboa in 1999 for $425 million from
Associates First Capital Corp. Bank of America took a $2 billion
writedown on its Countrywide operations in the fourth quarter,
saying the unit’s value had declined because of litigation and
foreclosure costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net . 