-- Barclays Urges Restricted Access to EU Carbon Markets
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-02-02T19:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/barclays-recommends-restricting-access-to-european-union-carbon-markets.html
  Barclays Plc  recommended limiting
access to the prompt market for European Union emission permits
to emitters and regulated firms in the wake of online hacking
attacks that have shaken confidence in the system.  The “criminal element” is driving away legitimate
traders, according to an e-mailed statement sent today by Louis Redshaw, managing director of environmental markets at  Barclays
Capital  in  London , the group’s investment bank. Barclays has
traded 5 billion tons of carbon since the EU program started in
2005. Benchmark prices rose 0.8 percent today to close at 14.98
euros ($20.66) a metric ton, matching an eight-week high.  The cost of crime in the market may be 5 billion euros and
rising, Redshaw said, citing figures from Europol, the law
enforcement agency of the EU. That is mainly value-added  tax
fraud , he said. Requiring traders to be overseen by financial
regulators in each of the bloc’s nations would boost protection
and would match governance of equities markets, the trader said.  Limiting access to the prompt market “is an over-reaction
to an unacceptable situation,” said Mark Meyrick, head of the
Rotterdam-based carbon desk at Eneco Holding NV., the Dutch
utility. “Good information-technology security should not be
beyond the wit of the registry owners, and it’s noticeable that
some registries have much stronger security than others.”  The disappearance of 2 million emission allowances led the
European Union’s regulator on Jan. 19 to suspend the registries
in 30 countries that track permits, triggering a two-week halt
on spot trading in the world’s largest greenhouse-gas market.  Prompt Trading  Prompt trading is about 12 percent of the total market,
which was valued at about 80 billion euros last year, according
to Prospex Research Ltd. and Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Futures trading for later delivery dates, such as the benchmark
contract for December, hasn’t been disrupted by the halt.  Requiring non-regulated spot traders to be actual emitters
would mean “there’s an asset to go after” should they commit a
crime, Redshaw said.  Limiting access would not substantially erode the level of
competition in the market, he said. “It’s extremely
competitive. Regulated firms provide by far and away more
liquidity than unregulated ones.”  Reduced access to registries does not stop companies from
investing in financially settled contracts nor will it prevent
project developers moving Certified Emission Reduction credits
from their United Nations accounts to European registries,
Barclays said in the statement. “It is clear to us that the
economic cost of maintaining unfettered  market access  far
outweighs the economic benefit.”  Compensation  Traders are seeking an agreement on compensation for buyers
of carbon permits that may have been stolen in the computer-
hacking attacks, law firm Norton Rose LLP said yesterday.  “Many players would like some sort of compensation
mechanism set up so that if they unwittingly buy stolen
allowances, there is a mechanism by which they can return these
to the authorities in exchange for replacement allowances or
financial compensation,” said Andrew Hedges, a partner at the
London-based firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  