-- BBVA Fourth-Quarter Profit Jumps, Helped by Mexico
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-02-02T17:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/bbva-fourth-quarter-profit-jumps-helped-by-mexican-earnings.html
  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-largest bank, posted a 30-fold gain in fourth-
quarter profit as Mexican earnings surged and it didn’t repeat
writedowns in the U.S.  Net income rose to 939 million euros ($1.3 billion) from 31
million euros a year earlier, the Bilbao-based bank said today
in a filing to regulators. That was less than the 962.9 million-
euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  agreed to pay $5.8 billion for
24.9 percent of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS  in November to
diversify into growth markets and away from Spain, which still
accounts for almost half of earnings. Higher earnings from
Mexico countered a profit slump in its home market.  “Diversification in Latin America and  Asia  has certainly
helped BBVA, but they still have some homework to do in  Spain ,”
said Pablo Garcia, head of equities at Oddo Sociedad de Valores
in Madrid. “We don’t see much more potential for the stock for
now.”  BBVA fell 1.3 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 9.29 euros in
Madrid, valuing the lender at 41.7 billion euros. The stock has
advanced 23 percent this year, about double the gain in the 48-
member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest bank, which is scheduled to
publish earnings tomorrow, climbed 15 percent over the period.  Bad Loans  BBVA’s net interest income fell 13 percent to 3.14 billion
euros in the fourth quarter. Bad loans were unchanged from three
months earlier at 4.1 percent of total lending, and down from
4.3 percent a year earlier. Gonzalez said in a Madrid press
conference today that the “worst was over” for the bank.  The company expects business volumes, loans and deposits to
gain as much as 7 percent this year, with little change in Spain
and the U.S. and 15 percent growth in  Mexico  and South America,
said Angel Cano, the president and chief operating officer, on a
webcast for investors.  The lender aims to increase its market share in Spain by 50
percent over three years as the nation’s savings banks
restructure, Gonzalez said. BBVA will probably take advantage of
opportunities to buy banking assets because “there will be lots
of them,” he said.  BBVA had 16.6 billion euros of loans to Spanish property
developers, or 8 percent of lending in the country. Of that
total, 21 percent is in default, the company said. Loans newly
entered into default climbed to 3.85 billion euros from 3.05
billion euros in the third quarter.  Mexico,  South America   Profit from Spain and  Portugal  fell 20 percent to 383
million euros. Bad loans as a proportion of total lending at the
unit was 5 percent, unchanged from September.  “At first glance, BBVA looks in line but Iberia shows weak
net interest income and higher provisions,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about 600 million pounds ($970
million) at Royal London Asset Management in  London .  Earnings from Mexico climbed 53 percent to 454 million
euros, the bank said. Profit from South America rose 27 percent
to 193 million euros, while U.S. earnings rebounded to 15
million euros.  Profit in the fourth quarter of 2009 was hurt by 1.05
billion euros of impairments and writedowns in the U.S.  BBVA’s core capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
rose to 9.6 percent on Dec. 31, from 8.2 percent at the end of
the third quarter.  The bank said in a separate filing that it will propose
giving shareholders the option of being paid two out of four
quarterly dividends in shares.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  