-- Bedbugs' Bite on Hotels Spurs Call for Better Pesticides, U.S. Regulation
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/bedbugs-bite-on-hotels-spurs-call-for-more-effective-pesticides.html
Hotel operators, public-health
officials and leaders of an industry spawned to combat bedbugs
urged tighter U.S. regulations and development of effective
pesticides during the second National Bed Bug Summit.  “It remains a huge concern,” said Joseph McInerny, chief
executive officer of the  American Hotel and Lodging Association 
at the two-day conference in Washington that ends today.
Housekeeping and maintenance staff are the “first line of
defense,” spotting speckles of blood that signal rooms may be
closed for weeks by an infestation, he said yesterday.  Bedbugs -- wingless insects that feed on the blood of
sleeping animals -- invaded stores of Abercrombie & Fitch Co.,
Victoria’s Secret and  Nike Inc .’s Niketown in  New York City  last
year as well as hotels, offices and homes.  The insects can cause reactions through bites, as well as
blister-like skin infections and, in rare cases, asthma and
anaphylactic shock, according to a report in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association .  “2010 was definitely the year of the bedbug,” Natalie
Raben, marketing director of M&M Environmental, a  New York  pest-
management company said at the conference.  The Environmental Protection Agency convened the meeting as
New York City Council members urged the agency to set
regulations for better use of insecticides.  “Given the difficulty of exterminating bedbugs, we are
calling upon” the EPA “to conduct further research and
development of effective pesticides,” Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  wrote in a Jan. 31 letter to the EPA with fellow members.  Abercrombie & Fitch, the teen apparel retailer, in July
temporarily closed its South Street Seaport store in New York to
eliminate bedbugs.  Time Warner Inc . in August said it treated
its offices at Columbus Circle after bedbugs were found “in a
small contained area.”  Commercial pest-control products may be insufficient to
kill the bugs, said Liza Fleeson, program manager of consumer
protection for the Virginia Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services.  “I wish we could just tell bedbugs that ‘you are not
allowed in this state’ and regulate them out,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  