-- Belgium Turns to Reynders to Find Way Through Nation's Political Deadlock
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2011-02-03T09:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/belgium-turns-to-reynders-to-find-way-through-nation-s-political-deadlock.html
Belgium called on Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  to reconcile feuding Flemish and French-speaking
political parties in the latest attempt to put an end to the
longest government-formation deadlock in  Europe .  Reynders, 52, head of the French-speaking Liberals,
accepted a two-week mission to explore the prospects for an
agreement on three key issues dividing the parties, the royal
palace in Brussels said yesterday. The move marks an end of
efforts to jump-start seven-party talks that broke down almost
five months ago.  With no end in sight for the political standoff,  King Albert II  also told Prime Minister Yves Leterme’s caretaker
government to push a 2011 budget through parliament and ensure
Belgium will honor its European commitments in coming years.
The nation risks a credit-rating cut if it fails to form a
government “soon,” Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in
December.  “Political uncertainty remains, which means the market has
to factor in some degree of break-up risk,” said  John Davies , a
fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in  London . “The rating
agencies will therefore remain hawkish, with downgrades still
more likely than not.”  While debt-insurance costs for  Belgium  rose the most of all
nations tracked by data provider CMA in the fourth quarter, the
cost of protecting its debt from non-payment using credit-
default swaps has fallen to a nine-week low as investors bet
European leaders will find a solution to the region’s debt
crisis.  Government Debt  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
government debt instead of German equivalents widened 4 basis
points to 93 points at 10:20 a.m. in Brussels, after narrowing
yesterday to the least since Nov. 19. At the same time, the
Belgian yield discount versus Italian bonds of similar maturity
has shrunk to 39 basis points from as much as 100 on Aug. 31.  Now at 235 days, Belgium’s post-election stalemate has
surpassed both the 194-day marathon of 2007 and the 208 days it
took the Netherlands to get a government in 1977. The Belgian
impasse may lead to a cut in its AA+  credit rating , the second-
highest investment grade, Standard & Poor’s said on Dec. 14.  Ireland had its credit rating cut one level yesterday by
S&P to A- after its  budget deficit  soared, bank-rescue costs
mounted and the government was forced to seek aid from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . A further
downgrade is possible, the rating company said.  Debt Load  Japan, the world’s most-indebted nation, last week had its
rating lowered one step to AA- by S&P, which said the government
in Tokyo lacks a “coherent strategy” to address a debt load
about twice the size of gross domestic product.  Reynders, when he became Belgian finance minister in 1999,
inherited debt of 113.7 percent of GDP, cutting it to 84.2
percent by 2007, the best performance in the euro region over
that time span. The onset of the financial crisis and the costs
of rescuing Belgian banks pushed the debt back up to 97.2
percent of GDP last year.  The debt load is projected to peak at 101.4 percent of GDP
this year, and the caretaker government’s task of cutting the
annual deficit to less than 4.1 percent of GDP got a boost as
the federal planning bureau last week raised its forecast for
2011 economic growth to 2 percent from 1.7 percent. The
government is on track to meet the debt and deficit targets
agreed to with the EU, Reynders said in parliament last week.  ‘Painful Cuts’  “There is no need to enact painful cuts to meet our
European commitments,” Reynders told lawmakers on Jan. 27.
“Fiscal receipts should be about half a percentage point of GDP
better than previously estimated.” The country needs to trim
its deficit to less than 3 percent of GDP in 2012.  The lawmakers have approved provisional spending and bond
sales for the three months through March. Calling elections to
try to break the coalition deadlock was not an option as it
would require the dissolution of parliament, which would leave
the country without spending authority after March 31.  The political standoff pits Bart De Wever’s Flemish
nationalist N-VA party against the French-speaking Socialists
led by Elio Di Rupo, 59, who have resisted the transfer of more
powers to the northern Dutch-speaking region of Flanders. The
liberals on both sides of Belgium’s linguistic divide had been
left out of the negotiations following an electoral defeat in
June.  Reynders will need to find an accord between Flemish and
French-speaking parties about redrawing a linguistically mixed
voting district encompassing Brussels and 35 Flemish suburbs and
on additional revenue for the capital region. Other elements of
a potential agreement include the transfer of more powers to the
regions and empowering them to manage their own spending without
endangering the federal entity that services the nation’s debt
and controls social security.  Reynders is to report back to the king on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  