-- Benmosche Says AIG Unit Thrives on Red-State Culture
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2011-02-02T22:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/benmosche-says-aig-mortgage-insurance-unit-thrives-on-red-state-culture.html
  American International Group Inc .’s
mortgage insurer does more business in Republican-leaning states
as it signs up more reliable customers than those in “more
liberal” areas, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said.  “All of the states where we’re a leader, where we’re the
No. 1 insurer, are red states, all of the states where we’re at
the bottom are blue states,” Benmosche, 66, said yesterday at a
conference in Washington. “Part of what we found out is that
our model is about culture and it’s about the attitude in the
public. And what we find is where there’s more of a tendency for
people to be more liberal, more that the government is
responsible for what happens to me.”  Benmosche oversees an insurer propped up by more than
$40 billion in government capital while competing mortgage
guarantors operate without U.S. Treasury Department assistance.
The housing crisis prompted rival  MGIC Investment Corp . to scale
back in 2008 in Arizona, a so-called red, or Republican-leaning
state, and in  California , known as a blue state for favoring
Democrats.  “We think we’re getting at the essence of the ability of
someone to repay their mortgage,” said Benmosche, who joined
New York-based AIG in 2009. “We’ve plotted it on a map.”  AIG’s mortgage insurer, United Guaranty, weighs data
including borrowers’ credit scores, the property’s value and the
number of wage earners in a household, Benmosche said. The
company’s model doesn’t take party affiliation into account,
said Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG.  ‘Breathtakingly Hypocritical’  Benmosche’s remarks were “breathtakingly hypocritical,”
said Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the senior
Democrat on the Financial Services Committee.  “If you want to talk about Red and Blue states, the leader
of the Red states,  George W. Bush , had to come to the rescue and
bail AIG out,” Frank said.  Homeowner defaults pushed U.S. mortgage insurers into
losses in 2007 as property prices plummeted and foreclosure
sales failed to recoup money owed to banks. AIG’s United
Guaranty business had more than $4 billion in losses in the
three years ended Dec. 31, 2009.  United Guaranty posted a pretax loss of $124 million in the
third quarter of 2010, compared with a loss of $461 million a
year earlier. The business is heading in the “right
direction,” United Guaranty said in June, citing its new
pricing model and market trends.  Genworth, MGIC    Genworth Financial Inc ., which was ineligible for Treasury
assistance after the 2009 rejection of its application to become
a savings and loan holding company, posted a fourth-quarter loss
today on results at its mortgage insurer. AIG hasn’t yet
announced fourth-quarter results.  MGIC, which focuses on backing home loans, posted a fourth-
quarter loss of $186.7 million on Jan. 19 and said it can’t
predict when it will post an annual profit.  MGIC  retreated  in some of the worst property markets in
2008, including California, Florida, Arizona and  Nevada .
Genworth said in late 2007 it was limiting some  Florida  sales.  Triad Guaranty Inc ., a Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
mortgage insurer, stopped selling new policies.  “We have a whole new model, the only one like it,”
Benmosche said at the conference, which was sponsored by Insured
Retirement Institute.  Research shows that the key variables in mortgage defaults
are homeowners’ equity in the property and ability to pay, said
Sam Khater, chief economist for CoreLogic Inc., a research
company based in  Santa Ana , California.  ‘Economic Distress’  The states with the highest foreclosure rates last year
were Nevada, Arizona, Florida and California, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based real-estate data
service. Florida and Nevada each have one Democrat in the  U.S.
Senate  and one Republican.  Arizona  has two Republicans, and
California has two Democrats.  “In each of those states you have a very large decline”
in housing prices, Khater said. “And economic distress.”  AIG is seeking to profit from the U.S. housing market after
failed bets on subprime mortgages under Benmosche’s predecessors
forced the company to take the government rescue in 2008.
Benmosche has identified United Guaranty as one of the four main
businesses that AIG will keep as he sells operating units and
reshapes what was once the world’s largest insurer.  ‘Reckless Behavior’  AIG is appealing to private investors to replace government
capital that accounts for 92 percent of the company’s stock. The
firm, which has sold assets including non-U.S. life insurance
units and a consumer lender to help repay a bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion, plans to maintain a plane-leasing subsidiary,
the Chartis property-casualty insurer and the SunAmerica
Financial Group life business, Benmosche has said.  “If AIG, whose reckless behavior resulted in a $182
billion taxpayer bailout, prefers to do business in Republican
states, then the next time they go bankrupt, I hope they don’t
ask taxpayers in Vermont and other Democratic-leaning states for
another bailout,” Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont
independent, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  