-- Bharti Shares Rise After Profit Excluding Items Beat Analysts' Estimate
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2011-02-02T11:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/bharti-airtel-third-quarter-group-profit-13-billion-rupees-lags-estimate.html
  Bharti Airtel Ltd ., India’s biggest
mobile phone operator, rose the most in three weeks in Mumbai
trading after earnings beat some analysts’ estimates.  Profit beat projections when excluding 4.9 billion rupees
($107 million) in one-time items, said Ganesh Ram, an analyst at
Kim Eng Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. The company today
reported third-quarter net income of 13 billion rupees, lagging
behind the 16.1 billion rupee average of 24 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  A one-time branding cost of 3.4 billion rupees and a
foreign exchange loss of 1.5 billion rupees eroded earnings, the
New Delhi-based company said in a  statement . The 14 percent rise
in revenue in the main India and  South Asia  mobile phone
business, coupled with diminishing prospects of call-tariff cuts
are easing concerns about phone companies’ earnings in the
world’s second-largest wireless market, Ram said.  “The sector has become more and more attractive,” Ram
said from Mumbai. He has a “buy” rating on the company.
“Bharti is seeing top-line driven growth. In India, there has
been no significant decline in tariffs, plus the company saw a
very good subscriber addition.”  ‘Twin Engines’  Bharti, part owned by  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd .,
gained 1.8 percent, the most since Jan. 12, to 322.80 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai after slumping as much
as 4.1 percent earlier. The benchmark Sensex Index gained 0.4
percent, its first advance in six days.  Sales rose 53 percent to 157.6 billion rupees as the
carrier added 40.5 billion rupees in revenue from  Africa  after
its acquisition of  Kuwait ’s Mobile Telecommunications Co.’s
assets there last year. That compared with the 158 billion rupee
average of 35 analyst estimates.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, rose 22 percent to 49.8 billion rupees
from 40.8 billion rupees a year earlier, according to Bharti’s
quarterly statement.  “Top line revenue growth reflects solidly in India and
Africa,” Manik Jhangiani, chief financial officer of Bharti
Group, told reporters at a news conference today. “The regions
will provide the twin engines of growth for Bharti.”  Bharti said it had 207.8 million subscribers across all its
markets as of Dec. 31, according to the statement today.  Number Portability  To counter higher competition and slowing growth in India,
Manoj Kohli, chief executive officer of Bharti’s Africa
business, plans to expand businesses in  Nigeria , Gabon, Zambia,
Malawi, Niger and  Uganda  after the company completed its $10.7
billion cash and debt purchase of the African assets of Zain.  Japan’s  NTT DoCoMo Inc . and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA  set off a
tariff war when they entered India in 2009 luring users with
cheap tariffs in a market that is forecast by researcher  Gartner
Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by the end of 2014. India had
730 million mobile-phone accounts in November, according to the
nation’s telecom regulator, lagging behind only  China . Call
rates in India have fallen to half-penny a minute.  Mobile number portability, which operators were required to
provide to customers across India from last month, may benefit
Bharti, said Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Kapoor in a call
with analysts today. “We are well positioned to leverage from
the opportunity based on our wide network presence,” he said.  Bharti had 207.8 million subscribers across 19 countries as
of Dec. 31, according to today’s statement.  3G Services  The operator’s  average revenue per user , a key metric of
performance in the telecommunications industry, plunged 14
percent in  India  to 198 rupees a month, from 230 rupees a year
earlier. The average revenue per user for Bharti’s Africa
operations was $7.30 a month compared with $7.40 in the previous
quarter.  Bharti started offering third-generation wireless services
in southern Indian cities this year. The company paid the
government 123 billion rupees for 3G wireless permits in 13 of
India’s 22 telecommunication zones last year, and another 33
billion rupees for licenses to offer broadband wireless service
in four regions.  The company’s net debt was 599 billion rupees as of Dec.
31, up from 47.7 billion rupees in the previous year, Bharti
said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai
   kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Young-Sam Cho
at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  