-- Biggs Says Asia Stocks to Beat S&P 500 in Next Year
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-02T18:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/biggs-says-asia-stocks-to-beat-s-p-500-over-next-year-is-bullish-on-china.html
Asian stocks will likely beat the
Standard & Poor’s 500 index over the next year and China will
need to allow the yuan to appreciate as much as 8 percent to
avoid further inflation, investor  Barton Biggs  said.  “I’m a big bull on China,” Biggs, who runs New York-based
hedge fund Traxis Partners LP, said at the Bloomberg China
Investment Strategies conference in  New York  today. “The S&P is
going to beat Asia for the next three or four months, but over
the next year  Asia  is going to be a tiger.”  Biggs, who recommended buying U.S. stocks when the S&P 500
Index started rallying in 2009, said last month global stocks
may rise between 10 percent and 20 percent depending on the pace
of economic recovery. The yuan advanced 3.7 percent since the
government relaxed a two-year dollar peg in June and reached
6.5808 on Jan. 24, the strongest level since  China  unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The
currency has gained 26 percent since 2005.  “The right thing for China, for America and for the world
is for the RMB to appreciate and it really should appreciate not
at a 5 percent rate,” Biggs, 78, said. “The best way for the
world is a gradual 7.5 percent or 8 percent appreciation. If
they don’t let it appreciate, they’re going to have inflation
and serious wage inflation. And they’re already starting to have
it.”  ‘Soft Landing’  Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent in December and economic
growth quickened to 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the
statistics bureau reported on Jan. 20. November’s 5.1 percent
inflation was the fastest in 28 months. January data is yet to
be released.  Biggs said he’s bullish on China because policy makers have
managed the economy well.  “I think China is going to be one of the two or three,
maybe the best major markets in the world,” Biggs said.
“Basically the Chinese have done a really superb job of
engineering a soft landing. They did what we should have done
going into the crisis. They applied massive stimulus very
quickly. They came booming out of their slowdown. They may have
overdone it a little bit.”  Growing Consumer Demand  China will become the “world’s consumer” as the economy
expands and the middle class grows, Daniel Arbess, a partner at
Perella Weinberg Partners LP, said in a separate Bloomberg panel
discussion on equity investing in the mainland.  Consumer demand in the nation will be “mind-boggling,”
Arbess said today. “The economy is just beginning the get its
legs as a consumer economy,” he said.  China in 2009 overtook the U.S. to become the world’s
biggest car market, passed  Germany  as the largest exporter and
likely surpassed Japan to become the second-biggest economy in
2010. It may overtake the U.S. as the largest economy by 2027,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief economist  Jim O’Neill .  The new government in China is unlikely to be
destabilizing, Biggs said.  “China is a command economy and a command political
system,” Biggs said. “The new government is fully vetted by
the old government. I don’t think that’s a negative. For a
developing country that started with a low per-capita incoming
and is bootstrapping itself, a benevolent dictatorship is the
best government.”  Home Price Forecast  In the U.S., the economy is vulnerable to further declines
in U.S. home prices, said Biggs, a former chief global
strategist for Morgan Stanley. Property values may fall another
5 percent to 10 percent, he said.  Fund managers  James Chanos  and  Marc Faber  and Harvard
University professor Kenneth Rogoff are among those who have
warned of a crash in China if the government can’t stop the
property bubble there. About 45 percent of global investors
surveyed by Bloomberg last month said they expect a financial
crisis in China within five years.  Biggs said he disagrees with Chanos.    Jim Chanos  is probably the greatest living short seller
and I have great respect for him,” Biggs said. “But I suggest
he go to China before he gets too negative on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  