-- Slim Gets Richer as Mines, Mobile Beat Gates, Buffett
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2011-02-02T21:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/billionaire-slim-gets-richer-as-mining-mobile-beat-gates-buffett-returns.html
  Carlos Slim ’s Mexican holdings from
mining to communications helped him beat  Bill Gates  and Warren Buffett on the stock market for the second straight year, and
gains in 2011 may widen his lead atop the global wealth list.  Slim’s publicly disclosed holdings surged about 37 percent
to $70 billion in 2010, with wireless carrier America Movil SAB
representing $48.9 billion of that wealth, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 22 percent jump in  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc . shares wasn’t enough for Buffett to catch up, and Gates’s  Microsoft Corp . fell, hurting his returns even as he spread his
investments to other companies.  Mexico will be “the emerging market of 2011,” boosting
Slim’s holdings, said Walter Molano, head of research at BCP
Securities Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut . Growth will come from
an economic expansion in the U.S.,  Mexico ’s top trading partner,
and from investors looking for growth opportunities outside of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , he said.  “Slim is in for a very good year,” Molano said in a phone
interview. “With China overheating, and clearly Brazil looking
like a very crowded trade, people are starting to look at Mexico
as an alternative.”  Emerging markets in Latin America and  Asia  are in an
“enviable” position for growth, with rising consumer demand
and low  interest rates , Slim, 71, said in November. America
Movil shares rose 15 percent in 2010 as the number of Latin
American mobile-phone owners neared 100 percent of the
population.  Mexico Focus  Slim’s best-performing asset last year was one of his
oldest, holding company Grupo Carso SAB, which almost doubled as
it prepared for this year’s spinoff of its mining operations
amid soaring gold and silver prices. His biggest loss came from
a stake in publisher  New York Times Co ., which fell 21 percent.  Slim’s publicly disclosed shares in U.S. markets
represented less than $500 million of his total holdings, with
the rest in Mexican companies.  Investors in Latin America should focus on stocks that are
exposed to Mexican domestic demand, which is increasing as local
consumers have more money to spend after last year’s growth in
manufacturing exports, Stephen Graham, a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analyst in Sao Paulo, said in a research note this month.
He is forecasting Mexico’s IPC index will gain 9 percent this
year, about half the growth rate forecast for Brazil’s stock
market index, after a 20 percent rally in 2010.  Gates’s Bets  Gates, the founder of the world’s biggest software maker,
has boosted his exposure to emerging markets, with stakes in
Mexican broadcaster Grupo Televisa SAB and beverage bottler
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB. Even with that diversification, holdings
publicly disclosed by Gates, 55, amounted to about $26 billion
at the end of 2010, down more than 8 percent from 2009. Holdings
in Microsoft represented $16.7 billion of the total, after Gates
reduced his stake in the company by 80 million shares.    Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, said the Mexican
billionaire’s comments in a news conference this week addressed
his plans for the year. Slim said he would spend $3.66 billion
this year on Mexican telecommunications, mining and
infrastructure projects. America Movil is spending $8 billion a
year through 2014 to prepare for growth in the demand it
anticipates for data services such as Internet access and video.  Michael Larson, who manages Cascade and the  Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation ’s investments, didn’t return two phone messages
seeking comment. Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment
e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Buffett’s Holdings  The data compiled by Bloomberg didn’t include the money the
billionaires have given to charities, including the Gates
foundation. Forbes magazine, which in October named Gates the
richest person in the U.S. with a $54 billion fortune, said 70
percent of that amount is held in his Cascade Investment LLC
fund. That fund has only disclosed $5.8 billion in holdings on
the stock market, an amount that was included in the Bloomberg
calculation of Gates’s holdings.  Buffett’s holdings were calculated from his shares of
Berkshire Hathaway, his investment company that holds stakes in
Wells Fargo & Co. and  Coca-Cola Co . Berkshire’s A shares gained
21 percent last year and its B shares rose 22 percent. Buffett
holds both classes.  Part of Slim’s success last year came simply because his
holdings are mostly in Mexico, a country where investing is
riskier than in the U.S., said Gerald Martin, a finance
professor at American University’s Kogod School of Business in  Washington . If the comparison between Slim and Buffett’s stock
performance last year were adjusted for risk, Buffett may have
come out ahead, he said.  Less Movement  “In good times Berkshire won’t go up as much, and in bad
times it won’t go down as much either,” he said. “For a stock
that doesn’t move much, a 22 percent return is great.”  Slim’s performance last year would have beat those of
Buffett and Gates even if the U.S. billionaires hadn’t sold off
shares of their companies. Buffett, 80, gave $1.6 billion in
shares to the Gates Foundation in July as part of his plan to
donate 99 percent of his wealth in installments.  Thanks in part to donations from Buffett and Gates, the
Gates Foundation had $15.4 billion in stock-market holdings at
the end of 2010, more than double the previous year’s total. The
organization’s biggest gainers included Caterpillar Inc.,  AutoNation Inc . and U.S.-listed shares of Slim’s America Movil.
Berkshire Hathaway is the foundation’s largest holding.  ‘Enormous’ Power  Gates unloaded 80 million Microsoft shares as part of his
diversification of his investments in other companies through
Cascade Investment. Among his most successful investments last
year were Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc., whose shares almost
tripled, and AutoNation, which gained 47 percent. Microsoft was
one of his worst performers, dropping 8.4 percent in 2010.  While Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB, the state-owned
monopoly he acquired in 1990, was his second-worst investment in
2010, the carrier’s 2001 spinoff America Movil continued to be
his most important success. The company began as a Mexican
carrier in the early days of the mobile-phone business and,
through acquisitions, became Latin America’s largest wireless
company and Mexico’s biggest publicly traded firm.  Slim and Gates became wealthy through similar bets in new
technologies, and were helped by their dominant market
positions, said  Thomas Russo , who manages about $4 billion at
Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  “They basically had the privilege of owning a monopoly
with enormous pricing power in markets that grew,” Russo said.
“The consumer-PC business fueled Microsoft’s wealth, and the
rollout of telephone services Carlos has been able to control
over decades.”  Self-Made Billionaire  The son of a Lebanese immigrant who ran a dry-goods store
in downtown Mexico City, Slim built his fortune by buying real
estate and assets such as a bottling company and a cigarette
maker during periods of economic crisis in Mexico. His move to
take control of Telmex in a 1990 privatization sale helped
catapult him into the ranks of the world’s richest people.  Forbes named him the wealthiest person in the world last
year, followed by Gates and Buffett.  Slim and his family control 42 percent of America Movil’s
shares. They hold a stake of 79 percent in Grupo Carso and 55
percent in Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB, a financial services
company that has tripled its branches since the end of 2008.  While America Movil is based in Mexico, Slim has exposure
to other countries in the region, said Molano of BCP. America
Movil gets about 65 percent of its revenue from Mexico, with the
rest coming from other countries in the region including Brazil,
the U.S. and Colombia.  Mining, Luxury Goods  Slim’s best-performing and biggest foreign holding was  Saks
Inc ., the luxury retailer that gained 64 percent last year.
Slim’s investment vehicle Inmobiliaria Carso holds a 16 percent
stake in Saks. Inmobiliaria Carso has 6.9 percent of the class A
shares of Slim’s worst performer, New York Times, plus options
to increase that stake to 16 percent.  Carso’s mining spinoff Minera Frisco SAB made its debut on
Mexico’s stock market on Jan. 6 and has gained 78 percent since
as investors snapped up a new way to gain exposure to the
country’s precious metal production. Frisco fell 83 centavos to
53.53 pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading.  “As commodities continue to perform well, people are going
to start digging into the incredibly rich veins of metals
sitting right below the surface in Mexico,” Molano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  