-- Blood Screen Developed for Human Form of Mad-Cow Disease,Scientists Say
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2011-02-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/blood-screen-developed-for-human-form-of-mad-cow-disease-scientists-say.html
British scientists developed a test
that may lead to mass screening of donated blood for the
particles behind a human illness related to mad cow disease.  The test’s sensitivity is 100,000 times greater than that
of any previous attempt at detecting variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease, the malady akin to mad cow, the London-based U.K.
Medical Research Council said in a statement.  The test captures, concentrates and identifies prions,
particles of a type tied to fatal disorders in humans and
animals, researchers said today in the Lancet. Current methods
of keeping prions out of blood supplies in the U.K. are
expensive, such as removing white cells from donated blood and
importing plasma from the U.S., where there is a low incidence
of Creutzfeldt-Jakob.  “Our findings demonstrate the ability to detect prion
infection in blood and show that a donor blood screening test is
technically feasible,” said  John Collinge , a study coauthor
with the Medical Research Council Prion Unit, in an e-mail.  Prions are proteins that are bent out of shape and can’t
function normally. Proteins are the fundamental building blocks
of cells. Each protein must assume a particular shape to perform
its role in the body.  In 1995, researchers recognized variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease as a human illness resulting from exposure to mad cow,
or bovine spongiform encephalopathy -- a prion disease. While
people probably become infected by eating tainted meat, donor
blood and plasma products can also transmit the disease.
Symptoms include personality change and impaired memory and
thinking.  190 Samples  The British scientists used the probe on 190 human blood
samples, including 21 that were infected, of which the test
correctly identified 15, according to the report.  While the study represents an “important breakthrough,”
the test isn’t specific enough to screen large numbers of
people,  Luisa Gregori  of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
said in an accompanying editorial.  “Much more work is needed to develop the assay into a
practical blood screening test,” Gregori wrote.  The number of people infected by variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease remains unclear, according to the study. The researchers
said 237 Britons in a million may carry the disease, with a
lower number of known cases because of the long incubation
period. More than 181,000 cases of mad cow disease have been
confirmed in cattle, and an estimated 1 million to 3 million
livestock may have been infected.  The study was funded by the U.K. Medical Research Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  