-- BofA Mortgage Investors Extend Discussions on Putback Demands
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-02-02T18:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/bofa-pimco-extend-discussions-over-47-billion-in-disputed-mortgage-bonds.html
The investor group including Pacific
Investment Management Co. that is weighing whether to sue  Bank
of America Corp . over about $47 billion in mortgage bonds agreed
to extend talks with the lender for the second time.  The bond owners agreed to renew “their extension of any
time periods” laid out in an Oct. 18 letter, said  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the investors, in a statement e-mailed
late yesterday. The original extension was set to expire at the
end of January, Bank of America Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski told analysts last month in a conference call.  Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, BlackRock
Inc. and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  are among
investors demanding that the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets
repurchase loans packaged into bonds, people familiar with the
dispute said in October. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has said the bank would engage in “hand-to-hand
combat” to reject unwarranted buyback demands.  “We’re not doing anything that’s not going to be in our
shareholders’ best interests, but we always want to talk to
everybody in the world to make sure we understand where they
stand,” Noski said in the Jan. 21 call.  Robert Stickler, a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank, confirmed that discussions were continuing
and declined to say if there was another deadline. The mortgages
in the dispute were created by Countrywide Financial Corp.,
acquired by Bank of America in 2008.  There were 17 financial firms in the bond investor group,
Patrick said in December, when the first extension was
announced. Investment managers, pension funds and insurers are
among the group, said Patrick, of Gibbs & Bruns LLP, who
declined to name the firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  