-- BOJ’s Kamezaki Says Economic Slowdown Is Temporary
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2011-02-02T06:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/boj-s-kamezaki-says-economic-slowdown-temporary-as-exports-gain-yen-falls.html
Japan’s economic slowdown is probably
temporary and the nation is showing signs of picking up thanks
to growing exports and a weaker yen,  Bank of Japan  board member
Hidetoshi Kamezaki said.  “There’s a high chance Japan’s economic slump will end
quickly and the nation will return to a moderate growth path,”
Kamezaki, 67, said today in a speech in Saga, southern Japan. He
added Japan escaping its lull “remains to be seen.”  Kamezaki joins Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and other BOJ
officials who in the past month have expressed optimism that the
economy will emerge from its lull in the first half of this year
after probably contracting in the fourth quarter. Export growth
accelerated for a second month in December and industrial
production increased the most in 11 months, buoyed by demand
from U.S. and  China .  “Recent data has continued to surpass forecasts,”  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist of Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo, said before the speech. “The economy may be already
moving out from its slump in the current quarter.”  Japan’s currency traded at 81.46 per dollar as of 2:44 a.m.
in Tokyo. The yen has fallen 1 percent in the past three months.
It touched a 15-year high of 80.22 per dollar on Nov. 1.  ”The pause in the yen’s advance is also contributing” to
the expectation that the economy will escape from a slump soon,
he said. He later said at a press conference the economy will
start to gain momentum “around spring.”  Asked about the recent appreciation of the yen, Kamezaki
said the central bank is monitoring the  currency market  closely.  Rapid Moves ‘Undesirable’  “Foreign-exchange movements can have a big effect on
corporate and household sentiment as well as profits and we will
carefully watch these moves,” said Kamezaki, a former executive
of trading company Mitsubishi Corp. “It’s always undesirable
for currencies to move rapidly.”  Kamezaki reiterated that the central bank will act
“proactively” when setting monetary policy. He also said that
Japan shouldn’t regard  Europe ’s fiscal woes as a “house burning
on the other side of a river.” Japanese policy makers need to
address the growing debt burden before they lose credibility
among investors, he said.  Standard & Poor’s last week cut Japan’s credit rating to
AA-, the fourth-highest level, saying it expects the country’s
government debt ratios, among the highest in the industrialized
world, to continue to rise.  “Financial markets have reacted calmly” Kamezaki said
about the downgrade, adding that bond yields remain “very
stable.”  Sovereign Debt Concern  He said people need to be aware of the risk that financial
markets could move “suddenly” on concerns about sovereign debt
even if there is no change in the state of the economy or the
nation’s finances.  The board member said any rebound in Japan’s growth
probably wouldn’t be strong because companies and households
remain unwilling to spend “actively” because of uncertainties
over the outlook.  The central bank last month predicted faster inflation and
raised its growth forecasts for the year through March as
surging overseas demand bolsters exports and pushes up commodity
prices. Consumer prices excluding fresh food will increase 0.3
percent in the year starting April, higher than its October
prediction of 0.1 percent, the bank said on Jan. 25.  Government Review  A government review of the  consumer price index  later this
year will likely lead to a downward revision in the index,
according to Sumitomo Mitsui’s Muto. The government revises the
index every five years to reflect current price trends.  “I’m confident the economy is making progress toward
ending deflation,” Kamezaki said. He added that core consumer
prices will rise in the year starting April 1 as commodity costs
advance and the nation’s output gap improves.  The government revision will probably lower prices by as
much as 0.6 percentage point, Muto said. “The chance is pretty
high that core prices will continue to decline in fiscal 2011,”
he said.  Kamezaki said while the rebasing will probably push down
prices, that doesn’t indicate the economy’s underlying trend is
changing.  The central bank needs to monitor the effect of higher
commodity prices on Japan’s economy and prices, Kamezaki said,
adding that it’s undesirable for costs to be driven up by
speculators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  