-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Fall on Decline in December Output; Real Drops
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2011-02-02T21:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-on-decline-in-december-output-real-drops.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell after industrial output unexpectedly
shrank for a second month, easing pressure on the central bank
to raise borrowing costs to cool the economy.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 12.77 percent at 3
p.m. New York time. The yield on the contract maturing in
January 2012 dropped four basis points to 12.34 percent. The
real was little changed at 1.6672 per dollar.  Brazil’s industrial output fell in December, slipping 0.7
percent from the previous month, the national statistics agency
said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The figure was lower than the most
pessimistic prediction among 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
who produced a median forecast for a 0.9 percent increase.  “All the indicators were pointing to expansion -- that’s
why the market was surprised with the industry number,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda.,
the third-biggest currency broker on the BM&FBovespa SA
exchange. “Industry’s weak performance at the end of 2010
legitimizes the concern with a strong currency.”  The drop in output, together with rising consumption,
signals that Brazilians are buying more imports after a 39
percent jump in the real since the end of 2008 cut the cost of
items priced in dollars, Rostagno said.  “The remedy may come through more macro-prudential
measures, which have a direct effect on credit, and not just
through increases in interest rates,” he said.  Containing Inflation  Policy makers need to enact “sound, macro prudential”
policies to contain inflation, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said last week at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . “An enlarged tool kit” is needed to stem
inflation and “excessive” appreciation of the currency,
Tombini said, signaling he will rely less on higher borrowing
costs to cool the economy.  Record job creation and credit growth helped Latin
America’s biggest economy to grow last year at the fastest pace
in more than two decades, according to central bank estimates. A
tight labor market is also stoking inflation, which accelerated
to 6.04 percent in the year through mid-January, the fastest
pace in 25 months.  Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate last month
for the first time since July to 11.25 percent, saying they
started a tightening cycle to bring inflation back to their 4.5
percent target with the help of macro-prudential measures.  Rate Outlook  The central bank will raise the Selic rate by at least 50
basis points at its March meeting, and increase borrowing costs
to about 13 percent by the end of the year, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest-rate futures.  Policy makers said they bought dollars today in the  currency market , first at 1.6651 reais per  U.S. dollar  and then
at 1.6672.  Brazil  purchased $7.29 billion in that market this
year through Jan. 28, according to the central bank. The bank
has regularly bought the currency since 2009 as part of an
effort to stem gains in the real.  “Policy clearly needs to tighten, but currency
considerations mean that this will come through measures other
than simply higher interest rates,”  Neil Shearing , senior
emerging markets economist at London-based Capital Economics,
said in an e-mail. “Reserve requirements will increase and
macro-prudential measures to limit credit growth are likely to
be deployed,” said Shearing, who forecast industrial output
would be unchanged in December, the most accurate prediction
among those compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  