-- Brazil May Reinstate Financial Tax to Fund Health Care, Senate Leader Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2011-02-02T19:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/brazil-may-reinstate-financial-tax-to-fund-health-care-senate-leader-says.html
  Brazil ’s congress may reinstate a
levy on financial transactions to fund health care as part of
President Dilma Rousseff’s plan to overhaul the tax system, the
leader of the government coalition in the Senate said.  Congress in 2007 scrapped a 0.38 percent tax on financial
transactions, known as CPMF, reducing the federal government’s
revenue by about 40 billion reais ($24 billion) a year. The tax
was levied on most financial transactions by businesses and 
individuals, including withdrawals and money transfers.   “It’s a tax I like and it’s easy to collect because it
permeates the entire economy,” Senator Romero Juca, who was
confirmed today as the coalition’s leader in the chamber, said
in an interview from his office in Brasilia. “It will be
discussed as part of the  tax reform .”  Juca, 56, said Rousseff hasn’t decided whether to include
the transactions tax as part of her proposal to simplify the
nation’s tax system. Lawmakers within former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s coalition sided with the opposition to
eliminate the finance charge in 2007, arguing that Brazilian
businesses were already overtaxed.  ‘Politically Unviable’  “Recreating the CPMF without a tax reform is politically
unviable,” said Juca, a member of the Brazilian Democratic
Movement Party, or PMDB, from the state of Roraima in the Amazon
region.  Rousseff, after being elected Brazil’s first female
president Oct. 31, said she’s open to discussing the CPMF with
state governors, though said she has no plans to send a bill to
congress reinstating the tax. In her inaugural address to
lawmakers Jan. 1, she said measures to simplify the country’s
tax system can no longer be postponed.  The president, addressing lawmakers at the start of the new
congressional session today, said she was committed to
“maintaining a macro-economic policy compatible with fiscal
balance, a firm control of inflation and rigorous use of public
money.” She said Brazil can no longer avoid taking steps to
modernize and simplify the country’s tax system.    Minimum Wage   Juca said he will work to “protect” the unity of the
government’s coalition as some members abandon their support for
Rousseff’s proposal to lift Brazil’s monthly minimum wage to 545
reais. Rousseff’s 10-party coalition in the Senate, led by the
PMDB, controls 62 of 81 seats in the chamber.  “There are, inside the party, people who will support a
higher increase,” he said. “We’ll have to work hard to avoid a
clash.”  Rousseff told lawmakers today that she wants to establish
long-term rules that ensure workers receive yearly wage
increases in excess of inflation without jeopardizing the
government’s fiscal targets.  Under Lula, the government and labor unions struck a deal
to grant yearly wage increases based on a formula that takes
into account the previous year’s inflation with economic growth
from two years prior.  Since Brazil’s economy stalled in 2009, during the global
financial crisis, wages were projected to increase 6.5 percent
this year, matching inflation last year as measured by the INPC
price index. In 2012, wages could jump by more than 12 percent
after the economy grew a central bank-estimated 7.3 percent in
2010, its fastest pace in two decades. The government targets
inflation of 4.5 percent.  “We have to keep the rule,” the senator said, adding
lawmakers will likely vote on the government’s minimum-wage
proposal in March. “The formula is good for this year, which is
a year of spending cuts, and it’s promising for workers next
year.”  Juca was first elected to the Senate in 1994 after serving
as governor of Roraima territory, overseeing its transition to
statehood in 1988.  Trained as an economist, he served as the government’s
coalition leader during the presidency of  Fernando Henrique Cardoso  as well as during Lula’s term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  