-- Brazil Industrial Output Unexpectedly Shrank for Second Month in December
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2011-02-02T12:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/brazil-industrial-output-unexpectedly-shrank-for-second-month-in-december.html
  Brazil ’s industrial output
unexpectedly fell for a second straight month in December,
prompting traders to trim bets on interest rate increases.  Output in December fell 0.7 percent from November after a
0.2 percent decline in the previous month, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . Economists had
forecast output to expand 0.9 percent, according to the median
estimate of 29 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg. From a year
earlier, output rose 2.7 percent.  Yields on the most-traded interest rate futures contracts
fell after the industrial output number showed the economy
appears to be expanding at a slower pace. Still, traders expect
the central bank to increase the benchmark interest rate by at
least 0.5 percentage point to 11.75 percent in March to contain
the fastest inflation in more than two years, futures show.  “Competition from imported goods, coupled with some
deceleration in economic activity, explain the surprising
drop,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Industrial production is likely to rebound in the first months
of this year given the level of demand.”  Job Creation  Record job creation coupled with record credit growth
helped Latin America’s biggest economy to grow last year at the
fastest pace in more than two decades, according to central bank
estimates. A tight domestic labor market is also stoking
inflation, which accelerated to 6.04 percent in the year through
mid-January, the fastest pace in 25 months.  Production last year increased 10.5 percent, the biggest
increase since a 10.9 percent expansion in 1986. The country’s
industry shrank 7.4 percent in 2009 amid the global financial
crisis.  Manufacturing of capital goods declined 0.5 percent in
December, while production of  consumer goods  fell 0.9 percent.
Production of electronics and communications equipment fell 13.3
percent.  Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate last month
for the first time since July to 11.25 percent, saying they
started a tightening cycle to bring inflation back to their 4.5
percent target with the help of macro-prudential measures.  The central bank will raise the Selic rate by at least an
additional 50 basis point at its March meeting, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate-futures show.  The yield on interest rate futures contracts due January
2012, the most traded on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.34 percent at 7:18
a.m. New York time. The real, which strengthened 5 percent
against the U.S. dollar last year, fell 0.1 percent to 1.6660
per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy will expand 4.6 percent this
year, according to a survey of 100 analysts published Jan. 31 by
the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  