-- Brazil Will Work With Obama to Counter Rising China Imports, Official Says
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2011-02-03T15:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/brazil-wants-to-work-with-u-s-to-stem-chinese-import-flood-official-says.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
will discuss with her U.S. counterpart Barack Obama ways to
counteract the threat posed by cheap imports from  China , a
Brazilian official said.  China’s policy of undervaluing the yuan will be discussed
when Obama travels to Brazil next month for his first meeting
with Rousseff since she took office Jan. 1, said the official,
who is not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  Rousseff, who will visit China in April, created a  task
force  comprised of trade officials, diplomats, businessmen and
outside experts to suggest policies to cope with rising Chinese
imports. Among the options is a multilateral agreement between
China and Latin American nations to boost manufacturing exports
to the world’s second-largest economy, said the official.  Chinese exports to Brazil rose 61 percent last year to
$25.6 billion as a 34 percent rally by the real against the yuan
since the start of 2009 lowered the cost of imports. The  U.S.
trade deficit  with China soared 21 percent to $252 billion in
the January-November period last year. China overtook the U.S.
as  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner in 2009, as demand for the
South American country’s iron ore and soybeans surged.  Chinese Goods  A survey by Brazil’s  National Industrial Confederation 
published today shows that one out of four manufacturers face
competition from Chinese goods in the local market. In that
group, 45 percent lost market share to Chinese imports, the
survey of 1,529 companies, taken Oct. 4 to Oct. 19, showed.  Of Brazilian companies that export, more than half compete
with Chinese goods overseas, and 67 percent said they lost
foreign clients to China, the survey sent by e-mail said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will discuss
bilateral and Group of 20 issues with senior Brazilian officials
on Feb. 7 in his first visit to Brazil since taking office in
2009, the Treasury Department said Feb. 1.  A spokesman for Rousseff’s office didn’t return phone calls
by Bloomberg News yesterday seeking comment.  Global trade rules under the auspices of the  World Trade
Organization  are powerless for dealing with the competitive edge
provided by China’s currency policy, the official said. Brazil’s
decision last year to raise tariffs on Chinese-made toys to 35
percent, the maximum under provisions of the Geneva-based WTO,
from 20 percent hasn’t helped local toymakers, the official
said.  Deeper Ties  Rousseff has signaled she wants to work more closely with
the U.S. than did her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. On
Dec. 2, she told Washington Post columnist Lally Weymouth she
has “great admiration” for Obama, and in her inaugural speech
to Congress said she hopes to “deepen” ties with the U.S.  Obama said during his State of the Union address last month
that he will visit Brazil as part of his first-ever tour to  South America . He’s also visiting  Chile  and  El Salvador .  The dollar has weakened 3.5 percent against the Chinese
currency over the last two years. The real’s 39 percent gain
against the dollar in the same period is the second-best
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
the Australian dollar.  Yuan A ‘Priority’  Rousseff plans to make China’s trade and currency policies
a “priority” in bilateral relations between the two countries,
Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said Jan. 4. Rousseff is as
concerned about China’s attempts to keep the yuan undervalued as
she is about the weak dollar, Marco Aurelio Garcia, the
president’s special adviser on foreign policy, said Jan. 11.  Complaints about the Chinese currency by policy makers
around the world “do add to the U.S.’s case that the lack of
yuan flexibility impairs the trade pattern globally,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of G-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview in  New York .  A further devaluation of the yuan would “create an
environment of greater flexibility throughout the world and take
some of the pressure off a lot of countries,” Ruskin said.  China has been increasing its investments in Latin
America’s largest economy.  Sinopec Group, as China’s second-largest energy company is
known, agreed last year to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent
stake in Madrid-based Repsol YPF SA’s Brazil unit. In 2009,
China’s development bank agreed to loan state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA $10 billion, and signed a long-term
supply contract with the  oil company .  Economic growth in the U.S. accelerated in the fourth
quarter of 2010 as  consumer spending  climbed by the most in more
than four years. Gross domestic product grew at a 3.2 percent
annual rate.  Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy likely grew 7.3 percent last
year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, according to
central bank estimates.  China’s economy  expanded 9.8 percent in
the fourth quarter.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock benchmark has declined 0.2 percent
over the past year, compared with a 17 percent rally for the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  and 4.6 percent decline in the Shanghai
Composite Index.  China is the U.S.’s second-biggest trading partner,
responsible for $416 billion in trade in the first 11 months of
2010. Brazil, ranked 10th, had $54 billion in trade with the
U.S. during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  