-- Canada's Dollar Rises to Two-Week High, Outperforms Exporters' Currencies
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2011-02-02T22:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/canada-s-dollar-rises-to-two-week-high-on-crude-oil-u-s-jobs-increase.html
  Canada ’s dollar gained to the
strongest level in two weeks versus its U.S. counterpart,
outperforming the currencies of other commodity-exporting
countries as oil traded at almost a two-year high.  Canada’s currency rose against the euro after Ireland’s
credit rating was cut by Standard & Poor’s, renewing concern
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen. Oil, Canada’s
biggest export, traded above $90 per barrel for the third day.  “With what’s going on with oil, that’s definitely helping
out here,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign
exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit. “To see a little bit of a catch-up on the
Canadian dollar side was in the cards.”  The Canadian dollar gained 0.3 percent to 98.79 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in New York, after touching 98.61, the
strongest since Jan. 18. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0117.  Canada’s dollar pared its earlier gain as a surge in
Treasury yields boosted demand for the greenback. Two-year note
yields reached 0.67 percent, the highest level since Jan. 7.  Crude oil futures rose as much as 1.1 percent to $91.78 a
barrel.  The Canadian dollar also rose after companies in the U.S.
added 187,000 workers in January following a revised 247,000
gain in December, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey
called for a 140,000 increase.  “Anything that indicates that U.S. growth is stronger than
expected is positive for the Canadian growth outlook,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in
Toronto.  Jobs Data  Both the U.S. and Canada will report January unemployment
Feb. 4. Canada added 15,000 jobs in the month after a 30,400
gain in December, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, has traded above parity with its
U.S. counterpart every day this year, the longest such period
since December 2007.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper will visit President  Barack Obama  in Washington Feb. 4, amid speculation the two leaders
will sign a security and trade deal designed to speed the flow
of goods and people across the border.  Canadian businesses need to get used to the nation’s
currency trading at parity with its U.S. counterpart, according
to Edmund Clark, chief executive officer of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, the nation’s second-largest lender.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “That’s certainly the feeling,” Clark said in an
interview at Bloomberg offices in New York yesterday. “As long
as  Asia  is growing at the rate it is, you’re going to have
upward pressure on commodities and that’s going to drive the
Canadian currency.”    Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney , who has kept the
overnight lending rate unchanged at 1 percent since boosting it
for the third consecutive meeting in September, said the
currency’s appreciation has threatened growth.  “One of the risks to the Canadian economy is persistent
strength to the Canadian dollar,” Carney said in a Bloomberg
Television interview at the  World Economic Forum ’s meeting in
Davos,  Switzerland , last week.  Canada’s currency outperformed those of other commodity-
exporting countries, such as Australia, after gaining less than
its peers yesterday.  The loonie gained 0.5 percent today in a basket of 10-
developed nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.1 percent
and  Norway ’s krone was little changed. The Canadian dollar
yesterday added 0.1 percent while the Aussie rose 0.5 percent.  Bonds Fall    Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note up as much as six basis points to 3.40
percent, the highest level since June. It later traded at 3.38
percent, up four basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point. The price of 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
dropped 28 cents to C$100.99.  The Bank of Canada sold C$3 billion ($3 billion) of 10-year
notes at an average yield of 3.482 percent. The 3.25 percent
securities mature in June 2021, according to the BOC website.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  