-- Canadian Companies to Deal With Dollar Parity, Toronto-Dominion CEO Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/canadian-companies-to-deal-with-dollar-parity-toronto-dominion-ceo-says.html
Canadian businesses need to get used
to the nation’s currency trading at parity with its U.S.
counterpart, according to Edmund Clark, chief executive officer
of  Toronto-Dominion Bank , the nation’s second-largest lender.  “That’s certainly the feeling,” Clark said in an
interview at Bloomberg offices in New York yesterday. “As long
as  Asia  is growing at the rate it is, you’re going to have
upward pressure on commodities and that’s going to drive the
Canadian currency.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, has traded above parity every day
this year, the longest such period since December 2007. The two
currencies hit parity in September 2007 for the first time in
three decades following a 60 percent climb over five years
fueled by rising commodity prices.  Canada is the world’s biggest producer of potash, the third
largest of natural gas and sixth biggest of oil, which about
doubled in price in the past two years, according to U.S. Energy
Information Administration data.  Toronto-Dominion’s commercial customers made changes in
business practices two to three years ago because of the
strengthening Canadian dollar, Clark said.  “Several years ago the average business person said ‘I
better get used to a par dollar because we’re never going back
down,’” he said. “The population is now saying we’ve got to
get the productivity to justify the par dollar.”  The loonie climbed 5.5 percent last year and 16 percent in
2009 after ending 2008 at C$1.2188. The currency weakened 0.3
percent against its U.S. counterpart in January to C$1.0010.  Carney’s Concern  Canadian companies such as Bombardier Inc. and government
officials have warned that the stronger dollar is hampering
exports and has caused  Canada ’s current-account deficit -- the
broadest measure of trade -- to widen to a record C$17.5 billion
($17.5 billion) in the third quarter of 2010. Exports accounted
for about 32 percent of gross domestic product in 2009,
according to government figures.  “One of the risks to the Canadian economy is persistent
strength to the Canadian dollar,”  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said in a Bloomberg Television interview at the  World
Economic Forum ’s meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , last week.  Carney has kept the overnight lending rate unchanged since
boosting it for the third consecutive meeting in September. The
Bank of Canada said Jan. 18 that increases would be
“carefully” considered. At the same time, higher rates may
provide a stronger incentive to buy the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  