-- Chili Peppers Indicate Inflation Is Heating Up: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2011-02-02T22:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/chili-peppers-indicate-inflation-heating-up-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
It’s hot in  Indonesia  these days, and
I don’t just mean the equatorial weather.  We’re talking about two things that rarely fuse together:
Chili peppers and hot money. Try chatting up a local without
both topics coming up. The reason: Record prices for the fiery
spice Indonesians eat at breakfast, lunch and dinner are partly
due to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.  La Nina weather patterns also are to blame. Yet near-zero
interest rates set by central bankers in  Washington , Tokyo and  Frankfurt  are sending torrents of cash to Asia in destabilizing
ways. Inflation in Indonesia almost doubled to 7 percent last
month from a year earlier.  Indonesians will put up with all kinds of indignities.
Rising rents? Dismal infrastructure? Endemic corruption? Public
inefficiency? Such is life. But a four- or five-fold surge in
chili prices? An outrage!  The message is clear: Policy makers must intensify their
inflation battle immediately and  interest rates  aren’t enough.  This is more than an exercise in avoiding ugly consumer-
price-index readings. It’s about social stability in emerging
economies that suffer from an underappreciated vulnerability.
East Asia is home to a critical mass of those surviving on less
than $2 a day. For families, surging costs for chili peppers,
rice and cooking oils are a desperate issue.  Chili Crisis  That hasn’t been missed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. Unable to control the weather or ultralow interest
rates in bigger economies, he is urging Indonesians to grow
their own chili plants in pots. When a busy Asian leader is
offering advice about spices, you know we have problems.  Inflation is a real danger, of which the fast-unfolding
events in  Egypt  serve as a reminder. While 30 years of
autocratic rule are what’s forcing President Hosni Mubarak from
office, 10 percent-plus inflation isn’t helping.  What can  Asia  do? Recently, I had an interesting debate
with a group of economists and businesspeople in Jakarta that
reminded me of the extent to which policy makers are in
uncharted territory and that conventional thinking is losing its
clout in our financial world.  It went something like this: Food costs and wages are
surging. So are oil and gold prices. Telltale signs of inflation
are bubbling up everywhere. What’s a responsible Asian central
banker to do? Cut rates, of course. Huh?  Overheating Risks  The missing link to explain why smart, worldly individuals
would so blatantly forsake their Milton Friedman is hot money.
It’s creating havoc in Asia and adding to overheating risks. Now,
none of this is going to happen. Friedman’s views on excess
money fueling inflation remain persuasive. In Asia’s case, it
means massive asset bubbles that could lead to another crisis.  Yet the fact such ideas are bouncing about speaks to the
extreme uncertainties of our times. Higher rates will make Asia
even more attractive to overseas investors, adding to already
considerable inflation risks.  Governments must be more creative and interventionist.
Here’s where Asia tosses aside Friedman’s faith in the self-
disciplining magic of markets. The free-markets crowd will take
exception, but scant few of its members are on the ground in
Bangkok, Jakarta or  Kuala Lumpur . These places are on the front
lines of liquidity washing Asia’s way.  The Real Menace  Economists are prodding  China ,  India , Indonesia, the  Philippines ,  South Korea  and  Vietnam  to boost rates. Governments
also must step up efforts to avoid social instability from  Mumbai  to  Manila , where rising food costs are the real menace.  “Markets are becoming increasingly impatient,” says Fauzi Ichsan, Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  When investors worry about runaway Asian economies, they’re
often thinking about China, now the second biggest in the world.
Fast-rising wages there mean the biggest export from the globe’s
factory floor this year may be inflation. Shopping at Wal-Mart
may never, ever be the same.  It’s now becoming a generalized, regional risk, though.
Asia may face a “hard landing” if authorities don’t act faster,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn said in  Singapore  on Feb. 1. In all likelihood, that means  capital controls  to limit fund inflows.  Watch the Leverage  Expect more tweaks to what economists call “macro-
prudential policies,” including steps to slow the rise of
property prices and tighten standards for exposure to foreign
currency borrowing. Leverage is the real worry here. While
everyone agrees too much liquidity is dangerous, the key is
locating where those excesses exist. Policy makers should be
paying close attention to leverage ratios.  Asia, with the exception of Japan, is booming. Any cursory
look at data on gross domestic product and stock performance
shows that. The trouble is, the region has too much of a good
thing on its hands. Too many investors are seeking higher
returns at the same time  Europe  is quaking and America’s outlook
is shaky.  As economies here get too hot for their own good, policy
makers must reassert themselves. If they have any doubts, the
proof is in those red-hot spices sitting on the dinner table.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  