-- Clinton Urges Investigation Into New Cairo Violence
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-02-02T22:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/clinton-urged-investigation-into-cairo-violence-crowley-says.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke today to Egypt’s new vice president,  Omar Suleiman , and urged him to conduct an investigation into
violence that rocked Cairo’s Tahrir Square.  “She emphasized our condemnation of the violence that
occurred today and the responsibility of the government to hold
fully accountable those who did it,” said  Philip J. Crowley ,
the State Department spokesman.  Crowley said the U.S. doesn’t know who is behind attacks
on protesters, which left more than 1,000 injured, according to
the  Al Jazeera  television network. “Whoever they are, there
needs to be accountability here,” Crowley said. “This was
clearly an attempt at intimidating the demonstrators.”  Supporters of Egypt’s President  Hosni Mubarak  clashed in
central Cairo with demonstrators who were demanding an
immediate end to the 30-year tenure of the leader. Mubarak said
yesterday he planned to stay in office until elections,
scheduled for September.  The U.S. has called on Mubarak to begin the transition of
power immediately. “Tomorrow is not good enough,” Crowley
said.  “The U.S wants to see elections in  Egypt  as soon as
possible, Crowley said. “What we want to see is a credible
process that leads to free, fair, legitimate elections.”  Aid Under Review  Crowley said the U.S. has no plans to reduce the $1.5
billion in military and economic aid it provides to Egypt. He
said, however, “this is something we will continually review
based on ongoing events.”  Crowley praised the Egyptian army for its professionalism
and said it was in the “difficult position” of trying to be a
stabilizing force without being forced to choose sides. The
army “will obviously play a role in this transition,” Crowley
said.  President  Barack Obama  dispatched former Ambassador Frank Wisner to Egypt, where the diplomat told Mubarak on Jan. 31
that his time in office was coming to an end. Wisner, who is
still in Egypt, also met with Suleiman, Crowley said. The U.S.
has had no official contact with the Muslim Brotherhood,
Egypt’s largest opposition group, Crowley said.  The State spokesman said the U.S. wouldn’t object if the
Brotherhood took part in future elections. The group is legally
banned from politics, so its members campaign as independents.  ‘Fact of Life’  “They are a fact of life in Egypt; they are highly
organized,” Crowley said of the group. “If they choose to
participate and respect the Democratic process, those are
decisions to be made inside Egypt.”  Crowley said the U.S. wouldn’t try to “anoint” a
particular candidate in any future election.  “This is not our process,” he said. “Our point is this
transition, this process to fundamental change, needs to begin
now.”  In a nod to the ripple effects of Egypt’s upheaval,
Crowley said the U.S. “would hope the next government of Egypt
would play a constructive role in the  peace process ” between
Israelis and Palestinians.  He dismissed calls by Suleiman for the demonstrators to go
home before dialogue begins. “I don’t think it’s credible to
say no dialogue can begin until the protesters leave the
streets,” Crowley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  