-- Commodities Traders May Face Curbs Under EU Proposal
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-02-02T12:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/commodities-traders-may-face-curbs-under-proposal-from-european-commission.html
Commodity traders in the  European
Union  may face restrictions including position limits under
proposals from the European Commission aimed at curbing
excessive price volatility.  Curbing the proportion of a commodity derivatives market
that a single trader can control may help rein in “excessive
speculation,” the commission said in an e-mailed  statement .
Price fluctuations hurt farmers, food-makers and consumers,
including in the poorest countries, the commission said.  “We need regulators to keep a closer eye on positions
taken up in respect of commodity derivatives,”  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief told reporters in Brussels
today. “This will include the possibility of introducing
position limits if necessary,” he said. “Personally speaking I
believe in this.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in Davos last week
that speculation was driving up food prices. World food costs
rose to a record in December on higher costs for sugar, grain
and oilseeds, according to a United Nations report earlier this
month, contributing to the uprising that ousted  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14. Protests have spread to  Egypt ,  Algeria ,  Morocco  and Yemen.  The possible trading measures are included in a strategy
paper  published  today by the commission on  commodities markets 
and raw materials.  Rare Earths  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, said it
plans to identify “priority actions” to ensure access to 14
“critical” raw materials. This list includes so-called rare
earths -- a group of 17 chemically similar materials used in
renewable energy, magnets, electric cars and weapons.  Position limits restrict the relative share of the market
occupied by one investor. Such limits should take account of
“the specificities of the different types of derivative
products,” and the “evolution of the physical market of the
relevant commodity,” the commission said.  Restrictions could be applied to derivatives both traded on
exchanges and over the counter, the commission said. Barnier
said the EU executive is examining whether to apply them to
“real” markets as well as derivatives.  Measures will be included in draft laws on market abuse and
transparency of securities transactions that the commission
plans to present “before the end of the summer,” Barnier said.  Investment funds “have a lot of clout and if they put
themselves on one particular side of the scale then that is
going to affect markets and prices,” said Dacian Ciolos, the
EU’s agriculture commissioner.  One “possible reason for volatility is because there is a
lack of transparency,” Ciolos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 