-- Cyclone Hits Australian Sugar as Global Prices Surge
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2011-02-03T05:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/cyclone-yasi-hits-australian-sugar-crops-price-advances-to-30-year-high.html
Sugar cane plantations in Australia,
the third-largest exporter, suffered severe damage after
Tropical Cyclone Yasi cut through an area accounting for a third
of output, helping send futures prices to a 30-year high.  “We are going to see a massive reduction in the amount of
sugar that region produces,” Steve Greenwood, chief executive
officer of  Brisbane-based producers group Canegrowers said
today on Bloomberg television.  Yasi, packing winds stronger than those from  Hurricane
Katrina , crossed overnight into northern Queensland, which also
accounts for 85 percent of Australia’s banana output. The
cyclone, which also hit the towns of Mission Beach, Tully and
Innisfail, is moving inland toward Mt. Isa, where  Xstrata Plc 
has begun evacuating staff at its copper and zinc operations.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 4 percent to 35.31 cents
per pound yesterday after earlier reaching 36.08 cents, the
highest price for a most-active contract since November 1980.
The contract resumes trading on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  at
7:30 p.m. Sydney time.  “Sugar at the moment is sitting at near 30-year highs and
the sugar market is very tight,” Rabobank Groep NV commodity
analyst  Wayne Gordon  said on Bloomberg television today. “This
will continue to put upward pressure on prices.”  Mine, Port Closures  Coal and zinc mines shut and coal ships headed out to sea
before the storm, which earlier prompted the closure of coal
ports at Dalrymple Bay and Abbot Point. Xstrata joined  Rio Tinto 
Group and Kagara Ltd. in halting mining operations.  Still, the main path of the cyclone skirted the bulk of the
coal producing area of the state that was hit by floods in the
past two months. Queensland is the world’s biggest supplier of
steelmaking coal  Australia’s raw sugar production could drop to about 3.3
million metric tons, compared with expectations of 4.2 million
to 4.3 million tons before Yasi struck and after two months of
heavy rain and flooding in Queensland, Gordon said. Production
slumped to the lowest level in nearly two decades in 2010
because of record wet weather.  “The main impact of Yasi will be to prevent a strong
recovery in Australian sugar production,”  Luke Mathews  a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  said
today by phone from Sydney today.  Sugar Forecast  Production next season may be about the same level as last
year’s 3.6 million tons, Mathews said. The Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences last month
 forecast  output of 4 million tons.  Australia would typically produce about 33 million tons of
cane, which converts to about 4 million to 4.5 million tons of
sugar, Greenwood said. Output may be reduced by 4 million to 5
million metric tons, which would convert to “below a million
tons” of lost raw sugar, Greenwood said.  Canegrowers estimated losses including damage to crops and
farms from Yasi of at least A$500 million ($505 million).  The cyclone flattened banana trees in the largest producing
region of  Australia  and would lead to shortages in about two or
three weeks, Jonathan Eccles, chief executive officer of the
Australian Banana Growers’ Council said today by phone.  Banana Trees  “Because of the size of this cyclone that there would be
very few farms that would not have been hit in some form or
another,” Eccles said today by phone.  Century, the world’s second-largest zinc mine, had shut
down and may be closed until Feb. 6, Bruce Loveday, a spokesman
for Minmetal Resources Ltd.’s MMG unit, said by phone. The
shutdown won’t have a “big impact” on annual production, he
said. Kagara shut its Mt. Garnet zinc mine and treatment plant,
Chairman Kim Robinson said by phone.  Xstrata also closed its Newlands coal mine as Yasi
approached.  The company will assess the operation later today,  James Rickards , a spokesman for Xstrata, said by phone. It
earlier closed the Collinsville coal mine.    BHP Billiton Ltd . started emergency preparedness at its
Cannington mine as the cyclone crossed the coast, according to
an e-mail from Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman. Rio
Tinto shut coal mines, while ports and rail lines operated by QR
National Ltd. remain closed after shutdowns began on Jan. 31.  Ports, Rail  “QR National has started assessing its rail network and
other assets in areas affected by Cyclone Yasi,” Mark Hairsine,
Brisbane-based spokesman for the company said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. “The inspections are commencing as
soon as authorities deem it safe to return.”  Queensland Nickel Pty, a company controlled by billionaire  Clive Palmer , on Feb. 1 closed its Yabulu refinery. The plant
has an annual production capacity of 30,000 tons of nickel and
2,000 tons of cobalt.  Resolute Mining Ltd . yesterday shut its
Ravenswood gold mine, 95 kilometers southwest of Townsville.  Yasi left an estimated 178,000 north Queensland homes,
businesses and other customers without electricity, with power
to some areas likely cut for as long as a month, Ergon Energy
said.  The cyclone, the first Category 5 to strike Queensland since
1918, is the latest natural disaster to batter the state during
the southern hemisphere’s summer. Two months of rain and
flooding have left 35 people dead, disrupted coal mining and
left a cleanup tab of at least A$5.6 billion ($5.66 billion.)  Hurricane Katrina devastated  New Orleans  in August 2005
with winds of as much as 280 kilometers an hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  