-- Cyclone Yasi, Stronger Than Katrina, Hits Australia
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-02T22:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/cyclone-yasi-slams-australian-coast-bringing-winds-stronger-than-katrina.html
Tropical Cyclone Yasi, packing winds
stronger than those from  Hurricane Katrina  that devastated New
Orleans, struck Australia’s northeast coast early today, lashing
communities with the force of a storm described by authorities
as the largest in the nation’s history.  Yasi hit shore as a Category 5 storm about 165 kilometers
(103 miles) south of Cairns in Mission Beach, a resort town of
about 3,000 people, battering Queensland state’s coast with wind
gusts of as much as 290 kilometers per hour, the  Bureau of
Meteorology  said. The cyclone has been downgraded to Category 2
and continues to weaken, according to the bureau’s website.  Though the towns of Mission Beach, Tully and Innisfail
suffered the worst damage, larger population areas such as
Cairns and Townsville escaped the brunt of the storm,
authorities said. Yasi also ripped a path through key sugarcane
growing areas in the state.  “We certainly seem to have areas like Cairns with serious
damage to vegetation, trees and roofs,” Premier  Anna Bligh  told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio, adding she was thankful the
cyclone didn’t hit land at a major population center and that no
deaths or injuries had been reported. “Some of the towns worst
affected are smaller and more remote places.”  Sugar futures surged to a 30-year high in  London .
Australia’s dollar fell from almost a one-month high, trading at
$1.0068 as of 11:45 a.m. in  New York , down from $1.0111 the
previous day when it touched $1.0149.  Threat to Life  The cyclone, coming just weeks after the state capital,
Brisbane, was hit by the worst flooding since 1974, was “likely
to be more life threatening than any experienced during recent
generations,” according to the  Bureau of Meteorology .  “Hills have been stripped of vegetation and I have a power
line lying on the ground right outside the window,” said Rhonda
Murdoch, owner of Montage Beach Apartments at Mission Beach.
“The wind was roaring, whistling and we could hear crashing
outside. It looks like a war zone.”  More than 173,500 people have lost power, schools and
airports are closed and military forces were used to airlift 200
hospital patients to Brisbane about 1,500 kilometers to the
south.  The cyclone will last as long as three days and may still
be a category 1 storm, defined by winds of up to 125 kilometers
an hour, by Feb. 4, when it may reach Mt. Isa about 900
kilometers inland, Bligh said. The core will take four hours to
pass, according to the weather bureau.  Bananas, Sugarcane  Yasi is more severe than Category 4 Cyclone Larry, which
wiped out most of Australia’s banana crop and devastated sugar
cane fields almost five years ago.  Hurricane Katrina , which hit  New Orleans  in Aug. 2005, had winds of as much as 280 kilometers
per hour.  “This was terrifying, much worse than Larry,” said
Nicholas Pervan who has 52 people staying at his Codge Lodge
Backpackers Resort in Innisfail, which has a population of about
9,000. “Everyone’s well and accounted for, but we’re all a bit
shaken. It’s not light enough yet to assess the damage.”  Yasi will weaken as it moves in a west-southwesterly
direction toward the Georgetown area in the state’s north, the
weather bureau said on its website.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who has provided help to
Queensland from the nation’s military, said Yasi is the worst
cyclone Australia has seen.  Military Support  “The people of  Australia  will be there to help the people
of far North Queensland through,” Gillard told reporters in
Canberra yesterday. “As the cyclone passes through and the
hours that follow afterwards, arrangements are already being
made to make available assets from our Australian Defence
Force.”  Some 10,680 people are being sheltered in more than 20
evacuation centers along the coast to avoid a  storm surge  that
is forecast to trigger flooding, Bligh said.  All but one of the designated evacuation centers in Cairns
were full and turning away late arrivals, the municipal
government reported on its  website . The city of more than
120,000 people, about 1,700 kilometers north of Brisbane, is a
tourist destination and gateway to the Great Barrier Reef.  The storm may affect more than 900 kilometers of coastline
between Cape Flattery and Sarina.  Power Outages  The last Category 5 cyclone to strike the Queensland coast
was in 1918, Bligh said. Cyclone Larry crossed near Innisfail in
2006, causing an estimated A$500 million ($504 million) of
damage to infrastructure and crops, damaging about 10,000 homes
and disrupting road and rail access for several days, the
weather bureau said on its website.  Some 173,500 homes were left without power, Ergon Energy
said in a posting on its Facebook page. The majority of those
hit by the outage are in the Townsville and Ingham area, the
Queensland-government owned utility said in the posting.  A group of six elderly people who called seeking an
evacuation from the town of Hinchinbrook can’t be helped because
conditions prevent any rescue efforts, state disaster
coordinator Ian Stewart told reporters.  Coastal residents were warned of a storm tide as the
cyclone approaches, with the tide in Townsville reaching the
three meter mark and possible surges of as much as 7 meters,
according to Stewart.  Economy Hit  Queensland is beginning a recovery effort estimated to cost
at least A$5 billion as its economy prepares for slower growth
because of flooding since November, Bligh said Jan. 28. The
state contributes about 19 percent of Australia’s economic
output, producing 80 percent of the country’s coking coal,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month.  Tourists in Cairns, the Whitsundays and Townsville, popular
centers for cruises to the Great Barrier Reef, rushed to board
flights late yesterday before airports closed.  Losses to the sugar cane industry in the region, which
accounts for about a third of Australian production, may be
A$500 million, Steve Greenwood, chief executive officer of
industry group Canegrowers, said in an e-mail.  Banana plantations in Queensland, which account for 85
percent of national production, face “catastrophic” losses
while a fifth of the state’s A$3.3 billion cattle herd may be
wiped out, the  National Farmers’ Federation  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Century, the world’s second-largest zinc mine, slowed
operations because of the cyclone, Bruce Loveday, a spokesman
for Minmetal Resources Ltd.’s MMG unit, said yesterday by phone.  Kagara Ltd . shut its Mt. Garnet zinc mine and treatment plant,
Chairman Kim Robinson said by phone.  Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc  shut coal mines, while
ports and rail lines are closed. At least 32 coal ships have
headed out to sea after Hay Point harbor and the Abbot Point
export terminal were shut, according to North Queensland Bulks
Ports Corp. and Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  