-- Czech Interest Rates Kept at Record Low in Close Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2011-02-03T16:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/czech-central-bank-may-leave-main-rate-unchanged-signal-quicker-increases.html
The Czech central bank board voted 4-
3 today to leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low,
showing the debate on the timing of policy tightening is
intensifying as inflation and an economic recovery gather pace.  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept the two-week repurchase rate
at 0.75 percent, in line with the forecasts of all 18 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Three board members voted for a quarter-
point increase, Governor Miroslav Singer told a news conference.
The bank has kept rates stable since May after cutting by 3
percentage points in less than two years as the global crisis
pushed the country into the worst recession in two decades.  Policy makers globally are struggling to weigh accelerating
inflation, driven by food and fuel prices, against an economic
recovery. Investors have increased bets the Prague-based Czech
central bank will lift interest rates at around the middle of
the year, disregarding the bank’s forecast of market borrowing
costs rising around the end of 2011.  “The vote was surprising,” said  Martin Lobotka , an
analyst at Ceska Sporitelna, the Prague-based unit of Erste
Group Bank AG. “Doves prevailed only by a small margin.”  Expiring Terms  The bank didn’t publish individual votes of the board
members and, Lobotka said, the policy debate may differ at the
next meeting on March 24 as the terms of two policy members,  Robert Holman  and Pavel Rezabek, expire on Feb. 13. President
Vaclav Klaus will decide whether to re-appoint or replace them.  The koruna firmed as much as 0.8 percent to the euro after
the result of the vote was published. It traded at 23.982 as of
4:31 p.m. in  Prague , up 0.6 percent on the day. The currency has
gained 4.3 percent to the euro since the start of the year,
making it the world’s best-performing currency in the period,
according to Bloomberg data.  The central bank revised its economic growth and inflation
forecasts upward in an acknowledgement of external pressures. It
now sees gross domestic product rising 1.6 percent compared with
its November estimate of 1.2 percent. GDP growth in 2012 will
accelerate to 3 percent, it said, up from a previous forecast of
2.5 percent.  The bank sees inflation in the first quarter of 2012 at 2
percent, matching its target, while price growth should quicken
to 2.1 percent in the following three months. The inflation rate
rose to 2.3 percent in December, the highest since March 2009
and exceeded the central bank’s target of 2 percent, driven by
higher costs of food and gas.  Inflation risks “are balanced overall, although it’s maybe
worth noting that the bank board views pro-inflationary risks as
increasing,” Singer said.  ‘Gradual Increase’  The forecast assumes “stable market interest rates near
current levels, followed by a gradual increase from the end of
2011,” the central bank said in a statement. The bank doesn’t
publish an official policy bias and Singer said board decisions
may differ from the forecast with the koruna affecting policy.  The bank sees the koruna trading at 24.2 to the euro on
average in 2011 and 23.7 on average in the following year,
according to the updated forecasts.  Forward-rate agreements indicating the three-month  interbank rate  in six months rose to 1.71 percent today, from
1.65 percent before the rate decision. The three-month Prague
Interbank Offered Rate, or PRIBOR, increased to 1.21 at 1.20
percent, according to Bloomberg data. The forward rate was 1.48
percent at the beginning of December, when the PRIBOR stood at
1.22 percent.  Recovery  East  Europe  is recovering from the impact of the worst
global recession since World War II, benefiting from improved
demand for goods produced or assembled in the region, including
Nokia Oyj phones and cars made by Volkswagen AG’s Audi and Skoda
Auto AS units.  Some central banks in east Europe began tightening policy
last month amid signs of an accelerating economic recovery.  Hungary raised its benchmark rate a quarter-point to 6
percent, the third consecutive increase, while the Polish
central bank raised borrowing costs by a quarter-point to 3.75
percent from a record low to tame inflation expectations and
strengthen the zloty.  The market may be “overreacting and pricing-in too many”
rate increases,  Ceska Sporitelna ’s Lobotka said. The combination
of stronger koruna, budget cuts, low demand-led inflation, the
economy running below its full capacity and inflation drivers
coming from abroad “isn’t exactly making it necessary for the
central bank to hike immediately,” he said, forecasting the
first increase in interest rates in the third quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  