-- Czechs Call for Quarantine as Missing CO2 Permits Are Found
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a ,   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-02-02T16:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/czechs-call-for-quarantine-as-missing-co2-permits-found-in-u-k-germany.html
The  Czech Republic  said it traced
a batch of stolen carbon permits and urged the European Union
to help stop contamination of the market when it lifts a halt 
imposed two weeks ago.  OTE AS, operator of the registry that tracks ownership of
Czech allowances, said 20 million euros ($28 million) of permits
were found in  Estonia ,  Germany  and the U.K. The European
Commission, which suspended all 30 registries in the world’s
biggest emissions-trading system on Jan. 19 after a series of
hacking attacks, expects the first resumptions later this week.  “If they don’t find a way to freeze those permits, they
will be on the market as soon as the registries reopen and
trading resumes,” said Jiri Stastny, director of OTE. “We are
voluntarily cooperating with other countries, but we need
assistance from the commission,” Stastny said in a phone
interview in  Prague  today.  The EU website in Brussels showed no announcements as of 4
p.m. that registries are set to reopen. The commission is
requiring nations to submit independent reports showing they
have minimum security in place before they are allowed to
restart. Last month’s hacking attacks in the Czech Republic,  Austria  and  Greece  have led investors including  Barclays Plc  to
pull back from the market, valued at $100 billion a year.  The U.K. emissions registry said it met the EU requirements
and expects permission to reopen as soon as possible. An
official at the French registry said the EU regulator is
analyzing its report on security.  Futures Trading  Carbon permits for December, which continue to trade
despite the suspensions of registries and prompt markets, rose
0.7 percent to 14.96 euros a ton on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange in London as of 4:32 p.m. The  spot market  has been
halted for a 14th day as all registry transactions except for
the allocation and surrender of allowances remained blocked.  While officials in the three countries attacked by hackers
managed to track down the missing permits, the Czech registry
said the complexity of regulations and differences in national
laws makes return of allowances a long and difficult process.  The Czech registry said 1.36 million permits were illegally
transferred from the country. That includes 475,000 allowances
reported missing by the Brno-based trader Blackstone Global
Ventures and 700,000 by CEZ AS, the biggest Czech utility.  “There are no Europe-wide rules on how to proceed in the
case of a blanket attack of this kind,” Stastny said in a
telephone interview. “I think the minute the registries reopen,
the stolen permits will get on the market, and that will
complicate our and the police’s lives.”  ‘Different Approaches’  The EU said last month the recovery of any allowances
transferred illegally has not been harmonized in the 27-nation
bloc and is a matter for national law and local enforcement
authorities. “Generally, allowances continue to represent
legally valid and tradable compliance instruments, but national
civil and criminal laws have different approaches,” it said on
its website.  The commission has estimated around 2 million permits might
have been stolen last month. Organized crime may be responsible
for the theft, and national authorities are working with Europol
to catch the criminals, according to a top EU climate official.  The series of computer-hacking raids, which followed
“carousel fraud” involving value-added tax collection and
password ‘phishing” last year, show some member states and
firms neglected security rules,  Jos Delbeke , director general
for climate at the European Commission, said Jan. 28.  ‘Very Disillusioned’  “I am very disillusioned by the way the commission is
handling this,” Stastny said. “The police don’t have a tool to
solve the problem quickly either. The thieves know this, and
they are at an advantage because they can process several
electronic trades a minute.”  As trading in the spot carbon market is set to resume with
the reopening of registries, Barclays said access to trading
should be limited to emitters and regulated firms.  The “criminal element” is driving away legitimate
traders, according to an e-mailed statement sent today by Louis Redshaw, managing director of environmental markets at  Barclays
Capital  in  London . Barclays has traded 5 billion tons of carbon
since the program started in 2005.  Preventing access to the prompt market “is an over-
reaction to an unacceptable situation,” said Mark Meyrick, head
of the Rotterdam-based carbon desk at Eneco Holding NV., the
Dutch utility. “Good information-technology security should not
be beyond the wit of the registry owners, and it’s noticeable
that some registries have much stronger security than others.”  The International Emissions Trading Association said last
month that that “protracted closures” of registries may
jeopardize liquidity in Europe’s six-year old carbon program,
known as the ETS.  “Of course the traders are complaining that we are holding
them hostage by closing the registries,” Stastny said. “The
commission is pushing us to reopen as soon as we can guarantee
the required security so permits aren’t stolen again. But that
doesn’t solve the problem of those allowances which have already
been stolen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  