-- Daltrey’s $7,500 Rent-a-Rocker Camp Sells Power Jams to Boomers
-- B y   P a u l   G o g u e n
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/daltrey-s-7-500-rent-a-rocker-camp-sells-power-jams-to-boomers-with-dough.html
The vacuum tubes on my Albion amp are
glowing nicely and the volume’s set to peel paint off the walls.
I’m on lead guitar; behind the drum kit is Rick Taiano from
Queens, New York. The second guitarist, Jim LaTorre, is from  Boston .  Fearlessly we launch into The Who’s “Behind Blue Eyes”
with our front man, Roger Daltrey.  This wasn’t even the only highlight of my time at  Rock and
Roll Fantasy Camp , where aspiring rock stars get to jam with
their real-life idols.  Packages start at $5,499 for the 4-day “Rock Star,”
$7,499 for the 6-day “Headliner.” Pony up $9,999 for the
“Recording Star” package and you also get 20 hours of studio
time. (I was embedded with the campers as a member of the
press.)  Actual, in-the-flesh rockers lead the camper bands here on
their wannabe magical mystery tours. Johnny Winter drummer Sandy
Gennaro, Quiet Riot bassist Rudy Sarzo, Poison guitarist Richie
Kotzen, Queen keyboardist Spike Edney and Alice Cooper bassist-
vocalist Kip Winger were among the 10 “counselors” guiding
campers of varying degrees of ability. (Although my “camp”
took place in  New York , the gatherings are held in different
cities; there’s one coming up in the Bahamas.)  Hit Factory  On the first day of my “Rock Star” retreat, we were sent
to the  Gibson  showroom on West 54th Street, former home of the
legendary Hit Factory recording studios. It’s a labyrinth of
soundproof rooms, each outfitted with everything a band could
need.  We were offered a chance to sign out a Gibson guitar (the
most famous models are the Hummingbird acoustic and the Les Paul
electric) for the duration of the camp, issued a swag bag with
strings and drum sticks, and turned loose to jam with other
campers.  Later, we auditioned for the counselors, so that they could
evaluate our playing skills. After that the lineups for each
band were announced. Edney, who has also worked with Duran Duran
and the Rolling Stones, was my counselor.  Spike decided it would be cool if we composed an original
song to perform at our gig at  B.B. King’s  in Times Square. After
a day spent brainstorming lyrics and melodies, we had a pounding
shuffle with lyrics about our doomed society -- rock bliss, in
other words.  Then it was off to a master class with Kotzen, who talked
about his career, experiences and guitar-playing style.
Afterward, a few of us who still had energy jammed in the band
rooms.  250 Girls  On day three our band, now named 250 Brazilian Girls, was
off to  Avatar Studios  on West 53rd Street to record our song.
Spike directed the recording session expertly and, much like an
episode of “Glee,” it was wrapped up in about an hour.  After lunch it was another afternoon of rehearsals to
prepare for the big show.  While we were rehearsing, Daltrey showed up to listen to
our song and then performed “Behind Blue Eyes” with us -- an
experience I’ll never forget.  Our final day was given over to rehearsing for the
performance at B.B. King Blues Club and Grill along with the
nine other camper bands.  Nervous excitement was in the air at the venue, punctuated
by a chaotic scene backstage and a full house in front. Donning
our rock attire, we took the stage and played our 10-minute set,
which felt more like 10 seconds. Well, 10 awesome seconds.  It was a far richer experience than video games like Guitar
Hero or Rock Band that are hugely popular and strictly banned
from my PS3.  ‘Transformation’  “It was really great to see the transformation that took
place,” my bandmate and new friend Ken Freirich said. “Eight
strangers with totally different backgrounds joined together by
the love and passion for rock ‘n’ roll. What we accomplished as
a unified and cohesive band was amazing.”  (The next camp is Feb. 17-20 at the Atlantis Resort in the
Bahamas with Tommy Lee of Motley Crue, Ace Frehley of Kiss, Lita
Ford of the Runaways and George Lynch of Dokken.)  (Paul Goguen is a photographer and reporter for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Paul Goguen in New York at 
 pgoguen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 