-- Domestic Chinese Developers Strengthening Position, Tishman's Co-CEO Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2011-02-02T22:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/domestic-chinese-developers-strengthening-position-tishman-s-co-ceo-says.html
Commercial real estate developments
by builders based in  China  are becoming more competitive with
those by such overseas competitors as Tishman Speyer Properties
LP, the company’s co-chief executive officer said today.  Rob Speyer in December traveled to Chengdu and visited a
project by a Chinese developer that would be a "world-class
building" in midtown Manhattan,  London  or  Frankfurt , he said.
Speyer’s company, owner of New York’s Rockefeller Center, is
investing in office, retail, residential and mixed-use projects
in Chinese cities including Shanghai, Tianjin and Chengdu.  "It symbolized how the Chinese real estate business --
particularly the domestic builders -- have evolved and
strengthened their position in the last 10 years," Speyer said
during the Bloomberg Link China Investment Strategies conference
in  New York . "As a non-domestic developer, we’re going to
continue to have to add greater degrees of value in order to
have a competitive advantage."  Economic growth in China is fueling a real estate boom.
Premier Wen Jiaboa pledged today to curb property speculation
after January home prices posted their biggest month-over-month
gain in six months, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd. The curb
follows two interest rate increases in the past four months and
a ban on third mortgages.  The  World Bank  estimates that  China’s economy  will expand
8.7 percent this year, three times the pace of the U.S. China’s
expansion was 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter.  Chengdu Development  Tishman has invested in China for the past seven years, Rob
Speyer said. Among the projects being built through the
company’s China fund is a  Chengdu  development that includes a
residential tower, offices and retail space. Construction of the
project’s second phase is likely to begin this quarter,
according to the developer.  Properties in the company’s portfolio include the Chrysler
Building and Rockefeller Center in New York and the MesseTurm in
Frankfurt. Tishman has developed or acquired 116 million square
feet (10.8 million square meters) of real estate, valued at more
than $50.2 billion, since its formation in 1978, according to
the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 