-- Dubai's Stocks Rally Most in 10 Months as Egypt Mubarak Says to Step Down
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2011-02-02T10:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/dubai-s-stocks-rally-most-in-a-month-as-egypt-s-mubarak-says-to-step-down.html
Persian Gulf shares rose, sending
Dubai’s gauge up the most in almost ten months, on optimism
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s pledge to step down will help
quell protests that entered a ninth day.    Emaar Properties PJSC , the builder with investments in the
North African country, gained the most since June.  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC  advanced 3.7 percent after  Fitch Ratings  assigned the
lender a long-term foreign currency issuer rating of A. The  DFM
General Index  surged 3.3 percent, the most since April 11, to
1,594.87 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The measure extended
gains after Yemen’s president said he won’t seek another term.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  climbed 1.5 percent, the most since
Dec. 5, at 1:20 p.m. in Riyadh.  Mubarak’s speech offered a “clearer picture in terms of
the political reading regionally; the markets had overreacted
before,” said  Haissam Arabi , chief executive officer of
Gulfmena Alternative Investments in Dubai. “We expect minimal
impact on the micro level. It’s a matter of days before the dust
settles.”  Mubarak said he won’t run for another term and would make
way for a new leader in presidential elections in September, a
concession rejected by opposition leaders and protesters who
refuse to wait months for the end to his regime. He’ll stay on
to ensure “stability” and push through political and economic
changes before his departure, he said.  Real Estate  The president last week appointed  Omar Suleiman , head of
Egypt’s intelligence services, as his vice president. Egypt’s
bourse, which has been closed all week, will remain closed
tomorrow.  Egypt ’s benchmark Index tumbled 16 percent last week.  The unprecedented protests, which followed a revolt in
Tunisia that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan.
14, have left more than 100 people dead in Egypt and roiled
international stock, bond and oil markets.  Unrest has spread to Yemen, where President Ali Abdullah
Saleh told parliament today that he won’t seek to extend his
term when it expires in 2013 and called for the formation of a
national unity government. Jordan’s King Abdullah sacked his
prime minister yesterday.  “It appears the leaders are trying to prevent or avoid
similar scenarios happening in their own countries,” Gulfmena’s
Arabi said. “These are steps in the right direction. Change is
good.”  Jordan’s ASE General Index increased 1.1 percent today.
Lebanon’s BLOM Stock Index rose 0.6 percent, Morocco’s Madex
gained 0.8 percent and Tunisia’s Tunindex rose.  Abu Dhabi Gains  Emaar increased 5.8 percent to 3.28 dirhams. The company’s
Egyptian unit, Emaar Misr for Development S.A.E., has
investments of about 29 billion dirhams ($8 billion) in Egypt,
according to its website.  Dubai Islamic, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank
complying with Shariah banking rules, rose the most since Oct.
28 to 2.25 dirhams. Fitch assigned the bank with a stable
outlook citing its “strong franchise, earnings power and
satisfactory liquidity position” and the likelihood of support
from the U.A.E. government if needed.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  jumped 1 percent, while
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index retreated 0.4 percent. Qatar’s  QE
Index  was little changed, Kuwait’s SE Price Index increased 0.2
percent and Oman’s MSM30 rose 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 Zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 Cmaedler@bloomberg.net  