-- Economists Say Flaherty Should Keep Deficit Focus Amid Canada Revenue Gain
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/economists-say-flaherty-should-keep-deficit-focus-amid-canada-revenue-gain.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  should keep prudent projections in his next fiscal plan
and resist spending unbudgeted revenue gains until the country
has secured efforts to balance the budget, economists said.  Flaherty released forecasts yesterday showing economists
project Canada’s economy will generate C$61 billion more output
by 2015 than the government estimated in its October budget
update. Based on previous government assumptions, the higher
output suggests Flaherty’s government may take in as much as C$9
billion ($9 billion) more in revenue over the next five years
than forecast last year.  The added revenue may help assuage concerns expressed by
Canada’s parliamentary budget officer that the government may
struggle to eliminate the nation’s deficit by 2015. Kevin Page
told lawmakers yesterday the country faces a small structural
deficit that won’t be eliminated without further spending
reductions.  “On the spending side, we haven’t yet seen the declines,”
said Pedro Antunes, director of economic forecasting at the
Conference Board of  Canada , one of the organizations that
Flaherty consults for his fiscal planning. “It’s probably wise
not to spend that money.”  Canada had a record C$55.6 billion ($55.6 billion)  budget
deficit  in the fiscal year that ended last March. The shortfall
will narrow to C$45.4 billion in the current fiscal year, be cut
in half in two years and disappear altogether in 2015, according
to Flaherty’s prior fiscal plan, as temporary stimulus projects
expire, the government implements cost controls and economic
growth and higher payroll taxes boost revenue.  ‘Less Uncertainty’  Flaherty projected growth rates in the  October update  that
were below those forecast by the economists he consults for
fiscal planning, citing risks he said were tilted to the
downside. If growth turns out stronger than Flaherty projects,
his Conservative government would have more scope to narrow
Canada’s budget shortfall, extend stimulus measures or offset
any unrealized spending cuts.  Flaherty, 61, told reporters yesterday he hasn’t decided
whether to change his policy on growth assumptions in his next
budget, which is due in March. “It’s fair to say there is less
uncertainty now than there was before,” Flaherty said after
meeting economists from banks, universities and research
institutes in Ottawa. “We’ll see when we formulate the final
assumptions how much we deal with adjustment” of the forecasts.  “I don’t see any reason they should stop” using prudent
budget projections for revenue, said Sheryl King, head of Canada
economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Any surprises they
have should go toward debt pay-down.”  Growth Forecasts  Flaherty released data yesterday from a December survey of
economists that show forecasts for real and nominal growth were
little changed from the last survey, taken in September.  Economists project the economy will expand by 2.4 percent
in 2011 and by an average of 2.7 percent over the next five
years. Nominal gross domestic product, which isn’t adjusted for
inflation and is the broadest measure of the tax base, will grow
an average of 5 percent over the next five years, according to
the survey.  Lawmakers from all three opposition parties have called on
the government to use any additional fiscal leeway this year to
extend parts of its two-year stimulus package beyond March 2011.  The opposition Liberals and  New Democratic Party  also have
called on the government to scrap reductions in the corporate
income tax rate that they say are unaffordable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 