-- Egypt Unrest Poses ‘No Real Threat’ to Oil Via Suez, IEA Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2011-02-02T09:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/egypt-unrest-poses-no-real-threat-to-suez-oil-transit-iea-s-birol-says.html
Oil transit through the Suez Canal
isn’t currently at risk from anti-government protests in Egypt,
said  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the International Energy
Agency.  There is “no real threat” to flows through the canal,
Birol said today in a Bloomberg interview in Moscow. “We hope
to see the market calm down because it is not good news for
anybody in the market: consumers, producers or anybody.”  Oil prices at more than $100 a barrel put economic recovery
in  Europe  and the U.S. at risk, Birol said. Brent oil futures
exceeded that mark two days ago for the first since Oct. 1,
2008.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said he won’t stand down
until elections due in September, angering hundreds of thousands
gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square to demand an immediate end to
his regime. About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves
through  Egypt  via the Suez Canal and the adjacent Suez-
Mediterranean Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “It is in nobody’s interest to see such high oil prices,”
Birol said. “We all--consumers, producers alike--have to work
together to calm down the markets.”  OPEC has faced growing calls to boost output as crude
prices rise. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of global supply, said Jan. 18 that
global supplies are sufficient to meet demand.  Oil Fluctuates  Crude fluctuated in  New York  between losses of as much as
0.4 percent and gains of as much as 0.3 percent as concern eased
about supply disruptions through the  Suez Canal  and U.S.
stockpiles rose.  Oil for March delivery was trading at $90.88 a barrel, up
11 cents, at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time in electronic trading on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent oil for March settlement
traded at $101.42 a barrel, down 32 cents, or 0.3 percent, on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . It gained 0.7 percent
to $101.74 yesterday, the highest settlement since Sept. 26,
2008.  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-producing
countries in the Middle East. Jordan announced a change of
government yesterday following protests last week. Prime
Minister Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked Marouf Bakhit to form a new government.  The Jordanian announcement and Egyptian protests follow a
revolt in  Tunisia  that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
into exile on Jan. 14.  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates
and  Kuwait , three of OPEC’s biggest oil producers, are located
on the Arabian Peninsula and haven’t seen unrest.  Egypt and North Africa will remain “a key issue for oil
markets for the time being,” Birol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  