-- Egypt Not Iran 1979 as Mideast Stability Buoys Markets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2011-02-03T15:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/egypt-not-iran-1979-as-mideast-financial-stability-buoys-markets-worldwide.html
  Egypt ’s turmoil is having limited
impact on global financial markets, where investors see few
parallels with Iran’s 1979 revolution or the contagion that
followed Thailand’s meltdown 13 years ago.  World equity-market capitalization climbed to $53.6
trillion this week, the highest level since June 2008, even as
protests against Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year rule
intensified and forced the nation’s bourse and banks to close
for a fifth day. Dubai’s equity index rose the most in nine
months yesterday and emerging-market bonds rallied, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the uprising in Iran three decades ago sparked a 140
percent surge in oil and Thailand’s devaluation led to a global
equity selloff, Egypt has about 0.3 percent of the world’s crude
reserves and its foreign-currency holdings exceed overseas debt
by $29 billion. Traxis Partners LP’s  Barton Biggs  says it’s a
mistake to sell shares because of Egypt’s crisis, while Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian sees signs of a
“reconciliation” in the most-populous Arab country.  “The one thing to avoid is to exaggerate the probability
for chaos,” El-Erian, the son of an Egypt diplomat and chief
executive officer at Pimco, which oversees about $1.2 trillion
worldwide, said in a Feb. 1 interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “There’s a lot of talk of ‘what
if Egypt becomes Iran?’ I don’t think that’s the case.”  Street Clashes  Gunfire erupted in Cairo’s Tahrir Square early today as
supporters of Mubarak battled with demonstrators demanding his
ouster. Egypt’s largest opposition group rejected talks with
Mubarak after at least six protesters were killed overnight, and
vowed to stay at the scene of the fighting until he steps down.
The president, 82, said on Feb. 1 that he intends to step down
at the end of his term this year.  Mubarak’s son Gamal will not run for president, the state-
run television reported today, citing Vice President  Omar
Suleiman .  While the markets in Cairo closed after the benchmark  EGX
30 Index  tumbled 16 percent last week, overseas investors have
been betting on a rally in Egyptian assets. The  Market Vectors
Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund that holds Egyptian
shares, has climbed 11 percent since Jan. 28, and the fund is
trading at an 11 percent premium to its net asset value, the
second-biggest of about 1,400 U.S. ETFs tracked by Bloomberg.  London-traded global depositary receipts of Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE, the biggest mobile-phone operator in the Middle
East by users, have gained 5.8 percent from an almost two-year
low on Jan. 31. Orascom’s billionaire Chairman  Naguib Sawiris 
called for a nullification of the country’s parliament in an
interview on Bloomberg Television today, stopping short of
seeking Mubarak’s immediate exit.  ‘Not Panicked’  Egyptian lenders will open on Feb. 6, the central bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. The stock exchange may start
trading the following day, the state-run Middle East News agency
reported.  “I’m not selling, and I’m not panicked by these events in
Egypt and the Middle East,” Biggs, 78, who runs New York-based
hedge fund Traxis Partners, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Jan. 31. “The ongoing economic data is very
encouraging.”  U.S. government reports last month showed consumer
confidence rose more than forecast in January, while the
Institute of Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s gauge of business
expansion rose to the highest level since 1988. German
unemployment fell to an 18-year low and European retail sales
increased at the fastest rate in more than four years in
January.  Gulf Insulated  The MSCI All-Country World Index of global shares slipped
0.5 percent at 10:06 a.m. in  New York , after closing at the
highest level since August 2008 yesterday. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index slid 0.2 percent, and the extra yield investors
demand to own developing-nation debt over U.S. Treasuries
dropped 2 basis points to 276, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index shows.  While protests in Tunisia led to the ouster of President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14 and Jordan’s King Abdullah
replaced his prime minister on Feb. 1 after anti-government
demonstrations, oil-rich Middle Eastern countries have been
largely insulated from the turmoil.  “People are still assuming a velvet transition and do not
expect this to end in a harsh outcome,” Timothy Ash, head of
emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The consensus is that Gulf states should be okay as they have
the cash to spread around and avoid some of the poverty issues
which have underpinned the demonstrations in Tunisia and
Egypt.”  Dubai Gains  The Dubai Financial Market General Index climbed 3.3
percent yesterday while  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index 
advanced 2.2 percent. Yields on Qatar’s notes maturing in 2015
declined 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, the past two
days to 2.87 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, and the U.A.E., the
second-largest, are spending billions of dollars to diversify
away from oil and develop their financial services industry.
Dubai, which rocked global markets in 2009 by announcing plans
for a debt standstill, has built a financial center that is home
to the regional offices of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc ., Morgan Stanley and  Standard Chartered Plc , the British
bank that generates most of its earnings from  Asia .  Cheapest Shares  The Tadawul index is valued at about 1.9 times net assets,
the cheapest level relative to the MSCI emerging-market index
since Bloomberg began compiling the monthly data in April 2006.
Qatar’s QE Index trades at 2 times book value, a 29 percent
discount to the average level since June 2005.  The Dubai gauge slipped 0.9 percent today. Saudi Arabia’s
markets are closed on Thursdays.  Investors say Persian Gulf assets are still in demand.  “This is unlikely to spread to oil-exporting countries,”
Mark Diab, a money manager at GLG Partners who runs the Ocean
MENA Opportunities fund and Ocean GCC Opportunities fund, said
in an interview from Doha.  There are signs in the credit markets that assets in Egypt
are losing value.  Yields on the country’s 30-year dollar bonds rose 18 basis
points yesterday to 7.5 percent and were little changed today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Egypt had its credit rating
reduced by  Fitch Ratings  today, following downgrades earlier
this week by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Auction Delays  Three-month non-deliverable forwards for the Egyptian pound
retreated 1.8 percent to 6.34 per  U.S. dollar  today. The
contracts suggest traders expect the currency will sink 7.6
percent in three months, from the current spot rate of 5.857 per
dollar.  The turmoil is disrupting Egypt’s financing plans. The
government delayed two debt sales scheduled for Jan. 30 as the
protests spread. Yields on 182-day bills jumped 40 basis points
at a Jan. 27 auction from the previous sale to 10.6 percent.
Once the government resumes auctions, it will see “less
appetite” and higher borrowing costs, according to John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh, Saudi Arabia-based economist at Banque
Saudi Fransi.  “Things are clearly a bit messy, but the market has moved
on and said ‘There’s a solution here it’s just taking time,’”
said Oliver Bell, who helps oversee about $10 billion of
emerging markets assets as a London-based money manager at
Pictet Asset Management.  Higher Oil  While Egypt isn’t a major oil producer, the nation’s crisis
may still drive prices higher and curb global economic growth,
according to Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz.  “In terms of the global economic impact, it’s likely to be
most felt, at least in the short-run, through oil,” Stiglitz
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  Egypt’s Suez Canal, which is used to carry about 8 percent
of global seaborne trade, has been operating normally throughout
the protests, according to the waterway’s operator. The 120-mile
canal connects the Mediterranean and Red Sea and cuts the
journey for a supertanker traveling from Saudi Arabia, which
holds about 20 percent of the world’s oil reserves, to Houston
by about 12 days, according to Riverlake Shipping SA in Geneva.  Crude oil has climbed 2.6 percent in New York trading since
Jan. 24, to $90.15 a barrel.  Smoother Transition  Mass protests in 1979 forced  Iran ’s pro-U.S. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to flee the country, which is now home to about 10
percent of the world’s oil reserves. The revolution, which
handed power to the anti-Western Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, sent the price of Saudi Arabia’s Arab light
crude to about $34 a barrel at the end of 1980 from $14 two
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The transition of power in Egypt is likely to be smoother
than in Iran because Egypt has a better-educated “middle
class” with moderate political views, according to Gabriel Sterne, an emerging-market economist at brokerage Exotix Ltd. in
London. Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel-prize winner and former
chief of the United Nations atomic agency, has emerged as the
face of the Egyptian opposition.  “In Egypt there’s a constituency for democratic moderate
reform in a way that there wasn’t in Iran in 1979,” Sterne
said.  Egypt’s government finances are stronger than those of the
Asian countries that spurred the region’s financial crisis in
the late 1990s.  Trade Gap  The North African nation’s current-account deficit will
probably fall to 1.6 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 2.4 percent in 2009, according to estimates from the  International Monetary Fund . Thailand had a trade gap of 7.9
percent in 1996, just before the collapse of the baht sparked a
wave of capital outflows across Asia and forced  Thailand ,
Indonesia and South Korea to seek IMF bailouts.  The Egyptian economy, which the IMF estimates at $239
billion this year, will probably expand 5.5 percent in 2011,
faster than the 4.4 percent global growth rate, the Washington-
based fund predicts. Egypt’s gross government debt will amount
to 72 percent of GDP this year, compared with 99 percent in the
U.S., according to the IMF.  Egypt has “strong long-term fundamentals and potential,”  Michael Hasenstab , co-director of the Franklin Templeton Fixed-
Income Group, said in an e-mailed note to clients Feb. 1. His
$14 billion Templeton Global Total Return Fund held Egyptian
dollar bonds at the end of December, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  ‘Must Begin Now’  The army would probably intervene to prevent the conflicts
from escalating, said Barak Seener, a research fellow at the
London-based Royal United Services Institute for Defence and
Security Studies.  U.S. President Barack Obama urged Mubarak to start the
handover process quickly, saying at the White House on Feb. 1
that an orderly and peaceful transition in the government “must
begin now.”  Egypt received about $1.5 billion in U.S. assistance last
year and has been one of the biggest recipients of U.S. aid
since 1979, after Egypt signed a U.S.-brokered peace treaty with
Israel.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron called for a
“quick and orderly transition” in Egypt, according to a joint
statement today with Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi and Spain’s Jose Luis Zapatero.  “Such periods of volatility can take time to pass,”
Templeton’s Hasenstab said. “But we are confident that by
maintaining exposures that we believe are attractive relative to
their fundamentals, we can be well positioned to potentially
benefit when the market normalises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 