-- Egypt Returns to the Internet Following Five Days of Shutdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-02T13:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/egypt-returns-to-the-internet-after-protests-led-to-five-days-of-shutdown.html
Egyptian Internet services were
restored after protests by demonstrators demanding the ousting
of President Hosni Mubarak had led to five days of closure.  Internet service providers, including units of  Vodafone
Group Plc , “returned to the Internet,” at 11:29 a.m. in Cairo,
Web security firm Renesys said today in a blog  post . Internet
traffic volumes to  Google Inc .’s search engine from Egypt were
also increasing, according to the company’s transparency  report .  Egyptian authorities on Jan. 28 ordered connections to the
Internet to be shut down and mobile-phone services to be
suspended after demonstrators took to the streets. President
Mubarak, 82, said last night he will stand down later this year.  Vodafone said today it reinstated Internet data services in
the country, allowing access to all websites. The company is
also “actively lobbying to reactivate SMS services as quickly
as possible,” spokesman Ben Padovan said today via phone.  Egypt’s state-run news agency said today that the country
has not restored  Research In Motion Ltd .’s BlackBerry smartphone
service.  RIM said on January 27 that is has not implemented any
changes that would affect service in Egypt. Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates and India all threatened to shut down
BlackBerry service last year over concerns that the devices
might be used to foment social unrest or coordinate terrorist
attacks.  Mobile-phone voice services, run by local units of Vodafone
and  France Telecom SA , were restored on Jan. 29.  Egyptians had been reverting to old-fashioned dial-up
connections using a phone line to skirt the closure of the
Internet. Google has also offered a way for people to send
Twitter messages by leaving a voicemail.  Egypt has one of the most advanced telecommunications
markets in the Middle East and Africa. About 95 percent of
Egyptians, or 74.9 million subscribers, are clients of a mobile
phone network, according to analysts at Cairo-based AlembicHC.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 