-- Egypt Millionaires `Sacrificed' as Mubarak Turns to Military for Support
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-02-03T15:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/egypt-millionaires-sacrificed-as-mubarak-turns-to-military-for-support.html
  Egypt ’s uprising may ring the
political death knell for a group of millionaires who helped
shape the government during the past six years and now find
themselves under investigation.  Ahmed El Maghraby, a property developer and hotelier, and
Ahmed Ezz, chairman of Ezz Steel, Egypt’s biggest producer of
the metal, were among the businessmen ousted from cabinet and
ruling party positions after President  Hosni Mubarak  turned to
former military men for top posts as he clings to power.  Mubarak “ordered that businessmen be removed from the
government,” Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, a former air force
commander, told state television this week. “The involvement of
businessmen in public service wasn’t 100 percent positive.”  The government of premier  Ahmed Nazif , which Mubarak fired
last week, had attracted record foreign investment, helping the
economy expand at the fastest pace in at least two decades. At
the same time, political opponents said some local executives
used their links with Mubarak to further their own interest.  Egypt’s public prosecutor, Abdel-Meguid Mahmoud, today
banned El Maghraby and Ezz, along with former Tourism Minister
Zoheir Garranah, from travel and had their bank accounts frozen,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported today along with
state television, citing Mahmoud.  Public Inquiry  The prosecutor’s office was investigating claims of
“public funds embezzlement” against the former officials and
took the decision to ban them from travel “in light of the
current circumstances,” Mahmoud told the agency.  El Maghraby ran business interests in property and hotel
industries before becoming housing minister, while Garranah
managed a tourism-related company.  All the former officials have publicly and repeatedly
denied any conflict of interest. Garranah and El Maghraby
couldn’t be reached for comment on their mobile phones today
when called by Bloomberg News, and neither could Kamel Galal,
head of  investor relations  at Ezz Steel.  Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  described members of
the previous cabinet as a “scapegoat” for Mubarak. “They were
sacrificed,” he said by telephone Jan. 31.  Former Trade Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid, a former
Unilever Plc executive, said on Jan. 30 that he chose not to
join the new government. His name wasn’t included in the
prosecutor’s statement reported on state media.  Poverty Gap  About 18 percent of Egyptians live below the poverty level,
with the rate rising to 40 percent in rural areas, according to
World Bank data. Headline inflation in urban areas, the rate
that the central bank monitors, picked up to 10.3 percent in
December from 10.2 percent the previous month.  “The main problem in Egypt is the distribution of the
wealth,” said Hani El-Husseini, a member of the economic
secretariat of the Tagammu opposition party. “Most of the
wealth is concentrated within the upper class of businessmen,”
he said by telephone in Cairo.  Shafik was appointed prime minister after former army
officer  Omar Suleiman , who has run Egypt’s intelligence service
since 1993, was named vice-president by Mubarak on Jan. 29.
Mubarak said he will step down this year after protests that
left more than 100 people dead. Protesters rejected the offer
and demanded he go now.  Placating Citizens  The new cabinet may seek to placate the public by
increasing social spending, reversing the policy of the ousted
government, which had planned to remove energy subsidies by
2014. Finance Minister Samir Radwan told state-run television
this week that the ministry will pay  unemployment benefits  to
people who lost their jobs during the unrest.  The policies may lead to the widening of Egypt’s budget
deficit to “double digits” in 2011, Standard & Poor’s said in
a Jan. 31 report. Egypt’s budget gap was 8.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year that ended in June.  During its tenure, the Nazif cabinet accelerated the sale
of state assets. Economic growth, which was 3 percent in 2003,
picked up to an average of 7 percent in the three fiscal years
to June 2008 before the global financial crisis set in. The
country needs that growth level to create enough jobs to meet
the increasing in the working population.  The economy in the country of 80 million people, the most
populous in the Arab region, probably grew an annual 6.2 percent
in the last quarter of 2010, compared with 5.5 percent in the
previous three months.  “The Egypt that became known to the world was a privileged
elite that did not represent society at large,” John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist at Banque Saudi
Fransi, said by telephone.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 