-- White House Says Middle East May Be Changed Forever After Egypt Uprising
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/egypt-is-returning-to-normalcy-mideast-will-never-be-same-daley-says.html
The Middle East may be changed
irrevocably by the uprising in Egypt, and the U.S. is relying on
close links to the Egyptian military to keep open lines of
communication, White House chief of staff  William Daley  said.  With protests taking a violent turn yesterday as supporters
of President  Hosni Mubarak  clashed with demonstrators demanding
an end to his 30-year reign, Daley called it a rapidly evolving
situation over which the U.S. has little control.  “The Middle East may never be what it was pre the last 10
days, and what it will be is yet to be determined,” Daley said
in an interview yesterday at the Bloomberg Breakfast in
Washington. “This is not some little nation. This is a major
country not only in numbers but in history in the Middle East.”  Political turmoil has spread through the region. Yemeni
President Ali Abdullah Saleh vowed he won’t extend his term in
2013 and Jordan’s King Abdullah on Feb. 1 dismissed his prime
minister. The protests have erupted following a revolt in  Tunisia  that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile
on Jan. 14.  For the U.S. and Egypt, engagement between the two
countries’ militaries “is serving us quite well right now,”
Daley, 62, said. He cited regular contact between U.S. officials
and their counterparts in Egypt and the Egyptian military’s
restraint in reacting to the protests.  Military Links  The military links grew out of decades of strong U.S.
support that began with the 1979 Israeli-Egyptian peace
agreement, including about $1.3 billion in annual assistance
from weapons sales to training and joint missions.  In addition, training of Egyptian officers in the U.S. has
reinforced the relationship between the military and the
civilian population in a democratic society, Daley said.  “The leaders in  Egypt  have come out of the military over
the years and they’ve been respected,” he said. “The military
itself has been a respected organization, and the leaders are
well-trained, well-disciplined, and I think that’s showing
through this challenge.”  Transition to Democracy  The U.S. pushed Mubarak to respond to more than a week of
anti-government protests. President  Barack Obama  said Feb. 1
that he told the 82-year-old Egyptian leader that a transition
to democracy “must begin now,” suggesting his plan to remain
in office until September’s election may not satisfy the demands
of the protesters.  The ultimate timeline for Mubarak’s departure is “for them
to determine, not us,” Daley said.  “A lot of this is totally out of our control; it’s as much
reacting to the circumstances on the street and the knowledge we
obtain,” Daley said. “There’s a lack at times of real
information, and you’ve got lots of rumors, and we try not to
respond to the rumor of the day.”  Daley spoke before violent clashes between Mubarak
supporters and anti-government protesters escalated in Cairo,
with rocks and Molotov cocktails being hurled. Three people were
killed and 637 others were injured in the confrontations,
Egyptian state television reported. Leading rival  Mohamed ElBaradei  called on the army to step in.  Monitoring by U.S.  Daley said the U.S. is monitoring the return of  Internet
service  in Egypt and the reopening of some businesses following
Mubarak’s address.  “It’s not something that we can dictate, but all of the
signs right now are indicating that there is a beginning, at
least from what I have heard, of some returning normalcy,”
Daley said.  When asked what message the markets were sending about the
uprising in Egypt, Daley said his “sense is that there is more
stability than people think. Traffic in the  Suez Canal  is
flowing, so I think that suggests things are more stable.”  Daley said the Obama administration’s response to the
unfolding crisis in Egypt is being carefully calibrated because
of the sensitivity and the rapid pace with which it has evolved.  “You’ve got to choose your words carefully, which we have
done,” he said. “You’ve got to send the messages of support
and at the same time acknowledge the reality of what’s going
on.”  Daley said it remains to be seen who will replace Mubarak.
He said it’s “some people’s expectation” and “some people’s
fear” that the Muslim Brotherhood, part of the opposition
movement, will succeed the embattled Egyptian leader.  The administration hopes to see Egypt “come out of this
process a stronger, democratic, continuing to be a secular
nation,” Daley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 