-- Electrolux Sees Modest Europe Growth as Material Costs Climb
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-02-02T08:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/electrolux-sees-modest-europe-growth-as-material-costs-climb.html
  Electrolux AB , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, forecast modest growth in  North America 
and Europe this year, hindering the Swedish appliance maker’s
prospects for raising prices to claw back higher costs.  Electrolux slumped as much as 5.7 percent in  Stockholm 
trading. Demand in Europe is expected to rise by about 2 percent
in 2011, and 3 percent in North America, the Stockholm-based
company said today in a statement.  The maker of Frigidaire appliances needs to push through
price increases to customers to counter the extra expense of
steel, copper and resins. While the company has expanded
globally, it still derives about one-third of sales from North
America. Raw-material inflation and lower prices deflated
earnings in that markets in the fourth quarter, it said today.    Europe  will require attention,” said Claes Rasmuson,
Swedbank analyst in Stockholm with a “buy” rating on the
company. “They must work hard to improve profitability there
through price increases and product mix improvements -- those
are really the tools they have. There may be some more cost
savings to realize but not when the costs are raw materials.”  Shares of Electrolux fell 5.4 percent, or 9.8 kronor, to
172 kronor as of 9:06 a.m. local time.  Net income in the fourth quarter rose to 677 million kronor
($106 million), or 2.36 kronor a share, up from 664 million
kronor, or 2.33 kronor, a year earlier. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey predicted 640 million kronor. Sales fell 2.3 percent to
27.6 billion kronor.  Downbeat Debut  “We expect that demand for appliances in North America and
Europe will continue to grow modestly in 2011 with most of the
growth in the second half,” Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a statement. “We have improved our product
mix in North America by successfully increasing sales under our
own brands.”  McLoughlin, an American who was formerly responsible for
research and development, manufacturing and purchasing at the
company, took over as chief executive at the start of the year.
In one of his first actions, he sent a letter to U.S. customers
informing them that Electrolux will raise prices.  Competitors have made similar moves.  Whirlpool Corp ., the
world’s largest household appliance maker, also plans to raise
wholesale prices, according to a report last month.  McLoughlin succeeded Hans Straaberg, who moved much of
Electrolux’s production to lower-cost countries as part of an
overhaul that began in 2004 and is set to wrap up this year. The
program, on which Electrolux is spending 8.5 billion kronor,
aims to generate savings of 3.4 billion kronor annually by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  