-- Merck’s Gardasil Prevents HPV Infection, Genital Warts in Men
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-02-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/merck-s-gardasil-vaccine-prevents-hpv-genital-warts-in-men-study-finds.html
Merck & Co.’s vaccine for warding off
a virus that causes cervical cancer in women also reduces
infection rates and genital warts in young men, according to a
study in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  A company-funded clinical trial involving 4,065 sexually
active teenagers and men in their 20s found genital lesions
developed in 36 given Gardasil, compared with 89 who received a
placebo. The shot was more  effective , preventing 90 percent of
warts, when researchers looked only at those who weren’t
infected at the start of the study and received all three doses
of the vaccine.  Today’s study results may bolster use of Gardasil, which
was approved by U.S. regulators to avert  human papillomavirus 
infections and the cancers it causes in girls in 2006 and in
boys in 2009. Advisers to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention declined to recommend routine use of the shot in
boys, in part because the benefits don’t justify the costs,
said Jane Kim of  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston .  “Not only can vaccination of boys and men bolster and
expedite health benefits in girls and women, i.e. by
contributing to reduced HPV prevalence among men and therefore
reduced transmission to their sexual partners, but there is now
clear evidence that boys and men themselves can benefit
directly,” she wrote in an  editorial  accompanying the study.  Reconsider Decisions  While the U.S. must improve the return on its health-care
spending, it is equally important to reconsider past decisions
as new information becomes available, she wrote. Additional
research is needed to compare the cost of alternative methods to
detect and treat diseases linked to HPV, she said.  There are about 20,000 cancers related to HPV infection
diagnosed each year in the U.S., including tumors of the cervix,
anus, vagina and penis, Kim wrote. The virus also causes about
340,000 cases of genital warts, she said.  Merck funded, designed and analyzed the data from the study,
with the collaboration of academic researchers led by Anna
Giuliano, from the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research
Institute in Tampa,  Florida .  Gardasil generated $767.6 million in sales during the first
three quarters of the 2010, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck reported. The immunization won approval for preventing
anal cancer in December, expanding use of the shot that is
cleared for use in people ages 9 to 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  