-- Anglo, Eskom in Talks on Revising Coal Supply Terms
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-02T16:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/eskom-seeks-to-revise-accord-with-coal-suppliers-amid-indian-competition.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., producer of 95
percent of South African power, is discussing new contracts with
mine operators including  Anglo American Plc  to try to secure
coal supplies amid a surge in competing demand from  India .  Eskom has begun talks to spur suppliers to accept prices at
“efficient cost, plus fair returns,” Chief Commercial Officer
Dan Marokane said in an interview from Cape Town. “About 525
million tons could be at risk from competition with exports,”
threatening to make electricity charges unaffordable, he said.  State-run Eskom delivers power to  Xstrata Plc ’s ferrochrome
furnaces, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s gold mines and  BHP Billiton
Ltd .’s aluminum smelters in South Africa. The utility, one of
the 10 largest in the world by capacity, has struggled to fund a
485 billion rand ($68 billion) expansion to prevent a repetition
of power blackouts that hit mines, factories and cities in 2008.  Eskom, based in Johannesburg, will seek to persuade coal
suppliers to accept new terms by reducing the risk of rising
production costs for the mine operators, Marokane said today.
The terms would apply after 2018 as Eskom already has contracts
or commitments for about 95 percent of supply to then, he said.  Export quotas, restrictions on low-grade coal shipments
abroad from  Richards Bay  and “increased powers for the minister
to intervene in the interests of domestic  energy security ”
could also be used to meet local power needs, Marokane said.  Anglo Confirms Talks  “We’re in the middle of negotiations right now,” Norman Mbazima, head of thermal coal at Anglo American, said by phone
from Cape Town today. Current “cost-plus contracts aren’t
working for Eskom, or for us,” Mbazima said. The agreements
fail to encourage producers to build new mines, he said.  Xstrata declined to comment on Eskom’s discussions, while
BHP, another supplier, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
from Bloomberg seeking reaction.  Exxaro Resources Ltd ., a South
African coal-mining company that also ships to Eskom, said by e-
mail it would comment at its financial results on Feb. 24.  “We have enough capacity and reserves to meet our
obligations to Eskom,” Anglo said in an earlier e-mailed reply
to queries. More than 70 percent of Anglo’s coal production in
South Africa is sold domestically, the company said.  India competes for South African coal as the Asian country
needs a low-grade fuel similar to that used in Eskom’s power
plants, more than 80 percent of which are coal-fired. European
electricity producers typically only buy higher coal grades.    Asia  overtook  Europe  as the largest foreign buyer of South
African coal in the last two years as India boosted purchases.  Unaffordable  Richards Bay terminal , which ships almost all of  South
Africa ’s coal for export, sent 59 percent of total shipments to
Asia last year and 25 percent to Europe. India is looking to
expand electricity generation capacity by 20 percent to 200,000
megawatts from current levels by March 2012.  “Unless a new approach is found, Eskom will find itself
paying globally linked coal costs,” Marokane said, adding that
a commensurate increase in electricity prices would “counter
the aspirations of a growing economy.” Prices of coal shipped
through Richards Bay rose about 60 percent last year to $129.75
a metric ton, according to IHS McCloskey data on Bloomberg.  Eskom is already hiking charges by several-times inflation,
on average by 25 percent a year for the three years from 2010,
after long keeping prices subdued to stimulate development.  The company burnt 123 million tons of coal last fiscal
year. Two new  power plants , Medupi and Kusile, will begin
generating power in the next few years, adding more than 30
million tons to Eskom’s annual requirement.  Domestic Production  The utility is also concerned coal companies will focus on
building mines in other countries and the government should make
it “more attractive” for companies to dig new mines, Marokane
said. Eskom estimates the industry needs to spend 175 billion
rand between 2009 and 2020 digging mines to meet rising needs.  South Africa needs a national energy coal development plan,
Marokane said. The country mined about 250 million tons of coal
in 2009, or 4.1 percent of world output, making it the seventh-
largest producer, according to an Oct. 1 report by UBS AG.  The government is seeking to help ensure coal supplies for
Eskom through a state-run mining company, Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu said in a speech in  Cape Town  today.  “Coal is a strategic asset,” Shabangu said. “It becomes
important for the state to play a role.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 