-- European Producer Prices Increase the Most Since 2008, Adding to ECB Fears
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2011-02-02T10:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/european-producer-prices-increase-the-most-since-2008-adding-to-ecb-fears.html
European producer prices rose at the
fastest annual pace in more than two years in December after
energy costs surged, adding to the  European Central Bank ’s
inflation concerns.  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region jumped 5.3 percent
from a year earlier, the most since October 2008, after
increasing 4.5 percent in November, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 5.2 percent, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed. Prices rose 0.8 percent from November.  Crude oil prices have surged 12 percent over the past six
months, adding pressure on companies to pass on costs to protect
earnings. Euro-area consumer-price inflation also accelerated
more than economists forecast in January, and ECB President
Jean-Claude Trichet said on Jan. 26 that the bank will “do what
is necessary” to maintain price stability. Policy makers are
scheduled to meet in  Frankfurt  tomorrow.  The ECB “is likely to reinforce their anti-inflation
rhetoric” at the meeting, said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “We believe that the
lid will be kept down on underlying inflation by euro-zone
growth being relatively muted and bumpy” in 2011.  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3824 at 11:01 a.m. in Frankfurt, down from $1.3829 yesterday.  Energy Prices  Energy prices jumped 11.3 percent in December from a year
earlier and the cost of intermediate goods rose 6.2 percent, the
statistics office said. Excluding construction and energy,
producer prices rose 3.3 percent in the year. In the 27-nation
EU, producer-price inflation accelerated to 5.9 percent in
December from 4.8 percent in November.  Adding to signs of increasing cost pressures,
manufacturers’ input-price inflation accelerated from  Germany  to  France  and  Spain  last month, Markit Economics said in a report
yesterday. Households last month forecast faster inflation over
the coming year and German import prices jumped an annual 12
percent in December.  Henkel AG, the German maker of Persil detergent and Loctite
glue, plans to raise some prices this year to compensate for
increasing raw-material costs, Chief Financial Officer Lothar Steinebach said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 27. Tiremaker  Continental AG  has
said that increasing costs will weigh on profit growth.  Annual Gains  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, forecasts inflation will average about 1.8
percent this year and around 1.5 percent in 2012. Trichet said
on  Jan. 13  that there’s “evidence of short-term upward
pressure” on price developments.  “We continue to expect the tightening cycle to start only
toward year-end,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-region economist
at UniCredit Bank AG in Milan. Still, the “central bank wants
to sound tough now to keep price expectations from drifting
higher -- the ECB’s worst nightmare -- and avoid falling behind
the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  