-- Euro Declines From Almost Three-Month High After S&P Cuts Ireland's Rating
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-02T22:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/euro-declines-after-ireland-s-rating-is-cut-by-s-p-u-k-pound-strengthens.html
The euro fell from an almost three-
month high versus the dollar as  Germany  ruled out allowing the
European Financial Stability Facility to fund bond buybacks,
stirring concern the region’s debt crisis is lingering.  The shared currency also weakened for the first time in
three days against the greenback after Standard & Poor’s cut
Ireland’s credit rating. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  sought
to reclaim Cairo’s streets from protesters. Sweden’s krona fell
versus all of its major counterparts as the central bank called
for tighter regulations.  “There seems to be an element of risk-off, especially for
euro,” said  Amelia Bourdeau , a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS AG. “It’s combination of the S&P downgrade
to Ireland, mixed comments on the EFSF coming out of Germany and
the continued troubles in  Egypt .”  The euro fell 0.1 percent against the dollar to $1.3811 at
5 p.m. in New York. Earlier it rose to $1.3862, the highest
level since Nov. 9. Against the yen, the shared currency was
little changed at 112.63 per euro after rising earlier as much
as 0.4 percent.  The rating cut to A- from A and negative credit outlook on
Ireland reflects “our view of the uncertainties surrounding the
size of Ireland’s additional capital needs for its largely
state-owned financial sector,” S&P said.  Authority Questioned  The euro weakened against half of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after a German government official briefing
reporters before a Feb. 4 European Union summit said the 440
billion-euro ($606 billion) EFSF lacks the legal authority to
purchase outstanding debt to ease finances of countries
including  Greece .  “There’s been excitement about changes to the EFSF; that
has helped the euro rally,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova
Scotia currency strategist in Toronto. “The market is shifting
its focus back to  Europe .”  The dollar strengthened against the yen as U.S. Treasury
yields increased, boosting the appeal of the securities to
foreign investors. Two-year note yields climbed six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 0.66 percent. The benchmark
10-year note yield rose four basis points to 3.48 percent.  Japan’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 81.55 yen per dollar.  Sterling rose versus the greenback for a third day as a  Bank of England  policy maker said borrowing costs should be
raised. Britain’s pound gained as much as 0.6 percent to
$1.6230, the highest level since Nov. 5. It appreciated 0.5
percent to 85.30 pence per euro.  ‘Inflation Genie’    Andrew Sentance , a member of the Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee, told City A.M. newspaper interest rates must
be raised now at a steady pace to avoid a large increase later.
Sentance, who voted for a rate boost at the bank’s previous
meeting, said Britain will face difficulty stabilizing prices
should the “inflation genie get out of the bottle.”  “The pound could really challenge everyone’s assumptions
and go to $1.65,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research
at online currency trader GFT Forex in  New York . “If
geopolitical issues in Middle East take center stage, all of
these growth assumptions have to go into question because the
recovery will get snipped in the bud.”  The Canadian dollar was the only commodity-linked currency
to gain versus the greenback today, as crude oil traded near a
two-year high. The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, also
benefitted as a report showed U.S. companies added 187,000
workers in January, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey
called for a 140,000 increase.  Canadian Dollar  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 98.79 cents
per  U.S. dollar . Crude oil futures rose as much as 1.1 percent
to $91.78 a barrel in New York. They touched $92.84 on Jan. 31,
the most since October 2008.  The Australian dollar fell from a one-month high against
the dollar as investors speculated Tropical Cyclone Yasi would
further hinder the country’s economy weeks after deadly floods.
It estimated to be more powerful than a 2006 storm that wiped
out most of  Australia ’s banana crop and devastated sugar cane
fields.  The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0093.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  