-- European Real Estate Bonds Face Ratings Downgrades, Moody’s Says
-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 2011-02-02T18:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/european-real-estate-bonds-face-ratings-downgrades-moody-s-says.html
A refinancing shortfall and slow
economic recovery may reduce the creditworthiness of bonds
backed by commercial real estate in secondary European markets,
spurring cuts in ratings, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said.  The performance of commercial mortgage-backed securities,
or CMBS, also may be weakened by spending cuts and tax increases
announced by governments across  Europe , according to the New
York-based credit-rating company. The so-called austerity
measures may reduce jobs and  consumer spending , hurting office
and retail landlords, Moody’s said today.  “The main reason for the negative outlook is that the
recovery of the lending market for non-prime properties will
take longer than we previously expected,” according to the
report. Financing availability "will not increase meaningfully"
for the next two years, Moody’s said.  The company provides ratings on 46 billion euros ($63
billion) of CMBS that need to be refinanced by the end of 2013.
While the majority of CMBS the company tracks were downgraded
during the recession, the number of rating cuts slowed last
year, said Oliver Moldenhauer, a senior analyst at Moody’s.  "As a result of the lack of debt for non-prime properties
we now expect the risk of downgrades for transactions secured by
these non-prime properties to increase again," he said in a
telephone interview.  An alliance of U.K. property groups last week told the  Bank
of England  that a refinancing shortfall of 34.4 billion pounds
in the next four years may cause a renewed slump in commercial
property values outside of the country’s most attractive
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  