-- Most European Stocks Decline; Electrolux, Scania, Fortum Fall
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2011-02-02T17:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/european-stocks-rise-renewable-energy-surges-on-profit-electrolux-drops.html
Most European stocks fell as
companies from  Electrolux AB  to Scania AB announced results that
disappointed investors.  Electrolux led a selloff in Swedish stocks, sinking 7.9
percent after forecasting “modest” growth in  North America  and  Europe  this year, while Scania slid 2 percent after warning the
stronger kronor will hurt the first quarter.  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc  rose 5.9 percent as it plans to pay more in dividends.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.1 percent to 284.59 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, even as four stocks fell for
every three that rose. Equities climbed yesterday, sending the
Stoxx 600 up the most since Dec. 2, after reports showed
manufacturing expanded in the U.S. and  China . The benchmark
gauge dropped 1 percent over the previous two days as anti-
government protests rocked Egypt, causing airline and travel
companies to fall.  Today’s earnings reports are “in-line with expectations or
slightly negative,” said Ricciardo Ricciardelli, a fund manager
at Unifortune Asset Management SGR SpA in  London . “Investors
wait for confirmation of the recovery of the U.S. labor market.
Conviction was still low in January and the market’s rally
surprised the majority of managers.”  Debt Crisis  The Stoxx 600 climbed 1.5 percent last month amid better-
than-forecast economic reports and speculation that European
leaders will increase their efforts to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  National benchmark indexes fell in nine out of the 18
western European markets today.  Germany ’s DAX slid less than 0.1
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.2 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.7 percent as mining stocks rallied.  Seven out the 12 companies in the Stoxx 600 that reported
quarterly earnings today missed analysts’ estimates for net
income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., figures from ADP Employer Services showed that
companies added 187,000 workers to their payrolls in January
after a revised 247,000 gain in December that was less than
initially estimated, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey
called for a 140,000 gain last month.  The report comes two days before the Labor Department’s
January jobs report, which economists said may show payrolls
grew by 142,000 workers, a pace that underscores the  Federal
Reserve ’s concern it will take years for the job market to
recover from the recession. The report may also show the jobless
rate increased to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent.  Egypt Clashes  In Egypt, President Hosni Mubarak sought to reclaim Cairo’s
streets as his supporters clashed with protesters demanding the
president’s ouster and leading rival Mohamed ElBaradei called on
the army to step in. Demonstrators backing Mubarak, who said
yesterday he won’t step down until September’s election,
attacked opposition supporters in Tahrir Square and the two
groups hurled rocks at each other.  Electrolux plummeted 7.9 percent to 167.6 kronor, the
biggest drop in a year and helping send Sweden’s benchmark  OMX
Stockholm 30 Index  down 1.4 percent to the lowest level in more
than two months.  The maker of home appliances said fourth-quarter pretax
profit was 925 million kronor ($144 million) compared with 1.66
billion kronor predicted by analysts. Demand in North America
and Europe will grow “modestly,” the company said.  Scania, Roche  Scania retreated 2 percent to 140.7 kronor as the
truckmaker said the “negative effects of the stronger Swedish
kronor, which impacted the fourth quarter of 2010, will be more
pronounced during the first quarter.” Fourth-quarter earnings
before interest and taxes of 3.65 billion kronor missed the 3.95
billion-krona estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.    Fortum Oyj  dropped for the first time this week, falling
4.3 percent to 22.11 euros. Finland’s biggest utility reported
fourth-quarter net income of 231 million euros, missing the 305
million-euro mean estimate of eight analysts.    Sandvik AB  sank 3 percent to 119 kronor even after the
world’s largest maker of metal-cutting tools returned to profit
in the fourth quarter. CA Cheuvreux reiterated an
“underperform” rating, highlighting in a note that while order
intake proved to be strong, margins were weak.  Atlas Copco    Atlas Copco AB  slid 1.6 percent to 151 kronor as the
biggest maker of air compressors reported fourth-quarter profit
that fell short of analysts’ estimates and said demand will
advance “somewhat.”    Renewable Energy Corp ASA  climbed 14 percent to 22.05
kroner, the biggest gain since May 2009. The Norwegian renewable
energy company said its fourth-quarter results were
“significantly” above market estimates on one-time items and
stronger-than-expected demand.  Imperial Tobacco advanced 5.9 percent to 1,900 pence. The
maker of Davidoff cigarettes said it plans to increase the
dividend payout ratio to 50 percent of adjusted earnings in the
current financial year from about 47 percent. The company also
said underlying tobacco sales rose 5 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31. UBS upgraded the stock to “buy” from
“neutral.”    BHP Billiton Ltd . and Rio Tinto Group led a gauge for
European basic-resources stocks higher, gaining 3.4 percent to
2,513.5 pence and 3.8 percent to 4,507.5 pence, respectively.
Credit Suisse said in a note that the companies can return 30
percent and 41 percent respectively of their market
capitalizations through dividends and buybacks.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. surged 3.8 percent to
1,076 pence as the producer of metals in  Kazakhstan  said fourth-
quarter ferroalloy output advanced 5.6 percent.    Aurubis AG  added 3.9 percent to 40.82 euros as Europe’s
biggest copper smelter was upgraded to “buy” from “hold” at  UniCredit SpA .  UniCredit advanced 3 percent to 1.88 euros as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. added Italy’s biggest bank to its “conviction buy”
list, saying in a note that it expects “visibility on
management strategy and group profitability to improve in the
coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 