-- Euro Drops Against Dollar as ECB's Trichet Says Inflation Risks `Balanced'
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2011-02-03T15:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/euro-trades-near-three-month-high-amid-growth-signs-ahead-of-ecb-meeting.html
The euro fell further from a 12-week
high against the dollar as  European Central Bank  President Jean- Claude Trichet said inflation risks are “broadly balanced,”
dimming prospects for a boost in borrowing costs.  “The markets at least were expecting a ratcheting up in
hawkishness,” said Simon Smith, chief economist at FXPro
Financial Services Ltd. in London. “He’s not really stepped it
up a gear as some were expecting, hence the fall in euro and
small decline in short-term rates.”  The dollar gained versus most of its major counterparts as
a report before tomorrow’s payrolls figures showed U.S. services
industries expanded at the fastest pace in five years. The pound
advanced against the euro as U.K. services companies returned to
growth. The Aussie rose versus the yen on an increase in
building permits.  The euro fell 1.3 percent to $1.3628 at 10:34 a.m. in  New
York , from $1.3811 yesterday, when it touched $1.3862, the
highest level since Nov. 9. The 17-nation currency decreased 1
percent to 111.52 yen, from 112.63. The dollar rose 0.4 percent
to 81.85 yen, from 81.55.  German bonds rose, pushing the yield on the two-year note
down 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 1.38 percent
and narrowing the yield advantage over similar-maturity  U.S.
debt  by 16 basis points to 67 basis points.  “We are seeing a little bit of correction as Mr. Trichet
is slightly less hawkish,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of
currency research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The market
has got a bit too long euro-dollar. The comment that inflation
risk relates to commodity prices underlines that if it is just
commodity prices maybe he is not that worried after all.”  Trichet on Inflation  Faster inflation has been prompted “mainly” by rising
energy and commodity costs, Trichet said at a press conference
in  Frankfurt  today. This “has not so far affected our assessment
that price developments will remain in line with  price stability 
over the policy-relevant horizon,” Trichet said.  The euro advanced 2.3 percent against the greenback in
January as investors bet the European Central Bank will raise
borrowing costs before the  Federal Reserve .  European inflation accelerated last month to the fastest
since October 2008, according to a preliminary estimate by the
region’s statistics office on Jan. 31. Trichet said on Jan. 26
the ECB will “do what is necessary” to maintain price
stability. The ECB left its main refinancing rate today at a
record low 1 percent, as forecast by all 58 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.9 percent to 77.820.  U.S. Services  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of
the  U.S. economy , rose in January to 59.4, the highest level
since 2005, from December’s 57.1.  Nonfarm payrolls climbed by 140,000 workers in January
after a 103,000 gain in December, according to the median
forecast of 83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate may have risen to 9.5 percent, from 9.4 percent.  “A strong NFP will solidify the recent upbeat performance
in the U.S. economy and likely lead to higher yields, pushing
dollar-yen higher,” analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker ,
London-based global head of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote in a research note.  The pound climbed to a two-week high against the euro as a
growth in U.K. service companies boosted speculation the  Bank of
England  may raise  interest rates  this year. The gauge of U.K.
services activity jumped to 54.5 from 49.7 the previous month.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  ‘Gain Ground’  “A strong rise in the services data has allowed the pound
to gain ground this morning,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing
on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at Investec
Plc. in London.  Sterling appreciated as much as 1.1 percent to 84.39 pence
per euro, the strongest level since Jan. 20.  The Australian dollar gained 0.3 percent to 82.65 yen on
signs the economy is still expanding.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in  Australia  advanced 8.7 percent in December
from November, when they fell a revised 3.9 percent, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today.  A separate report showed the  trade surplus  was
A$1.98 billion ($2 billion) in December, compared with the
median estimate of A$1.6 billion in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  