-- HP Says It Stopped Making PCs With Flawed Intel Chips
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-02-02T21:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/hewlett-packard-product-availability-impacted-by-intel-s-flaw.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co ., the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, said it stopped making PCs with
flawed  Intel Corp . chips on Jan. 31 and put a hold on shipping
affected inventory.  The malfunctioning chip, which Intel disclosed that same
day, is mostly in certain consumer laptop and desktop models, HP
said today in an e-mailed statement. HP also used the chip in a
desktop PC marketed to small businesses in the U.K., said
Marlene Somsak, a company spokeswoman. Customers can exchange
affected products or get a refund, HP said.  Two business desktop PCs HP introduced at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in January -- the HP Compaq 8200 and the HP
Compaq 6200 -- also use the affected chips. They are on
manufacturing hold and haven’t begun shipping, Somsak said.  “We are evaluating our product road map in light of this
industry issue,” Somsak said in an interview.  Intel, the world’s largest maker of semiconductors, said
that it will incur $1 billion in missed sales and higher costs
to fix the design flaw. The error also is affecting personal-
computer makers including Samsung Electronics Co., which said it
will offer refunds on some PCs, and  NEC Corp ., which said it may
push back the release of four new models.  The fault is in a support chip, or chipset, for Intel’s
latest processor model called Sandy Bridge, unveiled this month
in a bid to improve PC graphics and repel a challenge by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .  Briefing Delayed    Palo Alto , California-based HP said yesterday that it will
delay a product presentation scheduled for next week in San
Francisco.  “We are postponing the business notebooks briefing on Feb.
10 as the availability of HP products will be impacted” by the
Intel chip flaw, according to a statement sent to reporters
yesterday by Edelman Public Relations Worldwide.  HP rose 37 cents to $46.89 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. It declined 18 percent last year.    Dell Inc . spokesman  David Frink  said in an e-mailed
statement that the Intel flaw affects four Dell products sold
under its XPS, Vostro and Alienware brands.  “We’re committed to addressing this with customers who have
already purchased one of the four products, will work directly
with them and provide further detail as it becomes available,”
Frink said.  Computers that use the potentially faulty chips have been
sold since Jan. 9. Intel said it’s corrected the flaw and begun
making a new version of the chip that will resolve the issue.  Intel expects to begin delivering an updated version of
Sandy Bridge’s chipset, called Cougar Point, to customers in
late February and be at full production in April. The company
has shipped about 8 million of the Cougar Point chips to
customers that will have to be replaced, Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said on a Jan. 31 conference call.  HP had planned to discuss the  notebook computers , aimed at
business customers, with journalists next week, before
officially unveiling them to the public on Feb. 23, according to
an earlier e-mail from Edelman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  