-- Ex-Dresdner Banker’s Deals Were Key Thread to FSA Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2011-02-02T10:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ex-dresdner-kleinwort-banker-s-deals-were-key-to-fsa-insider-trading-case.html
A former  Dresdner Kleinwort  banker’s
deals were the common thread the U.K. Financial Services
Authority found in an investigation of a series of trades made
before proposed takeovers.  The FSA, which examined trades made by a Singaporean man,
Helmy Omar Sa’aid, before 22 merger announcements, found that
Dresdner Kleinwort advised on 15 of them, Lee Alam, an FSA
manager, told reporters yesterday. Christian Littlewood, an
investment banker at  Commerzbank AG ’s Dresdner Kleinwort until
March 2008, worked on most of the deals.  “We had to look at what information was available to them
publicly, through press speculation, gossip and so on,” said
Tracey McDermott, the head of wholesale enforcement at the FSA.
“There are hundreds of people on insider lists for
transactions, and there was no connection yet between Helmy Omar
Sa’aid and Christian Littlewood. Quite often you get red
herrings.”  Littlewood, 37, was sentenced to three years and four
months in prison today in London after pleading guilty to eight
counts of  insider trading  in one the regulator’s highest-profile
cases. Sa’aid, 34, was sentenced to two years in prison and
Littlewood’s wife, Angie, received a suspended sentence. While
the FSA never prosecuted the crime before 2008, it’s now an
agency priority with more than 100 open investigations.  FSA ‘Breakthrough’  Christian Littlewood worked for Dresdner until 2008 and
later took a job at investment bank  Shore Capital Group Plc . He
had started at Dresdner when he was 25 and “worked his way up
the ranks,” Nicholas Dean, an FSA prosecutor, said during a
sentencing hearing. He made as much as 400,000 pounds ($645,000)
a year while at the investment bank, Dean said.  The regulator appointed investigators to the case in late
2008. The FSA had “a breakthrough” a few months later when
they discovered Siew Yoon Lew, who made payments from her bank
account to both men, was the maiden name of Angie Littlewood,
FSA investigator Matthew Nunan said.  Patterns emerged in each deal, where Christian Littlewood
would pass information to his wife, who worked at  UBS AG  before
leaving the bank to raise children. She would relay it to
Sa’aid, according to the FSA. The FSA found Angie Littlewood,
39, and Sa’aid invested about 5.5 million pounds over 10-years,
making a 1 million-pound profit.  A lawyer for Christian Littlewood, Ken MacDonald, said at
the sentencing hearing that his client didn’t know the extent of
his wife and Sa’aid’s trades. MacDonald didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Young Children  Angie Littlewood’s lawyer,  Richard Latham , asked for
leniency because she has three young children and could face
deportation to  Singapore . Sa’aid’s lawyer, David Gibson-Lee,
told the court his client probably didn’t know the first trades
were dishonest, then went along with the scheme.  The regulator eventually charged the trio with making
590,000 pounds over 10 years trading shares on U.K. markets.
They used inside information about planned takeovers of
companies including Inspace Plc, Bristol Water Group Plc, South
Staffordshire Plc, Staffware Plc and RCO Holdings Plc,
prosecutors said. None of the companies are accused of
wrongdoing.  Highway Insurance  The FSA’s markets monitoring unit began examining Sa’aid’s
investments in 2008 after he made 160,000 pounds from trades
before a merger announcement. Sa’aid bought 338,000 pounds worth
of Highway Insurance Plc shares through four bank accounts in
the two weeks before a takeover bid was announced, Alam said.
Littlewood, who advised on the deal while at Shore Capital, was
the common link in the trades, Alam said.  The FSA and City of  London  police conducted dawn raids on
the Littlewoods and Sa’aid in March 2009, seizing hundreds of
thousands of documents and trading records from 150 bank
accounts. The Littlewoods were arrested and questioned at a
police station, Nunan said.  Sa’aid was found the following year in Mayotte, the French
island off the coast of  Africa . FSA investigators were led there
after they found bills for pizza ovens and baking supplies at
Sa’aid’s London home to an address in Mayotte, where he had set
up a business. He was extradited last March to face charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 