-- Ex-Banker Gets Longest U.K. Insider-Trading Sentence
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2011-02-02T13:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ex-dresdner-banker-receives-longest-u-k-jail-sentence-for-insider-trading.html
A former  Dresdner Kleinwort  banker,
whose deals were the common thread to a more than yearlong  insider-trading  probe, was sentenced to the longest prison term
for the crime in the U.K.  Christian Littlewood, 37, was sentenced to 40 months in
prison today in London after pleading guilty to eight counts of
insider trading in one the regulator’s highest-profile cases.
His wife, Angie, received a suspended 12-month sentence and an
accomplice was ordered to spend two years in jail.  The Financial Services Authority, which examined trades
made by a Singaporean man, Helmy Omar Sa’aid, before 22 merger
announcements, found that Dresdner Kleinwort advised on 15 of
them, Lee Alam, an FSA manager, told reporters yesterday. Littlewood, an investment banker at  Commerzbank AG ’s Dresdner
Kleinwort until March 2008, worked on most of the deals.  “Rogue traders that let down” honest bankers “must be
made to realize that their behavior won’t be tolerated,” Judge
Anthony Leonard said today in sentencing the trio.  A lawyer for Christian Littlewood, Ken MacDonald, said at a
hearing earlier this week that his client didn’t know the extent
of his wife and Sa’aid’s trades. The judge rejected that
argument today and said Christian Littlewood’s “desire to amass
yet more money” meant he “couldn’t resist” trading on the
information he had. MacDonald declined to comment after the
sentencing today.  Angie Littlewood  Angie Littlewood, 39, wouldn’t have committed the crime if
it wasn’t for her husband, and Sa’aid “did not go looking for
this fraud,” the judge said.  Angie Littlewood’s lawyer,  Richard Latham , declined to
comment today. Sa’aid’s lawyer, David Gibson-Lee, said the
penalty was “a fair sentence.”  In a separate case, the FSA said today it charged a  management consultant , Rupinder Sidhu, with 23 counts of insider
trading. Sidhu, 39, pleaded not guilty to all of the charges,
the regulator  said in a statement . While the FSA never
prosecuted the crime before 2008, it’s now an agency priority,
with more than 100 open investigations.  Christian Littlewood worked for Dresdner until 2008 and
later took a job at investment bank  Shore Capital Group Plc . He
had started at Dresdner when he was 25 and “worked his way up
the ranks,” Nicholas Dean, an FSA prosecutor, said during a
sentencing hearing. He made as much as 400,000 pounds ($645,000)
a year while at Dresdner, Dean said.  ‘Breakthrough’  The regulator appointed investigators to the case in late
2008. The FSA had “a breakthrough” a few months later, when
they discovered Siew Yoon Lew, who made payments from her bank
account to both men, was the maiden name of Angie Littlewood,
FSA investigator Matthew Nunan said.  Patterns emerged in each deal, where Christian Littlewood
would pass information to his wife, who worked at  UBS AG  before
leaving the bank to raise children, the FSA said. She would
relay it to Sa’aid, according to the FSA. The FSA found Angie
Littlewood, 39, and Sa’aid invested about 5.5 million pounds
over 10 years, making a 1 million-pound profit.  The regulator eventually charged the trio with making
590,000 pounds over 10 years trading shares on U.K. markets.
They used inside information about planned takeovers of
companies including Inspace Plc, Bristol Water Group Plc, South
Staffordshire Plc, Staffware Plc and RCO Holdings Plc,
prosecutors said. None of the companies are accused of
wrongdoing.  ‘Significant Sentence’  Tracey McDermott, the head of wholesale enforcement at the
FSA, said today the outcome “is a significant sentence” for
Christian Littlewood. She declined to comment on the other two
sentences and said the decision was a matter for the court.  The FSA’s market-monitoring unit began examining Sa’aid’s
investments in 2008 after he made 160,000 pounds from trades
before a merger announcement. Sa’aid bought 338,000 pounds worth
of Highway Insurance Plc shares through four bank accounts in
the two weeks before a takeover bid was announced, Alam said.
Littlewood, who advised on the deal while at Shore Capital, was
the common link in the trades, Alam said.  The FSA and City of  London  police conducted dawn raids on
the Littlewoods and Sa’aid in March 2009, seizing hundreds of
thousands of documents and trading records from 150 bank
accounts. The Littlewoods were arrested and questioned at a
police station, Nunan said.  Sa’aid was found the following year in Mayotte, the French
island off the coast of  Africa . FSA investigators were led there
after they found bills for pizza ovens and baking supplies at
Sa’aid’s London home to an address in Mayotte, where he had set
up a business. He was extradited last March to face charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 