-- Facebook, Twitter Valuations Fuel Trading Surge to $7 Billion
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/facebook-twitter-valuations-fuel-surge-in-private-trading-to-7-billion.html
Trading of privately held companies
such as Facebook Inc. is likely to surge 51 percent to almost
$7 billion this year, drawing new exchanges such as  Xpert
Financial Inc.  and  Gate Technologies LLC  to vie for commissions.  Xpert and Gate will be competing with SecondMarket Inc. and
SharesPost Inc., which gained popularity last year as investors
poured billions of dollars into Facebook, Twitter Inc. and
Groupon Inc. The value of the transactions may almost triple to
$6.9 billion in 2011 from $2.4 billion in 2009, according to
 Nyppex LLC , a New York research and advisory services firm.  Investors flocked to the secondary market last year to seek
growth after a two-year slump in initial public offerings and a
half decade of muted gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. With fees of about 3 percent a
transaction, these exchanges are vying for upwards of $200
million in sales this year, a number that may grow as more
technology startups stay private longer.  “There’s an enormous need for liquidity,” said Mona DeFrawi, who’s worked with the venture capital industry for more
than 20 years and recently founded Equidity Inc., a Woodside,
California, startup that helps investors build relationships
with pre-IPO and newly public companies. “There’s a ton of value
that’s being created and none of that is appearing in the Dow
Jones or S&P 500.”  Xpert and Gate are trying to automate the process, so they
work more like public  stock exchanges  and require fewer phone
calls and e-mails to brokers.  Government Oversight?  For the exchanges to succeed, they may have to deal with
increased regulatory scrutiny. New York-based SecondMarket said
last month that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
asked for information on investment funds that are pooling
together shares of companies like Facebook.  Private companies with fewer than 500 shareholders aren’t
required to disclose financial data, so buyers on SecondMarket
and  SharesPost  often don’t know key figures like revenue,
profit,  cash flow  and debt obligations. Venture firms, by
contrast, make direct investments into startups after extensive
analysis and meetings with management. Regulators may start to
clamp down, said venture capitalist Maha Ibrahim.  “Given restrictions around public markets and public
shares, you have to make sure information rights are being
shared,” said Ibrahim, a partner at  Menlo Park , California-based
Canaan Partners. The SEC “should get involved at some level.”  High Net Worth  The exchanges also have to deal with restrictions on who
can buy the securities. Investing in private companies is
considered high risk and limited to so-called accredited or
qualified investors. That includes institutional investors and
individuals with at least $1 million in net worth. Sellers are
typically past or current employees and early investors.  Thus far, the bulk of secondary activity has involved
Facebook, Twitter, Zynga Game Network Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.
Shares of about a dozen companies are being traded each quarter
on SecondMarket and that number may double in the next 12 to 18
months, said Chief Strategy Officer Jeremy Smith.  “As this market has really gained traction, more and more
companies are coming on board,” Smith said. SecondMarket said
last week that it completed $400 million in transactions last
year, quadruple that of a year earlier.  Thomas Foley, chief executive officer of Xpert Financial,
is betting that expansion will continue. With funding from
venture investors including Tim Draper, managing director at
Draper Fisher Jurvetson in Menlo Park, Xpert is in the process
of registering investors that want a piece of emerging
companies.  Fee Breakdown  Foley’s  San Mateo , California-based company said last month
that it received SEC approval to operate a trading system for
private company securities. Clients can use the program to sell
secondary shares or raise new capital. Xpert takes a 2 percent
commission on transactions, while Gate Technologies charges 1
percent to the buyer and 3 percent to the seller.  “There are a lot of companies out there that are good
enough to be on the public market but the investment bankers
aren’t taking them out,” said Foley, 26, who started Xpert under
a different name in 2009. “They could really utilize our system
as a pre-IPO capital raise or option for liquidity.”  Gate, based in  New York , introduced its electronic trading
system in November and expects to have private-share
transactions among 25 to 50 companies within a year, said CEO
Vincent Molinari.  IPOs Loom  Regulatory issues aren’t the only obstacle to growth. A
more amenable IPO market may also be on the horizon. After a
total of 18 venture-backed companies went public in the U.S. in
2008 and 2009, that number jumped last year to 72, according to
the  National Venture Capital Association . Dixon Doll, co-founder
of venture firm DCM, predicted last week that there will be 80
to 85 IPOs this year.  LinkedIn announced plans on Jan. 27 to raise $175 million
in an IPO. That followed filings last year from Kayak Software
Corp., Zipcar Inc. and Responsys Inc.  “There will be a little bit of a breakout in 2011 and that
may take a little pressure off some of those companies,” said
Michael Fitzgerald, managing general partner of Commonwealth
Capital Ventures in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  While more private companies will jump into share trading,
the secondary market may take four or five years to develop,
said Naval Ravikant, founder of AngelList in  San Francisco ,
which connects entrepreneurs and angel investors. He finds too
much risk in buying stakes in smaller companies, which don’t
share sensitive financial information out of concern that
competitors will see their data.  “I don’t see there being a liquid market for those kinds of
companies,” said Ravikant, who has also invested in Twitter.  That means firms like SecondMarket, SharesPost, Xpert and
Gate have to count on a continuous pipeline of companies that
are growing fast enough to attract outside investors and willing
to divulge their revenue and profit.  “This is really the embryonic stage of a new market,” said
Gate’s Molinari. “Once you have demand you have to figure out
how you’re going to do it in the most compliant fashion
possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  