-- Failure to Raise U.S. Debt Ceiling Would Be Dangerous, Top Obama Aide Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/failure-to-raise-u-s-debt-ceiling-dangerous-white-house-s-daley-says.html
  William Daley , President Barack Obama’s chief of staff, said a failure by Congress to raise the
legal limit on U.S. borrowing could be “very dangerous” and
have “enormous potential negative impacts on the markets.”  While Democrats and Republicans must work together to deal
with the nation’s ballooning debt, Daley said a rejection of a
debt-ceiling increase would cause “devastation.” He said
leaders of both parties have acknowledged danger, especially as
certain parts of the world, including  Europe , are still
recovering from a global recession.  “To go through a traumatic sort of vote would have
enormous potential negative impacts on the markets,” Daley said
today at the Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington.  The government will hit the $14.29 trillion debt limit by
the end of May, a little later than initially projected because
tax revenues have been more robust than expected, the Treasury
Department said in a statement yesterday.  Lawmakers are headed for a showdown over the debt-limit
vote, with Republicans and some Democrats demanding cuts in  government spending  as the price of approving an increase.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said Jan. 31 that while a U.S.
default would be a “financial disaster,” the Obama
administration needs to cut spending if it seeks an increase in
the debt ceiling.  ‘Split Control’  “Split control of Congress is apt to lead to a longer-
than-usual debate over increasing the statutory debt limit, and
could result in at least one failed attempt at an increase
before the limit is raised,” Goldman Sachs said this week in a
research note. The debt stood at $14.003 trillion on Jan. 31.  “We’re going to make the strong case that we ought to just
deal with the debt limit, at the same time we’re all saying
we’ve got to do something about this deficit,” Daley said.
“But to sort of play this typical  Washington  game of
threatening and trying to leverage off the debt would be very
dangerous for the markets.”  Daley, a former executive at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
President Barack Obama’s proposal to overhaul the corporate tax
code has been well received by the business community.  “There’s a general belief” that greater simplification
and lower rates would make U.S. companies “more competitive
internationally” and help them create more jobs in the U.S.,
Daley said.  During his Jan. 25 State of Union address, Obama said he
would cut corporate tax rates if loopholes and breaks also could
be eliminated so that an overhaul wouldn’t add to the deficit.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  plans to meet today
with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, Budget
Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota  and Finance
Committee Chairman Max Baucus of Montana, all Democrats, to
discuss priorities for the current Congress, the Treasury
Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 