-- Fed Names MF Global, Societe Generale Primary Dealers
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2011-02-02T22:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/fed-names-mf-global-societe-generale-primary-dealers.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
named  MF Global Holdings Ltd . and  Societe Generale  SA as primary
dealers, the first companies to join the network of  securities
firms  that underwrite the government’s debt since July 2009.  MF Global Inc. is a unit of the New York-based futures
broker headed by former New Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine , while
SG Americas Securities LLC is a division of  France ’s second-
largest bank. The appointments, effective today, increase the
number of dealers to 20 firms, the Fed said in a statement.  The Treasury is in the midst of financing its third
consecutive $1 trillion-plus  budget deficit , which has required
across the board increases in sales of bills, notes and bonds.
The Fed is also putting the infrastructure in place to remove or
neutralize the more than $1 trillion in extra cash from the
central bank’s balance sheet even as it buys $600 billion of
Treasuries to ensure that the economic recovery takes hold.  “It’s a very natural consequence of having meaningful
Treasury supply,” said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate
strategy at primary dealer Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . “It’s
actually very healthy to have more dealers because there’s lots
of risks surrounding auctions, lots of uncertainty as to whether
certain investors are going to turn up.”  The Treasury sold a record $2.249 trillion of debt last
year and $2.109 trillion in 2009, as the deficit topped $1.2
trillion in each year.  Open Market Operations  Primary dealers serve as counterparties in open market
operations, the central bank’s mechanism for maintaining its
target rate for overnight loans between banks. Primary dealers
also are expected to bid when the Treasury sells bills, notes
and bonds.  The number of dealers had shrunk to 16 in 2009, the lowest
since the network was formalized in 1960, leading to wider bid-
ask spreads and reduced liquidity. The current number is the
most since 2008 after Bear Stearns Cos., Merrill Lynch & Co. and
Countrywide Securities Corp. merged with other firms and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  “The Treasury has a significant amount of debt that needs
to be issued,” said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at primary dealer Barclays Plc. “More
primary dealers may be beneficial.”  The New York Fed added 32 money market mutual funds this
week as potential reverse repo counterparties, and reduced by
half the amount of assets money market funds are required to
hold in order to serve in that capacity.  Money Market Funds  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, draining cash from the banking system. At maturity, the
securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash to the primary
dealers. The money market funds aren’t eligible to participate
in other transactions.  The primary dealer designation has been coveted in the past
because some central banks and certain pension and endowment
funds would only do business with firms that had it.  MF Global planned to become a primary dealer as part of a
strategy to increase revenue, Corzine said when named CEO in
March 2010. By necessity the company will have to take on trades
from the New York Fed with its own money to sell  government
securities  to its customers, potentially leading the broker to
take on swaps transaction in the future, he said.  Firms exited the dealership business beginning in the 1990s
as the large number of dealers and the increased transparency of
electronic trading reduced the spread between offers to buy and
sell debt, curtailing the profitability of trading. The number
of dealers peaked at 46 in 1988.  In June 2009 the New York Fed added Jefferies & Co. to the
dealer network, followed by  RBC Capital Markets  and Nomura
Securities International in July. The most dealers ever admitted
in a year is five in 1976, according to Fed data.  From 1970 through 1988, as the  U.S. budget deficit 
increased to $155.2 billion from $2.8 billion, the number of
primary dealers also rose, to 46 from 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  