-- Florida State, National Champion Auburn Lead College Football Recruitment
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-03T02:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/florida-state-targets-top-college-football-recruit-class-on-signing-day.html
  Florida  State University landed
college football’s top incoming class and  Auburn University 
followed up its national championship season with the No. 2-
ranked haul, recruiting analysts said.  Today was the first chance for high school football players
to make an official written commitment to a college under
National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. Recruits
previously could make only non-binding verbal commitments.  Florida State  topped  ESPNU’s recruiting rankings , finishing
ahead of  Auburn , Alabama,  Southern California  and  Texas . The
Seminoles got letters of intent from 29 players, including 12 of
the top  150 players  in ESPNU’s rankings, 11 of whom played high
school football in Florida.  “We’re getting the personal relationships built,” Florida
State’s Jimbo Fisher, who is entering his second season as coach
since replacing Bobby Bowden, said in a televised interview with
ESPN. “When the (recruits) came on campus, our kids did a great
job of selling what we’re trying to teach. They’re buying in.”  Auburn, which beat the University of  Oregon  last month for
the Bowl Championship Series title, received a commitment from
the nation’s No. 2 quarterback prospect, Kiehl Frazier, a
possible replacement for Heisman Trophy winner Cam Newton.  Auburn’s Class  The Tigers also got the top-rated center and two offensive
tackle prospects, including 6-foot-7, 325-pound Cyrus Kouandjio
of Hyattsville,  Maryland , who announced his decision today on
ESPNU. Kouandjio didn’t send in his letter of intent, however,
and ESPN reported that he may be reconsidering his commitment.  “It’s been a whirlwind probably the last four or five
weeks, but I’ve got a great staff and they went out and
relentlessly pursued our needs,” Auburn coach Gene Chizik said
in a televised interview with CBS College Sports Network. “This
was our ‘15th game’ and we had to close the season out. We feel
like we accomplished what we needed to in terms of getting what
we needed on our football team.”  Among the top players to give written commitments to
Florida State were safety Karlos Williams from Davenport,
Florida, and running back James Wilder Jr., from Tampa, Florida,
whose father was a Pro Bowl running back in the  National
Football League . The Seminoles today also got a commitment from
the No. 2-rated defensive tackle, Tim Jernigan of Lake City,
Florida.  10 Wins  Florida State went 10-4 last year in Fisher’s first season
as coach, the school’s first 10-win season in seven years. In
the nine seasons before Fisher succeeded Bowden, the Seminoles
had gone 74-42. That followed a 14-year stretch in which the
school had a 152-19-1 record and won two national championships
under Bowden.  The coaching change has returned stability to the program
after years of uncertainty about when 81-year-old Bowden, who
spent 33 years as coach, would retire, ESPN recruiting analyst
Tom Luginbill said.  Like college football polls, recruiting rankings are
subjective and  Alabama  finished ahead of Southern California and
Florida State in  Rivals.com’s class evaluations . Alabama coach
Nick Saban cautioned that players who starred in high school
aren’t guaranteed to have the same success in college.  “Just because you pick the best puppy dog with the biggest
feet that doesn’t mean he’s going to grow up to be the best
hunting dog,” Saban said at a news conference. “A lot of these
young players are very good. They are very talented. The
challenge for us is to help these players develop.”  Georgia, Louisiana State, Clemson, Ohio State,  Notre Dame ,
Oklahoma and Florida also had top incoming classes, according to
ESPN and Rivals.com.  Top Player  Jadeveon Clowney, the nation’s top-rated high school
recruit, didn’t announce his college choice today. A 6-foot-6,
240-pound defensive end from  Rock Hill , South Carolina, Clowney
has listed  South Carolina , Alabama, Clemson,  North Carolina  and
LSU among the schools he’s considering.  The top-rated high school quarterback is Jeff Driskel of
Oveido, Florida, who signed a letter of intent with the
University of Florida. This was to be the first recruiting class
for Gators coach Will Muschamp, who took over the program after
Urban Meyer stepped down in December.  Texas’s class features one of the nation’s top two high
school running backs in Malcolm Brown from Cibolo, Texas.  “He’s a young guy who led his team to a state championship
when they weren’t supposed to be a team in that position,”
Texas coach Mack Brown told ESPN. “We feel like he can come in
and make an immediate impact.”  Isaiah Crowell, the top running back in ESPNU’s rankings,
said today he’ll attend Georgia. He held a bulldog puppy -- the
university’s mascot -- after making his televised announcement
at his high school in Columbus,  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  