-- Fluor Sees Sales, Profit Doubling as New CEO Targets Construction `Basics'
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/fluor-to-double-size-in-return-to-building-basics-new-ceo-says.html
  Fluor Corp ., the U.S.’s largest
publicly traded engineering and construction company, will
double its size in a decade in part by returning to industry
“basics,” new Chief Executive Officer David Seaton said.  Sales, profit and order backlog should all reach twice
their current levels in the next 10 years, said Seaton, 49, who
formally took over yesterday after being designated in 2010 as
CEO Alan Boeckmann’s successor. Boeckmann remains chairman.  Seaton said he plans to build on Boeckmann’s strategy of
beefing up the mining unit and expanding in China and Australia,
which helped more than double annual sales during a nine-year
tenure to $22 billion in 2009. Irving, Texas-based Fluor also
will focus more on doing its own construction work rather than
management-only jobs, and hire employees instead of contractors.  “It’s a matter of shifting priorities and kind of going
back a little to the basics,” Seaton, the former chief
operating officer, said in an interview. “I clearly believe
there’s tremendous growth opportunity for Fluor.”  As the company adds workers to a payroll numbering about
50,000 people, it will take on the roles of engineering,
procurement and construction, or EPC, in more projects, said
Seaton, a 27-year veteran of the company.  “Our direct-hire component has shrunk over the last 20
years,” Seaton said. “We need to go back to capturing a
significant amount of that true EPC approach.”  ‘Good Time’  The new CEO may have the wind at his back because of demand
for energy projects, with crude oil prices more than doubling
from less than $40 a barrel in 2009 to more than $90 yesterday,
said Steven Fisher, an analyst with UBS AG in New York.  “Commodity prices appear to be supportive of spending at
this point,” said Fisher, who has a “buy” recommendation on
the stock. “It’s a very good time to be taking the reins of
Fluor.”  Seaton, who earned a bachelor’s degree from the University
of  South Carolina , is taking over a company with a $33 billion
construction backlog and $2 billion in cash.  Fluor posted a record backlog of $36.5 billion at the end
of September 2008 after crude oil soared to more than $140 a
barrel in July, setting off a frenzy of energy construction.  When oil prices crashed along with the global economy at
the end of 2008, Fluor shifted to mining projects and government
services and pushed into emerging markets that better weathered
the slump to protect sales and profit, Seaton said. Revenue in
2009 slid 1.5 percent from a year earlier, and net income fell
to $685 million from a record $716 million in 2008.  ‘Strength and Resiliency’  “That diversity is part of the strength and resiliency of
the company and dampens quite dramatically the impact of
fluctuation,” said Seaton, who has overseen projects from the
first privately built petrochemical facility in  Saudi Arabia  to
an office building in Greenville, South Carolina, one of his
first projects.  Beyond the oil industry, Fluor will ride a global recovery
that will demand more spending in all areas of construction,
said  Michael Cuggino , president of Pacific Heights Asset
Management LLC in  San Francisco , which manages $10.5 billion in
four mutual funds. Cuggino’s firm owns 805,000 Fluor shares,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Fluor is on central casting for that story,” Cuggino
said in a telephone interview. “The focus on infrastructure,
energy, commodities and the breadth of their business worldwide
make it a holding that we think will outperform over the long
term.”  Shares on Rise  Fluor has climbed 81 percent in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading since February 2009, outperforming a 58
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The shares rose
1 cent yesterday to $69.48.  With the shares up more than 40 percent since the end of
October, Fluor’s price-earnings ratio rose to more than 20 by
last month, outpacing a ratio of about 15 for the S&P 500.  “It’s not a cheap stock because of the run it’s had
lately,” Cuggino said.  The company faces competition from Asian builders such as  South Korea ’s GS Engineering & Construction Corp. that have bid
aggressively on contracts and have taken energy market share,
especially in the Middle East, said Avram Fisher, an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets in New York. It may take several years
to tell whether the low bids are sustainable, Fisher said.  Asian Competition  “The Asian companies have shown their ability to compete
against the U.S. companies,” said Fisher, who has an
“underperform” rating on the stock. “Until the evidence
proves they can’t, the competition is out there.”  Fluor continues to win large projects and may report a
backlog at the end of the fourth quarter near its record high.
The company, scheduled to release earnings on Feb. 23, said in
January that it won a $3.5 billion contract to build a liquefied
natural gas project in  Australia .  “In some places, the growth is taking the difference
between dabbling in a region and really being a market force in
a region,” said Seaton, who plans to continue visiting projects
around the globe as CEO and has a headquarters located 15
minutes by car from Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.  “We’ve done very well over the last decades in really
going after the mega-projects and making sure we had the
geographic and industry diversification that we have,” Seaton
said. “But it’s growth within those swim lanes that’s available
to us now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  