-- GM, Ford, Chrysler Resuming Production After 24 Plants Idled by Snowstorm
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2011-02-03T00:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ford-closes-three-plants-because-of-midwestern-snowstorm.html
  General Motors Co .,  Ford Motor Co .
and Chrysler Group LLC began reopening some of the 24 plants
that were shut earlier today because of a snowstorm in the U.S.  GM plans to start work tonight on the third shift at three
of its nine factories that halted production, with the rest
scheduled to resume production tomorrow, said Kimberly Carpenter, a company spokeswoman. Ford got all of its plants
running again on the second shift, except for truck plants in
Michigan and Kentucky, said  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman.  Chrysler plans to reopen nine of its 10 suspended plants in
Michigan, Ohio and Ontario for the second shift today, the
company said in a statement. Its Belvedere, Illinois, assembly
plant will remain closed.  The weather also forced Subaru of  Indiana  Automotive, Honda
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. to shut plants, pushing the
tally of auto closures to more than 30.  “We’re really trying to run as many as we can, but it will
depend on having the people and parts to do so,” Ford’s Evans
said in an e-mail. “Right now it looks like parts may become
more of an issue than people for some facilities.”  Ford had closed plants in Flat Rock and Dearborn, Michigan;
Avon Lake, Ohio; Claycomo, Missouri and  Chicago , Evans said.  Affected Models  The closings affect production of a range of models,
including GM’s Chevrolet Malibu sedan, Silverado pickup and Volt
plug-in electric car, and Ford’s redesigned Explorer SUV, F-150
pickup and Taurus sedan.  “We’re making a shift-by-shift and plant-by-plant
determination,” GM’s Carpenter said. “We will try to reopen
plants as soon as it’s safe for our workers.”  Six of the nine GM plants canceled early shifts in the day
and may reopen later, pending weather conditions, Carpenter
said. GM had stopped production at nine factories in Missouri,
Michigan, Kansas, Indiana and Texas. The Arlington,  Texas  SUV
plant started production for the second shift, Carpenter said.  Subaru canceled the first shift at its plant in Lafayette,
Indiana, this morning, Jennifer McGarvey, a spokeswoman, said in
an interview. The company hasn’t made a decision on the second
shift at the factory, which builds the Outback, Legacy and
Tribeca vehicles, she said.  Honda canceled today’s first shifts at five plants in Ohio
and Indiana, said Ron Lietzke, a company spokesman. The second
shift at Honda’s four Ohio plants was also canceled today, he
said.  Toyota closed down its Princeton, Indiana plant and the
Camry sedan line at Subaru’s Indiana factory, which the two
automakers share through a manufacturing contract.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at   knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at   ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .
or  David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 