-- Coal, Zinc Mines Close, Ships Flee as Cyclone Yasi Nears Australian Coast
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2011-02-02T09:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/mmg-slows-mine-as-severe-cyclone-nears-australia-update1-.html
Coal and zinc mines are shut and at
least 32 coal ships are steaming out to sea, as sugarcane and
banana farmers in northeastern  Australia  brace for the forecast
landfall today of Tropical Cyclone Yasi.  Century, the world’s second-largest zinc mine, is slowing
operations because of the category five cyclone, Bruce Loveday,
a spokesman for Minmetal Resources Ltd.’s MMG unit, said today
by phone. Kagara Ltd. shut its Mt. Garnet zinc mine and
treatment plant, Chairman Kim Robinson said by phone.  Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc  shut coal mines, while
ports and rail lines are closed as Queensland prepares for
Cyclone Yasi, packing winds of 290 kilometers (180 miles) an
hour. The state is the world’s biggest supplier of steelmaking
coal and its northern region accounts for about a third of
Australia’s sugarcane production.  “There will be an effect on mining, there will certainly
be some effect on the farming sector,” said Andrew Sekely, head
of Australian equities at Intersuisse Ltd. “In the case of
farmers, there will be some stock and crop losses which may
force food prices up.”  ‘Extreme Threat’  The city of Cairns evacuated hospitals and cleared
residents. Yasi was 250 kilometers east of Cairns at 4 p.m.
local time, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Category
five is the highest level in the storm classification system.
The storm poses an “extremely  serious threat  to life and
property within the warning area,” the bureau said.  The last category five cyclone that crossed the Queensland
coast was in 1918, state Premier  Anna Bligh  said today.    BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest mining company, is
“closely monitoring the path of the cyclone,” the Melbourne-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Xstrata evacuated its Townsville port and refinery and
halted operations at its Bowen Coke site in Queensland,
according to an e-mailed statement today. The situation at its
Mount Isa and Ernest Henry mine sites is being assessed, it said.  BHP operates seven coal mines in the Bowen Basin in
Queensland, as part of the BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, the
world’s biggest supplier of coking coal used in steelmaking. It
also manages two other mines in the region. Coal producers in
Queensland are still trying to recover from record flooding,
which has hampered output and sent global prices surging.  “We are going to have some slowdowns for a couple of
days,” MMG spokesman Loveday said. The Century mine is about
900 kilometers west of Townsville and normally produces
500,000 tons of zinc a year.  Fly-In, Fly-Out  Most of the mine workers “fly-in, fly-out from either
Townsville or Cairns,” Loveday said. The mine usually has 700
people on site and will have less than 100.  Queensland Nickel Pty, a company controlled by billionaire  Clive Palmer , yesterday closed its Yabulu refinery. The plant
has an annual production capacity of 30,000 tons of nickel and
2,000 tons of cobalt.  Resolute Mining Ltd . today shut its
Ravenswood gold mine, 95 kilometers southwest of Townsville.  Kagara is operating its two other mines at Balcooma and
Mungana on a skeleton staff, Robinson said. “We’ll stay here,
bunker down in a safe spot,” he said from the Mt. Garnet mine,
which is about 160 kilometers southwest from Cairns. “We just
hope it’s not too bad.”  Cyclone Larry  The cyclone is forecast to be more severe than Cyclone
Larry, which wiped out most of Australia’s banana crop and
devastated sugar cane fields almost five years ago. Banana
plantations in the region, account for 85 percent of national
production.  “We are anticipating a lot of damage to the main
production area, and it just remains to be seen how devastating
the winds will be,” Australian Banana Growers’ Council chief
executive officer Jonathan Eccles said today by phone.  Losses to the sugar cane industry may be A$500 million
($506 million), Steve Greenwood, chief executive officer of
industry group Canegrowers, said in an e-mail today. A third of
Australia’s sugar cane is produced from the area north of
Townsville, it said.  Australia has 25 sugar mills with 8 located north of
Townsville and four just to the south, Australian Sugar Milling
Council Chief Executive Officer Dominic Nolan said by phone.
Millers operating in the region include  Wilmar International
Ltd .,  Maryborough Sugar Factory  Ltd., Bundaberg Sugar, a unit of
Brussels-based Finasucre S.A. and Tully Sugar Ltd.  The storm may also affect a production region south of
Townsville, Nolan said.  Rail, Ports  At least 32 vessels have headed out to sea after Hay Point
harbor and the Abbot Point export terminal were shut, according
to North Queensland Bulks Ports Corp. and Dalrymple Bay Coal
Terminal Pty.  “They’ll try and move away from land,”  Greg Smith ,
general manager of operations at the Dalrymple Bay export
facility, said by phone today. “Their biggest fear will be
getting blown onto some form of shallow, so they’ll probably
seek deeper water off the continental shelf, or try and steam as
far south, where they’ll be out of reach of the winds.”  The Abbot Point coal harbor,  Hay Point  harbor and Mackay
harbor were all closed yesterday, said Mary Steele, a
spokeswoman for North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp., which manages
the three facilities.  Railway operator QR National Ltd. suspended two Queensland
coal-transport lines. It halted train services on the Newlands
line serving Abbot Point and the Goonyella line serving Hay
Point, the world’s largest port for shipping steelmaking coal,
said Mark Hairsine , a spokesman for the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Wendy Pugh at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  