-- Gabelli’s Picks Trounce S&P 500 as Brokerages Fail to Add Value
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2011-02-02T13:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/gabelli-s-stock-picks-trounce-s-p-500-as-rival-brokers-fail-to-add-value.html
Recommendations from Mario J. Gabelli’s brokerage are trouncing returns in the U.S. stock
market as analysts at the biggest securities firms struggle to
prove their worth.  The quarterly list from Gabelli & Co. generated profits of
216 percent since inception five years ago, compared with the
4.7 percent gain from the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Yesterday, the Rye, New York-based company added  BlackRock Inc .
and  ITT Corp . to the “Focus Five,” joining  National Fuel Gas
Co ., Madison Square Garden Inc. and  NII Holdings Inc . Gabelli
identifies shares at a discount to the private-market value of
their assets, and reason to expect the gap will narrow.  “Any bottom-up, fundamental investor is oriented toward
this train of thought,” said  Matthew Kaufler , a stock fund
manager at Federated Clover Investment Advisors in Rochester,
New York, which manages $3 billion. “The stock price is not
fully reflective of the value of the real asset it represents,
and he believes the two ultimately will converge. It’s
effectively a form of arbitrage.”  Gabelli, 69, made customers money as S&P 500 companies that
analysts loved most rose 73 percent on average since the
benchmark for U.S. equity started to recover in March 2009,
lagging behind those with the fewest “buy” ratings, which
gained 165 percent, according to data compiled through Jan. 7 by
Bloomberg. Downgraded stocks rose 0.6 percent and 1.9 percent
more than the index in the next one and three months, Birinyi
Associates Inc. said in a report yesterday.  Smaller Companies  The Gabelli list of five stocks is picked from a universe
of about 450 small and medium-sized companies covered by the
company’s 20 stock analysts in Rye,  New York . The group produced
a gain of 18 percent for investors who bought an equal number of
shares of each company on Nov. 1, compared with an 8.7 percent
advance by the S&P 500, the company said.  The performance of the list shows investors can distinguish
themselves by picking individual stocks even as returns from
shares have become more tightly clustered, said Daniel Miller,
the 30-year-old head of institutional equities at Gabelli.  The average correlation among the 50 biggest companies in
the S&P 500 has been 47 percent since 2008, compared with 33
percent going back to 1996, according to Maneesh Deshpande,
equity derivatives strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.  Takeover Potential  The universe from which the five stocks are drawn has a
median market value of $4.2 billion, compared with $11.6 billion
for the S&P 500, Miller said. It favors smaller companies
because they are more likely to be purchased -- one of the main
ways that discounts to private market value can shrink, he said.  The best-performing stock in the history of the Focus Five
list,  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc ., gained 62 percent in
the three months ended April 30, 2008, after Electronic Arts
Inc. offered to buy the video-game publisher. Take-Two rejected
the offer, and its shares are down more than 50 percent from
their June 2008 peak.  BlackRock, with a market value of $38.5 billion yesterday,
and Walgreen Co., the drugstore operator with a market value of
$39 billion, are the biggest companies ever named to the list,
Miller said. BlackRock trades at about a 22 percent discount to
its private-market value, and is likely to be added to the S&P
500, according to Gabelli.  National Fuel Gas Co., which gained 24 percent in the three
months through Jan. 31, got a boost from Chevron Corp.’s
purchase of Atlas Energy Inc on Nov. 9 to gain control of its
Marcellus Shale natural-gas assets in  Pennsylvania .  Madison Square    Madison Square Garden Inc . rose 21 percent during the most
recent three-month period, including a gain of 5.7 percent on
Nov. 5 after third-quarter sales and profit topped analyst
estimates. When Gabelli added the company to the Focus Five list
four days earlier, the brokerage said at the current price
investors were assigning value only to its sports networks, not
to its entertainment, real estate and development assets.  To be chosen for the list, a company must trade in the U.S.
and have been the subject of a recent report by a Gabelli
analyst, Miller said. A company can remain on the list for no
more than two consecutive quarters. While there is no limit on
size, the largest companies don’t tend to qualify, Miller said.    Google Inc ., the owner of the world’s most popular Internet
search engine and the eighth-biggest U.S. company with a market
value of $195.4 billion yesterday, “doesn’t trade based on its
potential for being acquired, whereas Madison Square Garden
should trade based on its private market value, because in
theory it shouldn’t be a public company,” Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  