-- Gap Chief Executive Murphy `Expects More' With Overhaul of Namesake Brand
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-02-02T21:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/gap-chief-executive-murphy-expects-more-with-overhaul-of-namesake-brand.html
  Gap Inc . Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Murphy named Art Peck president of Gap  North America  and
moved the namesake brand’s creative base to  New York  from  San
Francisco  in a bid to boost sales.  Peck takes on his new job after overseeing the company’s
outlet stores, the San Francisco-based retailer said in a
statement. Marka Hansen stepped down from the role, the chain
said yesterday.  “I expect more from our Gap business in North America,”
Murphy said in the statement. “The changes we’re making are
intended to propel the brand to deliver the product and brand
experiences our customers demand worldwide.”  Since Murphy arrived in 2007, he’s cut costs and closed
stores to boost profitability. Now he’s aiming for revenue
growth at U.S. locations, said  Richard Jaffe , an analyst for
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York. Sales have improved at the
company’s other major divisions,  Old Navy  and Banana Republic,
while the Gap brand has lagged behind, he said.  While Hansen oversaw successes such as the introduction of
1969 Jeans and black pants, overall the clothes weren’t unique
and failed to draw consumers and boost so-called same-store
sales, Jaffe said.  “Change was needed at the Gap division,” said Jaffe, who
recommends buying Gap shares. “This is a good thing.”  The retailer declined 49 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $19.03
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares gained 5.7 percent last year.  Old Navy,  Banana Republic   Gap North America’s same-store sales, which exclude new and
closed stores, were little changed in the 39 weeks through Oct.
30. Sales by that measure gained 2 percent at Old Navy and 3
percent at Banana Republic in the same period. In December,
purchases dropped 8 percent at Gap North America. The unit
included 1,127 stores, or 37 percent of the retailer’s total
locations, through October.  Seth Farbman will be chief marketing officer of Gap North
America after a career at advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather,
which the retailer has hired.  The namesake brand’s global creative hub for product and
marketing will move to New York from San Francisco and be led by
Pam Wallack, who was president of Gap North America’s adult
division.  Patrick Robinson  remains head of global design.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  