-- GE Says It’s Planning U.K. Site for Turbine Factory ‘Very Soon’
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-02T08:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ge-says-it-s-planning-u-k-site-for-new-wind-turbine-factory-very-soon-.html
  General Electric Co . plans to
announce the site of a new wind turbine factory in Britain
“very soon,” said Magued Eldaief, who heads the U.K. energy
operations of the world’s second-biggest maker of the machines.  GE said last March that it would spend 110 million euros
($152 million) on a plant in the U.K. It held back details until
the government confirmed its plan to invest in improvements for
harbors that would handle the turbines, Eldaief said in an
interview.  “Now it’s a question of finalizing the most optimum site
for us,” Eldaief said yesterday at GE’s offices in Bracknell,
west of  London . An announcement will be made “very soon,” and
the intention is to have it “up and running probably around
2014 or 2015, that kind of timeframe,” he said.  GE, which has specialized in onshore  wind turbines , in 2009
bought Morphic Technologies AB’s ScanWind unit, which makes
gearless technology that reduces maintenance costs.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said in December
that the ScanWind acquisition will help GE’s move into offshore
wind. He’s targeting $3 billion in revenue by 2015 and a 25
percent market share.  “What we’re trying to do now in the U.K. is we’re trying
to commercialize and scale up that technology, make it better,
and be able to supply it to our customers,” Eldaief said,
referring to the ScanWind equipment.  Gamesa, Siemens  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s selection of a site in
the U.K. would follow announcements on Jan. 20 by  Spain ’s Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA and  Germany ’s Siemens AG that they’ll
open wind facilities in the U.K. Gamesa plans an offshore wind
technology facility in Glasgow, and Siemens said it will open a
new factory in Hull.  The U.K. has about 1.3 gigawatts of installed offshore wind
capacity, about 40 percent of the global total. The government
is banking on the technology to help meet its European renewable
energy targets for 2020.  In January 2010, the government awarded licenses for 32,200
megawatts of offshore wind projects to companies including
Centrica Plc, RWE AG and Statoil ASA. Eldaief said GE is in
talks with some of the competition winners to buy its turbines.  “We’re mostly targeted at Round 3” licensing round
winners rather than the previous round, Eldaief said. “We see
the U.K. as the biggest market in  Europe  for offshore wind.”  Employment in the U.K. wind power industry has surged 91
percent in three years, the RenewableUK lobby group said
yesterday, shortly before Belfast Harbour  announced  plans to
create 300 full-time jobs in a 40 million-pound ($65 million)
project to build a new dock for use by Dong Energy A/S to
assemble turbines and foundations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 