-- Germany Rules Out Fund Buybacks as EU Leaders Plan Summit Pledge on Debt
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2011-02-02T16:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/germany-rules-out-bond-buybacks-by-bailout-fund-official-says.html
  Germany  ruled out allowing the
European Union bailout facility to fund bond buybacks from debt-
strapped governments as euro-area officials struggle to narrow
differences on a strategy to end the region’s financial crisis.  A German government official briefing reporters before a
Feb. 4 EU summit said the 440 billion-euro ($607 billion)
European Financial Stability Facility lacks the legal authority
to purchase the outstanding debt to ease finances of countries
including Greece. European officials have said such measures are
being considered as part of a revamped crisis strategy.  The euro reached a three-month high today and bond-risk
premiums for Spain, Portugal,  Italy  and  Belgium  narrowed for a
third day as investors bet  Europe  would succeed in reinforcing
its arsenal to battle the year-old crisis. Leaders are preparing
a pledge to defend the euro, seeking to keep markets at bay
until a late-March deadline to bridge differences over budget
rules, rescue-loan rates and buybacks.  “The current market situation is one of expectations,”
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an
interview in  Athens  today. “It would be a big mistake to
conclude an agreement that falls short of these expectations.”  The Brussels gathering will review debt-crisis options and
reaffirm a self-imposed March 25 target to strengthen the
bailout fund, set up a permanent rescue mechanism and proclaim
new rules against fiscal slippage, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  ‘Efficient, Flexible’  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said on Jan. 28
there was no consensus among EU finance ministers on buybacks in
their talks to make the fund more “efficient, flexible.”  While Germany was committed to bolstering the fund, the
official said today in Berlin that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will propose a
summit package intended to boost euro-region competitiveness.  Euro-region governments must improve coordination to level
differences in competitiveness, using gauges such as tax rates
and wages, the official said.  He also said policy makers must give priority to restoring
public finances, citing the constitutional debt limits adopted
by Germany in 2009 as a model.  Germany, the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is making its
assent to the expanded rescue effort conditional on tougher
controls of countries’ finances, say four officials involved in
the talks who declined to be named because the deliberations
aren’t public. Existing budget rules have gone unenforced since
the euro’s debut in 1999.  Direct Bond Purchases  While direct purchases of distressed countries’ bonds in
the primary market will be part of the toolkit, other pieces --
such as lower  interest rates  on aid and boosting the EFSF’s
firepower -- have yet to fall into place, the officials said.  Buying bonds directly in private placement instead of
offering loans, as the emergency fund does now, may enable
struggling countries to retain access to markets and escape the
stigma of dependence on rescue financing, said the people.  Bond purchases were the original declared purpose of the
 European Financial Stability Facility , which was cobbled
together on a May weekend after a hastily engineered 110
billion-euro loan package for  Greece  failed to calm markets.  Germany scuttled that approach, retooling the EFSF to offer
loans so it would have more leverage to force countries
receiving aid to cut budget deficits and overhaul their economic
management.  Reinforcing Fund  Plans to reinforce the fund have been driven by a German
reconsideration under way since Merkel’s insistence on losses
for private bondholders helped push Ireland into a bailout in
November.  Cash buffers and guarantees cap EFSF lending at around 250
billion euros, depriving it of the firepower to buy back enough
outstanding bonds to make a difference to the most debt-mired
nations. While officials are discussing ways to get the AAA-
rated fund up to its stated potential, there’s no proposal on
the table to increase its headline figure.  Under what was designed as a stopgap policy in May, the  European Central Bank  has bought 76.5 billion euros of bonds of
countries such as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to maintain a lid
on their borrowing costs.  As the ECB refocuses on stemming inflation, which
accelerated to a two-year high of 2.4 percent in January,
political leaders are looking to relieve it of the bond-market
interventions that were never part of its core mission.  Euro’s Gain  In a sign that the immediate pressure is off, the ECB
didn’t do any buying last week, its first absence from the debt
markets in three months. The euro reached $1.3862, the highest
since Nov. 9, before slipping 0.3 percent to $1.3794 at 5:50
p.m. in Berlin.  “There’s still plenty of opportunity for investor
sentiment to get ahead of things,” said  John Stopford , who
helps oversee about $70 billion as head of fixed income at
Investec Asset Management Ltd. in  London . “It seems as if
people are pricing in an improving outlook for the sovereign
spread environment.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield fell 12 basis points to 6.81
percent today, trimming the extra yield over German debt to 360
basis points, the lowest since Dec. 21. Portugal sold 1.255
billion euros of bills today at declining borrowing costs.  Spain’s AA credit rating was affirmed yesterday by Standard
& Poor’s, which said its outlook remained “negative.”  Spain ’s
10-year yield spread over German bonds slid 15 basis points to
184 basis points today, the lowest since Nov. 3.  Spain will “never” need a bailout, Deputy Finance
Minister Jose Manuel Campa said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood . Economy Minister Elena Salgado told  Onda Cero  radio it would be “beyond all logic at
the moment” to request an IMF credit line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  