-- Ghana Eurobond Rises Most in Five Months as Egypt Contagion Concern Eases
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2011-02-02T12:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ghana-eurobond-rises-most-in-five-months-as-egypt-contagion-concern-eases.html
  Ghana ’s dollar-denominated bonds
climbed the most in more than five months as Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  said he won’t seek a new term,
easing concern that the turmoil will spread in the region.  The 8.5 percent Eurobonds due 2017 climbed 1.2 percent
to 109.504 cents on the dollar at 12:07 p.m. in Accra, the
biggest advance on a closing basis since Aug. 18, according
to bid-price data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
retreated 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to
6.704 percent. Ghana is rated B at Standard & Poor’s, its
fifth-highest non-investment grade rating, and three steps
below Egypt’s BB rating.  “Ghana suffered from a pure financial contagion angle
towards the Middle East and North Africa and anybody that
was in that area,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at
London-based Exotix Ltd., said in a phone interview today.
“The market reaction was not justified by Ghana’s
fundamentals.”  Yields on the debt, issued in October 2007, climbed to
7.11 percent on Jan. 31, the highest since July, as
protestors in Egypt took to the streets to force Mubarak
from power after 30 years. The protests followed a revolt
in  Tunisia  that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on
Jan. 14.    Ivory Coast , Tunisia Contagion  Neighboring Ivory Coast became the first nation in a
year to default on Eurobond interest payments in a year
this week when it reneged on $2.3 billion of debt because
of a political stalemate since incumbent President Gbagbo,
65, and his rival  Alassane Ouattara , 69, both claimed
victory in the November elections.  “Contagion from  Egypt , followed by contagion from
Ivory Coast and Tunisia” hit Ghana’s bond late last week,
Richard Segal, director of emerging markets at Knight
Capital Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Fears about Ghana’s currency, which slumped 5.2
percent to the dollar in January and is at 1.576, its
weakest on record, also contributed to the sell-off, said
Sampson Akligoh, an analyst with Databank Group in Accra.  “Investors are quite concerned about recent
developments in the foreign-exchange market and the impact
of renewed public borrowing and wage pressures on Ghana’s
fiscal account,” Akligoh said in an e-mail today. “We
believe that these concerns are legitimate within the short
term; but clearly the medium- to long-term health of the
economy is upbeat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 