-- Wind Power Market Fell Worldwide in 2010 on Electric Demand
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-02T13:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/global-wind-turbine-installations-fall-7-china-passes-u-s-in-capacity.html
New wind power installations fell 7
percent worldwide in 2010 as policy uncertainty in the U.S. led
to a “disappointing” year there, and depressed electricity
demand hit richer nations, the Global Wind Energy Council said.  About 35.8 gigawatts of  wind turbines  were installed
worldwide last year, down from 38.6 gigawatts in 2009, the
1,500-member Brussels-based lobby group said today in an e-
mailed  statement . China overtook the U.S. as the country with
the most installed wind power, it said.  “Our industry continues to endure a boom-bust cycle
because of the lack of long-term, predictable federal policies,
in contrast to the permanent entitlements that fossil fuels have
enjoyed for 90 years or more,” Denise Bode, chief executive
officer of the  American Wind Energy Association , said in the
statement. “We need consistent federal policies to ensure we
have a diverse portfolio of energy sources in this country.”  U.S. installations fell by half to 5.1 gigawatts, and has
now slipped behind China with a total installed capacity of 40.2
gigawatts. That compares with  China ’s 42.3 gigawatts of turbines
at the end of 2010, more than a fifth of the global total of
194.4 gigawatts. The European market shrank 7.5 percent to 9.9
gigawatts of new installations. At the same time, developing
countries including  India , Brazil and Mexico expanded their wind
farms, the council said.  “Wind power is now rapidly expanding beyond the
traditional ‘rich-country’ markets, a clear sign of its growing
competitiveness,” GWEC Secretary-General Steve Sawyer said in
the statement. “This is a trend we are expecting to see
developing further in the future, not only in  Asia . We are also
seeing encouraging signs in Latin America, especially Brazil and
Mexico, and in both northern and sub-Saharan Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  