-- Goldman Issues Debt in Its Biggest Sale Since 2009
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2011-02-02T21:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/goldman-sachs-sells-3-5-billion-of-debt-in-two-part-offering.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . sold $3.5
billion of bonds in its biggest dollar-denominated sale since
2009, taking advantage of the lowest-ever short-term financial
company borrowing costs relative to longer-term yields.  The bank, which holds the record for the highest profit
earned by a U.S. securities firm, issued $1 billion of three-
year notes that yield 100 basis points more than the three-month
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The New York-based company’s $2.5 billion of 3.625
percent, 5-year fixed-rate securities pay a 158 basis-point
spread to similar-maturity Treasuries, the data show.  The gap in yields between financial company bonds due in
one to three years and those maturing in seven to 10 years
widened to 3.18 percentage points on Jan. 31, the greatest gap
on record, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
going back to 1996.  “They are definitely taking advantage of the steep yield
curve,” said Nicholas Finkelman, who helps oversee $3.5 billion
of bonds as a money manager at New York-based Ryan Labs Inc.
“This general area is great for issuers to lock in low
yields.”  The fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets last month sold $2.5
billion of 6.25 percent, 30-year bonds, Bloomberg data show.  Yield Curve  The yield curve has steepened amid signs that economic
growth is gaining momentum and as the  Federal Reserve  has kept
its benchmark overnight rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
for two years. Companies in the U.S. added more workers than
forecast in January, data from a private report showed today.  The new issue is the biggest from Goldman Sachs since March
12, 2009, when the bank sold $5 billion of debt under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program. It’s the largest dollar-denominated sale without
government assistance since a $4.05 billion three-part offering
in January 2004, according to Goldman Sachs.  The new offering is “cheap,” compared with outstanding
similar-maturity debt, said Finkelman.  Goldman Sachs issued $2.25 billion of five-year, 3.7
percent notes in July that paid 205 basis points, or 2.05
percentage points, more than benchmarks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The “spread environment continues to be extremely
favorable for issuers,” Finkelman said.  Goldman Sachs’s new notes will likely be rated A1 by
Moody’s Investors Service and A+ by Standard & Poor’s, Bloomberg
data show. Libor is the rate banks charge each other on loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  