-- Christie Says ‘Sue Me’ as Pensioners Challenge Cuts
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2011-02-02T18:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/governors-reducing-pension-benefits-may-be-thwarted-as-workers-sue-states.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
said he doesn’t mind breaking promises to pensioners to close a
$10.5 billion  budget deficit  -- even if they sue.  “I have bigger issues than who sues me,” said Christie,
48, a Republican and former federal prosecutor who wants to end
cost-of-living increases for retirees. “Get in line.”  Public workers in  Colorado , South Dakota and Minnesota are
already suing their states, which are among 18 that want to pare
pension costs by increasing employee contributions, raising the
retirement age or curbing cost-of-living increases.  “We believe it’s unconstitutional,” said Gary Justus, 63,
a retired mathematics teacher in the Denver public schools who’s
a plaintiff in the  Colorado suit . “These are contracts that I
and 100,000 other retirees worked for.”  U.S. cities, counties and states face a  $3.6 trillion gap 
between their pension assets and what they’ve promised retirees,
according to a study by Robert Novy-Marx of the University of
Rochester and  Joshua Rauh  at  Northwestern University . States
must also contend with $140 billion of budget deficits next
fiscal year, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a Washington  research group .  Pressured to cut spending and not raise taxes, public
officials are focusing on pensions, said Ron Snell, senior
fellow at the  National Conference of State Legislatures . State
plans cover 24 million active and retired workers, according to
the Denver-based organization, about 8 percent of the U.S.
population of 309 million in 2010.  Out of Proportion  Christie, saying New Jersey’s retirement benefits are
“wildly out of proportion with the private sector,”  proposed 
eliminating automatic cost-of-living increases last year. The
state has also stopped paying into its pensions.    Illinois  lawmakers lowered retirement benefits for new
workers last year. The state will borrow $3.7 billion this month
for its fiscal 2011 contribution, the second consecutive year it
sold bonds to make payments.  States exhausted “more palatable” actions such as cutting
staff and expenses,  Fitch Ratings  said Jan. 25 in a report that
gave a negative outlook to the state-debt sector. They face the
“most difficult” fiscal year since the U.S. recession began in
December 2007, Fitch said, as federal stimulus payments end.  The strain of funding pensions intensified as markets fell
during the 18-month economic contraction, the longest since the
43-month slump of the Great Depression, according to the
National Bureau of Economic Research. Asset values fell to about
76 percent of obligations in 2009 from about 82 percent in
fiscal 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Least-Sound System  Illinois has the least-sound system, with a funded ratio of
about 51 percent, followed by Oklahoma and Kentucky, according
to the Bloomberg data. Missouri, Oregon and Arkansas are in the
middle with about 80 percent, a ratio considered adequate by
actuaries.  The “rapid” growth of unfunded obligations prompted
Moody’s Investors Service to issue a combined measurement of
states’ debt and pension liabilities for the first time on Jan.
27 so investors can compare them with companies. Pressure to
fund retirements will continue to have a “negative impact” on
state credit ratings, Moody’s said.  The Novy-Marx and Rauh study puts unfunded pension
liabilities for states alone at $3 trillion. It’s higher than
the $1 trillion projected a year ago by the Pew Center on the
States. The authors say governments understate liabilities
because of over-optimistic assumed investment returns.  Bankruptcy Proposal  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Republican and
potential 2012 presidential candidate, has proposed allowing
states to restructure their finances in bankruptcy-like
proceedings giving them more leverage in bargaining with
employees over wages and pensions.  More than 20 states considered changes to pension plans
last year, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  “Too many proposals to count” have been introduced so far
in 2011, said Snell, the National Conference of State
Legislatures’ pension expert. Lawmakers in at least a dozen
states, including  California ,  New York  and  Ohio , have
“serious” proposals, he said.  Florida Republican Governor  Rick Scott , facing a $3.6
billion deficit, said yesterday that state employees should
contribute to their pensions.  New Jersey  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat, said on Jan. 31 that he’ll
introduce legislation that goes beyond Governor Christie’s in
trimming benefits.  Real Savings  “We’re looking at a year of trying to make widespread and
significant changes,” said Snell. “Some of these can provide
real savings, if they can be done.”  Some states may switch from plans that provide specific
benefits to so-called defined-contribution systems, which are
like 401(k) plans used at companies. Three states -- Alaska,
Nebraska and  Michigan  -- have required them, and  Utah  will
beginning July 1. Six make them optional.  New Jersey’s Christie said in an interview that taking away
cost-of-living increases for retirees would break a promise.
It’s necessary, he said, because the state’s pension system is
$46 billion short of funds.  “There is no alternative,” he said at Bloomberg’s New
York headquarters on Jan. 25. Previous officials “knew when
they promised it they couldn’t afford it.”  Missed Contributions  Christie’s statements don’t sit well with  Steve Baker , a
spokesman for the  New Jersey Education Association,  whose
200,000 members are covered by the state pension. He said the
state failed to make contributions to its pension funds in 13 of
the past 17 years, including two under the current governor.  “All his tough-guy, let-them-sue-me rhetoric fails to
solve the problem,” said Baker. “Until the governor wants to
sit down with all the parties and come up with a solution that
solves the problem, the governor isn’t doing his job.”  The lawsuits filed in Colorado,  Minnesota  and South Dakota
challenge changes in cost-of-living adjustments, according to
court documents.  Colorado eliminated annual increases of at least 3 percent,
according to court records. Justus, the retired Denver teacher,
said losing the adjustments would erode his purchasing power by
35 percent over 30 years. He estimates it would cost all
Colorado workers in the plan $40 billion.  Setting Precedent  “What allows the state to abrogate that contract?” said
Justus, who lives in Evergreen, Colorado. “If it’s allowed to
stand, it will set an incredible precedent for the state to cut
benefits again.”  Colorado’s cuts, which included higher participant
contributions and an increased retirement age, were in the
public interest after investment losses in 2008, said Gregory
Smith, general counsel for the Public Employees’ Retirement
Association, known as PERA.  “The legislation was passed to keep the fund from running
out of money,” Smith said in via telephone. “We had to reduce
the payouts by the fund immediately.”  Joe Kafka, a spokesman for  South Dakota  Governor Mike Rounds, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Attorney General
Marty Jackley’s spokeswoman, Sara Rabern, declined to comment.
Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton’s spokesman, Jeremy Drucker,
didn’t return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  No Rulings Yet  None of the three lawsuits has been ruled on and there is
little precedent for some of the proposed pension changes, said
 Amy Monahan , a professor at the University of Minnesota Law
School in  Minneapolis , who studies the legality of changing
pension benefits.  “A lot of states are flying blind because there aren’t a
lot of cases,” said Monahan. “There is so much legal
uncertainty about what is permitted.”  California and Illinois have constitutions that make it
difficult to change benefits, said Monahan. Others, such as
Maine and  Connecticut , have fewer legal constraints, she said.  Courts have found that pensions are a property right, said
 Stephen Pincus , an attorney with  Stember Feinstein Doyle & Payne 
in Pittsburgh, who brought the three lawsuits. The key to
whether existing benefits can be cut will be language that
determines if a pension is a legal contract and when the
agreement becomes property, he said.  A state may be able to change the law if there is a “real
substantial likelihood the government cutting is on the edge of
financial ruin,” according to Pincus.  “The state has the power to protect its citizens,” said
Monahan. “If your fiscal situation looks dire, you could do it
to stay solvent.”  States shouldn’t be allowed to make pension cuts a priority
over other liabilities, said Pincus.  “It’s our position that a state can’t pick and choose
obligations it doesn’t want to pay,” said Pincus. “Are you
going to creditors and saying you can’t pay your 30-year
bonds?”  The cases are: Gary R. Justus et el v. State of Colorado et
el,  2010CV1589 , District Court, Denver County, Colorado; Howard
Swanson et el v. State of Minnesota et el,  62-CV-lO-5285 , Second
Judicial District, Ramsey County, Minnesota;  Merton B. Tice Jr. 
et el v. State of South Dakota et el, Civ No. 10-225, Sixth
Judicial Circuit, Hughes County, South Dakota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  