-- Greece Is Confident EU Leaders Will Agree on Debt, Papaconstantinou Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2011-02-02T15:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/greece-is-confident-eu-leaders-will-agree-on-debt-papaconstantinou-says.html
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said he’s confident European leaders will forge
a “comprehensive” agreement next month to stem  Europe ’s debt
crisis that will narrow bond spreads and allow the country to
return to capital markets.  “The current market situation is one of expectations,”
Papaconstantinou said in an interview in Athens today. “It
would be a big mistake to conclude an agreement that falls short
of these expectations.”  A European Union summit in Brussels on Feb. 4 will “point
to the direction and give a timetable for the comprehensive
package to be agreed upon” next month, he said. The difference
between the yield on Greece’s 10-year bond and comparable German
debt fell to 760 basis points, the lowest in almost six months.  European leaders are seeking to advance a plan to
strengthen the EU’s bailout mechanism in a bid to end the debt
crisis that forced  Greece  and Ireland to seek emergency aid. The
Feb. 4 meeting will seek to keep markets at bay until a late-
March deadline to bridge differences over budget rules, rescue-
loan rates and bond buybacks.  A pledge to allow Greece to stretch out the maturities of
its 110 billion-euro ($152 billion) bailout package, crafted
before the EU forged its broader bailout fund, will “very much
help in assuaging these fears,” Papaconstantinou said. A
comprehensive package “will soothe markets, will bring down
spreads throughout the periphery and thereby allow Greece to
return to capital markets sooner rather than later.”  Lower lending rates for the EFSF ‘will also apply for
obvious reasons of equal treatment to the loan package for
Greece,” he said.  “The time for fire-fighting is over and we all realize
that,” Papaconstantinou said. “The euro zone has proven that
even though the decision-making process is complicated, it
always rallies and it is there when it’s necessary to act.”  German Role    Germany , the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is making
approval of the new measures conditional on tougher controls of
countries’ finances, say four officials involved in the talks
who declined to be named because the deliberations aren’t
public. Existing budget rules have gone unenforced since the
euro’s debut in 1999.  Greece’s 300 billion euros of debt sparked the European
sovereign-debt crisis after Prime Minister George Papandreou
revealed the country’s budget gap was four times the EU limit.
The bailout from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  has
failed to stem soaring borrowing costs amid concern that Greece
may default. The crisis threatens to engulf  Portugal  and Spain
after Ireland sought aid late last year.    Spain  will “never” need an EU bailout, Deputy Finance
Minister Jose Manuel Campa said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood .  “We’d like to support any ideas that come up with a
stronger euro, with more European integration and stronger
commitment to euro-area stability,” Campa said when asked about
expanding the EU rescue fund’s powers. “But in no way is this
something we are viewing as specific for Spain to use.”  The euro climbed to a three-month high today and bond-risk
premiums for Spain, Portugal,  Italy  and  Belgium  narrowed for a
third day as investors bet Europe would succeed in reinforcing
its arsenal to battle the crisis. The yield on Greece’s 10-year
bonds is at 10.73 percent, the first time it has fallen below 11
percent since Nov. 3.  Papaconstantinou said a complete package wasn’t a
substitute for Greece’s attempts to rein in its deficit, which
soared to 15.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 after
an EU review of hidden debt and loss-making state enterprises.  Greece’s central-budget shortfall shrank 37 percent last
year as Papaconstantinou cut wages and pensions in an overhaul
demanded in return for the bailout funds. The government is
working on measures to shave a further 5 percentage points of
GDP off the deficit between 2012 and 2014, with two-thirds
coming from spending cuts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 