-- Tiger Asia ‘Disappointed’ With 0.5% Gain in 2010 as Shorts Hurt
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2011-02-03T03:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/tiger-asia-hedge-fund-disappointed-with-0-5-gain-in-2010-as-shorts-hurt.html
Tiger Asia Management LLC, the New
York-based hedge-fund being investigated by U.S. and  Hong Kong 
regulators, told clients it is disappointed with its 2010
results after many of its short positions performed poorly.  The fund gained 0.5 percent after fees in the year ended
Dec. 31, Tiger Asia told investors in a Feb. 1 letter signed by
founder Bill Hwang. The fund beat benchmarks for China and Japan
and lagged behind markets in Hong Kong and Korea, according to
the letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “We are disappointed with 2010 performance,” Hwang said
in the letter. “Although many of our positions last year were
profitable, and our short positions generally underperformed
their markets, shorts were a major drag on returns.”.  Assets under management declined to about $2 billion from
$3 billion as of Sept. 30, according to a person familiar with
the fund who asked not to be named because the information is
private. Tiger  Asia  told clients in October that it had received
a subpoena from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
following allegations of  insider trading  from Hong Kong’s
securities regulator.  The firm is also being investigated in a parallel review by
the U.S. Attorney’s office for the district of  New Jersey ,
according to a Nov. 9 note to investors.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for the hedge fund, declined to
comment.  Tiger Asia’s 0.5 percent gain compares with a 6.4 percent
increase in Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Composite Index and a 22
percent jump in Korea’s Kospi, according to the letter. The CSI
300 in China dropped 12.5 percent and the Topix in Japan lost 1
percent.  Investigations  The firm has no new developments to report regarding the
Hong Kong and U.S. investigations and is cooperating with
investigators, Hwang told clients in the Feb. 1 letter. The firm
is “unable to predict when the investigations will be concluded
or what regulatory or other outcomes might result,” he said in
the note.    John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, and Rebekah
Carmichael, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in New
Jersey, declined to comment.  The Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission in August
2009 applied for a High Court injunction to freeze some Tiger
Asia assets, saying the firm had engaged in insider dealing and
market manipulation involving  China  Construction Bank Corp.
shares. In April, the Hong Kong regulator sought to ban Tiger
Asia from trading there, the first time it appealed to a court
for such a prohibition.  China Shorts  More than 90 percent of Tiger Asia’s shorts are in China,
Hwang said in the letter. Short sellers profit from price
declines by selling borrowed securities and replacing them with
stock bought at lower levels. In recent months, the firm has
“meaningfully added” to its holdings of shorted shares in the
telecommunications, media and Internet sector in China and
projects initial public offerings to continue in those
industries, Hwang said.  The firm recently added a “long position in a consumer
durable stock that has been weak due to the regulatory
environment in the real estate sector,” which is based in
Shenzhen, Hwang said.  Tiger Asia is also focused on the “staggering growth” in
the Chinese automobile sector and plans to increase its holdings
 in the “foreseeable future,” he said in the note.  Gloomy Japan  In Japan, Tiger Asia continues to “focus on opportunities
in media, mobile telecom and social networking stocks,” and has
limited shorting companies as the firm believes that most prices
already reflect the country’s “gloomy economic reality,” Hwang
said.  Tiger Asia has fewer holdings in Korea compared with China
and Japan because low trading volumes and the continued ban on
shorting financial stocks have made the market less attractive,
Hwang said. The portfolio has less than 10 percent of its
capital in  Korea , according to the letter.  Outside Asia, the firm owns some U.S. stocks that have
“significant Asia exposure and a high correlation to some of
our Asia positions,” making up about 9 percent of capital at
the end of last year, Hwang says in the letter.  Tiger Asia is one of the so-called Tiger Cubs, a group of
hedge-fund managers that received backing from  Julian Robertson .
The investor founded Tiger Management LLC in 1990 and built it
into one of the world’s largest hedge-fund managers in the late
1990s before returning clients money in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 