-- Lilly, Bristol Lung Cancer Study Stalls on Clot Risk, Second Trial Ongoing
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2011-02-02T21:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/lilly-bristol-lung-cancer-study-stalls-on-clot-risk-second-trial-ongoing.html
Eli Lilly & Co. and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co . halted enrollment in one of two late-stage studies of
an experimental lung-cancer drug after patients receiving
treatment had increased risk of blood clots.  A safety monitoring board told researchers to stop
enrolling new patients and stop giving the drug, necitumumab, to
patients who were recently enrolled, the companies reported in a
statement. Patients who already got two cycles of the drug
appeared to have lower risk, and were allowed to stay in the
study after being informed. A separate study of the drug was
allowed by the safety board to continue as planned.  Necitumumab, also known as IMC-11F8, was developed by
ImClone Systems Inc. as a successor to the cancer drug, Erbitux.
Lilly acquired ImClone for $6.5 billion in 2008. Bristol-Myers,
which shares rights to Erbitux, reported $662 million in sales
from the treatment last year. Lilly and Bristol-Myers share the
cost of developing necitumumab in the U.S.,  Canada  and Japan,
while Lilly has sole rights to sell the drug elsewhere.  “Patient safety is paramount,” said Richard Gaynor, vice
president of cancer drug development at Lilly, in the statement.
“While stopping enrollment in one of the two phase 3 trials is
disappointing,” the second trial continues, he said.  Bristol-Myers shares rose 1 cent to $25.28 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange Composite trading after rising 3.7
percent in the past 12 months before today. Lilly climbed 21
cents to $35.42 after rising less than a percent in the past 12
months.  Combination Therapy  Researchers are testing the drug as an addition to a
combination of chemotherapy and Lilly’s Alimta as an initial
treatment for non-small cell  lung cancer .  The trial that was halted in part, dubbed Inspire, was
evaluating the drug in patients with a form of tumor known as
nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer. The Squire trial was
looking at a different patient group, with squamous non-small
cell lung cancer. The two forms of the disease combined account
for about 80 percent of lung cancer patients.  Lung cancer kills about 157,000 people in the U.S. each
year, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 