-- Himalayan Fungus Aids Mitsubishi Tanabe Sales With Multiple Sclerosis Drug
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2011-02-03T08:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/himalayan-fungus-aids-mitsubishi-tanabe-sales-with-multiple-sclerosis-drug.html
Tetsuro Fujita’s eureka moment about
a Himalayan fungus in 1985 may mean part of a $5 billion payout
for  Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corp . a quarter-century later.  While the scientist drove over a bridge between Japan’s
Shikoku and Honshu islands on his way to take up a research post
for traditional herbal remedies, Fujita realized the fungus,
used in a Chinese medicinal soup, must be suppressing the immune
system of the insects on which it grew.  His research at  Kyoto University  not only helped yield
Gilenya, a new treatment for  multiple sclerosis  -- the
debilitating condition afflicting more than 2 million people
worldwide -- it also promises to bring Mitsubishi Tanabe its
biggest money earner. Annual sales of the pill, the first for
the autoimmune disease, may exceed $5 billion, UBS AG said.  “Little did I think that it would be a treatment for
multiple sclerosis,” Fujita, 80, said in an in interview Kyoto.
“I was more interested in immune suppression for organ
transplants. I knew nothing about the disease back then.”    Novartis AG , based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , began selling
Gilenya in the U.S. in October. Projected sales of the medicine
would rank it among the 10 best-selling drugs worldwide, based
on  data  from IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
research company.  Mitsubishi Tanabe will probably book royalties equivalent
to 10 percent of sales, based on the median of four analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Better Than Expected  Kazuko Hamada, a spokeswoman for Mitsubishi Tanabe,
declined to comment on the royalty payments that the  Osaka ,
Japan-based drugmaker will receive. Novartis spokesman  Eric Althoff  also declined to comment on the royalties.  Gilenya’s fourth-quarter sales of $13 million were above
expectations,  Dhavalkumar Patel , who heads Novartis’s autoimmune
research, said last week.  “Novartis says 2,000 people are already using the drug in
three months,” Kenji Masuzoe, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Tokyo, said by telephone on Jan. 28. “That’s great progress as
I’ve been expecting 10,000 people by the end of this year, which
will mean sales of about $350 million.”  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
myelin sheath, which surrounds and protects nerve cells, leading
to symptoms including numbness, difficulty in coordination and  memory loss , according to  Medline Plus , a website of the U.S.
National Institutes of Health. In its severest form, it can
shorten life and, in  rare cases , lead to death, according to the
U.S.  National Multiple Sclerosis Society ’s website.  Worst Performance  Mitsubishi Tanabe rose 2.1 percent to 1,369 yen at the 3
p.m. close of Tokyo trading. The stock gained 18 percent last
year, outperforming Japan’s benchmark Topix index, which fell 1
percent.  Sales at the Japanese company declined 2.4 percent in the
12 months ended March 2010, the worst performance in five years,
to 404.7 billion yen ($5 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Annual sales of Gilenya may peak at $5.3 billion in 2018,
Fabian Wenner, an analyst at UBS in Zurich, said Feb. 1.  Gilenya is approved for the relapsing-remitting form of
multiple sclerosis, the most common type, and competes with
injected drugs on the market including Biogen Idec Inc.’s Avonex
and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s Copaxone.  Superior Drug  The Novartis drug cut relapses by more than half compared
with Avonex, an injected therapy from U.S. drugmaker Biogen Idec
Inc., according to a patient study published in the New England
Journal of Medicine last year.  Gilenya gained the support of a European medical committee
in January, and a European Commission decision on approval may
come in about three months. It’s also being reviewed by
regulators in Japan.  In the U.S., the drug is priced at $4,000 for a monthly
prescription. That’s 66 percent more than the $2,414.99 for a
pre-filled syringe of 30 micrograms per milliliter of Avonex, a
month’s supply, according to  PharmacyChecker.com . Analysts
including UBS’s Wenner expect Gilenya to be cheaper in  Europe .  Current medicines require patients to inject themselves
every other day or once a week, Kyoko Nakata, the Tokyo-based
chairman of Japan’s  MS Cabin , a support group for the condition,
said in an e-mail.  “They are shots, so during the course of treatment, they
are a constant reminder to patients of their condition,” said
Nakata, who was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 1993 and
has been taking Bayer AG’s Betaferon since 2000. “Gilenya would
make it easier to treat the disease as it saves time and brings
patients closer to having a normal life.”  Larva Invader  With the help of another researcher, Fujita partnered with
Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Taito Co., now
respectively part of Mitsubishi Tanabe and Mitsui Sugar Co. The
scientists began studying in 1986 the  Cordyceps  fungus known in
Chinese and Japanese as “winter insect, summer plant,” so
called because it invades insect larva during winter and grows
out of the host by summer.  Fujita said he was inspired by the discovery of
 ciclosporin , also derived from a fungus, which spurred research
into how the immune system may be subdued in transplant
patients. Fujita, now a professor emeritus at  Kyoto University ,
said he was unaware the immune-modulating properties of
Cordyceps could eventually help multiple sclerosis patients.  “I knew from reading the Chinese medicinal encyclopedia
that the fungus feeds off the larva, lives in a symbiotic
relationship for a year, and comes out of the ground in summer
by growing out of the carcass,” he said. “That made me think
the fungus must be suppressing the larva’s immune response.”  Centuries-Old Remedy  Used as an herbal remedy for centuries, the fungus contains
an insoluble, toxic compound called myriocin, said Kenji Chiba,
who worked on the project at Yoshitomi. It took scientists at
least three more years before they could modify the compound
into a usable form, creating fingolimod, or Gilenya.  Novartis licensed the overseas rights to fingolimod from
Mitsubishi Tanabe in 1997.  “Although it took a quarter of a century, I’m happy it’s
become a drug while I’m still alive,” Fujita said. “It makes
me happy that something I did is making others happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  