-- Time Warner Profit Beats Estimates; Dividend Raised
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2011-02-02T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/time-warner-profit-beats-estimates-after-potter-tv-ad-gain.html
  Time Warner Inc ., owner of the Warner
Bros. film studio, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates
after a box-office boost from the latest "Harry Potter" movie
and higher TV-advertising sales. The stock jumped.  Fourth-quarter profit, excluding some items, rose to 67
cents a share, topping the 62-cent average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Time Warner increased its dividend 11 percent and
boosted its share-buyback program by $4 billion, according to a
statement today from the New York-based company.  The profit jump was driven by a 21 percent gain in ad sales
at cable channels such as TBS and TNT that topped analysts’
projections and global ticket sales for “Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hollows -- Part 1,” the first of a two-part franchise
finale. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has made
preserving the value of content such as TV shows and movies a
top priority, criticizing the likes of  Netflix Inc . for
underpaying studios and disrupting business models.  “They did better than expected on one of the key drivers
of economics and that is their cable-network advertising, which
helps indicate that the broader industry could report some
better numbers,”  David Joyce , an analyst with Miller Tabak &
Co., said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.  Time Warner, also the owner of  HBO  and the Time Inc.
magazines, rose $1.61, or 5 percent, to $33.92 at 9:50 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest intraday
gain since May. The shares climbed 10 percent last year.  Dividend, Buyback  Net income increased 22 percent to $769 million, or 68
cents a share, from $631 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier.  Revenue gained 8.3 percent to $7.81 billion, compared with
the $7.46 billion analysts projected. Ad sales at magazines
including Fortune, Sports Illustrated and People fell 1 percent
from a year earlier after three quarters of gains.  Time Warner said it will pay a quarterly dividend of 23.5
cents a share, up from 21.25 cents, and raised its buyback
authorization to $5 billion. The company has repurchased $2.1
billion in stock since January 2010 and had $1 billion remaining
in its previous authorization. Investors have pressed for cash
returns since the March 2009 spinoff of Time Warner Cable Inc.  This year, adjusted earnings from continuing operations
will grow by a “low teens” percentage, from $2.41 a share last
year, the company said in a separate statement. Analysts project
2011 earnings of $2.63, implying growth of 9.1 percent.  Fourth-quarter revenue at the cable networks, including HBO
and TBS, rose 14 percent to $3.35 billion. The 21 percent gain
in worldwide TV-ad sales was almost double the 12 percent growth
predicted by Macquarie Capital analyst Andrew Kim.  Film revenue increased 9.5 percent to $3.64 billion. The
unit’s operating profit fell 2.1 percent because of lower DVD
sales and higher marketing costs for   Harry Potter .”  The most recent "Harry Potter" film, released in November,
has made $943.3 million in worldwide ticket sales and was the
No. 1 movie in the U.S. in the fourth quarter, according to  Box
Office Mojo , a research firm in  Sherman Oaks ,  California . The
final film in the series will be released in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  