-- Time Warner Jumps After `Harry Potter,' TV-Ad Increase Help Profit Climb
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2011-02-02T21:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/time-warner-jumps-after-harry-potter-tv-ad-increase-help-profit-climb.html
  Time Warner Inc ., owner of the Warner
Bros. film studio, rose the most in 22 months in New York
trading after reporting profit that beat analysts’ estimates
because of higher television-advertising sales.  Time Warner climbed $2.79, or 8.6 percent, to $35.10 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain since March 2009. The shares advanced 10 percent last year.  The profit jump was driven by a 21 percent gain in ad sales
at cable channels such as TBS and TNT that topped analysts’
projections and by global box-office ticket sales for “Harry
Potter and the Deathly Hollows -- Part 1.” The New York-based
company also increased its dividend 11 percent and boosted its
share-buyback program by $4 billion.  “They did better than expected on one of the key drivers
of economics and that is their cable-network advertising, which
helps indicate that the broader industry could report some
better numbers,”  David Joyce , an analyst with Miller Tabak &
Co., said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.  Fourth-quarter profit, excluding some items, rose to 67
cents a share, topping the 62-cent average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has made preserving
the value of content such as TV shows and movies a top priority,
criticizing the likes of  Netflix Inc . for underpaying studios
and disrupting business models. On a conference call today,
Bewkes said he will reevaluate a change to the pricing and
timing this year for Netflix and Coinstar Inc.’s Redbox to get
access to the company’s DVDs.  “The current pricing and window are not really
commensurate with the value,” Bewkes said on the call.  Profit Rises  Net income increased 22 percent to $769 million, or 68
cents a share, from $631 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier.  Revenue gained 8.3 percent to $7.81 billion, compared with
the $7.46 billion analysts projected. Ad sales at magazines
including Fortune, Sports Illustrated and People fell 1 percent
from a year earlier after three quarters of gains.  Time Warner said it will pay a quarterly dividend of 23.5
cents a share, up from 21.25 cents, and raised its buyback
authorization to $5 billion, according to a statement today. The
company has repurchased $2.1 billion in stock since January 2010
and had $1 billion remaining in its previous authorization.
Investors have pressed for cash returns since the March 2009
spinoff of Time Warner Cable Inc.  This year, adjusted earnings from continuing operations
will grow by a “low teens” percentage, from $2.41 a share last
year, the company said in a separate statement. Analysts project
2011 earnings of $2.63, implying growth of 9.1 percent.  Cable Revenue  Fourth-quarter revenue at the cable networks, including HBO
and TBS, rose 14 percent to $3.35 billion. The 21 percent gain
in worldwide TV-ad sales was almost double the 12 percent growth
predicted by Macquarie Capital analyst Andrew Kim.  Film revenue increased 9.5 percent to $3.64 billion. The
unit’s operating profit fell 2.1 percent because of lower DVD
sales and higher marketing costs for   Harry Potter .”  The most recent “Harry Potter” film, released in November,
has made $943.3 million in worldwide ticket sales and was the No.
1 movie in the U.S. in the fourth quarter, according to  Box
Office Mojo , a research firm in  Sherman Oaks ,  California . The
final film in the series will be released in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  