-- Indian Court Says Suzlon's German Unit Can Seek New Partner for Turbines
-- B y   K i a n   G a n z   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-02T13:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/indian-court-says-suzlon-s-german-unit-can-seek-new-partner-for-turbines.html
An Indian court ruled  Suzlon Energy
Ltd .’s German unit can find a new partner to make its turbines
in the south Asian country after Essar Group reneged on a
licensing agreement, a lawyer for the unit said.    REpower Systems AG , the Hamburg-based unit of India’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, in 2006 licensed Essar to produce
its turbines exclusively in  India  until 2016. Essar took REpower
to court last year after the German company terminated the
agreement, saying Essar had failed to set up a plant, said
Milanka Chaudhury, a partner at the Delhi-based law firm Link
Legal, who represents REpower.  “We are happy with the court’s decision in favor of
REpower,” Chief Executive Andreas Nauen said in an e-mail
response to questions. The ruling frees REpower to seek a new
partner to make and sell turbines in India, Chaudhary said by
telephone from  New Delhi .  Essar, which is controlled by billionaires Shashi and Ravi Ruia, plans to appeal yesterday’s ruling, the company said in an
e-mail. The Bombay High Court plans to post the ruling on its
website tomorrow, the court library said in an e-mail.  2006 Agreement  REpower and Essar agreed in 2006 to set up a joint venture
that would produce the German company’s 1.5- and 2-megawatt
turbines in India for sale domestically and in Malaysia,
Thailand and  Vietnam . Essar  said at the time  it intended to
invest 500 million rupees ($10.9 million) in a plant and start
commercial production by mid-2007. The plant was to be located
at Bhuj, Gujarat state, according to its  website .  European turbine makers often seek to profit from licensing
technology, especially older ones that may be obsolete in their
home markets, said Justin Wu, a Hong Kong-based analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  “They can’t really sell those designs in  Europe  but they
can license them to emerging firms in  China , India or  South
Korea  and still make a healthy commission off of it,” Wu said.
“From a licensing perspective, the technology can be quite
valuable.”  Essar agreed to pay REpower 6 million euros in license fees
and a royalty of 17,000 euros per turbine in exchange for
exclusive rights to produce the turbines in India up to 2016,
said Chaudhury.  Suzlon acquired a controlling stake in Repower in May 2007.  The case is ARBPL/1291/2010 in the Bombay High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Kian Ganz in Mumbai at   kganz1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 