-- Ireland's Rating Downgraded One Level to A- By S&P and Faces Further Cut
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2011-02-02T12:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ireland-s-rating-downgraded-one-level-to-a-by-s-p-and-faces-further-cut.html
Ireland had its  credit rating  cut one
level by Standard & Poor’s and a further downgrade is possible
as the government tries to contain bank-rescue costs.  The rating was lowered to A- from A, S&P said in a
statement from  London  today. That’s four levels above non-
investment grade and the same level as countries including
Botswana and  Portugal . Ireland remains on “creditwatch with
negative implications,” S&P said.  Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen dissolved the parliament
yesterday and called an election for Feb. 25 after his coalition
partners pulled out of the government. The administration’s
popularity in polls had slumped after the  budget deficit  soared,
bank costs mounted and the government was forced to seek aid
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  The negative outlook reflects “our view of the
uncertainties surrounding the size of Ireland’s additional
capital needs for its largely state-owned financial sector,”
S&P said. It also said the resolution of the creditwatch listing
will “likely leave” Ireland with an investment-grade rating.    Fitch Ratings  downgraded Ireland to BBB+ from A+ on Dec. 9,
with a “stable” outlook. Moody’s Investors Service the same
month lowered it to Baa1 from Aa2, with a “negative” outlook.  The euro declined against the dollar after the downgrade
and was down 0.2 percent at $1.3801 as of 12:24 p.m. in London.  ‘Unhelpful’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities of similar maturity narrowed
21 basis points to 559 points today. That’s lower than a euro-
era record of 680 points on Nov. 30, two days after Ireland
accepted the bailout.  “Any downgrade of this type is unhelpful,” said  Eoin O’Callaghan , an economist at BNP Paribas in London. “First,
there is the issue about whether Ireland can take the measures
needed to address its fiscal imbalances. The other question is
the full scale of support needed for the banking sector where
there is still a question mark.”  Under the 85 billion-euro ($117 billion) EU-IMF bailout,
Ireland agreed to conduct further stress tests on banks
including  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc to
determine their capital needs. S&P said it is waiting for the
results of this review, which is due to be completed by the end
of March. The government has already pumped about 46 billion
euros of capital into the country’s banks to date.  Bank Tests  “The ratings downgrade, although expected, confirms that
Ireland hasn’t yet got its finances onto a stable footing,”
said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds TSB Bank
Plc in London. “This is what this whole effort toward coming up
with a comprehensive plan is about. But we are not going to get
there probably until March. We have to see the details.”  S&P said there are “significant downside risks” to
Ireland’s economic growth outlook due to its reliance on
external demand and the impact of the slump in home values on  consumer spending . It added that the economy is “nearing its
cyclical low point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle E. Frazer at 
 mfrazer@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 forbien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  