-- J&J Premium Signals $15.6 Billion for Smith & Nephew: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2011-02-02T18:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/j-j-premium-signals-15-6-billion-for-smith-nephew-real-m-a.html
Smith & Nephew Plc, which gained
16 percent on takeover speculation, is still worth almost
60 percent more, or $15.6 billion, in an acquisition.  Companies in the past decade have offered to buy medical-
products makers at a median of 12.7 times trailing 12-month
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The multiple would
value Smith & Nephew’s equity at $15.6 billion, based on Ebitda
of $1.28 billion that analysts project  Europe ’s biggest maker of
knee and hip replacements will have this year. That’s 57 percent
higher than its average market value in the past 20 days.  A purchase of Smith & Nephew at that price would be among
the industry’s most expensive. Only Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s largest health-products company, and  General Electric
Co ., the biggest maker of medical-imaging equipment, did deals
at prices that high in the past decade. J&J, which had a second
year of declining sales, has looked at buying Smith & Nephew, a
person familiar with the plan, who declined to be identified
because the discussions were private, said last month.  “Any acquirer will likely need to pay up” for Smith &
Nephew, said  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief
investment officer for  Fifth Third Asset Management  in
Cincinnati, and has more than 28 years of experience in the
financial industry. “The acquirers would be limited. You’re
going to see names like J&J and others who might find they can
instill some energy in the business.”  Attractive Target  Wirtz, who owns Smith & Nephew shares, said a premium of 30
percent to 50 percent would be necessary in an acquisition.  Smith & Nephew has climbed 16 percent since the Daily Mail
reported on Dec. 8 that a U.S.-based private equity group was
set to make a takeover bid and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . said the
London-based device maker was an attractive target. The shares
gained 0.5 percent to 706.5 pence today in London.  The speculation has boosted Smith & Nephew’s market value
by 861 million pounds ($1.39 billion) to 6.26 billion pounds. At
the historical takeover multiple of 12.7 times Ebitda, a deal
may cost as much as 10 billion pounds including Smith & Nephew’s
net debt, based on analysts’ earnings estimates for 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That would mean a purchase price of 1,087 pence for each of
Smith & Nephew’s 890.6 million common shares, a 57 percent
premium to its 20-day average of 691.4 pence. The same premium
from the average prior to Dec. 8 would represent a per-share
offer of about 928 pence, or 32 percent above yesterday’s
closing price of 703 pence, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Finite Pool’  “There’s only a finite pool of companies out there that
would be receptive to this kind of price,” said  Sachin Shah , a
special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone
Global Markets LLC in  New York . “The pool is small, but that is
not necessarily an obstacle for getting a deal done.”  J&J doesn’t comment on “rumor or speculation,”  Jeffrey Leebaw , the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company’s spokesman,
said in an e-mail yesterday. Jon Coles, a spokesman for Smith &
Nephew at Brunswick Group in  London , also declined to comment.  J&J may need to pay about 1,000 pence a share to acquire
Smith & Nephew because of the potential costs savings for the
combined company, Yi-Dan Wang, an analyst for Deutsche Bank AG
in London, said in a report to clients dated Jan. 10. Wang
recommends buying shares of Smith & Nephew.  Navid Malik of Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London, who
also recommends the stock, said a bid may be as high as 1,060
pence, based on a multiple of 3.5 times this year’s sales.  Paying the biggest premiums for medical-products companies
hasn’t always led to outsized returns for buyers.  GE, J&J  In April 2004, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE completed a
$10.9 billion takeover of Amersham Plc, the world’s largest
maker of injectable dyes used in medical-screening machines, in
what was GE’s biggest ever acquisition.  The 63 percent announced premium in the stock deal, which
included the assumption of debt, for Little Chalfont, England-
based Amersham was the second-largest in the industry’s history.  GE advanced 14 percent in the first year after the
takeover, in line with the 12 percent gain for industrial
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  J&J’s purchase of Santa Barbara, California-based Mentor
Corp., a maker of breast implants, in January 2009 was struck at
a 101 percent premium, the highest for any medical products
acquisition of $1 billion or more in the past decade.  Shares of J&J rose 11 percent in the first year after the
Mentor takeover, about half the gain for U.S. health-care
companies. The S&P 500 climbed about three times as much.  J&J was little changed at $60.67 at 1:38 p.m. today in New
York Stock Exchange trading.  ‘Significant Costs’  A deal for Smith & Nephew would add to J&J’s earnings in
the first year,  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said in a report to clients dated Jan. 18.  Last week, J&J posted a decline in fourth-quarter profit
and forecast 2011 earnings that were below analysts’ estimates
because of “significant costs” from product recalls.  Chief Executive Officer William Weldon said in a conference
call on Jan. 25 that J&J is interested in acquisitions to expand
in emerging markets and provide treatments such as joint
problems, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.  Smith & Nephew’s sales in  Asia , Latin America and  Africa 
have increased 50 percent in the past three years, and accounted
for 25 percent of revenue in the third quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “J&J looks like a natural buyer because they have some
challenges,” Fifth Third Asset’s Wirth said. “The industry is
sorting things out and there’s going to be some accelerating
growth in sight for Smith. For anyone who wants to acquire the
company, there’s going to be recognition of that potential.”  The Dealmakers  Goldman Sachs has provided financial advice on J&J’s two
biggest deals -- the $16.6 billion purchase of Pfizer Inc.’s
consumer health-care unit in 2006, and the $12.9 billion
takeover of Alza Corp. in 2001, Bloomberg data show. Smith &
Nephew used  UBS AG  as its financial adviser in its $883 million
deal for Plus Orthopedics Holding AG in 2007.  An offer by J&J may draw scrutiny from antitrust
regulators, according to Bernstein’s Scannell, who says J&J
isn’t likely to bid “much higher” than 800 pence a share.  “It’s not out of the question or crazy to expect a large
premium on a deal,” said Maria Mendelsberg, a money manager
with Denver-based Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees more
than $5.5 billion. “However, the acquirers are limited. I don’t
know who the buyer would be other than a J&J or possibly a
private equity group that could do a deal of that size.”  Citigroup, EMI  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Citigroup Inc .
seized control of EMI Group Ltd. yesterday after the record
label struggled to meet the terms of loans used to finance its
takeover by  Guy Hands .  The New York-based bank, which funded Hands’s takeover in
2007, will own all of EMI after the debt-for-equity swap, the
company said in a statement. The deal will reduce London-based
EMI’s debt by 65 percent to 1.2 billion pounds.    Dish Network Corp ., the second-largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, agreed to buy DBSD North America Inc. for
about $1 billion, after fighting the satellite company’s
bankruptcy plan in court. Dish will also provide DBSD with a
non-revolving $87.5 million loan, according to a statement from
the Englewood, Colorado-based pay-TV provider yesterday. The $1
billion includes interest accruing on DBSD’s debt.    Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc . of Mississauga,
Ontario, said it will acquire Zug, Switzerland-based PharmaSwiss
SA for 350 million euros ($480 million) to expand in Europe.    Time Warner Cable Inc . of New York agreed to buy  NaviSite
Inc . for $274 million, including debt, as the second-largest
U.S. cable-television operator expands into services that will
let businesses store data online. The deal, which values
Andover, Massachusetts-based NaviSite at $5.50 a share,
represents a 33 percent premium to its closing price yesterday.  There have been 2,108 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $175.9 billion, a 17 percent increase from the $149.7
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 