-- Asian Stocks Climb the Most in Two Months on Earnings, U.S. Manufacturing
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2011-02-02T10:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/japanese-australian-stocks-rise-on-earnings-u-s-manufacturing-expansion.html
Asian stocks rose, driving up a
regional benchmark index by the most in two months, after
companies reported higher earnings and U.S. manufacturing
expanded, boosting confidence in a global economic recovery.    Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s biggest carmaker, advanced
3.3 percent in Tokyo after saying U.S. sales rebounded.
Mitsubishi Electric Corp., a maker of factory equipment and home
appliances, surged 7.4 percent in Tokyo after profit exceeded
analysts’ estimates. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, rose 2.4 percent in Sydney after metal prices
climbed.  Paladin Energy Ltd ., a uranium miner, gained 5.8
percent after the company completed an acquisition.  The U.S. economic recovery is “leading to better company
earnings,” said Koichi Kurose, chief strategist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57 billion in assets.
“Investors’ sentiment toward the global economy is good.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.3 percent to 139.27 as
of 7:33 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest percentage gain since Dec. 2
and erasing its loss for this year. About 5 times as many shares
advanced as declined, and all 10 industry groups climbed.  All major benchmark equity indexes that were open for
trading in the Asia-Pacific region rose. Japan’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average gained 1.8 percent,  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
increased 0.9 percent and  India ’s Sensitive Index added 0.4
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index advanced 1.8 percent and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index climbed 0.8 percent in half-day
trading ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Stock markets in China, Hong Kong,  South Korea  and
Singapore shut from today for the Lunar New Year, and exchanges
in Taiwan and  Vietnam  have been closed all week.  Manufacturing, Autos  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index gained 1.7 percent yesterday in  New
York , the most since Dec. 1, after American and Chinese
manufacturing expanded and United Parcel Service Inc. beat
analysts’ earnings estimates.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index of the
U.S. rose to 60.8, beating the median economist projection of 58,
figures from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed yesterday.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Consumer-discretionary stocks and raw-material companies
gained the most today among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  Toyota rose 3.3 percent to 3,480 yen, the biggest support
to the MSCI index. The company reported a 17 percent increase in
U.S. sales in January, leading gains for Asia-based automakers.
Li & Fung Ltd., the largest supplier of clothes and toys to Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., gained 2.2 percent to
HK$50.15 in  Hong Kong .  Earnings Improve  Mitsubishi Electric jumped 7.4 percent to 996 yen, the
second-biggest increase in the MSCI index. The company reported
net income of 45.6 billion yen ($560 million) in the three
months through December, compared with the average of 27.1
billion yen estimated by five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Among other Japanese companies that reported higher
earnings or forecasts were Otsuka Corp., which makes computer-
information software, NTT Data Corp., a network-services
provider, and Casio Computer Co., a maker of cameras and mobile
phones. All of them gained more than 6.6 percent. Otsuka’s 11
percent increase was the biggest in the MSCI index.  About 220 of the 1,019 companies in the MSCI index are
scheduled to release earnings statements this week. Of the 235
that have reported results for the latest quarter, 97 have
exceeded analysts’ estimates, while 82 have missed them,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Steadily Recovering’  U.S. manufacturing and company earnings “are steadily
recovering,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo
at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Japanese companies are in
good shape. Many of them had nine-month earnings exceeding 75
percent of their annual profits.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent this year to
yesterday, compared with gains of 4 percent for the S&P Index
and 3 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The Asian gauge sank 0.7 percent on Jan. 31, its biggest
drop in a week, amid demonstrations against  Egypt ’s government
and as some earnings reports disappointed investors. That pushed
the average price of stocks in the index to below 14 times
estimated earnings on average, its lowest level since September.  Commodities Advance  BHP advanced 2.4 percent to A$45.70 in Sydney, the second-
biggest boost to the MSCI index. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s No.
3 mining company, increased 2 percent to A$85.82. Mitsui & Co.,
a trading company that counts commodities as its largest source
of profit, rose 3.9 percent to 1,449 yen in Tokyo. Jiangxi
Copper Co.,  China ’s No. 1 maker of the metal, climbed 3.4
percent to HK$25.75 in Hong Kong.  The London Metal Exchange Index of six metals including
copper and aluminum advanced 1.8 percent yesterday, rising for a
fifth day to the highest level since March 2008. Gold futures
for April delivery climbed 0.4 percent to settle at $1,340.30 in
New York yesterday. Copper advanced to a record on signs demand
will remain robust in China, the world’s biggest consumer of the
metal used in cars, homes and appliances. Aluminum and nickel
climbed to two-year highs.  Paladin Energy jumped 5.8 percent to A$5.44 in Sydney after
the company said it completed the purchase of Aurora Energy
Resources Inc.’s uranium assets.    Genting Bhd ., a Malaysian casino, power and plantation
group, advanced 6.4 percent to 11.34 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur .
The company said its Resorts World Sentosa Ltd. unit borrowed
S$4.2 billion ($3.3 billion) to refinance debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 