-- Japan Volcano Erupts Again; May Disrupt International Flights
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2011-02-02T08:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/japan-volcano-erupts-again-may-disrupt-international-flights.html
Shinmoedake, a volcano on Japan’s
southern island of Kyushu, erupted for a seventh time in the
last week, emitting an ash plume that may affect international
flights after a series of domestic transport disruptions.  The 1,421-meter (4,660 feet) volcano in the Kirishima
range erupted at 10:47 a.m. local time, following two eruptions
overnight, a branch division of Japan’s Meteorological Agency
said in  statements  today. The volcano spewed smoke and ash as
high as 3,000 meters before drifting east-southeast toward the
coast near Miyazaki.    Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd . said the ash may delay flights
between  Hong Kong  and airports in Nagoya, Tokyo and  Osaka ,
according to a  statement  on the carrier’s website today.  Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co.,  Asia ’s
largest listed carrier, said flights to or from Miyazaki
airport may be canceled or diverted to Kagoshima airport and
advised passengers to check before traveling, according to
separate  statement s on the carriers’ websites.  Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano, which erupted last
April grounding 100,000 flights in six days, at times sent an
ash plume more than 9,000 meters into the air, according to the
 Icelandic Met Office .  Shinmoedake has been erupting intermittently since last
week. Japan’s weather agency says a lava dome in the crater may
spill out, creating a  lava flow , and authorities are
maintaining a restricted zone of 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) amid
warnings of falling debris.  Ash Storms  Footage from national broadcaster NHK showed rocks up to
80 centimeters (31 inches) that have landed on slopes below the
volcano, while ash storms are disrupting road traffic in nearby
towns. At least 180 window panes were broken at schools,
hospitals and a hotel due to the force of an eruption yesterday,
NHK  said .  The weather agency maintained a  level 3 alert  for
Shinmoedake and Sakurajima volcano, 45 kilometers (28 miles) to
the southwest, indicating an eruption “may seriously affect
places near residential areas.” Evacuations are carried out
when the alert reaches the maximum 5.  Shinmoedake erupted last week for the first time in 52
years.  Sakurajima  had 1,026 volcanic incidents in 2010, the
most since at least 1982, according to Japan’s weather agency.  Japan has 108 active volcanoes representing about 10
percent of the world’s total. Around the world, 17 volcanoes
are erupting, including three in Japan, three in  Russia ’s
Kamchatka peninsula, two in  Indonesia  and one in  Hawaii ,
according to the  Smithsonian Institution’s Global Volcanism
Program .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 