-- KKR Said to Bid With Turkey's Yildiz for Assets of Turkey's Dogan Yayin
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2011-02-02T11:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/kkr-may-bid-with-yildiz-for-turkish-dogan-yayin-media-assets-people-say.html
KKR & Co. LP, a U.S. private equity
fund, may bid with  Turkey ’s Yildiz Holding AS for assets of the
country’s biggest media group  Dogan Yayin Holding AS , two people
familiar with the matter said.  Pragma Corporate Finance, an Istanbul-based adviser on
mergers and acquisitions, is advising Yildiz on the possible
purchase with KKR, the people said on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private. Yildiz, which is the owner of the
Godiva chocolate brand, has no media assets.  Dogan Yayin, owned by the Istanbul-based Dogan Sirketler
Grubu Holding AS is seeking buyers for its units after the
government demanded $3.8 billion in back taxes and fines.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . is advising Dogan on the sale of the
assets, which include CNN Turk television channel.  A spokesman for KKR declined to comment. Yildiz Holding
Chairman Murat Ulker wasn’t available to comment after four
phone calls and an e-mail from Bloomberg.  Dogan Yayin Holding’s other assets include Kanal D and Star
television channels as well as the Posta newspaper, published by  Dogan Gazetecilik AS , and a number of magazines, according to
its web site.  U.S. private equity firm TPG Capital and  Time Warner Inc .
are also shortlisted with KKR in the Dogan Yayin asset sale,
three people familiar with the matter said on Oct. 13.  Hurriyet Sale  Dogan Yayin is also seeking bids for its newspaper unit
Hurriyet Gazetecilik & Matbaacilik AS, Soner Gedik, a company
board member, said in an interview in December. Goldman Sachs is
advising on the Hurriyet sale as well, he said.  Dogan Yayin rose as much as 1.5 percent to 2.10 liras in
Istanbul, reversing earlier losses. It was unchanged at 2.07
liras at 12:56 p.m. local time.  Ulker Biskuvi Sanayi AS , a unit
of Yildiz, which gained as much as 3.1 percent to 5.94 liras,
traded at 5.80 liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 