-- 
Palestinians Still Hoping for U.S. Statehood Support in UN, Mansour Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-20T12:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/netanyahu-s-economic-peace-tested-by-palestinian-construction-roadblocks.html
Palestinians still hope they can
persuade the U.S. to support their recognition as an independent
state at the  United Nations  in September, an envoy said.  “We are engaging them to try to convince them that what we
are doing is reasonable and realistic,” Riyad Mansour, the
 permanent observer  of Palestine at the UN, said today at a news
conference in the West Bank city of Ramallah. “We expect the
members of the Security Council to not object to our joining the
family of nations.”  Mansour dismissed concerns that the Palestine Liberation
Organization has missed a July 15 application deadline for its
statehood bid to be considered by the UN Security Council. He
said rules could be bent “if there is the will.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has tried to dissuade
Palestinian leaders from moving forward with the UN strategy.
Obama says the Palestinians need to reach a peace agreement with
 Israel  before they go ahead with establishing their own state.
The U.S., as a permanent member of the  Security Council , can
veto resolutions.  If the U.S. vetoes the statehood measure, Mansour said
Palestinians will go ahead with other strategies to upgrade
their participation in the UN. Raising the delegation’s status
from “observer” to “non-member state,” for instance, would
enable participation in major UN agencies such as the  World
Health Organization  and United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, he said.  “Whatever we do will be a significant step toward
statehood,” Mansour said. “We will accumulate points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ramallah through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 