-- News Corp.'s Murdoch Unwraps Daily Digital Publication for Apple's IPad
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2011-02-02T21:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/news-corp-unwraps-daily-digital-publication-for-apple-s-ipad.html
News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch 
introduced a news publication tailored specifically for  Apple
Inc .’s iPad, a bid to expand his media empire with a new
business model for delivering content digitally.  Called the Daily, the publication will cost 99 cents a week
or $39.99 a year, the companies said at a news conference in New
York today. Apple unveiled a subscription payment system for the
Daily and said it will soon be available for other publishers.  Murdoch, News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive officer,
is betting the popularity of Apple’s iPad will draw subscribers
and advertisers to the digital publication run by Jesse Angelo,
the former managing editor of the News Corp.-owned New York
Post. The Daily will feature general news, sports, arts and
opinion sections, along with high-definition video and 360-
degree photos.  “The iPad demands that we completely reimagine our
craft,” Murdoch said at the event. “I’m convinced that in the
tablet era there’s room for a fresh and robust new voice.”    News Corp . is confronting the dual challenges facing the  media industry : shrinking print advertising sales and the
reluctance of  Internet users  to pay for content. U.S. newspaper
revenue tumbled 29 percent in 2009, the most recent year with
data available, according to the  Newspaper Association of
America . That marked the fourth straight drop.  Murdoch developed the Daily after Apple demonstrated
there’s a market for tablets, which blend the functionality of a
touch-screen smartphone with a notebook computer. He said News
Corp. has spent $30 million to get the publication off the
ground and that it will cost about $500,000 a week to operate.  No Print Version  “We have license to experiment, the ability to innovate,”
Murdoch said. “We believe the Daily will be the model for how
stories are told and consumed.”  Murdoch was joined at the event by Angelo and Eddy Cue,
Apple’s vice president of Internet services. Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is on medical leave.  Murdoch said Jobs called him last week and said the Daily
was “terrific.”  While Apple dominates the tablet market, competition is
increasing. Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. are making rival devices running on  Google Inc .’s
Android operating system. Global tablet sales may total 54.8
million units in 2011 and 208 million in 2014, according to
Gartner Inc. Apple has sold more than 15 million iPads since its
release in April, Cue said today.  Murdoch said the Daily will be available on competing
tablet devices later.  Pay to Read  The editorial position of the publication will be “in the
hands of the editor,” Murdoch said.  Angelo said the target demographic is everybody.  “In terms of our editorial page, at the highest level, we
are patriotic,” he said. “As for specific issues, read the
editorial page every day.”  News Corp. rose 41 cents to $16 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Apple fell 71 cents to $344.32.  Murdoch isn’t the first publishing magnate to bet on the
iPad. British billionaire  Richard Branson  unveiled a magazine
designed for the device in November. His monthly publication,
called “Project,” covers entertainment, design, technology and
entrepreneurs. It costs $2.99 a month in Apple’s app store.  Subscription Model  Publishers are trying to solidify revenue streams online
after years of giving away material for free and trying to pair
it with new advertising.  New York Times Co ., Philadelphia Media
Network and Gannett Co. are among the media companies looking to
charge for online content. News Corp.’s Wall Street Journal was
one of the first sites to do so.  Apple has been trying to craft a subscription model for
publishers such as  Time Warner Inc .,  Conde Nast  and Hearst
Corp., letting them sell versions of their publications for the
iPad. Sticking points during the talks have been who controls
data about users and the terms of a subscription, people
familiar with the negotiations said last year. They declined to
be identified because the talks are private.  Cue said a subscription system for other publishers will be
announced “very soon.” With the Daily, users can pay the 99
cents a week or $39.99 a year through an iTunes account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  