-- News Corp. Profit More Than Doubles on TV Fees, Ad Sales
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2011-02-02T22:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/news-corp-s-profit-more-than-doubles-on-higher-television-fees-ad-sales.html
  News Corp ., the owner of Fox
Broadcasting and the Twentieth Century Fox film studio, said
second-quarter profit more than doubled, driven by higher
television subscriber fees and advertising sales.  Net income climbed to $642 million, or 24 cents a share,
from $254 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding restructuring
and impairment charges, earnings were 29 cents a share, compared
with the 28-cent average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The strength came where you expected it, in broadcast and
in cable,” said  David Bank , a media analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  New York . “There was likely weakness at MySpace and
film had a tough comparable period. These were basically in
line.”  News Corp.’s Fox broadcast network, along with other
broadcasters in the industry, sought fees from TV distributors
last year for their TV signals that used to be free. Those
payments, along with new revenue from newspapers’ Internet
paywalls and a tablet-only news product, are part of Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ’s plan to get paid
for content by subscribers.  Murdoch today introduced the Daily, a news publication
tailored specifically for  Apple Inc .’s iPad, in a bid to expand
into delivering content only digitally. The publication will
cost 99 cents a week, or $39.99 a year, and include high-
definition video and 360-degree photos. News Corp. spent $30
million to get the publication off the ground, and it will cost
about $500,000 a week to operate, Murdoch said.  Cable and Satellite  Sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31 were little changed at
$8.76 billion, compared with analysts’ $8.72 billion estimate.  News Corp., also the owner of Fox News and the Wall Street
Journal, rose 41 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $16 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares
have increased 9.9 percent this year.  Operating profit for the television unit rose fivefold to
$151 million on higher political and automotive advertising, and
National Football League advertising increases that offset lower
advertising for  Major League Baseball ’s World Series.  Cable networks, such as FX, increased operating income 22
percent to $735 million, on a 12 percent gain in revenue. At the
U.S. channels, advertising grew 12 percent and affiliate fees
rose 10 percent. News Corp.’s Fox TV has been pushing
distributors to pay so-called retransmission fees for its
programming, following the drop in advertising sales during the
U.S. recession.  MySpace ‘New Owners’?  Lower search and advertising revenue at the social network
MySpace led to increased losses at the company’s Digital Media
Group. The unit that includes that group had operating losses of
$156 million in the quarter, compared with a $125 million loss a
year earlier.    Chase Carey , News Corp.’s chief operating officer, said on
a conference call with investors that the company is evaluating
strategic alternatives for “new owners” for MySpace.  As part of Murdoch’s efforts to add to subscription
operations, the company is bidding for the 61 percent of pay-TV
operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  it doesn’t already
own. News Corp. is offering remedies to try to avoid a lengthy
antitrust review of its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 