-- Niger Presidential Election Was `Transparent,' As Voting Results Awaited
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u
-- 2011-02-02T17:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/niger-presidential-election-was-transparent-eu-voting-observers-say.html
Niger’s  presidential election was
“transparent and generally well conducted,” according to
European Union observers, as an electoral commission official
said results may be ready by Feb. 6.  The ruling military junta has “a clear intention to
restore the conditions for a return to normal constitutional
order,” Santiago Fisas Ayxela, deputy head of the EU mission
that observed the Jan. 31 vote, told reporters in Niamey, the
capital, today.  There were some “failures” including “a few attempts at
fraud” in the Tillabery region of west Niger, said Khalifa
Babacar Sall, head of the African Union’s observation team. The
problems were not enough to mar the vote’s outcome, he added.  Niger’s vote is meant to restore civilian-led rule in the
world’s sixth-biggest uranium producer. The army ousted former
President Mamadou Tandja in a coup in February 2009, and interim
army leader Djibo Salou pledged to hold elections within a year.  Voter turnout was “average,” according to the Economic
Community of West African States’ observation group, who handed
a statement to reporters in the capital today. Abdourhamane
Ghousmane, chairman of the electoral commission, was quoted by
state-owned Tele Sahel as saying turnout was 50 percent.  The commission may be ready to release results early next
week, said spokesman Abdoulaye Mamoudou by phone today.  “It is a very long and slow process,” he said by phone
today. Officials count the ballots manually, and they are sent
to the central commission office to be checked and certified
before being declared, he added.  Landlocked Niger is one of the poorest nations in the
world, ranking ahead of only  Zimbabwe  and the Democratic
Republic of Congo in the United Nations Development Program’s
 Human Development Index  of 169 countries. Ten candidates
contested the poll, and a run-off will be held March 12 if no
candidate wins more than 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Djibril Saidou in Niamey via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 