-- Nigeria's Economic Growth Accelerated to 8.29 Percent in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2011-02-02T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/nigeria-economy-grew-8-29-in-quarter-minister-says-correct-.html
  Nigeria ’s economic growth accelerated
to 8.29 percent in the fourth quarter, boosted by agriculture
and higher oil prices.  Growth picked up from 7.86 percent in the previous three
months, Information Minister Labaran Maku told reporters today
in the capital, Abuja. Lamido Sanusi, governor of the  Central
Bank of Nigeria , had presented the growth figures to the Cabinet
earlier.  Non-oil industries, led by agriculture, grew 8.87 percent
and may continue to fuel expansion as the government encourages
banks to lend more to farmers, Maku said, forecasting growth of
8 percent in the first quarter of this year. The country’s 24
lenders have agreed to triple their lending to agriculture to 3
percent of loans, Phillips Oduoza, chief executive officer of
United Bank for  Africa  Plc., said yesterday.  “Without support for agriculture, it’d be very difficult
to develop the economy,” Maku said. Agriculture is the largest
provider of jobs in the country, accounting for 60 percent of
all employment, he said.  Fourth-quarter growth surpassed the expectation of some
analysts, including Gbadebo Banmeke of  Renaissance Capital  in
Lagos, who had forecast 8 percent.  Oil Production  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country and top oil
producer, has seen crude production stabilize at 2.16 million
barrels a day as a result of the relative calm in the Niger
River delta, the hub of the country’s oil industry, according to
Maku.  Attacks by armed groups targeting the oil industry cut more
than 28 percent of the country’s oil output between 2006 and
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Assaults subsided
after thousands of militants campaigning for more local control
of the delta’s energy resources accepted a government amnesty
and disarmed in 2009.  Crude oil for March delivery rose 52 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $91.29 a barrel at 10:31 a.m. today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Nigeria’s economy, surpassed only by  South Africa  in sub-
Saharan Africa, will grow about 7 percent this year, compared
with 7.8 percent in 2010, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said on
Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 