-- Nokia, Microsoft Must Team Up on Phone, Analyst Says
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2011-02-02T21:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/nokia-microsoft-must-join-forces-to-fight-iphone-berenberg-analyst-says.html
  Nokia Oyj  and  Microsoft Corp . need to
join forces to avoid the dinosaur fate of mainframe makers,
Berenberg Bank analyst Adnaan Ahmad wrote in an open letter to
the chief executive officers of the two companies.  At Nokia’s investor meeting on Feb. 11, CEO Stephen Elop
ought to announce a deal that gives the Finnish company
exclusive access to Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 and commits to a
date for product shipment, Ahmad said.  Elop, a former Microsoft executive, said last week that
Nokia “must build, catalyze and/or join a competitive
ecosystem” to adapt to a faster-moving industry. His comments
fanned speculation Nokia may adopt Windows Phone 7 or Google
Inc.’s Android software. Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  is
grappling with a slow start for the company’s revamped Windows
Phone 7, which shipped just 2 million units in the 100-million
market in the last quarter.  “Nokia is no longer in denial,” Ahmad wrote in his letter
to “Stephen and Steve.” “Microsoft also faces very big
strategic challenges as smartphones and tablets attack your
highly profitable installed base business.”  Nokia’s reported smartphone market share slid to 31 percent
in the fourth quarter from 40 percent a year earlier as
consumers defected to  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and models based on
Android. Apple has changed the game for smartphone makers just
as Microsoft’s personal computer software changed it for
mainframe makers like  International Business Machines Corp . and
Burroughs Corp., Ahmad said.  Symbian, MeeGo  Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  declined to comment on the
letter. Microsoft officials couldn’t be reached for comment.  Nokia rose 4.3 percent to 8.17 euros today in Helsinki.
Microsoft fell 5 cents to $27.94 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  By joining forces with Microsoft, Nokia would get a new
smartphone operating system to replace Symbian in high-end
devices, and access to the U.S. market where the world’s largest
phonemaker currently has a single-digit market share, Ahmad
said. It would also be able to shift research and development
costs to Microsoft, permitting it to cut staff, he said.  Ahmad recommended Nokia scrap MeeGo, the platform it is
developing with  Intel Corp ., saying “it’s the biggest joke in
the tech industry right now, and will put you even further
behind Apple and Google.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  