-- Nordea CEO Clausen Attacks Riksbank Call for Tougher Bank Rules in Sweden
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2011-02-02T16:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/nordea-ceo-slams-riksbank-call-for-tougher-bank-rules-in-sweden.html
  Nordea Bank AB  Chief Executive
Officer Christian Clausen criticized central bank calls for
tougher regulatory rules than those set out by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  and said such a move would hurt
Sweden’s financial industry.  “These measures are a bit strange because what we all need
is a level playing field,” Clausen said at a press conference
in Stockholm today after his bank announced fourth-quarter
results. “We of course can’t have banks in different countries
with all sorts of regulatory requirements. It’s not realistic.”  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said yesterday Sweden’s
lenders face risks from their reliance on capital-market funding
and as  household debt  swells. Banks should mull imposing tighter
standards than those set out by the Basel Committee and enforce
the rules faster, he said. Nordea, the Nordic region’s biggest
lender, said today fourth-quarter profit surged 72 percent to
769 million euros ($1.06 billion) from a year earlier as loan
losses fell.  “We don’t need to make ridiculous capital requirement
amounts on banking,” Clausen said. “It will distort
competition and distort Europeans’ possibility of having real
economic growth going forward.”    Sweden ’s Financial Supervisory Authority in October
tightened the loan-to-value requirement on mortgages to 85
percent from no limit previously. The central bank has raised
its benchmark lending rate four times since July to 1.25 percent
in part to stem rising house prices and household debt.  ‘Forceful’ Measures  The government will wait for the effects of these
“forceful” measures before deciding on whether to implement
other measures to limit rising debt levels, Financial Markets
Minister Peter Norman said today in Stockholm.  “We’re seeing a debt level increase that’s worrisome if it
continues for another few years,” he said. “Today, there is no
risk to financial stability.”    Swedbank AB  Chief Executive Officer Michael Wolf said in a
January interview that Sweden’s surging credit growth requires
banks to enforce tighter lending standards if the Nordic
region’s largest economy is to avoid a housing bubble.  There exist “a number of risks that are specific to the
Swedish economy,” Ingves said yesterday. “The question is
whether the new regulations are sufficient. Even if Basel III is
a major step forward, we must not forget that it represents
global minimum regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  