-- Obama Tells Mubarak Egypt's Transition to New Government `Must Begin Now'
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/obama-says-he-told-mubarak-orderly-peaceful-transition-must-begin-now-.html
President  Barack Obama  said  Egypt ’s
transition to a new government “must begin now,” suggesting
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s plan to remain in office for eight
more months may not quell the protests in Cairo’s streets.  Obama spoke to Mubarak for 30 minutes after the Egyptian
president announced he wouldn’t seek another term in elections
scheduled for September. Obama then went before television
cameras at the White House to say Mubarak “recognizes that the
status quo is not sustainable and change must take place.”  “What is clear,” Obama said he told Mubarak, “is my
belief that an orderly transition must be meaningful, it must be
peaceful, and it must begin now.”  While Obama publicly and privately continues to pressure
Mubarak to move on the transition to new leadership, the
president’s actions may tie him to the next steps Mubarak takes,
said  Aaron David Miller , a former Mideast peace negotiator and
State Department official.  Mubarak’s decision to remain in office until the next
election to ensure “stability” was rejected by opposition
leaders and protesters who crowded in Cairo’s Tahrir Square
yesterday.  Obama “is now identified with a solution to the crisis
that falls far short of what the people on the street seem to
want,” Miller said.  While Obama still can’t outright call for Mubarak to step
down, he needs to say Mubarak’s statement is “not enough,”
said Edward Walker, a former U.S. ambassador to Egypt and Israel
who is now an adjunct scholar at the Middle East Institute in
Washington.  ‘Lose Everybody’  “If we just declare victory now, they’ll lose everybody in
the Middle East,” Walker said.  Mubarak’s announcement that he won’t seek re-election
followed direct pressure from the U.S. administration.  Obama dispatched former diplomat Frank Wisner to Egypt,
where he conveyed the U.S. message that Mubarak’s time in office
is coming to an end to the Egyptian leader on Jan. 31, said an
administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the discussions were private.  Whether Mubarak, 82, who has been in office three decades,
has moved far enough to satisfy the opposition is still in
question, the official said.  Edward Djerejian, a former U.S. ambassador to  Israel  and  Syria , said Mubarak’s decision won’t stop the anti-government
demonstrators.  Military’s Support  “Nevertheless, I do not believe he could have made the
decision to stay in office until new elections without support
from the Egyptian military,” he said in an e-mail. “If the
street protests continue and become violent, the military may
change their stance. We just have to wait and see.”  The U.S. also is making contact with the opposition and
keeping lines of communication open to Egypt’s military and
intelligence communities.  The U.S. ambassador in Egypt, Margaret Scobey, opened
discussions with Mohamed ElBaradei, the former head of the
United Nations atomic energy agency, who has emerged as a
leading representative of the anti-Mubarak movement. The talks
were “part of our public outreach to convey support for orderly
transition” in Egypt, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  wrote in a message on Twitter earlier today.  The broadest contact point may be through the military and
intelligence communities, Walker said.  “Those are the people who have serious longstanding
relationships with the people who are still in charge of stable
institutions inside of Egypt that don’t appear to be
threatened,” he said.  Revamped Staff  The crisis in Egypt is the first critical test for Obama’s
revamped White House staff, with Tom Donilon at the helm of the
National Security Council.  Obama named Donilon, 55, who worked in the administrations
of former presidents  Jimmy Carter  and  Bill Clinton , as national
security adviser in October. While he served as chief of staff
to former Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Donilon has had
to work against criticism that he lacks military experience.
Donilon saw  Afghanistan  for the first time in March last year
when he accompanied Obama on a six-hour trip there.  Still, the former executive vice president for law and
policy at government-chartered mortgage finance company  Fannie
Mae , brings to the post expertise in managing processes, which
is the role he’s playing in the administration’s Egypt response.  Security Team  Donilon has been organizing the involvement of the
principal members of Obama’s national security team, including
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta.
Deputy National Security adviser Denis McDonough is running the
meetings on the deputy level, an administration official said.  Vice president Joe Biden is also playing a prominent role,
staying in contact with regional leaders, including a call
yesterday to Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa.  Obama’s economic advisers also are watching to see whether
the turmoil in Egypt has broader implications. Unrest that
either closed Egypt’s Suez Canal or spread into oil-producing
regions in  Saudi Arabia  or the  Persian Gulf  would threaten the
recovery in the U.S. and around the world.  Still, after fears of the crisis’s impact on the economy
drove down stock markets last week, investors’ anxieties eased
yesterday. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities climbed
1.6 percent including dividends. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  closed above 12,000 for the first time since June 2008.
Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries increased seven basis points
to 3.44 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net 
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 