-- Hockey's New Jersey Devils Exploring a Sale, Hire Moag & Co. as Adviser
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/hockey-s-new-jersey-devils-exploring-a-sale-hire-moag-co-as-adviser.html
The  New Jersey Devils , purchased by
former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. executive Jeffrey Vanderbeek in 2004, are exploring a sale.  Michael T. Gilfillan, chairman of Brick City Hockey LLC,
which owns a stake in the National Hockey League team, said in a
statement last night that it is forcing the sale of the
franchise and the team hired Baltimore investment bank Moag &
Co. as an adviser.  “Brick City has exercised its contractual rights under its
partnership agreement with Jeff Vanderbeek to cause a sale of
the entire team and arena rights, subject to certain terms and
conditions,” the statement said. “We are at the beginning
stage of this process.”  Gilfillan’s statement came after Vanderbeek said that he
has no desire to sell the team, which plays in the Prudential
Center in  Newark ,  New Jersey , and anticipated retaining his
controlling stake.  “My partner, Brick City, and I have different visions for
the franchise,” Vanderbeek said in a statement. “While Brick
City has a right, under our partnership agreement, to explore a
sale and Moag & Co. has been retained to assist in these
efforts, I anticipate maintaining a controlling interest.”  Moag & Co. sent out letters to prospective buyers
soliciting interest in the team on Jan. 25, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation who was granted anonymity
because the team hadn’t given him permission to discuss it.  Moag’s Letter  The first two sentences of the letter, distributed by the
Devils last evening and sent to prospective investors on Moag &
Co. letterhead reads:  “This firm has been engaged by the New Jersey Devils of
the  National Hockey League  to act as a financial adviser with
respect to the current capitalization of the Devils and the
Prudential Center.  “It is anticipated that our engagement could include
raising additional capital or evaluation of other strategic
alternatives.”  Brick City said in a statement that its initial goal was to
use professional sports as a catalyst for economic development
in Newark by constructing a state-of-the-art arena for the team
and to hold concerts and family shows. It said that it
accomplished that objective with Vanderbeek.  “The arena and the teams playing here have also attracted
more people to come back to the city in an ongoing effort to
restore pride, sports, arts, culture and business to this
beautiful city,” the statement said.  $125 Million  Vanderbeek, 53, took control in the team in a sale valued
at $125 million, according to Forbes. The magazine  reported  in
December that the Devils are worth $218 million on $104 million
of revenue.  The three most-highly valued NHL franchises were the
Toronto Maple Leafs ($505 million),  New York Rangers  ($461
million) and  Montreal Canadiens  ($408 million), according to
Forbes.  A 20-year Lehman veteran, Vanderbeek ran the firm’s capital
markets division from 2000 to 2002, then became head of global
risk management, private equity and strategy when the company
was the fourth-biggest securities firm by capital. He left in
2004 to run the Devils.  “The NHL is a league that clearly has momentum;
sponsorship, gate receipts, revenue, TV ratings, it’s all up,”
said Paul Swangard, managing director of the University of
Oregon’s sports marketing center. “I can’t blame an ownership
group for putting a team up for sale now given all the good news
that’s coming out of the NHL at the moment.”  Moved From  Colorado   The team, which moved to New Jersey from Colorado in 1983
and won three Stanley Cup championships playing at the
Meadowlands Sports Complex in  East Rutherford , is the worst team
in the NHL this season with 37 points. The franchise joined the
NHL in 1975 as the Kansas City Scouts.  Moag & Co. has completed franchise sales that include the  National Football League ’s St. Louis Rams,  Miami Dolphins  and  Baltimore Ravens ; the  National Basketball Association ’s
Charlotte Bobcats and Atlanta Hawks; the NHL’s Atlanta
Thrashers; and  Major League Baseball ’s Milwaukee Brewers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  