-- Oil Price Threatens to Erase Airline Profit, IATA Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2011-02-02T15:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/oil-price-surge-threatens-to-erase-airlines-return-to-profit-iata-says.html
Oil prices at current levels will
increase airline costs by more than this year’s projected
earnings, threatening the industry’s return to profitability,
the  International Air Transport Association  said.  IATA on Dec. 14 forecast carriers would log net income of
$9.1 billion in 2011 based on oil at $84 a barrel. With crude
trading $7 higher than that and every $1 increase boosting the
fuel bill by $1.6 billion, costs could increase by $11 billion.  “The story this month is the sharp rise in oil prices,”
IATA Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said in a
statement, adding that a sustained increase “could spoil the
party” even as people start to travel again after the recession,
eroding a 2.7 percent profit margin he described as “pathetic.”  Airlines posted earnings estimated at $15.1 billion last
year as international passenger traffic jumped 8.2 percent,
outstripping a 4.4 percent rise in capacity so that planes flew
more than 78 percent full, IATA said. Freight demand increased
by almost 21 percent as economic growth picked up.  Crude oil futures were trading as high as $91.32 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  today. Buying kerosene accounts for 27
percent of an airline’s operating costs, according to IATA.  Hedging, Surcharges  Airlines seek to guard against rising fuel expenses by
hedging at a set price on part of their annual requirement.
Network carriers such as  Air France-KLM  Group, the biggest in  Europe , also seek to pass costs from unhedged fuel to customers
through a system of predetermined surcharges, though that can
deter travel if ticket prices increase too much.    United Continental Holdings Inc ., the world’s largest
airline, may need to cut flying this year if fuel stays at
current prices, CEO Jeff Smisek told investors on Jan. 26.  The air-travel rebound slowed in December as snowfalls in
Europe and  North America  disrupted flights. Traffic grew 4.9
percent, down from 8.2 percent the previous month, with the
wintry weather cutting demand by 1 percentage point, IATA said.  The December gain was led by a 14 percent increase in the
Middle East and a 12 percent jump in  Africa , it said. Passenger
volumes are now 4 percent higher than the pre-recession levels
of early 2008. While freight is 1 percent higher, cargo tonnage
has fallen 5 percent since a post-slump restocking boom in 2010.  “The challenge is to turn the demand for mobility into
sustainable profits,” Bisignani said.    Airports Council International  said yesterday that
terminals handled 3.37 billion passengers last year, an increase
of 6.2 percent compared with 2009. The Asia-Pacific region led
the growth, reporting a 12.3 increase of passenger numbers, with
North America having the slowest at 2.2 percent.  “2010 was a banner year for air traffic, generating a much
quicker recovery than expected,” Andreas Schimm, ACI’s economics
director, said in the statement. “Nonetheless, the industry
needs to remain vigilant, as setbacks can occur unexpectedly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  