-- Oil Trades Near 28-Month High as Egypt Riots Add ‘Risk Premium’
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-02T13:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/oil-trades-near-28-month-high-as-egypt-riots-add-risk-premium-to-price.html
Oil traded near its highest price in
more than two years as concern that protests in  Egypt  may
endanger Middle Eastern exports countered signs of rising
supplies in the U.S., the largest crude consumer.  Futures swung between a loss of 0.4 percent and gains of
0.6 percent today after the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday that U.S. stockpiles increased for a fourth week. The
Energy Department may also say today supplies climbed. Unrest in
Egypt sent  Brent crude  above $100 a barrel earlier this week.  “The chief reason for oil’s rally through $100 is the
return of the geopolitical  risk premium ,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.
“There has been a fresh inflow of speculative positions, though
with stocks and spare production capacity ample, conditions
don’t suggest a surge to new records.”  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was trading at $90.70 a barrel, down 8 cents, at 12:56
a.m. London time. Prices settled at $92.19 on Jan. 31, the
highest since Oct. 3, 2008. Brent oil for March settlement
traded at $101.60 a barrel, down 14 cents on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. It gained 0.7 percent to $101.74
yesterday, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  said he won’t stand down
until elections due in September, angering the hundreds of
thousands gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square to demand an
immediate end to his regime.    Suez Canal   About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the Suez Canal and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway
carries more than 2.2 million barrels of oil a day.  There is “no real threat” to flows through the canal,  Fatih Birol  , chief economist at the International Energy, said
today in a Bloomberg interview in Moscow. “We hope to see the
market calm down because it is not good news for anybody in the
market: consumers, producers or anybody.”  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan announced a
change of government yesterday following protests last week.
Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned and  King Abdullah  asked
Marouf Bakhit, to form a new government.  OPEC may increase oil production as depleting inventories
and unrest in the Middle East push prices to the highest levels
since 2008, BP Plc Chief Economist Christof Ruehl said.  Brent Premium  The oil market is “tightening” as economic growth this
year expected to boost demand further, Ruel said in a Bloomberg
television interview from Moscow. If the Organization of
Petroleum Countries keeps output at current levels, “that would
translate into a price increase all on its own, without the
Egyptian situation,” he said.  New York oil’s discount to Brent widened after the API said
inventories at the Cushing,  Oklahoma , hub climbed to a record.
Brent’s premium over  New York  futures widened to $10.93 a barrel
today. The difference was $8.82 on Jan. 31.  The premium paid for April contracts in New York over March
futures, known as the contango, rose to $2.90 a barrel in New
York, the highest since May, as rising supplies depress nearer-
term prices.  The American Petroleum Institute reported that U.S. crude
stockpiles increased 3.77 million barrels to 346.5 million last
week. An Energy Department report today may show inventories
climbed by 2.5 million barrels, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies in Cushing, the delivery point for West Texas
Intermediate crude futures, gained 667,000 barrels to 38.4
million barrels, the most since Bloomberg data from the API
begins in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  