-- Oil Fluctuates as U.S. Supplies Crude Rise, Egypt Risk Subsides
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-02T07:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/oil-fluctuates-after-u-s-crude-supplies-rise-suez-canal-risk-subsides.html
Oil fluctuated in  New York  as crude
stockpiles in the U.S. rose and concern eased that unrest in
Egypt will disrupt supplies through the Suez Canal.  Futures swung between a losses of 0.4 percent and gains of
0.3 percent today after the American Petroleum Institute said  
yesterday that U.S. stockpiles increased for a fourth week. An
Energy Department report today may also show supplies climbed.
Crude dropped 1.5 percent yesterday after canal officials said
traffic is moving normally on the waterway. New York oil’s 
discount to Brent widened after the API said inventories at the
Cushing,  Oklahoma , hub climbed to a record.  “The news has filtered out that the Suez Canal hasn’t been
disrupted and the chances of contagion from  Egypt  to other big
oil producers is relatively small,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals
and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by telephone today. “It has caused a little bit
of a sell-off in the crude market.”  Crude for March delivery was trading at $90.88 a barrel, up
11 cents, at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Yesterday, the contract
dropped to $90.77. Prices settled at $92.19 on Jan. 31, the
highest since Oct. 3, 2008. Oil is up 17 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement traded at $101.71 a barrel,
down 4 cents, or 0.3 percent, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . It gained 0.7 percent to $101.74 yesterday, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent Premium  Brent’s premium over New York futures widened to $10.83 a
barrel today. The difference was $8.82 on Jan. 31.  The American Petroleum Institute reported that U.S. crude
stockpiles increased 3.77 million barrels to 346.5 million last
week. An Energy Department report today may show inventories
climbed by 2.5 million barrels, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies in Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for West
Texas Intermediate crude futures, gained 667,000 barrels to 38.4
million barrels, the most since Bloomberg data from the API
begins in 2004.  The premium paid for April contracts in New York over March
futures, known as the contango, rose to $2.76 a barrel in New
York, the highest since May, as rising supplies depress nearer-
term prices.  Crude Rally  About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the  Suez Canal  and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway
carries more than 2.2 million barrels of oil a day.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said he won’t stand down
until elections due in September, angering the hundreds of
thousands gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square to demand an
immediate end to his regime.  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan announced a
change of government yesterday following protests last week.
Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked
Marouf Bakhit, to form a new government.  The Jordanian announcement and Egyptian protests follow a
revolt in  Tunisia  that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
into exile on Jan. 14.  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates
and  Kuwait , three of OPEC’s biggest oil producers, are located
on the Arabian Peninsula and haven’t seen unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  