-- Oil Gains a Second Day as Egypt Unrest Prompts Supply Concern
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-03T07:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/oil-trades-near-91-in-new-york-as-unrest-in-egypt-bolsters-supply-concern.html
Oil advanced for a second day in  New
York  as protests in Egypt turned violent, prompting concern that
crude supplies may be disrupted and unrest may spread to other
parts of the Middle East.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent after clashes broke out
between anti-government protesters and supporters of President
Hosni Mubarak in Cairo. Jordan announced a change of government
Feb. 1 after protests last week. About 2.5 percent of global oil
production moves through Egypt via the Suez Canal and the Suez-
Mediterranean Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “If the Egyptian situation results in the removal of the
current administration quickly, then the consequences may be
that other regions will follow,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone today. “It could create a contagion that could see
the Middle Eastern premium being brought back in a big way
because you do have that risk to the Suez.”  The March contract gained as much as 89 cents to $91.75 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $91.71 at 3:54 p.m. in  Singapore . Yesterday, it
climbed 9 cents to settle at $90.86. Futures have advanced 19
percent in the past year.    Brent crude  for March settlement increased 86 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $103.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It has gained 6 percent in the past five days,
the longest rising streak since November. Futures closed
yesterday at $102.34, the highest since Sept. 26, 2008.  The contract’s 14-day relative strength index, a measure of
how fast prices have risen or fallen, climbed to 71 today, the
highest since Dec. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A reading of 70 or more can be taken as a sign that a market is
“overbought” and ready to drop. New York crude’s RSI was 56.8.  Brent Premium  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the crude grade
traded in New York, widened to $11.49 a barrel today. The spread
averaged 76 cents last year.  “The Brent-WTI spread widened as concerns that unrest in
Egypt could spread to other nations and temporarily disrupt oil
supply to Europe and  Asia , while stockpiles continue to grow in
the U.S.,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a note today.  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.59 million barrels to
343.2 million in the week ended Jan. 28, the Energy Department
said yesterday. They were forecast to climb 2.5 million barrels,
according to analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil, climbed 667,000 barrels
to 38.3 million, the highest since the department started
keeping records at the storage hub in 2004.  Gasoline supplies rose 6.15 million barrels to 236.2
million, the highest since March 1993, the report showed. It was
the biggest gain since January 2009. Analysts projected that
supplies would climb 2 million barrels.    Egypt  Unrest  Mubarak said Feb. 1 that he won’t stand down until
elections in September. The Egyptian army said protesters should
return to their homes, in a statement by a military spokesman on
state television. It came hours after President  Barack Obama 
said the transition to democracy must “begin now.”  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan’s Prime Minister
Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked Marouf Bakhit to
form a new government.  The Jordanian announcement and Egyptian protests follow a
revolt in Tunisia that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
into exile on Jan. 14.  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates 
and  Kuwait , three of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ biggest oil producers, are located on the Arabian
Peninsula and haven’t seen unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  