-- Crude Oil Edges Higher as Egypt Unrest Bolsters Supply Concern
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-02-02T21:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/oil-steady-near-28-month-high-as-egypt-riots-add-risk-premium-to-price.html
Crude edged up in  New York  and Brent
oil climbed to a 28-month high amid concern that protests in  Egypt  may threaten exports from the Middle East.  Futures rose 9 cents in New York after clashes broke out in
Cairo’s Tahrir Square between anti-government protesters and
people loyal to President  Hosni Mubarak . Prices retreated after
an Energy Department report today showed that U.S. crude-oil and
gasoline supplies increased more than forecast last week.  “Everyone is watching television and the market is moving
on the most recent pictures from Egypt,” said Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “The price
of crude will trend higher until we get some kind of resolution
to the crisis.”  Crude oil for March delivery settled at $90.86 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It climbed as much as 1.1
percent earlier today. The contract touched $92.84 on Jan. 31,
the highest intraday price since Oct. 7, 2008. Futures are up 18
percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for March settlement increased 60 cents, or
0.6 percent, to end the session at $102.34 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest
settlement price since Sept. 26, 2008.  Mubarak said yesterday that he won’t stand down until
elections in September. The Egyptian army said protesters should
return to their homes, in a statement by a military spokesman on
state television. It came hours after President  Barack Obama 
said the transition to democracy must “begin now.”  “We’re going to test the recent highs and continue to move
higher as long as the unrest continues,” said Todd Horwitz,
chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New York.  Supply Routes  About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the  Suez Canal  and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway
carries more than 2.2 million barrels of oil a day.  There is “no real threat” to flows through the canal,  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the  International Energy Agency ,
said today in a Bloomberg interview in Moscow. “We hope to see
the market calm down because it is not good news for anybody in
the market: consumers, producers or anybody.”  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan announced a
change of government yesterday following protests last week.
Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned and  King Abdullah  asked
Marouf Bakhit to form a new government.  “The market is rising because the situation in Egypt
doesn’t appear to be settling down,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It looks like the unrest will continue and
possibly spread in the surrounding region.”  OPEC Output  The oil market is “tightening” as economic growth this
year is expected to boost demand further, BP Plc Chief Economist
Christof Ruehl said on a Bloomberg television interview from
Moscow. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may
increase oil production as prices climb further, he said.  “The chief reason for oil’s rally through $100 is the
return of the geopolitical  risk premium ,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in  London .
“There has been a fresh inflow of speculative positions, though
with stocks and spare production capacity ample, conditions
don’t suggest a surge to new records.”  Crude oil supplies increased by 2.59 million barrels to
343.2 million in the week ended Jan. 28, the Energy Department
said. Stockpiles were forecast to advance by 2.5 million
barrels, according to the median of 15 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Cushing Stockpiles  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil, increased 667,000
barrels to 38.3 million, the highest level since the department
started keeping records at the storage hub in 2004.  The premium of Brent oil to WTI has grown as supplies at
Cushing have increased. It surged to a record of $11.75 a barrel
on Jan. 27. The European benchmark was $11.48 higher today.  Gasoline stockpiles rose 6.15 million barrels to 236.2
million, the highest level since March 1993, the report showed.
It was the biggest gain since January 2009. Analysts projected
that supplies would climb 2 million barrels.  “External events are a lot more important than domestic
inventories at the moment,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural
resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “The
risk to the Suez-Mediterranean pipeline and that unrest will
spill to other countries outweigh today’s inventory report.”  Oil volume on the Nymex was 738,836 contracts as of 3:46
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 919,766
contracts yesterday, 31 percent higher than the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts, the
highest level since Nov. 12, 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 