-- Montero Offers Shares Before Listing to Fund Rare-Earth Plan in Tanzania
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-02T10:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/montero-offers-shares-before-listing-to-fund-rare-earth-plan-in-tanzania.html
Montero Mining & Exploration Ltd. , a
developer of rare earths in  Tanzania , is offering shares before
a planned listing in Toronto to fund exploration as Chinese
export restrictions threaten global supply.  Montero is offering 8 million “units” at 50 Canadian
cents apiece to raise C$4 million ($4 million) through brokers
Haywood Securities Inc. and Byron Securities Ltd., according to
a prospectus e-mailed by the Vancouver-based company. Each unit
consists of one share and a half-share purchase warrant.    China , which accounts for more than 90 percent of world
rare-earth supply, cut export quotas by 72 percent in the second
half of 2010, boosting prices and prompting plans by North
American and Australian mining companies to start production.
Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar elements, used
in renewable energy, magnets, electric cars and weapons.  Montero’s biggest asset is a 60 percent stake in the Wigu
Hill property in Tanzania, where sampling has revealed “high
rare-earth element grades,” according to the prospectus. Trends
in technology indicate there’ll be a “significant shortfall”
in some elements, such as neodymium and terbium, Montero said.  The company is also exploring for uranium in  Quebec  and has
an option agreement to acquire a 74 percent interest in four
phosphate deposits in  South Africa ’s Western Cape and Northwest
provinces.  The Toronto stock exchange has conditionally approved
Montero’s listing, the company said in the prospectus. The
listing is subject to Montero satisfying all requirements by
March 21, it said.  Editors: Amanda Jordan, Alastair Reed  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  