-- Toronto-Dominion May `Surprise' on Chrysler Financial Growth, Clark Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/toronto-dominion-will-surprise-on-chrysler-financial-growth-clark-says.html
  Toronto-Dominion Bank  Chief Executive
Officer Edmund Clark said the bank may “surprise” investors
this year with the performance of its U.S. consumer bank and the
growth of auto lender Chrysler Financial Corp.  “I think we will surprise the market with how well we’ll
do operationally,” Clark said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  Under Clark, Toronto-Dominion has spent more than $25
billion on U.S. acquisitions since 2004, including an agreement
in December to buy Chrysler Financial from Cerberus Capital
Management LP for about $6.3 billion.  Chrysler Financial will become a top 10 auto lender in the
U.S. within three to four years, increasing its assets to about
$20 billion to $30 billion, from $7.5 billion when the deal
closes, Clark said. Chrysler is adding about 200 dealers a week
to its network, and will finance loans for buyers of all car
brands, he said.  “Chrysler will be positive, and I think the U.S. market is
coming back,” said Clark, 63. “There is a new mood of
optimism.”  Toronto-Dominion set a profit target of $1.6 billion a year
from its U.S. businesses by 2013, and told investors in December
that it may surpass that.  Canada ’s second-biggest bank had $1
billion in U.S. profit in the fiscal year that ended Oct. 31.  Chrysler Financial will add $100 million to the bank’s
earnings by 2012, and it expects new loan originations of about
$1 billion a month the following year. The Chrysler transaction
is scheduled to close in the fiscal second quarter, pending
regulatory approvals.  Managing Demand  “Our issue will be managing demand,” as the car industry
recovers, said Clark. “People will give up their house but they
won’t give up their car because if they give up their car they
lose their job.”  Ally Financial Inc., the auto and home lender majority-
owned by U.S. taxpayers, reported a fourth straight quarterly
profit yesterday as the mortgage unit became profitable and car
and truck financing gained.  “The risk of a car loan is higher than it would be in a
secured loan of a different kind of lending, but the margin is
also better,” said Robert Sedran, an analyst at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto. “So I still think it’s an attractive
business” for Toronto-Dominion.  The auto lending expansion will help Toronto-Dominion match
its growing deposit base with more U.S. assets, narrowing an $80
billion gap between the two, Clark said.  Clark said the  U.S. economy  is starting to rebound, with
increasing demand for mortgages, credit cards and corporate
loans.  Sea Change  “The big sea change has been in the commercial market,”
he said.  Convinced that there were limited opportunities to expand
in Canada -- where large domestic banks are blocked from merging
with each other -- Clark set his sights on the U.S. in 2004. The
bank’s largest purchase was in March 2008, when it bought  Cherry
Hill , New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp for about C$8.5 billion.  The bank operates in 16 states from  Maine  to  Florida , where
head of U.S. operations Bharat Masrani uses a strategy called
“retail-tainment” to attract and retain clients. Stores, as
they are called, feature coin-counting machines, drive-through
teller lanes, free pens, lollipops and piggy banks, and water
bowls and treats for dogs.  Clark, who plans to retire in 2013, said he won’t be
“disappointed” if the bank doesn’t make any acquisitions in
2011. The bank will open about 30 to 50 U.S. branches this year
and will look at “small” purchases in the Southeast,
particularly Florida.  Acquisitions  The bank is targeting lenders with assets of as much as $20
billion.  “Right now, we’re in the $10 to $20 billion range,” Clark
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We don’t
describe that as big relative to our overall balance sheet.”  Clark said the recent acquisitions in the U.S. give it
“critical mass” to avoid the mistakes of other Canadian
lenders that have been less aggressive with their U.S.
expansion.  “You need to go big or stay home,” he said. “You don’t
want to be stuck in this mid-sized space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  