-- Torres Will Face Liverpool as Chelsea Rejects Request: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-02-02T09:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/torres-will-face-liverpool-as-chelsea-rejects-request-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Torres Faces Liverpool  Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres  will play against former club
Liverpool at Stamford Bridge on Feb. 6 after his new club
rejected a request by the Reds for a “gentleman’s agreement”
to keep him on the sidelines,  the Guardian  reported.  The proposal was part of the delay in the 50 million pound
($81 million) transfer that went ahead 13 minutes before the
transfer-window closed, according to the Guardian.  Father Sympathizes  The Spanish striker left Liverpool because it has grown
“weaker,” the  Daily Mirror  cited his father Jose as saying
from the family home in Madrid.  Jose Torres said he “almost” understands the anger of
Liverpool fans, some of whom burnt team jerseys with his name on
the back, the Mirror reported.  Transfer Window Stays  The Premier League has no plans to scrap the transfer
window after criticism by a coaches’ group that it creates
“panic buying,” the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  League spokesman Dan Johnson said year-round trading would
create too much stress for managers and fans and banning all
transfers until after the season would be contrary to European
Union regulations, the Telegraph said.  Nasri Extension  Arsenal midfielder Sami Nasri wants to sign a five-year
contract extension, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Coach  Arsene Wenger  has offered Nasri 80,000 pounds a week,
doubling his wages, the Mirror said.  Arsenal is also tracking Omar Salgado, a 17-year-old
striker with the Vancouver Whitecaps, according to the Mirror.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 