-- Toyota Shares May Catch Up with Honda, Nissan: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-02-02T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/toyota-shares-may-catch-up-with-honda-nissan-chart-of-the-day.html
  Toyota Motor Corp ., struggling to
recover from record recalls, may this year outperform Japanese
rivals whose share prices have already returned to levels not
seen since the global financial crisis.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows shares of Toyota, Nissan Motor
Co. and Honda Motor Co. since the beginning of September 2008,
the month Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy,
triggering the global credit crisis. Toyota shares have dropped
29 percent in the period through yesterday, compared with
Nissan’s 2.6 percent gain and Honda’s 0.1 percent fall.  Shares in the world’s largest automaker dropped 17 percent
in 2010 after more than 8 million vehicles were recalled
globally for problems related to unintended acceleration. The
stock is already up 8.1 percent this year as a global recovery
boosts demand in the U.S. and  China , the two-biggest car markets.  “Toyota will catch up in 2011, and it’s possible its
shares will become Japan’s top automotive performer,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based analyst at TIW Inc. “Fall-out from
the recalls is also fading.”  Toyota rose 3.3 percent to 3,480 yen in Tokyo yesterday,
the biggest gain since Sept. 15, after the company said U.S.
sales in January jumped 17 percent. In 2011, sales in the U.S.
are expected to rise by 9 percent to 1.9 million vehicles,
according to a company forecast. The stock will reach 3,752 yen
over the next 12 months, according to the median among analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Toyota will fully recover from the damage of last year’s
adverse publicity,” Clive Wiggins, a Tokyo-based auto analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report last week that rated
the company a “buy” and set a 12-month target price of 4,300
yen. “The main uncertainty merely surrounds the pace at which
consumer perceptions, and therefore also market share, evolve.”  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at 
 mbabic@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net . 