-- Panamericano Soars on Speculation BTG May Raise Offer to Minority Holders
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2011-02-02T20:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/panamericano-soars-on-speculation-btg-may-raise-offer-to-minority-holders.html
Banco Panamericano SA soared on
speculation Banco BTG Pactual SA will offer more money to buy
out minority investors in the Brazilian lender that got 3.8
billion reais ($2.28 billion) in rescue loans after accounting
irregularities were discovered.  Panamericano, under investigation for alleged fraud, surged
26 percent, the most since its November 2007 initial public
offering, at the close of Sao Paulo trading at 3:15 p.m. New
York time. The stock climbed to 6.60 reais, the highest price
since Nov. 9, the day the company announced its 2.5 billion-real
bailout by former controller  Silvio Santos , funded by the
country’s bank deposits insurance fund.  Brazil ’s 21st-largest
lender by assets is up 55 percent in the past two days.  BTG, which agreed Jan. 31 to buy Panamericano for 450
million reais, may be forced to increase its offer of 4.89 reais
per share to individual holders after the stock surged beyond
that level, said Walter Mendes, chairman of the Brazilian
association of minority shareholders, known as Amec.  “They’ll have to pay more if they delist it,” Mendes said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “People believe in
BTG’s operational capacity -- it’s a pretty aggressive bank,
with a very competitive image.”  BTG plans to boost Panamericano’s assets to as much as 40
billion reais from 6.1 billion reais currently, Valor Economico
newspaper reported today, citing Jose Luiz Acar Pedro, the BTG
partner taking over as the lender’s chief executive officer.  Under Investigation  Panamericano has been under investigation since November by
Brazilian prosecutors and police for alleged fraud after the
central bank found accounting irregularities at the Sao Paulo-
based bank.  BTG, founded by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is taking on the
lender’s debt to cover losses as part of the deal to purchase 51
percent of the voting shares, according to Carlos Bueno, the
executive director of the deposit insurance fund, known as FGC.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Frederic de Mariz, in a note
before BTG’s acquisition, said minority shareholders may dispute
any potential sale price.  Brazilian securities regulators are investigating trading
in Panamericano shares after they jumped about 10 percent twice
in the six days prior to the bank’s sale to BTG. Daily volumes
averaged 5.5 million in the four days prior to the deal,
compared to a 2.8 million average for the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  