-- Panasonic Third-Quarter Profit Misses Analysts' Estimates as TV Sales Fall
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a
-- 2011-02-02T08:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/panasonic-third-quarter-net-income-misses-estimates-forecast-unchanged.html
  Panasonic Corp ., the world’s largest
maker of plasma televisions, reported profit that missed
analysts’ estimates after falling prices extended losses at the
main TV operations.  Net income rose 24 percent to 40 billion yen ($491 million)
in the third-quarter ended Dec. 31, the Osaka-based company said
in a statement today. That missed the 44.7 billion yen average
of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating
profit unexpectedly fell.  The company will probably fail to meet a goal of turning 
TVs profitable in the six months ending March 31, Chief 
Financial Officer Makoto Uenoyama said, citing a strong yen and
falling prices. Panasonic joined Samsung Electronics Co. and LG
Electronics Inc. in posting deteriorating results from their TV
divisions in the past quarter as competition intensified.  Third-quarter operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, declined 5.6 percent to
95.3 billion yen, missing the 105.5 billion yen average analyst
estimate. The company kept its full-year earnings forecasts
unchanged.  Panasonic rose 0.1 percent to close at 1,126 yen in Tokyo
trading before the results were announced, while Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.8 percent.  Panasonic said it plans to sell as much as 500 billion yen
of bonds to refinance short-term debt.  Third-quarter profit at the main audio-visual product
division fell 1 percent to 39.9 billion yen as sales of plasma
TVs dropped 13 percent. Income from the components division
tumbled 81 percent on lower demand for chips used in computers,
TVs and cameras.  TV Sales  The world’s No. 4 TV maker sold 6.38 million sets during
the quarter, up 28 percent from a year earlier. The company kept
unchanged its projection to sell 21 million flat-panel models
this fiscal year, including 1 million 3-D models.  Panasonic is shifting plasma-display panel facilities from
Japan to  Shanghai  as part of its effort to turn around the
money-losing TV operations. Yoshiiku Miyata, the head of
Panasonic’s TV business said in August TVs may turn profitable
in the six months to March 2011.  Profit at the home-appliance business rose 4 percent to
32.8 billion yen.  Sanyo Electric Co., bought by Panasonic last year,
yesterday said its net loss widened 25 percent to 9.2 billion
yen in the quarter because of falling prices of batteries and
cameras. Revenue slid 12 percent.  Panasonic Electric Works Co., which makes lighting systems,
electrical wiring fittings and electronic materials, said
earlier this week quarterly net income rose 69 percent to 11.7
billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 