-- Persian Gulf Oil Producers Dodge Mideast Unrest With $90 Crude
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-02-02T22:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/persian-gulf-oil-producers-dodge-mideast-unrest-with-90-crude.html
With oil above $90 a barrel, it’s
business as usual for Persian Gulf exporters regardless of the
uprisings that are rocking other Arab nations.  From the time former Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled his country and the mass demonstrations to oust
Egyptian leader  Hosni Mubarak  started on Jan. 25,  Saudi Arabia 
hosted former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and former British
Prime Minister  Tony Blair . Executives from Alcoa Inc., Boeing
Co. and UBS Global Asset Management were among those in the
Saudi capital for  a conference last month .  “It is different for Arab Gulf monarchies because they
have financial wealth, no strong opposition and no real threat
from within,” Khalid al-Dakhil, a Saudi sociologist and a
former political science professor at King Saud University in
Riyadh, said in a telephone interview.  While not immune to rising youth unemployment and higher
food prices, Gulf countries are spending petrodollars to create
jobs, grow business and attract investment in contrast to the
strained government resources in  Egypt , Jordan and Yemen, where
prime ministers and presidents have agreed to step down.  Saudi Arabia allocated $785 billion, more than four times
Egypt’s 2009 gross domestic product of $188 billion, through two
five-year spending plans between 2009 and 2014 to help create
five million jobs for nationals by 2030.  “Having all that money makes a huge difference,”  Charles
Dunbar , a professor of international relations at  Boston
University  and a former U.S Ambassador to Qatar and Yemen, said
in an interview. “Basically, I don’t see them getting out into
the streets. They just don’t have the same dreary lives.”  Kuwait, Qatar  Kuwait, holder of world’s sixth-largest oil reserves, plans
to increase spending by about 10 percent in the fiscal year
starting in April. Qatar, the world’s largest exporter of gas
cooled to a liquid for transport by ship, expects a  budget
surplus  of more than 9 billion riyals ($2.5 billion).  With the Saudi budget based on an average oil assumption of
$58 a barrel, the government may record another budget surplus
in 2011, according to Riyadh-based  Banque Saudi Fransi . The Gulf
is home to one fifth of the world’s oil.  “The Saudis have been the blueprint for reforms,” said
Raad Alkadiri, a director at consulting firm PFC Energy in  Washington . “They had the most serious economic and political
problems in the mid-1990s, when they had to deal with a period
of low oil prices. So they had to change.”  Concern over the unrest in North Africa spurred crude
prices. Brent oil for March delivery advanced to $101.74 this
week, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Cairo Clashes  Anti-government protesters clashed in Cairo yesterday with
supporters of Mubarak, 82, who said he will step down later this
year. Presidential rival  Mohamed ElBaradei , 68, called on the
army to restore peace.  Although Gulf monarchies haven’t seen their citizens on the
streets, they have expressed concern about the events unfolding
across the Middle East.  Saudi  King Abdullah  said Jan. 29 that “some infiltrators,
in the name of freedom of expression, have infiltrated into the
brotherly people of Egypt, to destabilize its security and
stability,” according to the Saudi Press Agency.  Kuwait’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Al-Sabah also
told the official  Kuwait  News Agency yesterday that Egypt’s
stability is necessary as its regional role is more urgent than
ever. President  Barack Obama  said an orderly transition in Egypt
“must be meaningful, must be peaceful, and it must begin now.”  Jordan, Yemen  Egypt’s unrest may spread to other countries, including
Algeria and Jordan, that have high unemployment and less leeway
to boost public spending because of high debt and budget
deficits, Standard & Poor’s said today.  Jordanian Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned this week and
King Abdullah asked Marouf Bakhit to form a new government after
weekly street protests. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh told
parliament yesterday that he won’t seek to extend his term when
it expires in 2013.  The Gulf states “have much more basic-level legitimacy,
even where there’s criticism of the government,” said Gerd Nonneman, Professor of Middle East politics at the Centre for
Gulf Studies, University of Exeter in southwest  England .  Higher oil prices benefit companies such as Saudi Basic
Industries Co., the world’s largest petrochemical exporter, as
access to discounted feedstock gives Middle East-based producers
a competitive advantage over rivals, said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank .  Little impact  After falling 6.4 percent on Jan. 29, the Saudi stock
market, the largest in the Middle East, has recouped most of the
losses with benchmark Tadawul  stock index  rising for a second
day yesterday.  Egypt is a not a key trading partner for the Gulf
Cooperation Council, said Paul Gamble, head of research at Jadwa
Investment Co. in  Riyadh . It accounted for 4 percent of Saudi
non-oil exports in 2009, he said.  “I doubt the events in Egypt will have much impact on
Saudi Arabia,” said Turki AlBallaa, general manager of the
 Saudi Investment Support Center , which helps companies set up in
the country. “International businesses won’t stop seeking
investments and opportunities here.”  In the Shiite areas of the Eastern Province of Saudi
Arabia, there hasn’t been a reaction to the events in North
Africa as they start to benefit from King Abdullah’s educational
programs and government spending.  “If they want to rise up, it will be on their own agenda,
not following the Egyptians,” said Ibrahim AlMugaiteeb,
president of  Human Rights First Society , a group based in Al
Khobar, Saudi Arabia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  