-- Polish Interest-Rate Increase Didn't Start Policy Cycle, Kazmierczak Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2011-02-02T15:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/polish-interest-rate-increase-didn-t-start-policy-cycle-kazmierczak-says.html
Polish policy makers shouldn’t rush
another interest rate increase after lifting borrowing costs
last month for the first time since June 2008 because it may
damp economic growth, central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw raised its seven-day  reference rate  to 3.75 percent on Jan. 19 from a record-low 3.5
percent. Policy makers previously kept borrowing costs unchanged
for 18 months, helping  Poland  avoid a recession in 2009 and
expand 3.8 percent last year.  Kazmierczak’s view is at odds with other policy makers,
including central bank Governor Marek Belka, who signaled policy
may be tightened further. Higher rates may fail to curb price
increases, which are driven by external forces including growing
oil costs, while potentially harming growth, Kazmierczak said.  “Drawing a vision of rate increases in the longer term is
ungrounded,” he said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “We
should avoid any nervous moves that could turn out to be more
harmful to economic growth than helpful in fighting inflation.”  The zloty weakened to 3.914 per euro at 3:30 p.m. in Warsaw
from 3.8992 per at noon, ending two days of gains after a 1.6
percent decline last week, the biggest weekly decline in two
months. The yield on the government’s five-year bond dropped to
5.56 percent from 5.65 percent yesterday.  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs in a
year’s time indicate Polish rates will increase by 1.17
percentage points by year-end, while two weeks ago they
predicted 1.33 percent.  Growth Concern  Central banks in east  Europe , the region hardest hit by the
global financial crisis, will raise  interest rates  less than
other emerging markets as policy makers signal greater concern
about growth, according to  Commerzbank AG , Capital Economics
Ltd. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Emerging Europe’s economies will expand 3.6 percent this
year, compared with 8.4 percent predicted for Asia’s developing
economies and 4.3 percent for Latin America, according to
International Monetary Fund’s January forecasts. Russia this
week unexpectedly kept its deposit rate unchanged, while money
market rates for Poland and  Hungary  show that investors have
scaled back bets on how far borrowing costs will rise.  ‘Limited Role’  Global rate setters are growing more concerned that
inflation is accelerating as the world economy gathers strength
and food and oil prices rise. While Hungary, Serbia and Poland
have raised borrowing costs, emerging Europe’s rates will rise
more slowly than in  Asia  and Latin America, which are growing
twice as fast, economists at the banks said.  “I am not ruling out more rate increases, but one has to
keep in mind a limited role of rate increases in fighting
inflation of a supply-side nature,” Kazmierczak said. “We
can’t just throw the baby out with the bathwater and harm
economic growth.”  Poland’s inflation rate, at 3.1 percent in December, has
been above the midpoint of the central bank’s tolerance rate for
three months. The bank will estimate this month that prices will
slow toward the 2.5 percent target in the second half of the
year, Kazmierczak said. The report is due to be published after
the bank’s March 1-2 rate meeting.  ‘One-Off’  Last month’s rate increase shouldn’t be interpreted as a
“one-off” adjustment of monetary policy, central bank Governor
Marek Belka said after the decision. Rate setters Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and  Andrzej Bratkowski , this week also
predicted policy will be gradually tightened.  Kazmierczak also sees threats for the zloty, following
concerns arising from Poland’s general government deficit,
estimated at about 8 percent of economic output last year.  “Uncertainty about the future of Polish fiscal policy may
cut foreign investors’ interest in Polish bonds even if
expectations for higher rates would remain,” Kazmierczak said.
“Higher CDS costs will limit the zloty’s potential to
appreciate.”  Poland’s 5-year credit-default swaps, which increase in
value as the perception of risk deteriorates, are near their
one-month low of 147 basis points.  Rate increases threaten economic growth, with real wages
having increased 0.8 percent last year, unemployment at an
eight-month high of 12.3 percent, a decline in corporate
borrowing and slowing growth of individual borrowing,
Kazmierczak said. Expansion will be less than 4 percent this
year after a 3.8 percent pace last year, Kazmierczak said  “This isn’t a situation that could be helped by another
rate increase,” Kazmierczak said. “We’d better take an
approach of reacting calmly and wait for inflation reports in
the next months to realistically evaluate to what extend factors
driving inflation are of temporary nature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  