-- ‘Devil’s Bargain’ Harms Savers, Pimco’s Gross Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-02-02T14:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/policy-makers-robbing-savers-with-low-real-yields-gross-says.html
Policy makers are robbing savers by
driving down real  interest rates  as they keep borrowing costs at
record lows in a “devil’s bargain,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said in a commentary.  “Central banks and policy makers are taking money from one
class of asset holders and giving it to another,” Gross wrote
in an investment outlook posted on the firm’s  website . “A low
or negative real interest rate for an ‘extended period of time’
is the most devilish of all policy tools. And the asset class
holder that it affects, or better yet, infects, is the small
saver and institutions such as insurance companies and pension
funds.”  The difference between the yield on 10-year Treasury notes
and the year-over-year  consumer price index , known as the real
yield, was 1.90 percent today, down from an average of 2.62
percent since 1991. It narrowed from a high of 5.95 percent in
August 2009 as the  Federal Reserve  has kept the benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent to spur
economic growth.  The drop in real 10-year interest rates has “arguably been
responsible” for gains in the stock market and 2 percent to 3
percent annual appreciation in bonds,  Newport Beach , California-
based Gross wrote. At the same time, it has lowered the returns
of small savers and investors in long-term fixed-income assets,
he wrote.  “The metaphorical devil’s bargain has its equivalent in
the credit markets these days,” Gross wrote. “ To put it
bluntly, they are robbing savers and taking money
surreptitiously from longer-term asset holders who are
incorrectly measuring future inflation,” he wrote.  Reducing Holdings  Gross said investors may want to reduce holdings of
Treasuries and U.K. gilts because of the unattractive returns
from real yields.  “Old-fashioned gilts and Treasury bonds may need to be
’exorcised’ from model portfolios and replaced with more
attractive alternatives both from a risk and a reward
standpoint,” he wrote.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and related
securities in Pimco’s Total Return Fund to 22 percent of assets
in December from 30 percent in November, according to a report
placed on the company’s website on Jan. 14. He raised holdings
of mortgage debt in December to 45 percent, the highest level
since July 2009, from 43 percent as prices of  government
securities  fell.  The real yield on 5-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities was minus 0.35 percent today, down from the 5-year
average of 1.29 percent.  Lost Its ‘Anchor’  The negative yield “is perhaps reflective of a market that
has lost its fundamental value anchor,” Gross wrote.  “A
century-long history of average 5-year real yields would point
out that bond investors in Aaa 5-year sovereign space have
demanded and received a real interest rate return of 1.5 percent
instead of today’s -0.1 percent. We are being shortchanged, in
other words, by 160 basis points from the get-go.”  The $239 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross posted
a 7.37 percent gain in the past year, beating 82 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month
performance is 0.18 percent, beating 43 percent of competitors.
Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  