-- Portugal’s Costs Drop at EU1.255 Billion Bill Auction
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2011-02-02T13:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/portugal-s-borrowing-costs-fall-at-1-26-billion-euro-treasury-bill-auction.html
  Portugal ’s borrowing costs dropped at
a sale of 1.255 billion euros ($1.73 billion) of six- and 12-
month Treasury bills, as investors bet governments are moving
closer to agreeing on a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  The 455 million euros of securities due in August were
issued at an average yield of 2.984 percent, the Treasury said
today. That compares with a yield of 3.69 percent at an auction
of equivalent debt on Jan. 5. The 800 million euros of bills due
in January 2012 were issued at an average yield of 3.71 percent.
That compares with a yield of 4.03 percent at a previous auction
on Jan. 19.  The debt agency, known as the IGCP, said Jan. 27 the total
indicative amount for the auctions was between 1 billion euros
and 1.25 billion euros. The six-month auction attracted bids for
4.8 times the amount offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio
of 2.6 in January. Bidders sought 2.6 times the amount offered
in the 12-month sale, compared with the previous bid-to-cover
ratio of 3.1.  The auction “went pretty well, as was expected,” with
borrowing costs dropping and demand remaining strong, said  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in  London . “In general there is more optimism in the market for
peripheral countries.”  The difference in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark government securities, has
narrowed since reaching a euro-era record of 484 basis points on
Nov. 11. The spread was 360 basis points at 1:35 p.m. in London.  Private Placements  European officials are nearing a consensus to enable the
euro rescue fund to buy distressed governments’ debt in private
placements, said four people familiar with the discussions.  Buying bonds directly instead of offering bailout loans, as
the emergency fund does now, may enable struggling countries to
retain access to markets and escape the stigma of dependence on
rescue financing, said the people.  Portugal has raised more than 4 billion euros so far this
year selling securities through auctions and private placements.
Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros worth of
bonds this year to finance its budget and redeem maturing debt
and also plans to sell a new bond through banks in the first
quarter, the IGCP said in December.  Portugal doesn’t need to tap financial assistance from the
EU or the IMF, Carlos Costa Pina, the nation’s secretary of
state for treasury and finance, said at the Bloomberg European
Debt Briefing conference hosted by Bloomberg Link in  New York  on
Jan. 25. The government aims to continue obtaining financing
through markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  