-- Pound Rallies to 3-Month High as Construction Data Boosts Rate-Rise Bets
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-02T17:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/pound-rises-before-report-that-may-show-construction-activity-recovered.html
The pound rallied to a three-month
high against the dollar after a report showed the U.K.
construction sector returned to growth, adding to speculation
the  Bank of England  will have room to raise interest rates.  Sterling appreciated against all but two of its 16 most
actively traded peers and two-year gilt yields climbed to the
highest level since June 2009. A gauge of building activity
based on a purchasing managers’ survey rose to 53.7 in January
from 49.1 the previous month, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said. That was
higher than the 49.5 estimate in a Bloomberg survey and above
50, which indicates an expansion.  “The market is still focused on rate-hike expectations so
a strong number will give some momentum to calls for higher
interest rates,” said Chris Walker, a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in  London . “That provides some upside.”  The pound advanced as much as 0.6 percent to $1.6230, the
strongest level since Nov. 5 and the third-straight day of
gains, before trading at $1.6169 at 5:13 p.m. in London.
Britain’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 85.21 pence per euro.  Market speculation has intensified that the Bank of England
will be forced to raise interest rates this year to quell
inflation that has exceeded its 2 percent limit for more than a
year, reaching an eight-month high of 3.7 percent in December.
Monetary Policy Committee member  Martin Weale  joined  Andrew Sentance  in voting for a rate increase at the group’s Jan. 13
meeting on concern that inflation may become entrenched.  Sterling Futures, Bonds  Short-sterling futures fell, pushing up the implied yield
on the contract expiring in December by nine basis points to
1.7 percent, the highest level since July. The rise in the
yield, which is used to gauge central bank rate expectations,
showed investors increased bets that monetary policy makers will
raise borrowing costs this year.  U.K. two-year government bonds fell for a third day, with
the yield on the 4.5 percent gilt due March 2013 rising 10 basis
points to 1.5 percent, the highest since June 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The security fell 0.225, or 2.25
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,617) face amount, to 106.15.  Ten-year yields rose six basis points to 3.76 percent.  “We’re quite positive on sterling because we think the BOE
is going to hike and that will provide support to the
currency,” said Thanos Papasavvas, the London-based head of
currency management at Investec Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $70 billion.  Inflation ‘Problem’  The money manager expects the central bank to raise its key
interest rate twice this year to 1 percent by the end of 2011
with the first increase likely to occur “some time in the
summer,” said Papasavvas. The brokerage does not make currency
forecasts though it is “overweight the pound,” he added.  “Inflation is going to be a problem as commodity prices
continue to go up,” said Papasavvas.  Oil traded near a 28-month high today, with the contract
for March delivery climbing as high as $91.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Crude touched $92.84 a barrel on
Jan. 31, the highest intraday price since Oct. 7, 2008.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, a market indicator of
investors’ inflation expectations derived from the yield gap
between nominal and index-linked bonds, rose two basis points to
3.23 percent, the highest level since April last year.  Calls for higher U.K. interest rates may be tempered by
government spending cuts, the largest since World War II, that
are aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit from an estimated 10
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March to
1.9 percent by 2015. The cuts, which include the loss of 330,000
public-sector jobs and reduced investment, show the government
is pursuing “excessive austerity,” Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said at a conference in Moscow today.  Slowing Growth  Central Bank Governor Mervyn King last week dismissed
accelerating inflation as temporary, saying the government’s
spending cuts and slowing economic growth would curb price
pressures. A Jan. 25 report showed the U.K. economy unexpectedly
shrank by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter.  The U.K.’s monetary policy makers will raise the main
interest rate by 25 basis points in the fourth quarter to 0.75
percent with no further action anticipated this year, according
to the median estimate of economists polled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  