-- Private Mortgage Modifications Were Double Obama Program in 2010
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-02-02T17:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/private-mortgage-modifications-were-double-obama-s-hamp-program-last-year.html
Mortgage servicers completed more
than twice as many loan modifications for troubled borrowers
under private programs last year than they did through the Obama
administration’s main plan to reduce foreclosures.  Loan servicers including  Bank of America Corp ., Wells Fargo
& Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. made 1.24 million modifications
through proprietary programs in 2010, according to a report
today from HOPE NOW, a coalition of more than three dozen
lenders. The government’s Home Affordable Modification Program,
or HAMP, had 512,712 permanent loan adjustments, the group said.  The Obama administration’s program has been criticized by
housing advocates, lawmakers and watchdog groups as it trails
its goal of helping 3 million to 4 million homeowners avoid
foreclosure. Borrowers are getting more loans modified through
private plans because the programs offer more generous terms and
have less stringent requirements than HAMP, said Faith Schwartz,
executive director of HOPE NOW in  Washington .  “Proprietary modifications can be more flexible,”
Schwartz said in a telephone interview. “You have to remember
that taxpayer dollars are at stake with HAMP.”  Private modifications can be offered to investor-owned
properties, require less documentation than the federal program
and can reduce payments below the federal minimum of 31 percent
of gross income, she said.  Of Wells Fargo’s 621,621 modified mortgages last year, 86
percent were done outside of HAMP, the San Francisco-based bank
said in a Jan. 31 statement. The company is the second-largest
U.S. mortgage servicer after Bank of America, according to
industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  Additional Programs  “Servicers have additional programs that address the vast
number of customers in need who are not eligible for, or who
likely will not qualify for, the federal government’s
programs,” Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said in an
e-mail today from Ellisville,  Missouri .  More than half of the people who started trial
modifications with the federal program had their loans canceled
and 20 percent of people with permanent modifications were at
least 60 days delinquent in their payments after one year, the
Treasury Department reported Jan. 31.  Schwartz said she didn’t have information on the rate of
proprietary loan modifications that re-defaulted.  A record 2.87 million properties received notices of
default, auction or seizure in 2010, according to RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based data service. That number may
jump 20 percent this year as unemployment remains high and banks
resume repossessions after a slowdown amid inquiries into
documentation practices, the company said last month.  HOPE NOW  is an alliance of 38 companies including mortgage
servicers, investors and insurers.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
the mortgage-finance companies under federal conservatorship,
are among the members.  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 