-- Raj Rajaratnam Seeks Information on Second McKinsey Tipper
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/rajaratnam-says-u-s-prosecuter-has-identified-second-ex-mckinsey-tipper.html
A lawyer for Raj Rajaratnam said
information about a second former partner at McKinsey & Co. who
allegedly leaked secret inside stock tips to the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder is “critical” to his defense.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam, who goes on trial Feb. 28 for
insider trading, filed papers in  Manhattan  federal court in
support of a subpoena served last month on McKinsey. The
subpoena, made public last week, seeks information about Anil Kumar and  Rajat Gupta , a former senior partner at the consulting
firm and an ex  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . director.  In yesterday’s filing,  John Dowd , a Rajaratnam lawyer, said
information sought about Kumar, who has pleaded guilty and is
cooperating with prosecutors, and “another former McKinsey
partner,” who isn’t named, is “critical” to the defense.  While Dowd doesn’t mention Gupta’s identity, he writes in a
portion of the brief about the second ex-McKinsey partner that
the document request is “relevant in light of the government’s
contention that the individual served as a ‘tipper,’ providing
inside information to Mr. Rajaratnam about a number of stocks
while employed at McKinsey.”  McKinsey, based in  New York , has objected to Rajaratnam’s
subpoena, saying it already turned over more than 16,000 pages
of documents after three earlier subpoenas. The firm also has
argued that some of the information is confidential.  “The case is what it is, and it has McKinsey written all
over it,” Dowd wrote in his court papers, noting that his
client is accused of trading “in the securities of eight
different McKinsey clients.”  ‘Beyond Reproach’    Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, whose office is prosecuting the case, declined to
comment. Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis ;  Jim McCarthy , a
Rajaratnam spokesman; and Yolande Daeninck, a spokeswoman for
McKinsey, also had no comment. Naftalis previously said Gupta’s
reputation is “beyond reproach.”  Gupta hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam, 53, is charged in what prosecutors have called
the biggest U.S. crackdown on insider trading by  hedge funds .
More than 20 people have been accused in the case, the first to
make extensive use of phone taps to detect Wall Street insider-
trading. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing.  Interviews, public records, lawsuits and regulatory filings
show a 13-year history of co-investing and business
collaboration between Rajaratnam and Gupta, the former worldwide
head of McKinsey. As of May, Rajaratnam had a stake in a fund
managed by New Silk Route NSR Partners LLC, co-founded by Gupta.  Berkshire Hathaway  Gupta was under scrutiny as of April in the U.S. probe of
Galleon, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.
Gupta is no longer on the board of New York-based Goldman Sachs.  Rajaratnam sought to acquire secret tips about Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s 2008 purchase of preferred shares in Goldman
Sachs, prosecutors said in court papers last year. Gupta was
suspected by U.S. investigators of tipping off Rajaratnam, a
person with knowledge of the inquiry said in April.  Dowd hasn’t publicly detailed Rajaratnam’s defense, and
it’s not clear why he wants information about the second
McKinsey ex-partner.  In his filing yesterday, Dowd said he’s learned that Kumar
and the second McKinsey partner ran a joint consulting business
out of McKinsey’s offices, using the firm’s e-mail system.  ‘Legitimate Business’  “Both individuals worked closely with Mr. Rajaratnam in
connection with legitimate business ventures between 2006 and
2009,” Dowd wrote, adding that the significance of this
information is spelled out in a sealed document.  “McKinsey, through Mr. Kumar and others, contracted with
Galleon to provide consulting services in 2008, a critical
portion of the time period at issue,” Dowd said.  In addition to wiretaps, prosecutors said they will present
evidence of Rajaratnam’s  insider trading  from Kumar and other
witnesses who are cooperating with them in exchange for
leniency.  Separately yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell ,
who is overseeing the case, ordered Galleon to turn over to
prosecutors documents detailing the compensation paid to
Rajaratnam and other Galleon employees.  The ruling increases the likelihood that jurors at the
trial will hear evidence about his pay, over Dowd’s objection.  “The evidence of Mr. Rajaratnam’s overall compensation
that the government intends to offer at trial goes miles beyond
the trading” in the 35 stocks now at the center of the case,
Dowd said.  The judge said prosecutors may further demand trading data
on 16 stocks, information regarding three other Galleon
employees who aren’t named in his ruling, and e-mails sent and
received by Rajaratnam and others.  Jury Questions  Also yesterday, Rajaratnam’s lawyers proposed questions for
Holwell to ask in jury selection, including, “How honest do you
think  Wall Street  executives are?”  The proposal asks about juror attitudes toward Wall Street
executives and technology company executives. Several questions
call for “yes” or “no” answers. Among them:  “Do you feel it more likely than not that, if accused of
impropriety, a Wall Street executive is probably guilty?”  “Do today’s Wall Street executives lack integrity?”  “Are today’s Wall Street executives greedy?”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 