-- Treasuries Drop for a Third Day on Supply, Prospects for Employment Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-02-02T22:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/treasuries-decline-for-third-day-on-supply-outlook-for-employment-growth.html
Treasuries fell for a third day as
the government said it will sell $72 billion of notes and bonds
next week and a private report indicated the economy is poised
to add jobs for a second straight month.  Ten-year note yields reached the highest level in almost
seven weeks after ADP Employer Services said jobs increased last
month more than forecast. The Labor Department will issue its
employment data on Feb. 4. Bonds gained in  Greece , Ireland and  Italy  as European leaders prepared a pledge to defend the euro.  “People are thinking that Friday’s payroll report may be
stronger than expected,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of
Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in  New York . “People
are protecting themselves and moving to the lower end of the
trading range. When the data improves or weakens, the payrolls
will follow.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields increased four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.48 percent at 5:03 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. They touched 3.50
percent, the highest level since Dec. 16’s 3.56 percent, which
was the most since May. The price of the 2.625 percent security
due in November 2020 dropped 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face
amount, to 92 30/32.  Thirty-year bond yields rose as much as four basis points
to 4.66 percent, the highest since April 27, before trading
little changed at 4.62 percent. Two-year yields climbed as much
as seven basis points to 0.67 percent, the highest since Jan. 7.  Treasury Auctions  The U.S. will auction $32 billion of 3-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds in
daily offerings that begin Feb. 8. The totals, which matched the
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 of the  Federal
Reserve ’s primary dealers, are the same as at the last refunding
in November.  The New York Fed named two firms  primary dealers  today, the
first additions since July 2009 to the network of broker-dealers
that act as counterparties to central-bank transactions. MF
Global Inc. and SG Americas Securities LLC were added to the
group, bringing the total number to 20, according to a statement
released by the New York Fed.  The euro touched the highest since November versus the
dollar before  Germany  ruled out allowing a bailout facility to
fund bond buybacks from debt-strapped governments. Bond-risk
premiums for Ireland, Greece and Italy narrowed for a third day
as investors bet  Europe  would succeed in boosting efforts to
battle its year-old sovereign-debt crisis. Leaders, who meet
Feb. 4, are seeking to keep markets at bay until a March
deadline to bridge differences.  ‘Gotten Better’  “The situation in Europe has gotten better,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in
New York, a primary dealer. “As soon as the importance of the
risks in Europe fall away a little bit, the natural inclination
is for yields to move higher.”  The gap between 10-year year yields in Germany and Greece
narrowed 0.28 percentage point to 7.55 percentage points, the
least since October. Irish 10-year yields shrank 0.24 percentage
point to 5.56 percentage points more than similar maturity
German debt, and Italian 10-year notes narrowed by 0.15
percentage point to 1.28 percentage points.  Data this week indicated the U.S. economic recovery is
starting to build momentum, with manufacturing unexpectedly
accelerating in January at the fastest pace since May 2004.  Treasuries fell yesterday as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index increased to 60.8 in January,
from 58.5 a month earlier, while the prices-paid component rose
to 81.5, the most since July 2008, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said yesterday. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Payrolls Report  The Labor Department will report Feb. 4 that U.S. payrolls
increased by 140,000 workers last month after a 103,000-job gain
in December, according to the median forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The data may also show the  unemployment rate  increased to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent.  “There’s a lack of buying on the back end because of the
inflation risk that we have, the commodity risk that we have,
the lower-dollar risk that we have,” said  John Spinello , chief
technical strategist in New York at primary dealer Jefferies
Group Inc. “It does not bode well for longer-dated
securities.”  The government should expand its domestic demand and offer
new U.S. securities including “ultra-long” bonds of as much as
100 years, the committee of bond dealers and investors that
advises the Treasury recommended.  Domestic Banks  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, known as the
TBAC, recommend the government develop securities that would
target domestic banks, pension funds, insurance companies and
individual investors, to reduce its dependence on foreign
holders. The “ultra-long” bonds proposed were defined as debt
with a maturity of 40-, 50-, or 100 years, according to comments
from one member as reported in the minutes of the meeting, which
the Treasury published today.  “The discussion of long maturities is a little baffling,”
said Amitabh Arora, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
primary dealer Citigroup Inc. “If they issued more 30-year
paper, that would suffice.”  As well as expanding the maturity of its debt offered, the
Treasury could benefit from adding securities such as floating
rate notes, products with embedded options, and interest-rate
derivatives, the TBAC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  