-- REC Profit Beats Estimates, Shares Rise Most Since May 2009 in Oslo
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2011-02-02T17:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/rec-profit-beats-estimates-shares-rise-in-oslo-most-since-september-2009.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a
Norwegian maker of solar energy components, said its fourth-
quarter results were “significantly” above market consensus on
one-time items and stronger-than-expected demand.  The company gained the most in more than 20 months after
announcing today preliminary sales of 4.9 billion kroner ($860
million).  This compares with the 4.04 billion-krone average of nine
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were 1.8 billion
kroner, including 300 million kroner in one-time items mainly
related to a cancellation fee on a wafer contract, beating a
1.27 billion-krone average estimate.  “The results were positively affected especially by a
stronger than expected market, enabling sales of accumulated
off-spec products at attractive prices,” the Oslo-based company
said. “Higher than expected FBR production and product quality
in REC Silicon, due to fewer than normal maintenance close-downs
and more stable operations. These extra volumes were sold in the  spot market  at attractive prices.”  The shares rose 14 percent, the most since May 19, 2009, in
Oslo trading to close at 22.05 kroner, the highest since Oct.
26.  Earnings before interest and taxes were 1.1 billion kroner,
according to the statement. Analysts’ estimated such earning at
593 million kroner, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “All in all, highly positive news from REC, both on the
results side and on the stability and smoothness of FBR
process,” Tomas Skeivys, an analyst at Terra Markets AS said in
an e-mail today.  REC said it will provide more details on the results and
outlook at its scheduled presentation of results on Feb. 9.  FBR, or Fluidized Bed Reactor technology, is a process to
produce solar grade polysilicon, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  