-- Three Decades With Egypt’s Military Keep U.S. in Loop
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-02-02T23:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/three-decades-of-missions-weapons-training-for-egypt-keep-u-s-in-loop.html
The open dialogue between the U.S.
and Egyptian militaries may be pivotal in the coming days and
weeks, as public unrest grows over President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
plan to stay in office until September elections.  Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, President  Barack Obama ’s top
military adviser, spoke today with his Egyptian counterpart for
a second time in the past week and urged him to ensure a
“return to calm.” U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  later
spoke to Defense Minister Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, their third
call since demonstrations escalated last week.  Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “expressed
his confidence in the Egyptian military’s ability to provide
for their country’s security, both internally and throughout
the Suez Canal area,” U.S. Navy Captain John Kirby said in an
e-mailed statement.  Mullen, who spoke with Egyptian armed forces Chief of
Staff Lieutenant General Sami Hafez Enan, and Gates made their
calls after new violence erupted, with Mubarak supporters
battling anti-regime protesters in Cairo. Gates spokesman Geoff Morrell didn’t provide details of the defense chiefs’
conversation.  The close ties between the two militaries stem from
decades of strong U.S. support that began with the 1979
Israeli-Egyptian peace agreement and has grown to $1.3 billion
in assistance that includes weapons sales, training and joint
missions.  Military ‘Calculations’  “The single most important thing we can do at the moment
is shaping the calculations of the military,” said Bruce Rutherford, an associate professor at Colgate University in
Hamilton,  New York , and author of a 2008 book, “Egypt After
Mubarak: Liberalism, Islam and Democracy in the Arab World.”  Obama himself was careful to compliment the Egyptian
military’s “professionalism and patriotism” in remarks at the
White House after Mubarak’s televised speech last night.  “I urge the military to continue its efforts to help
ensure that this time of change is peaceful,” he said.  The Pentagon has 625 personnel in Egypt, helping keep the
peace along the border with Israel and coordinating aid and
weapons sales from such companies as  General Dynamics Corp .,  Lockheed Martin Corp .,  Boeing Co . and  United Technologies Corp .  Locally Made Arms  Egypt assembles U.S.-designed Abrams tanks under contract
with  Falls Church , Virginia-based General Dynamics and the U.S.
Army. The Egyptian  Air Force  flies F-16s from Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, CH-47 Chinook transport
helicopters from Chicago-based Boeing and Black Hawk
helicopters made by Sikorsky Aircraft Corp., a division of
United Technologies of Hartford,  Connecticut .  More than 500 Egyptian military officers study each year
at U.S. institutes such as the Naval War College in Newport,  Rhode Island , and  National Defense University  at Fort McNair in
Washington.  Including the air force and other units, the Egyptian
military has 468,500 active duty personnel and 479,000 in the
reserves. U.S. assistance pays for about a third of  Egypt ’s
defense budget each year, Rutherford said.  Mubarak’s cabinet reshuffle this week put officers of the
army, the air force and the intelligence service in charge. In
addition to elevating Defense Minister Tantawi, an army field
marshal, to deputy prime minister, Mubarak on Jan. 31 named
intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman  as vice president and former
air force commander Ahmed Shafik as prime minister.  ‘Key Actors’  Their predecessors last week replaced Interior Ministry
police in the streets of Cairo with the more professional and
popular army.  “The Egyptian military is the only credible
institution,” said Scott Carpenter, director of a project at
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “It has the
faith of the people at the moment.”  Egypt’s current government doesn’t think “this is over at
all,” Carpenter said. “They are trying to win over the key
actors, the military.”  Mullen, who last visited Egypt a year ago, and Enan “have
a good working relationship,” saidKirby. Mullen has been
chairman of the Joint Chiefs since 2007. “It’s cordial and
they can be frank with each other.”  The Egyptian army, which has 340,000 members, announced
Jan. 31 that it wouldn’t use force against protesters demanding
Mubarak’s resignation, a signal to the president that they
wouldn’t turn on the demonstrators in his behalf, said Edward S. Walker, a former ambassador to Egypt and a scholar at the
Middle East Institute in  Washington .    Mohamed ElBaradei   A key element of any succession might be whether the army
has reached out to Mohamed ElBaradei, the former chief of the
United Nations atomic energy agency, who has been picked by the
opposition to lead negotiations with the government, analysts
said.  “The big issue is whether they’re comfortable with him
being involved in political life,” Rutherford said.  American military instructors provide training on the
ground in Egypt and in the U.S.  At the National Defense University in Washington, foreign
officers learn concepts such as the proper role of the military
in society, said David Lamm, deputy director of the
university’s  Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies .
The center keeps in contact with its 120 Egyptian graduates,
said Lamm, who in 1983, as a young captain, went to Egypt to
retrain an airborne brigade in 1983.  “This relationship with the U.S. may have had a
mitigating effect on the response of the Egyptian military,”
Lamm said.  Pressure Increasing  “The pressure will increasingly be on the military
leadership to determine whether they’re going to stay with
Mubarak or not,” said Robert Satloff, executive director of
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “The potential
for violence has gone way up in the next couple of days.”  “Keeping the lines of communication open through Mullen
and Gates makes all the sense in the world,” said Eric Edelman, a former undersecretary of Defense for policy under
Gates who is now with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments in Washington.  Mubarak and his military leaders consider the U.S.
military aid, called foreign military financing or FMF, as
“untouchable compensation for making peace with  Israel ,”
according to a Feb. 9, 2010, cable from the U.S. Embassy in
Cairo released on Jan. 28 by WikiLeaks, an organization that
publishes secret government and corporate documents online.  Mubarak, a former air force commander, has established
subsidized housing, schools and resorts for the military.
Still, the army has never wanted to be in a position of having
to confront the Egyptian people, Walker said.  “It’s antithetical to the belief of the officer corps,
who really are very loyal to Egypt,” Walker said. “But it’s
loyal to Egypt, not loyal to Mubarak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 