-- Reliance Fuel Exports Double to Highest in Five Months
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2011-02-02T11:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/reliance-fuel-exports-double-to-highest-in-five-months-update1-.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd .’s fuel
exports from the world’s largest refining complex doubled in
January to the highest in five months, driven by a surge in
diesel shipments.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, shipped
at least 1.2 million metric tons of fuels from Jamnagar in
January, up from about 630,000 tons in December, according to
data compiled from Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of
the world’s biggest shipbroker. That was the most since August.  Demand “is gaining not only in  Asia , but also in developed
countries in Europe and the U.S.,” said Jagdish Meghnani, an
oil and gas analyst at Alchemy Share & Stock Brokers in Mumbai,
who recommends buying Reliance’s stock. Manoj Warrier, a
spokesman for Reliance, didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The company, India’s biggest listed firm by market value,
tripled shipments of diesel from its two refineries in western  India  to at least 510,000 tons and increased gasoline exports at
least 15 percent to about 490,000 tons. Destinations included  Singapore ,  Africa ,  Europe  and the Middle East, according to
Clarkson. The Jamnagar facilities can process 1.24 million
barrels a day, or about 1.6 percent of global refining capacity,
according to Reliance’s  website .  Reliance rose 2.9 percent, the most since Dec. 10, to
921.30 rupees.    Morgan Stanley   Morgan Stanley chartered three ships during the month,
including two to transport fuel to Singapore from Jamnagar,
according to the data. All figures from  Clarkson  are for single-
voyage bookings and exclude long-term charters. Shipbrokers
aren’t compelled to report charters so data capture can vary
from month to month.  The U.S.-based bank’s ships carried 70,000 tons of gasoline
to Singapore from the port of Sikka near Reliance’s refining
complex, the data show. It also transported 35,000 tons of
gasoline to Singapore from Vadinar in western India, where Essar
Group runs a refinery.    Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company, hired the Pro Alliance to load 90,000 tons of diesel
from Sikka on Jan. 20, the data show.  Reliance’s fuel exports climbed 21 percent to 28.6 million
tons in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according to a
presentation to analysts posted on the company’s  website . Total
sales in the period climbed 17 percent to 48.5 million tons.  At least 2.1 million tons of fuel products left India’s
west coast for overseas in January, compared with 2.2 million
tons in the previous month. Indian refiners exported at least
515,000 tons of naphtha in January, down from 675,000 tons a
month earlier, the data show.  State-run refiners such as Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
largest, and Bharat Petroleum Corp. export mainly naphtha, used
to make chemicals and gasoline, because they sell most of their
other products in the domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  