-- Roche Reduces Peak Sales Forecast for Avastin by 20 Percent as Sales Fall
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-02-02T17:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/roche-second-half-net-income-falls-on-costs-to-cut-jobs-franc-s-strength.html
  Roche Holding AG  cut its peak sales
forecast for Avastin, the world’s best-selling cancer drug, by
about 20 percent as revenue fell in the wake of a regulatory
move to revoke approval in breast tumors.  The company now expects the medicine to generate about 7
billion Swiss francs ($7.49 billion) in annual sales, compared
with a previous forecast of as much as 9 billion francs, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in its full-year earnings report
today. Second-half net income missed analyst estimates.  Roche won U.S. approval of Avastin for breast cancer in
2008 under an accelerated review that required the company to
conduct trials proving the drug slows progression of the
disease. Tests failed to meet this goal and an advisory panel in
July recommended revoking marketing approval in  breast cancer .
Fourth-quarter revenue from the medicine dropped 5.1 percent to
1.46 billion Swiss francs.  “Fourth-quarter sales were quite a bit below expectations
and the main shortfall was Avastin,” said Karl-Heinz Koch, an
analyst at Helvea AG. “It seems to be flattening out and that’s
been the main value driver for Roche.”  Peak Sales  The company reduced its forecast because of the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration’s decision, though the strength of the
franc against other currencies also accounted for about 400
million to 500 million francs of the reduction in the sales
forecast, Pascal Soriot, Roche’s pharmaceutical unit head, said
on a conference call with analysts.  It could be between four and five years before Avastin
reaches its peak sales, Soriot said in an interview. The
forecast includes predicted sales in ovarian cancer. The company
has asked European regulators to approve the medicine for this
use and will seek U.S. approval “soon,” he said at a press
conference.  The company has experienced several drug development
setbacks this year, with a delay to the experimental T-DM1
breast cancer medicine and failures of Avastin in studies in
prostate, stomach and early colorectal cancer. Roche said today
it is stopping development of the taspoglutide diabetes
treatment and returning rights to the developer, Ipsen SA.  Second-half net income fell 30 percent to 3.2 billion
francs. Roche’s earnings are being hurt by the effect of health-
care reform in the U.S. and government spending cutbacks
elsewhere, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in a
meeting with journalists. “Results are solid despite an
increasingly challenging market environment,” he said in a
 statement .  Shares Fall  Roche fell 50 centimes, or 0.4 percent, to 144 francs at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich. The shares have
declined 18 percent in the past year including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 6.7 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  “When CEOs use the words ‘solid’ and ‘challenging market
environment’ in close proximity, one does not expect the results
that follow to be particularly good,”  Jack Scannell , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research note. “Such
was the case with Roche’s numbers.”  The company is also looking to offset the negative impact
of changes to health-care systems in the U.S. and  Europe . A
program to reduce expenses cost Roche 1.3 billion francs in
2010. The stronger franc reduced the value of revenue generated
in other currencies, while demand for the Tamiflu influenza drug
fell as concerns about swine flu receded.  Roche  said it expects  earnings per share excluding some
items to increase by high-single digits this year at constant
exchange rates. Sales are expected to grow at low single-digit
rates in local currencies, “in line with expected market
growth,” the company said. The outlook excludes Tamiflu, which
had a 73 percent drop in full-year revenue to 873 million
francs. Diagnostics sales will rise “significantly ahead of the
market,” Roche said.  Reform  Health-care reform will have stripped about 1 billion
francs from sales by the end of this year following a 532-
million franc impact in 2010. The U.S. government wants
drugmakers to increase discounts and rebates to programs that
provide medicines to the poor and elderly.  Pharmaceutical sales were 8.7 billion in the fourth
quarter, a 13 percent decline from a year earlier. Group sales
fell 10 percent to 11.4 billion francs.  Roche doesn’t report second-half earnings. Bloomberg
calculated the results by subtracting first-half profit from the
full-year number.  The company in November said it would cut 4,800 jobs to
generate savings of 1.8 billion francs in 2011 and about 2.4
billion a year from 2012. The cost-cutting program, called
Operational Excellence, was also expected to result in total
restructuring costs of about 2.7 billion francs through 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  