-- Roger Clemens Waives Right to Appeal on Lawyer Conflict in Federal Hearing
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-02T20:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/roger-clemens-waives-right-to-appeal-on-lawyer-conflict-in-federal-hearing.html
Ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens , accused of lying to Congress about steroid use, told a
federal judge he won’t challenge a possible conviction on
grounds involving his lawyers’ potential conflict of interest.  Clemens, responding to questions from U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  during a hearing today in Washington, indicated he
understood the ramifications of the potential conflict and
waived his right to contest it. By agreeing, Clemens signaled
that he wants to keep his current legal team.  “Are you willing to waive any potential conflict,” Walton
asked.  “Yes sir,” Clemens responded. “That is correct your
honor.”  U.S. prosecutors requested the hearing, saying Clemens’s
lead lawyer, Rusty Hardin, and his Houston-based law firm
previously did work on behalf of Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte .
That work may bar Hardin and his firm from cross-examining
Pettitte, a government witness, if the criminal case against
Clemens proceeds to trial, prosecutors said.  Hardin said during the 20-minute hearing that a lawyer from
another firm had been retained specifically to avoid any
conflicts that might arise from the previous work for Pettitte.  Obstruction, False Statements  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the Boston Rex Sox,  Toronto Blue Jays  and  Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career,
pleaded not guilty. He faces a $1.5 million fine and a maximum
of 30 years in prison if convicted on all charges. Jury
selection is scheduled to begin July 6.  In December 2007, Hardin and other members of his firm,  Rusty Hardin  & Associates, met separately with Clemens and
Pettitte to discuss a report to Congress on the use of
performance-enhancing drugs by Major League Baseball players,
prosecutors said.  The lawyers talked to Clemens and Pettitte about the
possibility that they would be named in the report as alleged
users of the drugs. The allegations of drug use were made by  Brian McNamee , a former trainer to both Clemens and Pettitte.  During today’s hearing, Walton first asked a series of
questions of Hardin about the Pettitte meeting and whether
Hardin gave Pettitte any legal advice.  ‘I’m Not Sure’  “I had an interview with him at which he relayed certain
information,” Hardin said. “I’m not sure I gave him advice.”  Walton then asked Hardin whether any of that information
from Pettitte was relayed to other members of Clemens’s defense
team. Hardin said Michael Attanasio of Cooley, Godward, Kronish
in  San Diego  was specifically retained in January 2010 to “deal
with this particular issue.”  The government said it had no problems with Clemens keeping
his legal team, but did ask Walton whether Hardin would be
allowed to challenge Pettitte’s testimony during closing
arguments.  “I don’t intend to be going after Andy Pettitte,” Hardin
said.  Attanasio would cross-examine Pettitte if he was called to
testify by prosecutors.  Walton said during the hearing that he wanted to alert the
parties to something that happened “a few months ago” while
the judge was visiting his hometown in Donora,  Pennsylvania .
Former Cincinnati Reds outfielder Ken Griffey Sr., who Walton
said he “played ball with,” came up to him and asked the judge
whether he was handling the Clemens case. Walton said he was and
that Griffey responded, “He’s a good guy.” Walton said he told
Griffey that he couldn’t talk about the case.  Prosecutor, Defense Agree  Walton asked whether either of the parties would object to
him continuing to preside over the case because of the incident.
Both Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Butler and the defense said
they were fine with it.  “Are we allowed to say ‘Amen’?” Hardin asked.  Clemens, in a Jan. 21 filing, asked Walton to dismiss the
charges, saying the indictment doesn’t explain how he allegedly
obstructed a congressional investigation in 2008 when he denied
using performance-enhancing drugs.  Walton has yet to rule on the motion to dismiss.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia    Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 