-- Ryan's Deficit-Cutting Proposals Too Ambitious Even for Fellow Republicans
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-02-02T17:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/ryan-s-deficit-cutting-proposals-too-ambitious-even-for-fellow-republicans.html
  Paul Ryan , the U.S. House budget
chief, rejected President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to tame  government spending  as not enough. As Ryan drafts a Republican
alternative, he’ll have to reject his own ideas as too much.  Ryan’s  “Roadmap for America’s Future,”  a long-term
proposal for dealing with the nation’s deficit that he
introduced long before taking the helm of the budget committee
last month, would cut deep into health programs for the elderly
and disabled -- the biggest drivers of federal spending -- and
partially privatize Social Security.  It would mean about $718 billion less, almost 6 percent,
for Medicare and Medicaid over the next nine years, according to
a  Bloomberg Government  study. And while newly empowered House
Republicans put shrinking the  U.S. debt  at the top of their
agenda and chose Ryan to lead on budget issues, his own panel
won’t produce a spending plan that mirrors his proposals.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, calls
Ryan’s roadmap a “bold vision of conservative reform,” while
also saying he doesn’t agree with all of it and that the outline
isn’t a budget plan.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
any cuts in entitlement programs such as Medicare and Social
Security must have bipartisan support. There “will be no
entitlement reform without the president’s embrace,” McConnell
said last month when asked by reporters about Ryan’s roadmap,
which would also reduce income taxes and give the wealthiest
Americans the most relief, according to another study.  Spending Vote Looms  Even a group of House Republicans pushing for deep budget
cuts steered clear of entitlement programs when they introduced
a plan to cut $2.5 trillion over the next decade.  House Republican leaders plan a vote the week of Feb. 14 to
cut non-security discretionary spending for the rest of the
fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. Party leaders made a campaign
pledge to cut this year’s spending by $100 billion to narrow a
deficit that may reach a record $1.5 trillion this year. They’ve
since scaled that back to about $60 billion, because the
government is almost halfway through the fiscal year.  Ryan, 41, will introduce legislation next week that sets
the overall amount of the reduction for this year, after which
various appropriations committees will propose specific cuts.
Ryan will unveil his fiscal 2012 budget in April.  ‘Spends Too Much’  Obama, who will propose his 2012 budget on Feb. 14, said in
his Jan. 25 State of the Union address he wants to start by
freezing non-security discretionary spending for five years. He
said the plan would save $400 billion over a decade. While
offering no specifics, he called for lowering Medicare and
Medicaid costs and finding a “bipartisan solution to strengthen
Social Security,” the pension program for retirees.  Ryan, delivering the Republican response, said the
administration’s “actions show they want a federal government
that controls too much, taxes too much and spends too much.”  The Wisconsin Republican hasn’t been afraid to touch
entitlement spending, long sacrosanct in U.S. politics.  His roadmap, which he introduced in 2008 and revised last
year, would cut funds for nursing homes by $92 billion, or 5
percent, and money for hospitals by $247 billion, or 2.5
percent, according to the Bloomberg analysis. The analysis was
based on data from Ryan’s plan, the nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office  and the government’s Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services.  Funds for doctors and other clinicians would fall by $83
billion, or 1.3 percent, from 2011 through 2019, the analysis
showed.  $11,000 Vouchers  For Medicare, new beneficiaries in 2021 would be put on a
voucher program providing a fixed sum each year they could use
to buy private coverage. Under the current system, the
government pays doctors and hospitals for the care they give
patients.  The Medicare voucher would average $11,000 for each
beneficiary and grow at a fixed rate. Ryan’s plan also would
gradually raise the age people become eligible for Medicare to
69 and a half from 65.  Spending on Medicaid, which benefits the poor and disabled,
would decline by 19 percent over nine years. Beneficiaries would
get a fixed payment for care, and annual increases would be
capped at about 2.7 percent.  ‘Include Entitlements’  “We have to pull our head out of the sand and realize that
if you’re going to solve long-term budget woes you are going to
have to include entitlements,” said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican and member of the Appropriations
Committee. “You can cut the National Endowment for the Arts and  Amtrak  all you want, but you’re not going to be able to balance
the budget until you get to the sacred cow of the
entitlements.”  Eighty-two percent of Americans are opposed to benefit cuts
to the Medicare health-insurance program for the elderly, even
though almost half say the budget shortfall is “dangerously out
of control,” a Bloomberg National Poll in December showed.  The public’s resistance to entitlement cuts explains the
Republican reluctance to get behind Ryan’s detailed proposal.
And the failure of both political parties to offer specific
plans to curb entitlement spending underlines how difficult it
will be to follow through on promises to rein in the deficit.  “In our two-year horizon of political life in  Washington ,
everyone is afraid to sign on to something that is actually
long-term thinking,” Kingston said.  Corporate Tax Cut  On the revenue side, Ryan’s roadmap would scrap tax
exemptions for employer-sponsored health benefits in favor of
individual tax credits, and let workers under age 55 steer part
of their Social Security taxes into private accounts. It would
keep the current Social Security system for people 55 and older.  He would eliminate income taxes on corporations,  capital
gains  and dividends, and retain all the Bush-era tax cuts, now
set to expire in 2012, which would exacerbate the deficit.  Those changes would cause  federal revenue to decline  as a
percentage of GDP, according to an  analysis by the Tax Policy
Center  in Washington. The analysis said Ryan’s plan would reduce
taxes for most people, with the largest cuts going to the
highest earners.  “He wants a tax system that will generate approximately 19
percent of GDP,” said  Joseph Rosenberg , a research associate at
the  Tax Policy Center  who did the analysis. “The plan he laid
out doesn’t come close enough to that level.”  Only 17 of 180 House Republicans signed on to Ryan’s
roadmap in 2010, an election year. Ryan has said it’s too early
to know whether his 2012 budget will include elements of his
plan, or if it will address spending on entitlements at all.  “What everybody seems to think these days is, ‘Well, gosh,
I’m the chairman now and I can just make my roadmap the budget
resolution,’” he said last month at the  National Press Club  in
Washington. “That’s not how it works.”  Ryan said he wrote his roadmap “to reach the consensus of
one person -- myself. I now have to write a budget resolution to
reach the consensus of at least 218 people, the majority of the
Republican caucus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  