-- Scene Last Night: Thain’s $170 Orchid, Martha Stewart’s Corsage
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-02T16:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/scene-last-night-john-thain-buys-170-orchid-martha-stewart-s-corsages.html
Gone are the days of the $35,000
commode.  John A. Thain, chairman and chief executive officer of  CIT
Group Inc ., got into trouble over the pricey antiques he bought
for his Merrill Lynch office. But last night at the  New York
Botanical Garden  Orchid Dinner, he bought a plant.  It was an orchid sweetly named Cattleya Pastoral Innocence,
which boasts large white flowers and a relatively small price
tag of $170.  Thain and his wife, Carmen, both board members of the New
York Botanical Garden, arrived at the venue, the Mandarin
Oriental Hotel, just after 7 p.m., as the sale and cocktail hour
got under way.  “They remind me of high-school corsages,” said  Martha Stewart  of her purchase, an orchid with pink blooms. The
domestic diva noted that her own orchid collection includes
plants grown from cuttings she acquired in the Himalayas.  Robert P. Morgenthau, CEO of NorthRoad Capital Management
LLC, snapped up a chocolate orchid. When he gives flowers to his
wife, he buys Diana tulips at Dahlia Flowers in Grand Central
Terminal, which he passes on his way home to Riverdale.  “They’re ivory and they’re my favorite,” Susan Morgenthau
said.  James Tomilson Hill III, vice chairman of Blackstone Group
LP, said he planned to give a white orchid to his wife today,
their wedding anniversary.  John M. Sullivan Jr., chairman of American Silk Mills
Corp., gives his wife peonies on the anniversary of the day they
started their relationship.  Yellow Roses  The president of the  Al Hirschfeld Foundation , Louise
Hirschfeld Cullman, took advantage of a reporter’s question to
tell her husband of almost two months, philanthropist  Lewis B.
Cullman , chairman emeritus of Chess in the Schools, that she
likes yellow roses.  Once the orchids sold out, it was time for dinner around
dramatic floral centerpieces created by various designers.  David
Scott Interiors  placed lady slipper orchids over a $70,000
sterling silver sculpture by Michele Oka Doner. (The napkins,
from Barney’s, were only $16 apiece.)  Little Tiffany & Co. boxes containing miniature
Phalaenopsis orchids greeted guests at the table designed by
Richard Lambertson. With John Truex, Lambertson has a spring
line of handbags hitting Tiffany stores on Feb. 14. The most
expensive item is a satchel in coral alligator for $17,500,
Truex said.  Right before the beef and potato gratin came out, the
president of the New York Botanical Garden, Gregory Long,
introduced the event chairmen, among them Mary Davidson, Nonie
Sullivan and Deborah Royce.  The event raised $600,000. The botanical garden’s orchid
show, which this year has a Broadway theme, opens March 5.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 