-- Scotia Sees Brazil Oil Deals as Asia Fuels Spree
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2011-02-03T18:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/scotia-waterous-sees-brazil-oil-deals-as-asia-fuels-30-billion-scramble.html
Scotia Waterous , the energy mergers
and acquisitions unit of  Canada ’s third-largest bank, said it
sees “sizeable” oil transactions in Brazil this year after
advising on $16 billion of Latin American deals in 2010.  “There’s definitely potential to see transactions for
several billion of dollars,” Randy Crath, managing director for
Latin American business at the  Bank of Nova Scotia  unit, said in
a Jan. 28 telephone interview. “Brazil would continue to be
very important for the next couple of years at least.”  BP Plc,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil producer, and China
Petrochemical Corp. are among companies interested in oil and
gas assets in Brazil, site of the Western Hemisphere’s largest
discovery in three decades. Crath, who worked on more than half
of the $30 billion of exploration and production deals in Latin
America last year, said he expects companies to seek partners to
help fund exploration or exit  Brazil  for strategic reasons.  “It has been a hot place, absolutely,” he said of Brazil,
where he lived 4 years. “The pre-salt in general and all the
excitement surrounding the discoveries and the development that
is going on there is attracting a lot of interest worldwide.”  Scotia last year  advised  China Petrochemical, known as
Sinopec, on its acquisition of a 40 percent stake in Repsol YPF
SA’s Brazilian unit for $7.1 billion and also on its purchase of
Occidental Petroleum Corp.’s Argentine subsidiary. Crath’s team
of 10 bankers also advised SK Energy Co. on its sale of three
oil blocks in Brazil to Maersk Oil for $2.4 billion.  ‘Good Relationship’  “We have developed a good relationship with several of the
national oil companies,” Crath said of the bank’s business in  China . “They get approached by every investment bank on the
planet.”    Argentina  may see more oil deals in 2011 after the Sinopec-
Occidental transaction and Bridas Corp.’s agreement to pay $7.06
billion to BP for the 60 percent it didn’t own in Pan American
Energy LLC, the banker said. “Both transactions received a lot
of attention and there is some optimism that you will see an
increase of activity there,” he said from Houston.  Sinopec and Sinochem Group, which last year agreed to pay
$3 billion to Statoil ASA for 40 percent of the Brazilian
offshore Peregrino field, will likely be active in Latin America
again this year, together with other Asian companies such as
Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore energy producer, and PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl,  Thailand ’s only listed oil and gas
explorer, he said. China National Petroleum Corp., or CNPC, and
Korea National Oil Corp. may also be involved in deals.  ‘Attractive’ Investments  “The Chinese companies are actively looking at
alternatives, they are looking globally and Latin America is an
attractive place for them to invest,” said Crath, 48, who lived
almost 14 years in the region. “I would expect to see Asian
transactions in Latin America during 2011,” he said.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the Brazilian  oil
company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , plans to sell a
minority stake in its Campos oil field. Batista said in
September that Cnooc and Sinopec were among companies likely to
bid for the assets. OGX, based in  Rio de Janeiro , said Dec. 6
that it is continuing talks this year on the sale.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil company, said
Aug. 19 it’s seeking to sell stakes in four blocks off Brazil’s
coast to raise cash for development. The stakes range from 20
percent of the BM-S-8 block to 82.5 percent of BM-ES-28.  The so-called pre-salt area hosts fields lying two miles
below the ocean surface and another two to four miles beneath
the seabed. The region holds at least 123 billion barrels of
oil, according to a study by Hernani Chaves, a professor at the
Rio de Janeiro State University who worked at Brazilian state-
run oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  for 35 years.  Reserve Estimates  The forecast, which the study puts at a 90 percent
probability, compares with the 50 billion-barrel estimate that
Brazil’s oil regulator uses in presentations.  Saudi Arabia ,
holder of the world’s largest proved reserves, has 265 billion
barrels, according to  BP Plc ’s 2010 Statistical Review.  In March, BP agreed to buy $7 billion of assets from Devon
Energy Corp. in the  Gulf of Mexico , Brazil and  Azerbaijan .
Michael Daly, BP’s executive vice president for exploration,
said Feb. 1 he expected the acquisition of offshore assets in
Brazil from Devon to be completed in the first half of the year.  Robust Year  Crath said he expects another “robust” year for deal-
making so long as oil prices trade within a range of $85 to $105
a barrel and the price doesn’t spike. Oil futures for March
delivery fell 43 cents to $90.43 a barrel at 1:15 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “What really plays havoc is when you have rapid increases
or rapid decreases in commodities prices because it’s difficult
to align sellers and buyers’ expectations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  