-- Senate Plans Test Vote on Republicans' Repeal of U.S. Health-Care Overhaul
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/senate-plans-test-vote-on-republicans-repeal-of-u-s-health-care-overhaul.html
The Senate will take a test vote as
early as today on Republicans’ bid to repeal the U.S. health-
care overhaul, President  Barack Obama ’s biggest domestic
achievement.  Even as Democrats who control the Senate expressed
confidence they can defeat the effort with procedural tactics,
Republicans said they will continue their drive to take apart
the law enacted last year. They want to compel votes that keep
Democrats on record favoring the overhaul, which eventually may
prove tough for those from Republican-leaning states.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
yesterday introduced the repeal, passed last month by the
Republican-controlled House, as an amendment to legislation to
reauthorize the  Federal Aviation Administration .  “It’s an opportunity to re-evaluate your vote, to listen
to your constituents who are desperately trying to get your
attention,” McConnell said. “You can say, perhaps this was a
mistake. We can do this better. Or you can continue to dismiss
the majority of people in this country as not knowing what
they’re talking about.”  Democratic leaders said they are glad to defend an overhaul
that expands prescription drug coverage for seniors, bars
insurers from dropping coverage for pre-existing conditions, and
includes other provisions attractive to the public. Republicans
have no real ideas for replacing the health law, said Senator
Chuck Schumer of  New York , the third-ranking Democratic leader.  Repeal ‘Good Things’  “What the other side is saying is just repeal, repeal the
good things,” Schumer said. “ And leave us with nothing.”  Leadership aides, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
the two sides were working toward a plan to have a procedural
vote today on the Republican repeal measure and a separate vote
on a proposal to eliminate a small business tax-filing provision
that was part of the overhaul and that both parties oppose.  McConnell said all 47 Senate Republicans will vote for the
repeal.  “We pledged to the American people that we would seek to
repeal the 2,700-page bill that seeks to restructure all of
American health care and put the decisions in  Washington ,”
McConnell said. “It’ll be clear who is for repeal and who
isn’t.”  The health-care law cleared Congress with no Republican
support last year when Democrats controlled the House and
Senate. It extends coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured
Americans, imposes new taxes on the highest wage-earners and on
medical-device makers and other health care industries, and
provides hundreds of billions of dollars in Medicare savings.  Certain Veto  Democrats control the Senate 53-47, a majority that
includes two independents who usually side with them, so
Republicans lack the votes needed to push through a repeal. Even
if they could, it would face a certain veto by Obama.  Lawmakers in both parties said public opinion is on their
side.  “Four out of five Americans want us to continue to move
forward on health care reform; mend it, but don’t end it,” said
Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat.
“If you’re going to change any provisions, fine, make it
better. But don’t repeal health care reform.”  Durbin said Republicans are “bowing to the Tea Party,
bowing to the most conservative members of the  Republican Party ,
to indicate that they got the message.”  ‘Deficit Buster’  Reid said the repeal is “not going anyplace,” and called
it “a deficit buster to say the least.”  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said on Jan. 6
that the House-passed repeal measure would raise the  budget
deficit  by $145 billion between 2012 and 2019 because it would
cancel tax increases and cost efficiencies in the law.  McConnell advanced his amendment a day after a federal
judge in  Florida  ruled the overhaul unconstitutional, saying
Congress exceeded its authority by requiring people to buy
insurance. The  Justice Department  said it will appeal the
decision.  A second proposed amendment to the FAA bill, by Democratic
Senator Debbie Stabenow of  Michigan , would accomplish a goal
that has bipartisan support. It would eliminate a provision in
the health-care law that forces businesses to file 1099 tax
forms for any vendor with whom they have at least $600 in
transactions.  The provision is intended to prevent vendors from
underreporting income and underpaying taxes. It would generate
$1.9 billion annually in taxes that would be used to help pay
the cost of the  overhaul .  Lost Revenue  Business groups have complained the rule is onerous. Even
though many lawmakers want to do away with it, the two parties
are split on how to make up the lost revenue.  Also yesterday, Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of  South
Carolina  and John Barrasso of  Wyoming  introduced legislation to
let states opt out of portions of the overhaul. They said
Republicans will work to attach that measure to legislation in
coming months.  Because most of the law doesn’t take effect immediately,
opponents have many opportunities to try to chip away at it,
said Senator Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee , the chamber’ss third-
ranking Republican.  “You won’t see it all in one day,” Alexander said. “We
have time to identify the steps that will meet our major
objective, which is to lower the cost of health care, so that
more Americans and more American businesses can afford it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  