-- Democrats in U.S. Senate Thwart Republican Bid to Repeal Health-Care Law
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/senate-democrats-defeat-republican-bid-to-repeal-health-law.html
Senate Democrats defeated a
Republican push to repeal the U.S. health-care overhaul in a
test of their continuing support for the law amid court
challenges and signs public support for it is eroding.  The Democratic-controlled Senate voted 51-47 yesterday
against the repeal effort in a party-line tally. The vote was on
a procedural motion that needed backing from 60 senators for the
repeal bid to proceed.  The House’s new Republican majority voted on Jan. 19 to
revoke the law, with three Democrats joining them.  The 2010 overhaul, which would expand health-insurance
coverage to another 32 million Americans, is President Barack Obama’s biggest domestic achievement. Republicans campaigned
against it in last year’s elections as an unwarranted expansion
of government and cite the issue as a major reason they won the
House majority and picked up six Senate seats.  Republican leaders vowed to continue bringing up measures
designed to dismantle the law, contending that over time they
can force the wall of Democratic support for it to crumble.  “We think this is just the beginning,” Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said after the vote. “We
will be going back at it in a variety of ways.”  The repeal was offered by McConnell as an amendment to a
bill to authorize funding for the  Federal Aviation
Administration .  Judge’s Ruling  Earlier this week, a federal judge in  Florida  ruled the
overhaul unconstitutional, saying Congress exceeded its
authority by requiring people to buy health insurance. The U.S.  Justice Department  said it will appeal the decision. One other
federal court has ruled against the law, while two have upheld
it.  Democrats said they are glad to defend a law that broadens
prescription drug coverage for seniors, bars insurers from
dropping patients with pre-existing conditions and helps curb
the soaring costs of care.  Republicans are only trying to “score political points”
and have no chance of upending the law, said Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and a chief
architect of the measure.  “There are not enough votes to defeat health-care reform -
- that is a well-known fact,” Baucus said.  Tax Reporting  Immediately before the vote, senators of both parties
agreed, 81-17, to remove one provision of the health law that
boosts tax-reporting rules for small businesses. The provision
requires the businesses to file a tax form with the  Internal
Revenue Service  for any vendor with whom they have at least $600
in transactions.  The tax requirement is intended to prevent vendors from
underreporting income and underpaying taxes. It is estimated to
generate $1.9 billion in taxes a year, which would be used to
help pay the cost of the health overhaul.  The amendment to kill the provision was offered by Senator
Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, and substitutes $40
billion in unspecified cuts to federal programs over a decade to
aid in financing the bill. It would leave Social Security,
defense and veterans’ programs untouched. The amendment is
similar to one offered earlier by Senator Michael Johanns, a
Nebraska Republican.  The Republican Senate minority was able to bring up the
repeal measure because of an agreement McConnell reached last
week with Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.
Republicans said they would curtail their use of delaying
tactics to block Democratic legislation if Reid gave them more
chances to offer amendments.  Coverage Requirement  McConnell declined to detail when and how Republicans will
proceed next in their bid to dismantle the health-care law. One
possible alternative to outright repeal is a measure introduced
yesterday that would let states opt out of some portions of the
law, including the requirement that Americans over 18 obtain
insurance coverage.  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the second-ranking Republican
leader, said his party is driven partly by concern that the
law’s supporters are wrong in saying it will cut the federal
deficit. He said such findings are based on “budget gimmicks
and deceptive accounting” built into the health measure when
Democrats drafted it.  No Alternatives  Democrats said Republicans are offering no clear
alternatives to the overhaul that was enacted after decades of
rising health-care costs and increasing numbers of uninsured.  “We cannot go back to a time when millions of American
families stayed up at night worrying about what would happen to
them and their families if they lost their jobs and their health
insurance,” said Senator  Patty Murray , a  Washington  Democrat.  When asked after the vote if Republicans will offer a
comprehensive plan of their own, McConnell made no commitment.  The health-care law cleared Congress with no Republican
support last year when Democrats controlled the House and
Senate. It imposes new taxes on the highest wage-earners and on
medical-device makers and other health care industries, and
provides hundreds of billions of dollars in Medicare savings.  Democrats now control the Senate 53-47, so Republicans lack
the votes to push through a repeal. Even if they could, it would
face a certain veto by Obama.  Poll Results  A Jan. 4-14 poll by the nonpartisan  Kaiser Family
Foundation  found that negative views about the law outstripped
positive ones by a larger margin than at any time since it was
enacted. The percentage with negative views of the law rose to
50 percent in January from 41 percent a month earlier. The poll
of 1,502 adults, with an error margin of plus or minus 3
percentage points, showed that 41 percent had positive views,
down from 42 percent a month earlier.  Kaiser said 47 percent of those surveyed wanted to keep the
health-care law as it is or expand it, while 43 percent favored
repealing it altogether or repealing and replacing it with a
Republican-sponsored plan.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , third-ranking
Democratic leader, said he’s confident public support will grow.  “As people see the benefits and the parade of horribles
fades away, the bill will become more and more popular,” he
said.  Still, future votes on the health law may create political
difficulties for Democrats from Republican-leaning states who
are up for re-election in 2012, said John Fortier, a
congressional scholar with the  American Enterprise Institute  in
Washington. Those senators include Claire McCaskill of  Missouri ,  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  and Jim Webb of Virginia.  “Some of these votes will put them in tough spots,”
Fortier said.  Shortly after yesterday’s vote, the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee  sent press releases spotlighting the repeal
fight to media outlets in states where potentially vulnerable
Democrats face Senate re-election next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  