-- Arrested Indian Ex-Telecoms Minister to Be Quizzed During Five-Day Custody
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2011-02-03T12:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/singh-colleague-s-arrest-may-fail-to-end-impasse-before-budget.html
Former Indian telecommunications
minister Andimuthu Raja can be held in custody for five days for
questioning, a court ordered today after his arrest over the
2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  argued in court that
Raja conspired to benefit companies including Unitech Ltd. and
the then Swan Telecom Ltd. by violating guidelines in the
license sale. The bureau was given five days to quiz Raja, his
personal secretary and the former top bureaucrat in the telecoms
ministry.  The bureau’s lawyer, Akhilesh, who uses only one name, said
in the New Delhi courtroom that Raja had caused a loss of 220
billion rupees ($4.8 billion) to the exchequer. Raja’s lawyer,
Ramesh Gupta, argued that the former minister should not be sent
to CBI custody as he was cooperating in the investigation.  India’s chief auditor said in November second-generation
airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” $2.7 billion when
they may have been worth at least 10 times more.  The opposition, led by the  Bharatiya Janata Party  has
stalled parliament, calling for a joint probe into the auction,
which Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has refused. The stalemate
disrupted the entire session that ended in December, making it
the least productive in at least 25 years. The houses are
scheduled to meet from Feb. 21 to pass the government’s budget.  Stake Premiums  Companies including Unitech, Tata Teleservices Ltd. Shyam
Telelink Ltd., now known as Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd., and
Swan Telecom, now known as Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt., sold stakes
in their wireless ventures at significant premiums to the price
they paid for spectrum, the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India said. Telenor ASA invested 61.2 billion rupees to buy a
67.25 percent stake in its venture with Unitech, the auditor
said.  “Arguments across the bar have no relevance and hence do
not warrant a comment,” Shahid Balwa, vice chairman of Etisalat
DB Telecom, said in an e-mail. “What matters is what is
contained in the application and the order of the court.”
Sharad Goswami, a spokesman for Unitech, didn’t immediately
comment when reached on his mobile phone.  Raja’s arrest strengthens the opposition’s case, said N.
Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in  New
Delhi . “They will stick to their demand for a joint
parliamentary committee probe,” he said. The arrests “bring
out the gravity of the situation with regard to corruption in
the country and the need for urgent action to check that.”  ‘Belated’ Arrest  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee has called a meeting of
political parties on Feb. 8 ahead of the budget session in an
effort to find a way out of the  parliamentary  stalemate.  The BJP said Raja’s arrest is “belated” and has
strengthened the demand for a cross-party probe into the
spectrum allocation irregularities.  “I wish the prime minister had acted three years ago so
that this huge loss to the public exchequer had not taken
place,” BJP leader Arun Jaitley said in New Delhi yesterday.  The impasse will continue unless the government softens its
opposition to an all-party investigation, said V.B. Singh, an
analyst at the  Centre for the Study of Developing Societies  in
New Delhi.  Raja’s arrest is the first in  India  of a former minister
while the government of which he was a part is still in power.  Raja resigned from Singh’s cabinet on Nov. 14, two days
before the Comptroller & Auditor General of India unveiled its
report on the 2008 sale of airwaves.  The ruling  Congress Party  said the arrest of Raja will not
affect Singh’s credibility. “Those who doubted the sincerity
and commitment to take action as per law should be silenced,”
said party spokesman Abhishek Singhvi.  Party Backing  Raja is a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party, a
key member of Singh’s ruling coalition. The DMK’s top policy
making body which met today in Chennai, the capital city of  Tamil Nadu , backed Raja by saying his “mere arrest” didn’t
make him guilty. Raja has denied wrongdoing.  “What happens to Raja is important for the future of how
policy gets made and the transparency with which these decisions
are taken,” said Kunal Bajaj, who heads Analysys Mason India
Pvt., a telecommunications strategy consultant.  Singh told party workers on Dec. 20 that he would punish
anyone found guilty of corruption.  In November, federal agents arrested eight executives at
the nation’s biggest life insurer, a brokerage and three state-
run banks in a housing-loan probe and detained organizers of the
Commonwealth Games for misuse of public funds. Last month, the
government fired Suresh Kalmadi as the chairman of the games’
Organizing Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  