-- South African Government Wants State-Owned Company to Own Coal Operations
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-02-02T12:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/south-african-government-wants-state-owned-company-to-own-coal-operations.html
  South Africa ’s government wants a
state-owned mining company to have coal interests to help ensure
power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. can secure supplies of the
fuel, Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said.  “Coal is a strategic asset,” Shabangu told the McCloskey
South African Coal Exports Conference in Cape Town today. “We
need to grow our economy, we need energy in general. It becomes
important for the state to play a role there. We are looking at
18 months” to clarify the role the mining company would play.  Eskom, which generates 95 percent of power in Africa’s
largest economy, has called on the government to develop a coal
export policy that will guarantee it sufficient, affordable
supplies as exports become more lucrative for producers.  BHP
Billiton Ltd .,  Xstrata Plc  and  Anglo American Plc  are among the
biggest coal producers in South  Africa , which generates about 93
percent of its electricity from the fuel.  “It is not the government’s intention to enter the
minefield of specifying all the processes and it is our fervent
hope that the industry will recognize the particular challenge
and work with us,” Shabangu said. “We reserve the right to
take corrective measures should the situation demand it. A
balance has to be found between pursuing the principles of free
market while taking into account the needs of the country.”  Eskom burned 123 million metric tons of coal in its last
fiscal year. Recent floods in  Australia  have bolstered demand
for South African coal, and pushed up international coal prices.  ‘Australian Misfortunes’  “Some will see an opportunity of making more money on the
back of the Australian misfortunes,” Shabangu said. “That
opportunity may very well be a serious threat to our supplies
for electricity generation. We will be monitoring the situation
closely because we will not allow a situation” that will harm
the economy.  Shabangu welcomed a Jan. 31 call by  BHP Billiton ’s South
African energy coal unit for bids to buy prospecting rights over
its undeveloped reserves, saying it would help bring new
investors into the industry.  South Africa is the world’s seventh biggest coal producer
and the fifth biggest exporter of the fuel, government data
shows. In 2009, the country produced 249 million tons of thermal
coal, 74 percent of which was consumed locally, and had about 30
billion tons of reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 