-- Spain Will `Never' Need EU Bailout, Savings Banks Are Safe, Campa Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 2011-02-02T16:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/spain-will-never-need-eu-bailout-savings-banks-are-safe-campa-says.html
  Spain  will never need to tap a
European Union bailout fund and will succeed in cutting the
euro-region’s third largest budget gap and shoring up its
savings banks, Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said.  “We’re fully convinced that we’ll never need” an EU
rescue, he said in an interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” Campa spoke after Finance
Minister Elena Salgado said earlier today that Spain didn’t need
aid “at the moment.”  Salgado and Campa have regularly ruled out Spain seeking
help from the EU or the  International Monetary Fund , even as the
nation’s borrowing costs surged after Ireland sought a bailout.
The gap between Spanish and German 10-year bonds narrowed today
to the least since Nov. 1, before the Irish rescue.  The yield spread fell 15 basis points to 184 basis points,
having earlier contracted to as narrow as 180 basis points. That
compares with a euro-era high of 298 basis points on Nov. 30 and
an average of 15 basis points in the first decade of monetary
union. Spain, whose debt amounted last year to 64 percent of
economic output, sells bonds maturing in 2013 and 2016 tomorrow.  “For the first time in three years, I’m starting to see
the light at the end of the tunnel for our country,”  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , told a
news conference in Madrid today.  Deficit  Spain will make good on its pledge to get its deficit down
to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year and its savings
banks, or cajas, will fare well in a new round of stress tests
meant to expose any weakness in capital levels, Campa said.  “We’re willing to make them as tough as necessary,” he
said of the proposed exams. “The most important thing is that
they are credible.” While cajas have an eight-month deadline to
raise capital levels, they may seek aid from a state-rescue fund
at any time before then should they need to, Campa added.  Salgado set new  capital requirements  for lenders on Jan. 24
and gave them until the end of September to achieve them. The
additional capital won’t be more than 20 billion euros ($27.6
billion) and “all or part” would come from financial markets,
Salgado said.  Campa said at an investors conference in  London  today that
estimate is “tentative.” Asked about the possibility of the
state taking on risks linked to the savings banks to encourage
private investment, he said the government isn’t “very keen on
risk transfers.”  “It’s very, very attractive for private investors to
transfer the risk to the social investor, that’s always welcome
by everybody but the essence of private investment is to assume
risk for reward,” he said. Private investors should bear “both
the risk and the reward,” Campa told the conference.  Merkel Visit  Salgado, asked whether German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
would propose that Spain seek an IMF credit line when she visits
Madrid tomorrow, said a   credit line  is beyond all logic at the
moment” in an interview on  Onda Cero  radio in  Madrid  today.  “We are financing ourselves well, our debt issues are
always getting excellent coverage ratios, our public debt to
gross domestic product is limited and our spreads have been
falling in recent weeks,” she said in the interview.  Merkel visits Spain a day before a summit in Brussels at
which leaders may discuss changes to the European Financial
Stability Facility, the rescue mechanism that was created after
the Greek bailout in May and tapped by Ireland in November.  European officials are nearing a consensus to enable the
EFSF to buy distressed government debt in private placements,
while divisions fester over possible acquisitions of outstanding
bonds, four people familiar with the discussions said.  “We’d like to support any ideas that come up with a
stronger euro, with more European integration and stronger
commitment to euro-area stability,” Campa said when asked about
expanding the fund’s powers. “But in no way is this something
we are viewing as specific for Spain to use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  