-- Stiglitz Says `Disastrous' Austerity Plans in Europe Risk Growth Slowdown
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2011-02-02T14:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/stiglitz-says-disastrous-austerity-plans-in-europe-risk-growth-slowdown.html
Many European countries are pursuing
“excessive austerity,” risking a marked slowdown in economic
growth, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said.  “There’s this disastrous policy that even in the countries
that don’t need to have austerity,” such as the U.K., they
“are going for much more excessive austerity than they need,”
he said at an investor conference in Moscow today. “We are
already seeing around Europe the consequences of this austerity.
The clear implication is that growth will be slower.”  European governments are stepping up efforts to narrow
budget deficits after the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
threatened to trigger defaults and undermine the euro. Leaders
are considering boosting the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion)
rescue fund and adopting more stringent deficit rules to avoid
the future turmoil after rescues of Greece and Ireland.  While both those nations had “no choice” but to tighten
fiscal policy, measures adopted by some other countries such as
the U.K. aren’t justified, Stiglitz said. Britain, where the
economy contracted in the fourth quarter, is already seeing the
fallout, he said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is implementing
the largest fiscal squeeze since World War II to tackle the
U.K.’s record deficit. The economy unexpectedly shrank 0.5
percent in the final three months of 2010 as the coldest
December in a century hampered services and retailing, a report
showed on Jan. 25.  ‘Marked’ Slowdown  “Whether it goes to double dip isn’t clear, but that it
will be slower is very clear,” Stiglitz said. “We’ve gone
through this experiment over and over again of what will be the
consequences of austerity, and it is a marked economic
slowdown.”  Global inflation pressures from soaring food and commodity
prices will also weigh on the economic recovery, according to
Stiglitz. European economies will suffer as governments curb
spending to narrow budget deficits and central banks rush to
raise  interest rates , he said.  “In  Europe  it’s going to play out worse because the
budget-deficits problems are worse and the  European Central Bank 
is much more committed to fighting inflation,” Stiglitz said.
“The U.S. is a little bit more balanced in monetary policy and
so they will be more willing to tolerate inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  