-- Wind-Whipped Snow Piles Up in Chicago, Stranding Hundreds of Cars, Buses
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-02-02T20:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/storm-brings-snow-freezing-rain-to-cancel-flights-trains-school-in-u-s-.html
A winter  storm  that stretched from
the Midwest to  Maine , grounding thousands of flights, blanketed
Chicago with its third-largest snowfall on record as 70-mph
winds off Lake  Michigan  closed Lake Shore Drive and stranded
hundreds of cars and buses.  The storm also glazed  New York  City streets with ice as it
shut schools and curtailed rail services across the U.S.  “Two-thirds of the country was affected by the storm,”
said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather Underground Inc. in Ann
Arbor, Michigan. “As far as Chicago goes, they have never had
this amount of snow with this much wind.”  The bulk of the storm has moved out of the upper Midwest
and into  Canada , he said. Heavy snow is expected for the
mountains of  New Hampshire  and Maine, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Meanwhile, a hard freeze warning was posted for much of
eastern Texas and southwestern  Louisiana . The Electricity
Reliability Council of Texas, which operates most of the state’s
grid, ordered rotating blackouts for the third time in 22 years
to help power companies cope with the cold.  Laura Furgione, deputy director of the National Weather
Service, said in a conference call of federal emergency
officials that the storm was one for the record books.  “There are 122 weather offices and over 50 had warnings on
this event; this was historic in that nature alone,” she said.
“It was the third-biggest snow storm ever in  Chicago .”  Blowing Snow  Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport reported 20.2 inches
of snow from the storm, short of the record 23 inches that fell
Jan. 26 to Jan. 27, 1967.  Winds were so strong that blizzard warnings were posted for
Chicago until 3 p.m. local time although the snow had stopped,
Furgione said.  Gusts as high as 70 mph (113 kph) along with snow falling
at a rate of 2 inches (5 centimeters) per hour made Lake Shore
Drive impassable, according to a city statement. The fire and
sanitation departments had to remove hundreds of people from
their cars and many other motorists left their vehicles and
started walking, the city said.  Other city streets were clogged with snow, and Metra,
Chicago’s commuter rail system, shut down five lines.    Texas  Governor Rick Perry urged residents to conserve power
as temperatures plunged. The Dallas-Fort Worth area had a low of
14 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 10 Celsius) yesterday, 22 degrees
below normal, according to the National Weather Service.  Texas won’t see much relief from the cold until the
weekend, Masters said.  “We’re calling for 58 degrees in  Dallas  for the Super
Bowl” on Feb. 6, said Frank Strait, a meteorologist at
AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Storm Damage  In Ohio, 122,536 customers were without power because of
storm damage, according to American Electric Power  Ohio ’s
website. At least 24,000 more were without power in
Pennsylvania, according to PPL Electric Utilities, a subsidiary
of PPL Corp. There were at least 17,000 outages in Illinois,
according to Ameren Illinois.  A freezing rain advisory for New York expired at 9 a.m. and
rising temperatures changed the ice to rain over much of the
area, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist at  Hometown Forecast
Services  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “What has been an icy situation for New York is just
becoming plain rain,” Carolan said. “It will be fairly mild,
the city should be up to 42 today.”  Air Travel    United Continental Holdings Inc .,  Delta Air Lines Inc .,  AMR
Corp .’s American Airlines and other U.S. carriers canceled 6,436
flights as of 11:30 a.m. New York time. Yesterday, 6,709 flights
out of a scheduled 31,000 in the U.S. were scrubbed.  Most airlines at O’Hare, which is a hub for United and
American, had “limited or no flight operations today,” the
 Chicago Aviation Department  said. O’Hare is the second-busiest
U.S. airport behind Atlanta, and handled 64 million passengers
in 2009.  FlightAware, a Houston-based tracking system, said 403
flights have been canceled for tomorrow.  Amtrak  canceled some trains out of Chicago. Schools in
Detroit and Chicago were shut today, and General Motors Co.,
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC closed 22 assembly plants
because of the storm.  Hog futures fell for a second day on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange on speculation that the snowstorms will delay livestock
shipments, boosting pork supplies as animals spend more time
eating corn and gaining weight. Wheat futures rose the most in a
week amid concern that cold snap in the Great Plains will damage
winter crops now in dormancy.  After the storm dissipates, arctic air is expected to drop
down into the central part of the country and may threaten
cities as far south as Houston with freezing rain by the end of
the week, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  