-- Sun-Like Star With Six Planets Is Found 2,000 Light-Years Away
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-02-02T20:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/sun-like-star-with-six-planets-is-found-2-000-light-years-away.html
Astronomers found a sun-like star
2,000 light-years away, orbited by six  planets  that are among
1,235 located by scientists using the  Kepler  space telescope.  The Kepler mission is meant to find Earth-like planets in
places that aren’t too hot or too cold for life to exist, and to
study other planetary systems. Finding the 6-planet solar system
may help researchers understand how our own solar system formed,
according to a report released today by the  journal Nature .  Few stars have been found with more than one observable
 orbiting planet , according to the report. Until scientists can
look at more planetary systems, it is impossible to know whether
ours is unusual, said  Eric Ford , an associate professor of
astronomy at the University of  Florida  in Gainesville and one of
the study’s authors. The planets described in the report have
two to 13 times the Earth’s mass.  “We have a very detailed knowledge of our own system, but
we’re limited because it’s only one example,”  Ford  said in a
telephone interview. “This solar system could be an oddball.
Are we run-of-the mill or are we rare?”  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or  NASA ,
said in a separate announcement today that Kepler had identified
1,235 planets, about 68 of which are Earth-sized, and about 54
of which are in the habitable zone, which isn’t too hot or too
cold for life. Five planets are both Earth-sized and in the
habitable zone.  ‘Fraction of the Sky’  “The fact that we’ve found so many planet candidates in
such a tiny fraction of the sky suggests there are countless
planets orbiting stars like our sun in our galaxy,” said
 William Borucki  of NASA’s Ames Research Center in Moffett Field,  California , in a statement. “Our results indicate there must be
millions of planets orbiting the stars that surround our sun.”  All of the detected entities in the six-planet system orbit
in about the same plane, the report said. So do the planets in
our solar system, Ford said. That suggests that  planets form  in
a  disk of gas and dust  that circles a star, and keep the pattern
of the initial disk, he said.  All six of the planets discovered have short orbits. The
five inner planets circle their star in time periods ranging
from 10 to 47 days, and the sixth planet takes 118 days,
according to the report.  Mercury , the smallest and innermost solar planet, orbits
the sun in about 88 days, and has about 6 percent of  Earth’s
mass.   Because scientists find planets by seeing their shadows
pass in front of stars, it’s easier to find planets that are
close to their star, Ford said. The Kepler-11 system may have
more planets, he said.  “We’re just getting started, but this bodes well for the
possibility that there are several planets that are further
out,” Ford said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 