-- Swiss Stocks Decline as Roche Earnings Miss Estimates; Lonza Shares Gain
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2011-02-02T15:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/swiss-stocks-decline-as-roche-earnings-miss-estimates-lonza-shares-gain.html
Swiss stocks dropped, sending the  Swiss Market Index  lower for the fourth time in five days, as  Roche Holding AG ’s earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Roche, the cancer-drug maker that accounts for 13 percent
of the SMI’s weighting, dropped 1.5 percent. Swiss Reinsurance
Co. Ltd. fell 2.3 percent as Barclays Capital rated the stock
“underweight.”  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
slid 0.3 percent to 6,534.55 at 4:48 p.m. in Zurich. Stocks have
fluctuated for the past week amid concern that political turmoil
in Egypt would spread, threatening the global economic recovery.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also declined 0.3 percent
today.  “I do believe we are ready for a correction on equities,”
said Thomas Steinemann, chief strategist at Vontobel AG in
Zurich. “It’s almost 80 percent if you ask the crowd if the
market’s going up.”    Egypt ’s Mubarak sought to regain control of Cairo’s streets
hours after protesters rejected his promise to stand down later
this year as unrest in the region spread to Yemen.  The Egyptian army said protesters should return to their
homes, in a statement by a military spokesman on state
television. It came hours after U.S. President  Barack Obama  told
Mubarak that transition to democracy must “begin now.”
Supporters of the president rallied in central Cairo and there
were clashes with protesters.  Oil Price  Oil traded above $102 a barrel in  London  as the protests
continued, even as Suez Canal officials said traffic is moving
normally along the waterway which carries more than 2.2 million
barrels of oil a day.  Brent Crude  for March 11 delivery has
rallied 6.9 percent since Jan. 25.  Stocks declined even after a report said companies in the
U.S. added more workers than forecast to payrolls in January.
Employment increased by 187,000 last month after a revised
247,000 gain in December that was less than initially estimated,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The median
estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for a 140,000 gain
last month.  European leaders are preparing a pledge to stamp out the
debt crisis and defend the euro, seeking to keep markets at bay
until a late-March deadline to bridge differences over budget
rules, rescue-loan rates and buybacks.    Germany , the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is making its
assent to the expanded rescue effort conditional on tougher
controls of countries’ finances, say four officials involved in
the talks who declined to be named because the deliberations
aren’t public.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  speaks at a monthly news
conference tomorrow afternoon after the central bank announces  interest rates .  Sales Forecast  Roche declined 1.5 percent to 142.4 Swiss francs. Second-
half net income fell 30 percent to 3.2 billion francs ($3.4
billion) from 4.59 billion francs, the company said today.
Analysts predicted profit of 3.78 billion francs, according to
the average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg over the
past month.  Roche reduced its peak sales forecast for Avastin, the
world’s best-selling cancer drug, by about 20 percent as revenue
fell following a regulatory move to revoke the drug’s approval
to treat breast tumors. The company now predicts that Avastin
will generate about 7 billion francs in annual sales, compared
with a previous projection of as much as 9 billion francs.  No Upside  Swiss Re slid 2.3 percent to 53.7 francs, erasing
yesterday’s gains. We “see no material upside from the current
stock price,” said  Barclays Capital  in a note to clients. “We
believe fundamental questions remain on the company’s future
strategic direction, particularly around its Admin Re
business,” the analysts said.  Lonza AG jumped 2.8 percent to 76.85 francs after UBS AG
raised its rating on the shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  Bank Sarasin & Cie AG surged 5.1 percent to 46.2 francs
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares.
Goldman added Basel, Switzerland-based Sarasin, which has 6
billion francs ($6.4 billion) under management, to its pan-
Europe “conviction buy” list.  Goldman raised its price estimate for the bank to 61 francs
from 51 francs and predicted “strong volume growth thanks to
inflows from emerging markets and little exposure to ‘old money’
from European offshore banking.” The shares earlier rallied as
much as 7.6 percent.  Sarasin will add to its 100 staff in Geneva to cater to
French, German, Dutch and Belgian clients,  L’Agefi  reported,
citing a presentation by Eric Sarasin, head of the private
banking division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 