-- U.K. Construction Industry Returns to Growth in Jaunary, CIPS Survey Shows
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-02T11:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-k-construction-industry-returns-to-growth-in-jaunary-cips-survey-shows.html
U.K. construction unexpectedly
returned to growth last month as the industry rebounded from the
coldest December in a century and orders increased “modestly,”
a report showed.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers rose to 53.7 from 49.1 the previous month,
Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  said today in an e-mailed report in London. The
median forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a reading of 49.5. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Construction shrank for the first time in 10 months in
December as cold weather hampered activity. That helped cause
the economy to unexpectedly contract in the fourth quarter,
indicating Britain’s recovery faded even before the government
steps up its budget squeeze.  Today’s data “boosts hopes that the construction sector
can return to growth in the first quarter of 2011 after
contracting markedly,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in London, said in an e-mailed note. Still, it
“appears to be facing an increasingly challenging environment.
Construction activity will be hit appreciably by the coalition
government’s extended pruning of public spending.”  The pound strengthened against the dollar after the report,
rising for a third day. It gained as much as 0.6 percent to
$1.6230, the highest since Nov. 5, and was at $1.6211 as of
11:09 a.m. in  London   Input Costs  New business at construction companies increased
“modestly” in January, while employment fell for a seventh
month, the report showed. Input costs faced by builders rose at
the fastest pace since May.  Construction “seems to have bounced back, suggesting it
was the widespread chaos caused by the snow that had such an
impact and hampered growth in December,” CIPS Chief Executive
Officer  David Noble  said in the report. “It is hard to tell
what 2011 holds for the sector. Even though confidence about
future activity has risen, it is still weak.”  U.K. manufacturing grew at a record pace in January on
domestic and export demand, Markit said in a report yesterday.
Another report from  Nationwide Building Society  showed that  house prices  fell in January, while the  Bank of England  said
mortgage approvals declined in December to the lowest since
March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  