-- U.S. Treasury to Sell $72 Billion in Long-Term Debt
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2011-02-02T14:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-s-treasury-to-sell-72-billion-in-long-term-debt-next-week.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department today
said it would keep its long-term borrowing at steady levels and
warned that the federal debt limit could be reached as soon as
April 5.  The Treasury plans to sell $72 billion in its quarterly
sales of long-term debt next week, in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of bond dealers. The
department will auction $32 billion in three-year notes on Feb.
8, $24 billion in 10-year notes Feb. 9 and $16 billion in 30-
year bonds Feb. 10.  Today’s announcement also updated the department’s forecast
for when the debt will collide with the $14.29 trillion limit if
Congress does not take action. The department now expects the
debt ceiling to be reached between April 5 and May 31, compared
range of March 31 to May 16 it predicted early last month.  “These estimates are subject to change,” said  Mary
Miller , the department’s assistant secretary for financial
markets, in a statement. She said the “modest” change since
January reflects higher projected receipts and lower projected
payments to government trust funds, and she said the Treasury
would provide another update in the first week of March.  Republican lawmakers are stepping up calls for budget cuts
as they debate how and when to raise the debt limit. Meanwhile,
the Treasury has adjusted its borrowing calendar to manage $1
trillion-plus budget deficits.  Note, Bond Sales  In today’s announcement, Miller said the Treasury planned
to keep its note and bond sales at “stable” levels in coming
months. The Treasury increased the size of its coupon auctions
from May through November last year and has kept them steady
since.  The tax legislation passed in December has created an
additional financing need that the Treasury will address by
increasing the size of its bill auctions, Miller said. The
department also sells Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities,
known as TIPS.  The U.S. government has racked up more than $1 trillion in
debt for the past two years. Bond dealers predicted deficits of
$1.363 trillion in fiscal 2011, $1.107 trillion in 2012 and $932
billion in 2013, according to a survey provided to the Treasury
before this week’s announcements.  Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  described “very large,
unsustainable long-term deficits” in a Jan. 26 interview with
Black Enterprise and called for spending that is targeted to
“go back to living within our means” and also boost economic
growth.  Economic Crisis  “The economic crisis is over, and it is time to address
the fiscal crisis,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC, in a note to clients ahead of today’s
announcements. “A recovery economy will boost tax revenues, and
that will help to narrow deficits significantly, but massive
structural deficits will still remain.”  The Treasury today also said it is taking action to make
sure it does not sell notes or bonds with zero percent coupon in
the current low interest-rate environment. The department said
it plans to establish a minimum coupon rate of 0.125% for all
notes and bonds.  The  Federal Reserve  is in the midst of an effort to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June. The program
represents the Fed’s second round of unconventional monetary
easing aimed at spurring economic growth and preventing
inflation from falling too low.  Next week’s auctions of bonds and notes will raise $50.2
billion in new cash, with the rest of the proceeds going to pay
off maturing debt, the Treasury said. To help manage short-term
borrowing needs, the Treasury said it may issue cash-management
bills in the current quarter.  Lowered Estimates  Earlier this week, the Treasury lowered its estimate for  government borrowing  from January through March because of its
previous decision to scale back its bill sales on behalf of the
Federal Reserve.  Borrowing will total a net $237 billion in the current
quarter, compared with an estimate three months ago of $431
billion, the department said in a statement today in  Washington .
The Treasury also projected borrowing of $299 billion in the
three months to June 30. In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, the
Treasury borrowed $363 billion, compared with a previous
estimate of $362 billion.  The estimates include $5 billion for a special program for
helping the Federal Reserve finance its operations, which the
department is shrinking while Congress debates how to raise the
debt ceiling. The Supplementary Financing Program, which the Fed
has said is “helpful” to its monetary policy goals, had been
kept at a level of $200 billion outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 