-- U.S. Said to Probe Google-ITA Deal Impact on Searches
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2011-02-02T20:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-s-is-said-to-probe-google-ita-deal-s-impact-on-internet-travel-searches.html
The  U.S. Justice Department  is
examining whether  Google Inc .’s planned $700 million purchase of
 ITA Software Inc.  would lead to skewed search results for
travelers seeking flight and ticket information online,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  U.S. officials are concerned Google’s ownership of ITA,
whose software aggregates airline information, may cause its own
travel services to rank higher than rivals such as Kayak.com and
Expedia Inc., reducing competition and hurting consumers,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are ongoing.  “The companies that use ITA want to be assured there would
be no preference by Google for its own results,” said  Henry Harteveldt , an analyst at  Forrester Research  in  San Francisco ,
who isn’t privy to the talks. “At the same time, Google’s
innovation and creativity shouldn’t be held against it.”  The probe of the Google-ITA deal represents a new facet of
government scrutiny for the world’s largest search engine as it
expands into new services. Google had 66.6 percent of the search
market as of December, according to ComScore Inc.  Google is buying companies to boost its online services,
spending about $1.6 billion on more than 20 companies in the
first nine months of last year, according to regulatory filings.
The ITA deal would follow other large acquisitions, including
mobile ad service AdMob Inc. last year for about $700 million
and online advertising provider DoubleClick Inc. in 2008 for
$3.2 billion. Both were cleared without restrictions by the
Federal Trade Commission.  Preparing a Lawsuit  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has pressed the
Justice Department to decide whether it will challenge the ITA
deal, prompting government lawyers to prepare a lawsuit to block
it. Completion of the  Justice Department ’s review may come
within a few weeks, one of the people familiar with it said.  Regulators aren’t planning a broad monopoly investigation
of Google right now, the people said, and any conditions placed
on the ITA deal would be specific to travel-related searches.
For now, talks between the Justice Department and Google are
focused on how to make ITA’s software available to online travel
competitors through licensing agreements, the people said.  FairSearch.org , a group that includes  Microsoft Corp . and
Kayak.com, a travel information site, has opposed the ITA deal,
saying Google would have too big an incentive to steer consumers
to its own services rather than to competitors, even if their
sites might answer the query better.  Beyond Access  “The proposed acquisition raises issues above and beyond
the access to ITA technology,” said attorney Tom Barnett,
outside counsel to  Expedia Inc ., a FairSearch member. “A key
threat from the proposed transaction is the combination of ITA’s
flight search dominance with Google’s search dominance.”  FairSearch.org argued that, once Google controls ITA’s
unique software and the privileged business information on its
servers, it might hold back software updates and other
innovations. The group also includes Travelocity.com Inc.,
Hotwire Inc. and TripAdvisor LLC.  “We haven’t received assurances from ITA or Google on any
of our concerns in terms of continued access to this product
going forward,” Robert Birge, chief marketing officer of
Norwalk, Connecticut-based Kayak.com, said in a telephone
interview. Birge declined to discuss the company’s conversations
with Justice Department officials.  ‘Increase Competition’  Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Google, said the company
is cooperating with the U.S. review of the deal, and added that
the “acquisition will increase competition.” Cara Kretz, a
spokeswoman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based ITA, and Justice
Department spokeswoman Gina Talamona declined to comment.  Google rose $2.47 to $613.51 at 2:47 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Expedia climbed 1 cent to $25.33.  Google’s deals are receiving careful antitrust scrutiny
because of its size and due to the connection between Internet
search and online advertising, according to Andy Gavil, an
antitrust professor at Howard University Law School in  Washington . Gavil said he has received funding from Google for
research unrelated to the ITA acquisition.  In November 2008, the Justice Department threatened to sue
over its planned alliance with Yahoo! Inc., leading Google to
scrap a planned agreement to place ads with the Sunnyvale,
California-based web portal.  Several Google acquisitions have gotten a green light from
regulators, including the FTC’s unanimous approval of the AdMob
deal in May over protests from consumer groups including the
Center for Digital Democracy and Consumer Watchdog.  ‘Unlikely to Harm’  The FTC said that deal was “unlikely to harm competition
in the emerging market for mobile advertising networks.”  The regulator also approved Google’s acquisition of
DoubleClick, saying the transaction was unlikely to
“substantially lessen” competition in  Internet advertising .  Setting conditions for fair search results is an
“essentially impossible” task, Assen Vassilev, co-founder and
vice president of strategy and development of London-based
 Everbread , said in an interview. His London-based Haystack
airfare search engine supports the Google-ITA deal.  As many as 6 million flight choices are available at any
given time depending on whether a traveler wants to stay
overnight, is willing to change planes or wants to go to a
specific terminal, Vassilev said.  Policing search results under a Justice Department
agreement would be challenging, said Robert Lande, a law
professor at the University of Baltimore.  The mathematical formulas and programming language behind  search engines  may be too complex for a third party to decide if
there’s a Google bias in the results, he said in an interview.  Comcast-NBC Model  A model for any agreement between the government and Google
over the ITA purchase may be the Justice Department’s consent
decree for Comcast Corp.’s acquisition of  NBC Universal , said  Rebecca Arbogast , a technology analyst for Stifel Nicolaus in
Washington. It may provide a framework for policing the search
industry and licensing the software, she said.  The Comcast agreement, announced on Jan. 18, included
safeguards so the largest U.S. cable company couldn’t restrict
online video content.  As in the NBC-Comcast deal, antitrust authorities are
likely to consider whether Google’s control of key assets
through ITA could slow competition or innovation, Arbogast said.  Just as Philadelphia-based Comcast had to make its
programming available to internet video distributors, Google may
have to make the ITA data accessible to others, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at   jbliss@bloomberg.net  and;
Sara Forden in Washington at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  and; 