-- U.S. to Sell $72 Billion in Debt as Limit Nears
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2011-02-02T19:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-s-treasury-will-sell-72-billion-in-long-term-securities-this-quarter.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department today
said it would keep its long-term borrowing at steady levels and
warned that the federal debt limit could be reached as soon as
April 5.    Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, said the department so far is borrowing as
usual while Congress debates when and how to raise the $14.29
trillion debt limit. Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has warned
that the U.S. faces “catastrophic damage” if lawmakers do not
act in time.  “We expect that Congress will do the right thing and raise
the debt ceiling in a timely manner,” Miller said at a press
conference.  The Treasury today said it plans to sell $72 billion in
long-term debt next week, in line with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of bond dealers. The department’s
quarterly auctions will consist of $32 billion in three-year
notes on Feb. 8, $24 billion in 10-year notes Feb. 9 and $16
billion in 30-year bonds Feb. 10.  The Treasury now expects the debt ceiling to be reached
between April 5 and May 31, compared to the range of March 31 to
May 16 it predicted early last month. The department will update
its forecast again in the first week of March.  ‘Subject to Change’  “These estimates are subject to change,” Miller said.
That “modest” difference from the January timetable reflects
higher projected receipts and lower projected payments to
government trust funds, she said.  Republican lawmakers are stepping up calls for budget cuts
as they debate how and when to raise the debt limit. Geithner
said the U.S. needs to boost economic growth and also tackle
“very large, unsustainable long-term deficits,” in a Jan. 26
interview with Black Enterprise.  Meanwhile, the Treasury has adjusted its borrowing calendar
to manage $1 trillion-plus budget deficits. Miller said the
Treasury has no plans to change its borrowing calendar, although
the Treasury’s borrowing advisory committee did discuss the
prospect of “ultra-long” bonds and other types of securities
at this week’s refunding meetings.  In today’s announcement, Miller said the Treasury planned
to keep its note and bond sales at “stable” levels in coming
months. The Treasury increased the size of its coupon auctions
from May through November last year and has kept them steady
since.  Tax Legislation  The tax legislation passed in December has created an
additional financing need that the Treasury will address by
increasing the size of its bill auctions, Miller said. The
department also sells Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities,
known as TIPS.  The U.S. government has racked up more than $1 trillion in
debt for the past two years. Bond dealers predicted deficits of
$1.363 trillion in fiscal 2011, $1.107 trillion in 2012 and $932
billion in 2013, according to a survey provided to the Treasury
before this week’s announcements.  “After locking down the auction calendar in November in
front of huge uncertainty on the budget front, Treasury appears
comfortable to continue to run auction sizes steady,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC, in
a note to clients after today’s announcements.  Taking Action  The Treasury today also said it is taking action to make
sure it does not sell notes or bonds with zero percent coupon in
the current low interest-rate environment. The department said
it plans to establish a minimum coupon rate of 0.125% for all
notes and bonds.  The Federal Reserve is in the midst of an effort to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June. The program
represents the Fed’s second round of unconventional monetary
easing aimed at spurring economic growth and preventing
inflation from falling too low.  So far, the bond dealers are not reporting any harm to
Treasury liquidity because of the Fed’s actions, said  Matthew
Rutherford , Treasury’s deputy assistant secretary for federal
finance. “At this point there were no alarm bells raised,” he
said.  Next week’s auctions of bonds and notes will raise $50.2
billion in new cash, with the rest going to pay maturing debt,
the Treasury said. To help manage short-term borrowing needs,
the Treasury said it may issue cash-management bills in the
current quarter.  Earlier this week, the Treasury lowered its estimate for  government borrowing  from January through March because of its
previous decision to scale back its bill sales on behalf of the
Federal Reserve.  Projected Borrowing  Borrowing will total a net $237 billion in the current
quarter, compared with an estimate three months ago of $431
billion, the department said in a statement. The Treasury also
projected borrowing of $299 billion in the three months to June
30. In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, the Treasury borrowed
$363 billion, compared with a previous estimate of $362 billion.  The estimates include $5 billion for a special program for
helping the  Federal Reserve  finance its operations, which the
department is shrinking while Congress debates how to raise the
debt ceiling. The Supplementary Financing Program, which the Fed
has said is “helpful” to its monetary policy goals, had been
kept at a level of $200 billion outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 