-- SEC Proposes Swap Trading Facilities Under Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-02T15:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-s-regulators-consider-new-swap-trading-facilities-under-dodd-frank-law.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed allowing trading in swaps among a small
number of market participants to occur on new platforms
established under the Dodd-Frank law.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to seek comment on a rule
that would permit trading on so-called security-based swap
execution facilities where a buyer could request a quote for a
swap from a single seller, according to a summary of the
proposal. The trading platforms would be for credit-default
swaps and others tied to single securities or loans, or indexes
of nine or fewer securities.  “Our objective here is to provide a framework that allows
the security-based swap market to continue to develop in a more
transparent, efficient and competitive manner,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said before the vote on what she called “an
important and complex undertaking.”  The SEC and the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  are
leading efforts required by Dodd-Frank to write rules for swaps
markets after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The financial-regulation law aims to have most
swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or
other platforms.  The law gave the CFTC and SEC power to define new swap-
execution facilities as an alternative to exchanges for trading
in interest rate, credit and other swaps.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to stocks, bonds, currencies or an event, such as the default of
a company. The Basel-based  Bank for International Settlements 
estimated in 2010 that the global market for private, or over-
the-counter, derivatives contracts was $583 trillion.  Limit Order Books  The SEC proposal would allow several types of trading
systems, including limit order books or request-for-quote, or
RFQ, systems. Under the proposal, companies requesting quotes
for swaps could ask all participants on a platform for a price
or they could ask as few as one participant.  Today’s vote subjects the proposal to a 60-day comment
period before commissioners take a final vote on the measure.
Commissioner Kathleen Casey said she is particularly interested
in hearing comments, because the agency has “limited experience
in this area as a regulator.”  CFTC Proposal  The SEC proposal is similar to a CFTC rule proposed on Dec.
16. CFTC commissioners voted 4-1 to allow trading on swap-
execution facilities where prices are quoted to a limited number
of market participants. The CFTC proposal for request-for-quote
systems would require that buyers or sellers of swaps seek a
price quote from five or more participants in the market.  An earlier proposal that had been slated for CFTC
consideration on Dec. 9 would have required the facilities to
have pricing systems open to all market participants. Republican
CFTC commissioners Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia  opposed the
earlier proposal, saying it would limit overall trading.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, intends
to register as a swap-execution facility, Ben Macdonald, global
head of fixed income at Bloomberg LP, said in a Nov. 17 comment
letter to the CFTC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  