-- Treasury Advisory Panel Suggests ‘Ultra-Long’ Debt
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-02-02T21:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/u-s-advised-to-sell-ultra-long-bonds-to-boost-demand-as-deficits-rise.html
The committee of bond dealers and
investors that advises the  U.S. Treasury  suggested the
government consider adding “ultra-long” bonds of as much as
100 years to tap into investor demand.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, known as TBAC,
suggested the U.S. investigate additional types of securities
that would target banks, pension funds, insurance companies and
individual investors. A presentation from one member, offered on
behalf of the panel, estimated $2.4 trillion in potential demand
from these investors over the next five years.  The “ultra-long” bonds proposed were defined as debt with
a maturity of 40-, 50-, or 100 years, according to comments from
one member as reported in the minutes of yesterday’s meeting,
which the Treasury published today. In a press conference,
Treasury officials said elements of the plan are worth studying,
if not 100-year bonds themselves.  “I don’t think that there is much benefit to going out
that long,”  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, said at a news conference today in  Washington . “There might be some benefit at looking at some
longer maturities, but probably not anywhere near that ultimate
length.”  The Treasury is in the midst of financing its third
consecutive $1 trillion-plus  budget deficit , which has required
across-the-board increases in sales of bills, notes and bonds.  Record Demand  The rise in issuance hasn’t hurt demand. The Treasury
received about $2.99 in bids for each dollar of debt it sold in
2010, the highest ratio on record since at least 1994, when the
government began releasing data for all maturities. That was up
from $2.50 in 2009.  “It’s a topic worth investigating for the Treasury,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey . He said there is a large structural demand for
very long-term debt instruments and a limited number of issuers
who can plausibly tap that market.’’  The longest maturity Treasury security is 30 years. After
the savings and loan crisis in the 1980s and 1990s, the U.S.
sold Resolution Funding Corp., or REFCorp, bonds of up to 40
years.  Forty-year bonds have been offered recently in the U.K.,
Japan and  Peru . And in October 2010, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
sold $1.3 billion of 50-year debt in an offering aimed at
individual U.S. investors.  Other Alternatives  The panel’s presentation indicated Treasury could benefit
from adding securities such as floating rate notes, products
with embedded options, and interest rate derivatives, according
to documents released by the Treasury. It also urged the
Treasury to consider its mix of foreign and domestic investment.  “Given the high concentration of foreign ownership,
Treasury may wish to focus on alternative domestic sources of
debt placement,” the TBAC wrote in its presentation to the
Treasury.  About half of the Treasury’s $8.86 trillion in marketable
debt is held by foreign investors.  China , the biggest
international holder, owned $895.6 billion as of November,
according to Treasury data.  The Treasury documents don’t say which member offered the
presentation or whether the rest of the panel agreed with its
conclusions. The proposal generated “an energetic discussion”
about the merits of different debt instruments and the committee
recommended further review, the minutes said.  Treasury Committee  Matthew Zames, a managing director at JPMorganChase & Co.,
is the chairman of the 13-member advisory panel. It also
includes executives from Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Bank of America Corp., Moore Capital
Management Inc. and Tudor Investment Corp.  All members were present except for Keith Anderson of Soros
Fund Management LLC, according to the Treasury’s minutes.  Treasury officials said at today’s press conference that
they would want to make sure that any new securities were
offered in a way that took liquidity and other operational
issues into account.  The market might not need additional long-term debt beyond
what’s already on offer, said Amitabh Arora, an interest rate
strategist in  New York  at Citigroup Inc., one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed.  “The discussion of long maturities is a little baffling,”
Arora said. “If they issued more 30-year paper, that would
suffice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  