-- Gunfire in Cairo as Mubarak Allies Battle Protesters
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-02-03T07:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/mubarak-step-down-pledge-fails-to-calm-protests-as-unrest-spreads-to-yemen.html
Gunfire erupted in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square early today as supporters of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  battled with demonstrators demanding an immediate end to
his 30-year rule.  Five people have been killed in the clashes and Molotov
cocktails were thrown in the square, Al Jazeera television
reported, showing footage of bodies being pulled on the street.
The Doha, Qatar-based network also showed footage of soldiers
detaining people.  The political turmoil that has engulfed the Middle East
continued to spread, with thousands of pro- and anti-government
protestors gathering in the Yemeni capital of Sana’a. Opposition
groups vowed to go ahead with a “Day of Rage” after Yemeni
President Ali Abdullah Saleh said yesterday he will step down
when his term ends in 2013.  Mubarak loyalists yesterday rode horses and camels into
Tahrir Square, the epicenter of anti-government protests since
Jan. 25, swinging whips and clubs. The two sides hurled rocks,
bottles and concrete chunks, and some pro-government marchers
carried machetes. Egyptian soldiers didn’t intervene except to
extinguish fires and there were no uniformed police present.  Transition to Democracy  More than 800 people were injured, according to state
television, in battles between government allies and
demonstrators who reject Mubarak’s plan to remain in power until
September elections. President  Barack Obama  has said the
transition to democracy should start immediately.  Oil rose for a second day on concern the protests may
threaten exports from the Middle East, adding 0.6 percent to
$91.39 a barrel at 7 a.m. in  London .  State television blamed the  Muslim Brotherhood  and the
Islamic militant group Hamas, an allegation at odds with the
sequence of events that began with organized crowds of men
carrying pro-regime banners confronting anti-Mubarak
demonstrators.  CNN  reported that the first Molotov cocktails
were thrown from within the ranks of pro-government forces.    Mohamed ElBaradei , an opposition leader and former United
Nations diplomat, told the BBC the army should end the unrest
incited by a “criminal regime” that “has to go immediately.”  “I think the military would step in before there was a
civil war,” said Barak Seener, a research fellow at the London-
based  Royal United Services Institute  for Defence and Security
Studies. “I wouldn’t go so far as to say Mubarak engineered
these clashes, but they feed into his narrative that he is
needed for stability.”  Without Delay  White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs yesterday said it
is “imperative” that Egyptians see a government transition
begin without delay. This is “not some process that starts a
week, a month or several months from now,” he said.  A transitional government in Egypt is one of the scenarios
being considered, a White House official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Newly appointed Vice President  Omar Suleiman , who has been
Mubarak’s intelligence chief, issued a statement yesterday
calling on demonstrators to go home so that order may be
restored and transition talks can progress. It wasn’t clear from
his statement whether he was setting a pre-condition for
negotiations with opposition leaders.  Egypt credit-default swaps rose yesterday, reversing a
decline, as the clashes intensified. Bonds dropped and global
depository receipts of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  fell as the
country’s bourse remained shut.  Bond Yields Rise  The cost of protecting Egyptian debt against default for
five years with credit-default swaps widened 40 basis points, or
0.40 percentage points, to 382 yesterday, according to prices
from CMA, a data provider in London. The yield on the North
African nation’s 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020 increased
13 basis points to 6.63 percent at 4:06 p.m. yesterday in
London, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  Dubai’s benchmark index today fell 0.93 percent at 10:10
a.m. The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Gulf shares climbed 1.8
percent yesterday, the most since May. Most Gulf trading closed
before the new Cairo clashes.  Egypt’s stock market plans to reopen on Feb. 7 provided
that banks are functioning normally, the state-run Middle East
News agency reported today, citing the bourse’s chief, Khaled Seyam.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 Index plunged 11 percent when it
last traded on Jan. 27, the most since October 2008.  Probe Into Violence  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke yesterday
with Suleiman and urged him to conduct a probe into violence,
said State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley . Former
Ambassador Frank Wisner was returning to the U.S. after telling
Mubarak on Jan. 31 that his time in office was coming to an end,
Crowley said.  “The protests won’t stop until he leaves or is ousted,”
said Rime Allaf, associate fellow of the Middle East and North
Africa Programme at London’s Chatham House. “The opposition is
clear that they want the fall of the regime, not just Mubarak.”  Today’s events in Egypt and Yemen are the latest in a
series of uprisings since Tunisia ousted longtime ruler Zine El Abidine Ben Ali last month. Jordan’s King Abdullah sacked his
prime minister on Feb. 1 and protestors in  Algeria  have been
killed in clashes with security forces.  “The Middle East may never be what it was pre the last 10
days, and what it will be is yet to be determined,” White House
Chief of Staff  William Daley  said in an interview yesterday.  Back to Normal  Mubarak, 82, indicated Feb. 1 that the government would
take steps to return the country to normal, including
dispatching police to apprehend those responsible for arson
during the protests.  Egypt “faces a choice between chaos and stability,”
Mubarak said in a televised address in which he promised to step
down after elections due in September.  Service providers including units of  Vodafone Group Plc 
“returned to the Internet” at 11:29 a.m. in Cairo, Web
security firm Renesys said in a blog  post . Communications had
been cut off during the protests. Some banks’ automated teller
machines are working, and 24,000 government employees received
their salaries, state television said.  All Egyptian ports are closed because of a lack of staff,
though the  Suez Canal  is operating as normal,  Inchcape Shipping
Services  reported yesterday.  “Everyone is watching television and the market is moving
on the most recent pictures from Egypt,” said Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “The price
of crude will trend higher until we get some kind of resolution
to the crisis.”  Egypt received about $1.5 billion in U.S. assistance last
year. It has been one of the biggest recipients of U.S. aid
since 1979, after Egypt signed a U.S.-brokered peace treaty with  Israel . Mubarak has backed efforts to encourage Arab acceptance
of the Jewish state, oppose  Iran ’s nuclear program and isolate
Hamas, the Islamist militant group that controls the  Gaza Strip .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at  mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 