-- Mubarak Fails to Calm Protests With Pledge to Step Down
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a ,   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-02-02T08:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/mubarak-fails-to-calm-egypt-protests-with-pledge-to-step-down-in-september.html
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
declaration he will step down later this year after almost 30
years of autocratic rule failed to appease protesters who want
him to quit immediately, and prompted a call from President  Barack Obama  for the transition to “begin now.”  Mubarak said he’ll stay on to ensure “stability” and push
through political and economic changes before leaving. The crowd
of hundreds of thousands in Cairo’s Tahrir Square began chanting
anti-Mubarak slogans in response to the president’s state-
television address. “Your last day will be Friday,” some
shouted, referring to the Muslim prayer day when more
demonstrations are planned.  “He recognizes that the status quo is not sustainable,”
Obama said in remarks on television from the White House after
phoning Mubarak following the Egyptian leader’s speech.  The unprecedented protests, which followed a revolt in  Tunisia  that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan.
14, have left more than 100 people dead in Egypt and roiled
international stock, bond and oil markets. Political turmoil is
spreading through the region. Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh
said today he won’t seek to extend his term when it expires in
2013 and called for a national unity government. Jordan’s King Abdullah yesterday sacked his prime minister and in Algeria
protesters have been killed in clashes with security forces.  Egypt “faces a choice between chaos and stability,”
Mubarak said in the address late yesterday, wearing a dark blue
suit and black tie and standing next to the national flag. “My
first responsibility now is to restore the security and
stability of the nation to achieve a peaceful transition.”  U.S. Support  Obama said the U.S. would support Egyptians during the
transition. “An orderly transition must be meaningful, must be
peaceful, and it must begin now,” he said. Directing his
comments at young demonstrators calling for democracy, Obama
said: “We hear your voices.”  Concern that the most populous Arab nation may slide into
chaos had earlier prompted Obama to dispatch former Ambassador
Frank Wisner, who on Jan. 31 delivered a message to Mubarak that
his time in office was coming to an end, an administration
official said. Presidential elections are due in September.  Egypt’s dollar bonds advanced 0.2 percent yesterday before
Mubarak’s announcement, the first increase in six days. The
political upheaval sent the debt tumbling 12 percent in January,
the most since at least 2001, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The cost of protecting against an  Egypt  default with credit-
default swaps fell 70 basis points yesterday, the most ever, to
350, CMA prices show.  High Unemployment  “We are actually still relatively confident that Egypt
will be able to continue serving its debt,” Kai Stukenbrock,
director of sovereign and international public finance ratings
at Standard & Poor’s, said in an interview. S&P cut Egypt’s
credit rating a notch yesterday to two levels below investment
grade.  Stukenbrock said the unrest was sparked by a number of
factors, including “high unemployment and particularly even
higher unemployment among the youth, and that’s the part of the
population that’s first to take to the streets.”  Oil traded close to $91 a barrel in  New York  after falling
from a two-year high as concern eased that the protests in Egypt
will disrupt supplies through the  Suez Canal . Futures declined
1.5 percent yesterday after canal officials said traffic is
moving normally at the waterway which carries more than 2.2
million barrels of oil a day.  Corrupt Regime  The opposition movement, which includes the  Muslim
Brotherhood  and the former United Nations atomic agency chief  Mohamed ElBaradei , accuses Mubarak of running a corrupt and
repressive government. It has urged the president to quit
immediately and hand power to a transitional government, and
repeated the call after his address yesterday.  The way for Mubarak to restore stability is by resigning,
ElBaradei told Al Arabiya television after his announcement. He
rejected dialogue with Mubarak’s regime and said the president’s
departure won’t create a power vacuum.  Mubarak, who had previously declined to say whether he
would stand again, last week appointed  Omar Suleiman , head of
Egypt’s intelligence services, as vice president. He said
yesterday he had never intended to seek another term.  “I lived in this country, and I fought for it, and I
defended its land, its sovereignty and interests, and I will die
on its soil,” Mubarak said.  Some analysts said they doubt that the Egyptian president
will achieve his desire for a delayed and honorable end to his
nearly 30-year rule.  ‘Smell Blood’  Mubarak’s concession comes a week too late, said Marwan Muasher, former deputy prime minister of Jordan and now a senior
vice president at the  World Bank  in Washington. “I think people
smell blood and they’re not going to be satisfied with this,”
he said in an interview.  Robert Satloff, executive director of the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy in  Washington , said Mubarak’s
offer suggests he still has support from the military leaders,
but that may not last in the face of continuing protests. “I
don’t think he’s going to get eight more months to be
president,” he said in an interview.  “I expect the demonstrations to continue,” said Khaled
Fahmy, professor of history at American University in Cairo, in
a telephone interview. “He really hasn’t offered much. What
I’ve seen is that he has burned bridges. There is no trust
between him and the people.”  Clashes in Alexandria  In Alexandria, the army clashed with protesters and fired
shots after the Mubarak address, Al Jazeera television reported.
Protesters hurled stones and sought to block an army tank, it
said. In Cairo, armed men chanting pro-Mubarak slogans were seen
near Tahrir early today as some protesters left the square.  “If the mere goal of sending Frank Wisner was to persuade
Mubarak not to run for re-election, they’ve set the bar much too
low,” said Jon Alterman, director of the Middle East program at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
Washington-based policy group.  Mubarak has “no credibility” to oversee a transition and
the U.S. should do whatever it can to support a shift to
democracy there, including withholding financial aid if
necessary, said Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont , the Democratic
chairman of the panel that controls foreign assistance, in a
statement in Washington.  U.S. Aid  Egypt received about $1.5 billion in U.S. assistance last
year. It has been one of the biggest recipients of U.S. aid
since 1979, after Egypt signed a U.S.-brokered peace treaty with  Israel . Mubarak has backed efforts to encourage Arab acceptance
of the Jewish state, oppose  Iran ’s nuclear program and isolate
Hamas, the Islamist militant group that controls the  Gaza Strip .  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who chairs
the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in a statement
that Mubarak “should now work with the military and civil
society to establish an interim caretaker government.”  As Mubarak fought to retain power, his authorities shut
down Egypt’s stock market, after a 16 percent slump in the
benchmark index last week, its banking system and most phone and
Internet communication.  Mubarak indicated the government would take steps to try to
return the country to normal, including dispatching police to
apprehend those responsible for arson and other illegal actions
in the past week of turmoil.  Banks may reopen to the public on Feb. 3 or Feb. 6, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan, appointed by Mubarak on Jan. 31 as he
revamped the Cabinet to appease protests, told Bloomberg
Television yesterday. The automated teller machines or ATMs of
the  National Bank of Egypt , the country’s biggest lender, have
started to operate, state-run television said today.  Expatriates Flee  Companies including Heineken NV and BG Group Plc have
halted operations in the country of 80 million, and expatriates
fled aboard scheduled flights, charters and private jets. Tanks
have guarded key government buildings as thousands have rallied
daily in Cairo and other cities.  Egypt’s economy needs foreign investment, along with
tourism revenue, to achieve the 7 percent economic growth rates
that the government says is necessary to create jobs for an
expanding workforce. It achieved that in the three years before
the global economic crisis slowed growth, to about 6 percent
last year according to government estimates.  Civil Rights  “Tourists are currently trying to leave Egypt en masse,”
London-based risk consultant Maplecroft said in a report
yesterday. The International Monetary Fund’s October prediction
that the economy will grow 5.5 percent this year “is now overly
optimistic. A dramatic or even moderate reduction in growth will
make it more difficult for the government to create new jobs,”
a key demand of protesters. Official figures put Egypt’s
unemployment rate at about 9 percent.  Mubarak said yesterday he will change laws governing
presidential  term limits  and the eligibility of candidates
before the next election.  The speech “did not address the inheritance of power to
family members, it did not address amending the constitution to
guarantee civil rights, it did not address lifting restrictions
on political parties,” said Ayman Nour, who challenged Mubarak
in Egypt’s first multi-candidate presidential election in 2005,
and is among the leaders of the current opposition movement. It
“did not live up to the people’s demands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in London at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in London at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  