-- U.S. Interests in Peril as Youth Rebel, Leaders Quit in Mideast
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n ,   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-02-02T23:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/mubarak-s-exit-to-upend-decades-of-predictable-u-s-policy-in-arab-world.html
Political upheaval among stalwart
U.S. allies in the Arab world may have irrevocably altered
politics in the volatile, oil-rich Middle East, Obama
administration officials say. While they did not foresee the
fast-changing events and can’t predict where spreading unrest
will end, they insist they are keenly aware of the dangers.  Longtime Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh yesterday
followed Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in responding to
street protests by pledging not to seek reelection. The day
before, Jordanian  King Abdullah  sacked his prime minister
following demonstrations and promised “genuine political
reform.” Last month, a revolt in Tunisia forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile.  “The Middle East may never be what it was” prior to the
last 10 days, “and what it will be is yet to be determined,”
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said in an interview at
the Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington yesterday.  A challenge for U.S. policy as popular protests sweep the
Middle East and North Africa is how to back away from leaders
who have lost their people’s trust without appearing to be a
fair-weather ally or encouraging instability or the rise of
anti-American leaders in their place.  The U.S. will have to maneuver more deftly, analysts say,
to forge alliances with new governments to protect U.S.
interests: security for Israel, sustainability of world energy
supply and the fight against al-Qaeda and other terrorist
groups.  Gaming Possibilities  U.S. officials say that while they may not have predicted
the fast-changing events in the Mideast, they are gaming out all
possibilities.  “We are planning for a full range of scenarios,” White
House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday. “It is hard to
even imagine several days ago the events that happened
yesterday. And so events across this landscape are happening
very quickly.  We’re watching those events.  We’re planning for
those events.”  Officials are sticking to President Barack Obama’s
insistence that the new leadership of Egypt is a matter for the
Egyptian people. “We do not have a favorite candidate or
candidates. We are not going to anoint any successor to
President Mubarak. These are decisions to be made by the
Egyptian people,” said State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley .  ‘Ten Steps Behind’  Outside the administration, many analysts have criticized
the White House for being behind the curve. They are “ten steps
behind not just  Egypt ’s events, but the radically changing
dynamics of the entire region -- the fact that the region’s
youth population is defining its future in defiant and
unprecedented and unexpected ways,” said  Dina Guirguis , an
Egyptian-American human rights activist and fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  “We are witnessing the end of the old Middle East,” said
Khalil al-Anani, a Middle East analyst at the University of
Birmingham in  England . “Now, the people have the upper hand
over regimes.”  In Egypt, where Mubarak, 82, has been a dependable U.S.
ally for 30 years, the White House will need “a delicate
touch” to “ensure that a successor government is neither
virulently anti-American nor openly hostile to Israel,” said
Stephen M. Walt, a professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Egypt is the
fourth-largest recipient of U.S. aid, after  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan  and  Israel , according to the State Department’s 2011
budget, receiving more than $1.5 billion a year.  “We should be quietly advising other leaders in the region
to take steps to alleviate discontent” and “avoid the same
fate that Mubarak is now experiencing,” Walt said.  Markets Respond  Markets have so far taken the regional unrest in stride.
Persian Gulf shares surged after Mubarak’s statement and the DFM
General Index surged 3.3 percent yesterday, the most since
April.  Crude oil was little changed near its highest price in more
than two years on concern that protests in Egypt may threaten
exports from the Middle East. About 2.5 percent of global oil
production moves through Egypt via the  Suez Canal  and the
adjacent Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. The waterway carries more than 2.2 million barrels of
oil a day.  With oil above $90 a barrel, it has been business as usual
for Persian Gulf exporters regardless of the uprisings rocking
other Arab nations.  Meeting Demands  In Egypt, Yemen and other countries without the oil wealth
of Gulf states, there may be no one who can deliver what
protesters want -- jobs, lower prices and better standard of
living, said Edward S. Walker, a former U.S. ambassador to both
Israel and Egypt.  It’s very difficult to see how democracy alone can solve
the protesters’ problems, Walker said. “It doesn’t create jobs,
it doesn’t lower the price of food” or eliminate the gap
between rich and poor.  “Most regimes are not addressing the underlying tough
issues and are doing superficial things -- and very poorly in
most cases,” said Rami Khouri, director of the Issam Fares
Institute for Public Policy and International Affairs at the
American University of  Beirut . “There is absolutely no doubt
that every single Arab country, without exception, is watching
the events, concerned about the implications for their own
countries.”  In Egypt, the most populous Arab nation, the economic
growth rate has dropped below the 7 percent the government
estimates is necessary to create enough jobs for a growing
working-age population. The official inflation rate last dipped
below 10 percent in August 2009.  Economic Impact  Yemen, for its part, faces serious water shortages,
declining oil output and a society where more than half the
population of 23 million is under 20 years old. About 40 percent
of Yemen’s population, which is expected to almost double by
2030 to 40 million, lives on less than $2 a day.  Saleh said he would raise the salaries of the armed forces
and security forces by 5,000 Yemeni rials ($23) a month, the
state-owned Saba news agency reported Jan. 22, after more than a
week of protests.  “Yemenis have even more grievances than people in Egypt
and  Tunisia ,” said Gregory Johnsen, a Yemen scholar at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey . “The real concern for the
Yemeni regime is if all of these different strands of opposition
sort of coalesce into a single narrative that just is focused on
President Saleh, and if that happens the regime is in a lot of
trouble.”  ‘Failed State’  Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace ranked Yemen
15th of 60 countries on their 2010  Failed States Index , saying
only Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan are in worse shape among
nations in  Asia  and the Middle East.  The Yemeni government is battling a secessionist movement
in the south and a Shiite uprising in the north.  Al-Qaeda’s Yemeni-based wing has launched cross-border
attacks on  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter and
holder of one-fifth of global reserves. In August 2009, it tried
to assassinate the top Saudi anti-terrorism official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz. The group was also responsible
for sending two parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in October.  Ahead of Situation  In Syria, where street protests and social networking
websites are banned, economic progress has been slow.  Syria 
ranks 140 out of 179 countries in 2011 in terms of  economic
freedom , according to the  Heritage Foundation , a public policy
center in  Washington .  President Bashar al-Assad, 45, doubled the heating
allowance for state workers, the official Syrian Arab News
Agency reported Jan. 16. The government spent more than 140
billion Syrian pounds ($3 billion) to subsidize prices for home
heating oil and other petroleum products last year, 10 times
more than what was spent in 2009, Ath Thawra newspaper reported
Jan. 3.  The government also plans to provide between 500 pounds and
3,500 pounds a month to low-income families, Al-Watan newspaper
reported two days later.  “He has promised political reforms in the past,” Josh
Landis, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the
University of  Oklahoma , said of Assad. “The hard truth is that
Syria has a rapidly growing population, a bad education system,
too little water -- and world food prices are going up
rapidly.”  Jordan Responds  In Jordan, the government announced an increase in public
salaries and subsidies to counter protests over falling living
standards. The package includes a 20-dinar ($28) monthly
increase for state employees and pensioners, which will cost the
treasury 160 million dinars a year, Petra news agency reported
Jan. 21, citing then-Prime Minister Samir Rifai.  Jordan’s regime is less at risk than in Egypt and Yemen,
because King Abdullah is a popular leader who holds the
allegiance of many tribes and can trace his lineage back to the
prophet Mohammed, Walker said.  An additional 140 million dinars will be spent on subsidies
for natural gas and livestock feed, Petra said. Rifai, 44, was
dismissed yesterday after a little over a year in power.  King Abdullah, 49, told new premier Marouf Bakhit that he
should put the country on the path “to strengthen democracy,”
and provide Jordanians with the “dignified life they deserve,”
the Royal Court said in an e-mailed statement.  Saudi Arabia Acts  The 86-year-old king of Saudi Arabia, also King Abdullah,
has backed the Egyptian government and condemned the protesters,
while trying to address imbalances in the largest Arab economy.
The government announced in August a $385 billion, five-year
spending plan as the kingdom tries to reduce a jobless rate of
as high as 43 percent for Saudis between the ages of 20 and 24.
Saudi Arabia is the world’s largest oil exporter.  “We are today in a new Arab world,” said Mohammed al-
Qahtan, head of the political department of Islamic Reform Party
in Yemen. “The young Arabs of today are the generation of the
Internet and satellite television and are seeing what is
happening around the world.”  “The pace of change will not be the same everywhere, but
there will be change across the board,” said Khalid al-Dakhil,
Saudi columnist at the London-based pan-Arab newspaper  Al-Hayat .
“People want genuine, real reforms, not cosmetic changes. These
regimes have proven that they are incapable of reform, so they
have to go.”  “Arab Gulf monarchies which have wealth and no strong
opposition may have the leisure of changing gradually, without
undermining their regimes, but they have to be serious about it
or they will eventually meet the fate of Mubarak,” added al-
Dakhil, a former political science professor at King Saud
University in Riyadh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  