-- Turkish-Made Auto Boom Has Ford, Karsan Vie for Manhattan Cabs
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2011-02-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/turkish-made-auto-boom-has-ford-karsan-vie-for-manhattan-cabs.html
Carmakers in Turkey drove economic
growth that rivaled China’s last year, exporting in record
numbers across  Europe  and the Middle East. Now they want to
drive New Yorkers, with two of the three finalists for the
“ Taxi of Tomorrow ” competition being Turkish-made cabs.    Ford Motor Co .’s unit near Istanbul and Karsan Otomotiv
Sanayii AS, which is offering a moon roof to watch the  Manhattan 
skyline, are vying with Nissan Motor Co. of Japan for the 10-
year contract to roll out a fleet of next-generation cabs. It’s
the first time New York is introducing a uniform fleet.  The entry of Turkish firms caps a decade in which the
country’s once little-known car industry has emerged as a
regional powerhouse, more than quadrupling production to
overtake  Poland  and the  Czech Republic  as a manufacturing base
for global brands. Output also surged as Turkish banks not only
survived the financial crisis without a government bailout, they
approved record amounts of loans to businesses and consumers.  “Turkey has become a hub for light-commercial vehicle
production for many global car companies as this segment has
grown in popularity,” said Berna Kurbay, an automotive analyst
in New York-based BGC Partners’s Istanbul office. “The
visibility created with the  New York  taxi cab could help create
a quality image for cars made in Turkey.”  Crown Vic  Ford has long been the automaker of choice for livery
drivers. Its Lincoln Town Car is the standard airport shuttle
for corporate executives while most police cars in the U.S.
start out as Ford Crown Victorias. With Ford planning to close
the St. Thomas, Ontario, assembly plant that makes those large,
rear-wheel-drive cars, New York is looking at other options.  Ford offers customers a version of the  Transit Connect 
minivan built with Turkey’s  Koc Holding AS  at a seaside plant
100 kilometers (62 miles) from Istanbul. The Dearborn, Michigan-
based based company began exporting the model from Turkey to the
U.S. last year, selling the taxi version in 10 U.S. cities.  Turkey, which has no automotive brands of its own, has also
become a production hub for  Hyundai Motor Co .,  Toyota Motor
Corp . and  Renault SA .  Fiat SpA ’s Turkish unit,  Tofas Turk
Otomobil Fabrikasi AS , began making the Doblo minivan after
investing 386 million euros ($533 million) from 2007 to 2009.  Gasoline prices in Turkey are 3.9 liras ($2.50) a liter, or
about $9.50 a gallon, and government taxes more than double the
price of some cars. The industry is therefore heavily export-
reliant with three of every four vehicles shipped abroad,
according to data from Turkey’s Automotive Distributors’
Association. Production rose 26 percent last year to 1.1 million
vehicles, making the country the top producer in Eastern Europe
outside  Russia .  Lending Boom  Turkey’s economy outpaced every member of the Group of 20
nations except  China  in 2010 with annual growth of 8.9 percent
in the first three quarters. It probably expanded 8 percent in
all of 2010, the International Monetary Fund estimates. Lending
by Turkish banks climbed 34 percent last year to 532.4 billion
liras, the country’s  banking association  reported.  At Karsan’s factory in Bursa on the Sea of Marmara, Chief
Executive Officer Murat Selek leans over to unlatch a giant
metal box in his office. The company’s focus on the New York cab
competition -- Karsan’s offer is the only one among finalists
that was designed from scratch as a New York cab -- gives it an
advantage, Selek said.  The Karsan V1 is a boxy, van-like taxi with an ample
backseat, an engine that can be gas, hybrid or electric, an
advanced “infotainment” setup and the only design of the three
to offer full handicapped access, a feature that has already won
the company plaudits from advocates for the disabled, including
Assemblyman Micah Kellner of Manhattan.  Peugeot, Renault  “We understood that the mayor of New York wanted a
specially designed vehicle,” Selek said in a Jan. 18 interview
as he reached inside the box to pull out a model taxi parked
atop 1,500 pages of technical specifications.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Karsan, which also builds vans and trucks for Peugeot,
Citroen and Renault, plans to increase sales 10 percent to 20
percent from last year’s 550 million liras to 600 million liras
and will invest $150 million in production should it win the
tender, the CEO said.  For  Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS  CEO Nuri Otay, a contract to
produce some 26,500 taxis for New York over a decade may have
less impact on the company’s profit. The venture may report
about 447 million liras in 2010 net income, according to the
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global Hub  Otay said the taxi contract is important as it helps him
achieve a larger goal: making Turkey a global hub for automotive
research and development. Ford Otosan, as the Turkish unit is
known, will have more than 1,000 research and development
engineers by the end of this year, he said in an interview. “It
will be one of Ford’s three global R&D centers.”  A large pool of talented engineers is one of the main
reasons international carmakers choose  Turkey , according to
Pinar Sahin Fersoy, a London-based Turkish industrials analyst
at Nomura International Plc.  Nissan’s design is based on the  NV200  van, which was
introduced in 2009, according to the company’s Web site. The
NV200 was named International Van of the Year 2010 by a jury of
23 European motor journalists, who said it “sets new standards
in terms of internal space,” according to Yokohama-based
Nissan.  New York’s taxi commission is evaluating “best and final
offers” from the three finalists, said David Yassky, who chairs
a committee of the New York mayor’s office tasked with selecting
the winning bid. “The country of manufacture is not now, and
has never been a criteria for taxi cabs. The now predominant
Crown Vic is not American-made and none of the responses propose
an American-made vehicle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  