-- Muslim Brotherhood Measuring Political Possibilities in Post-Mubarak Egypt
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a ,   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-02-02T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/muslim-brotherhood-measuring-political-possibilities-in-post-mubarak-egypt.html
Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood didn’t
immediately join the spontaneous street demonstrations against
President  Hosni Mubarak . Now the Islamist group, the country’s
largest opposition faction, is positioning itself to help shape
the country’s political future.  The Brotherhood waited a few days after the uprising began
and then publicly supported the protesters, saying it shared
their goals: an end to Mubarak’s 30-year rule, a new
constitution, open elections and a new all-party government.
Mubarak’s Feb. 1 announcement that he won’t seek another
presidential term may allow the Brotherhood, brimming with
grassroots skills, to take advantage.  “They are the most organized and most popular, with a
hierarchy in Egypt in terms of membership and leadership,” said
Omar Ashour, an Egyptian lecturer on Arab politics at the
University of Exeter in England. “In the post-Mubarak period,
they may have a role,” even though “their involvement right
now isn’t major.”  Founded in 1928, the same year Mubarak was born, the Muslim
Brotherhood has influenced Islamist movements across the globe,
including Hamas in the Palestinian territories, which  the U.S. ,
European Union and  Israel  consider a terrorist organization. As
conditions change in the Arab world’s most populous country, the
group may have to allay concerns about the role it will play.
The Brotherhood is banned from politics in  Egypt , and members
have had to run for office as independents.  Equal Rights  Essam al-Erian, a senior Brotherhood leader who was
arrested several times under Mubarak, says the opposition is
united. The Brotherhood is working with “liberals, secularists,
communists and every section” to ensure “the transition from a
tyrannical corrupt regime to a civil democracy that guarantees
equal rights to all,” he said in a telephone interview from
Cairo.  “The Muslim Brotherhood is part of Egypt’s people, and we
acquiesce in the verdict of the people, whatever it may be,”
al-Erian said, adding that the group seeks “a democratic regime
with the Islamic Sharia as a reference,” which he said already
is enshrined in Egypt’s constitution. Sharia is based
principally on laws from the Koran, sayings by the Prophet
Mohammed and the opinions of Muslim scholars, and it’s the basis
of some areas of Egyptian law though not the penal code.  That stance may conflict with other vested interests.
Egypt’s military leadership is committed to the foreign policy
pursued by Mubarak, who has helped Israel blockade the Hamas-
ruled  Gaza Strip  and sought to rally Arab support against
Islamic extremism.  Democratic Process  While President Barack Obama’s administration has reached
out to a range of Egyptian contacts since the uprising began, it
isn’t talking to the Brotherhood, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Jan. 31 when asked at a press briefing
how America would view its involvement in a future government.
Any group that wants to play a role must be “committed to
nonviolence” and “respect a democratic process,” he said.  U.S. foreign-policy experts and former diplomats are
evaluating America’s position as they gauge how the strife in
Egypt might spread across the Arab world. Protests continued
early this morning in Cairo, as demonstrators who demand
Mubarak’s ouster clashed with supporters of the president’s
regime, hurling rocks at each other in Tahrir Square.  Anti-government turmoil already has spilled over into
neighboring  Jordan , where  King Abdullah  on Feb. 1 sacked his
prime minister. Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh said
yesterday he’ll step down when his term ends in 2013, and
protesters in  Algeria  have been killed in clashes with security
forces.  ‘Calamitous’ for Security  The Brotherhood “would be calamitous for U.S. security,”
Leslie Gelb, president emeritus of the Council of Foreign
Relations in  New York  and a former U.S. assistant secretary of
state,  wrote Jan. 29  on the Daily Beast website. The group
opposes the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty of 1979 and “would
endanger counterterrorism efforts in the region and worldwide,”
he said. “That is a very big deal.”  It “supports Hamas and other terrorist groups, makes
friendly noises to Iranian dictators and torturers,” and would
be “uncertain landlords of the critical  Suez Canal ,” he added.  The canal carries about 8 percent of global maritime trade.
Crude-oil prices have risen more than 5 percent since the
protests began Jan. 25 on concern that the turmoil in Egypt may
disrupt supply.  The Brotherhood is “committed to all international
agreements and treaties at this phase,” Mohamed al-Beltagy, a
senior leader of the group, said in a phone interview. “Later,
it should be left to the people to decide.”  Hijack Rebellion  The idea that the Brotherhood could hijack the anti-Mubarak
rebellion has been dismissed by  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former
United Nations atomic agency chief and one of the opposition
movement’s leaders. Mubarak stoked such fears to perpetuate U.S.
support, ElBaradei told ABC News on Jan. 31.  “This is what the regime sold to the U.S. and the West:
It’s either us and repression, or al-Qaeda type extremist
groups,” ElBaradei said of the Brotherhood, describing the
group as religiously conservative and nonviolent. “You have to
include them.”  International companies including Amsterdam-based brewer  Heineken NV , which bought Egypt’s Al Ahram Beverages Co. for
$287 million in 2002, have halted operations in the country or
pulled expatriate staff since the protests began. As the turmoil
continued yesterday, businesses were trying to forecast the
future and the likelihood of a government with Islamist
influence.  ‘Less Friendly’  Such a government may pursue “economic policies which
cater more to social welfare but are less friendly to foreign
investment from the West and business in general,” London-based
risk consultant Maplecroft said in report this week.  The Brotherhood’s history fuels the concern. While its
radical wing was accused of trying to assassinate Gamal Abdel Nasser, a former president, in 1954, the group has been a
persistent critic of the Mubarak regime for decades without
pursuing violence.  It has survived widespread jailings of its leadership over
the years to emerge as the main opposition in parliament after
2005, when it won about one-fifth of parliamentary seats by
running candidates as independents. It lost ground last year
when the government disqualified a quarter of its candidates
from the November elections.  Broader Appeal  The Brotherhood has sought to avoid being identified as a
religious movement and to broaden its appeal. Its former Supreme
Guide, Mahdi Akef, instructed members in 2005 not to brandish
the Koran at anti-government protests, saying that would
undermine their politicking. Still the Brotherhood raised
objections from other opposition groups, and dissent within its
own ranks, when it proposed in 2007 that women and non-Muslims
shouldn’t be eligible for the presidency.  It has fostered social and health programs for Egypt’s poor
that, in turn, have helped its political prospects. The social-
service model has been followed by other Islamist groups in the
region with varying success.  “One could quite easily see the Muslim Brotherhood picking
up 20 to 25 percent of the vote” in a free election, said Paul
Rogers, a specialist in international security at Bradford
University in  England .  While the group is conservative, its brand of Islam isn’t
“puritanical,” and “the idea that we are going to get an
Islamic revolution in Egypt like in  Iran  is very unlikely, just
nuts,” Rogers said.  Political Impulses  Michele Dunne, who tracks the evolving political situation
in Egypt for the  Carnegie Endowment  in  Washington , said
differences between Hamas and the Brotherhood, and their
political impulses, have to be explored.  “They founded Hamas. There is a relationship,” she said
of the Brotherhood. “The big difference is Hamas has used
violence and arms to pursue its goals. And the Brotherhood
hasn’t used violence in 40 years.”  Dunne said the U.S. likely will have to reconcile itself
with whatever transpires.  “At this point, it’s irrelevant what we think about the
Brotherhood. Things are moving very fast in Egypt,” she said.
“If the political leadership opens up, the Brotherhood will be
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  