-- Visa Profit Climbs as Consumers Switch to Cards, Boost Spending
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/visa-s-quarterly-profit-climbs-16-amid-rebound-in-u-s-consumer-spending.html
  Visa Inc ., the world’s biggest bank-
card network, said profit rose 16 percent in the fiscal first
quarter as the global migration to electronic payments
accelerated and U.S. consumers increased spending.  Net income climbed to $884 million, or $1.23 a share, in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from $763 million, or $1.02, a
year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said yesterday in
a statement. The average estimate of 31 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was $1.20.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders is increasing
dividends and repurchasing shares as more people pay with
plastic and U.S. consumer spending rebounds. Household purchases,
which account for about 70 percent of the economy, rose at a 4.4
percent pace in the three months ended Dec. 31, the most since
the first quarter of 2006, according to Commerce Department
figures released last week.  “Visa is in a strong position to continue to accelerate
the migration to electronic payments, particularly in economies
where cash and check remain predominant,” Saunders, 65, said in
the statement.  Visa rose 2 percent to $72.09 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday. The shares have declined 14 percent
in the past year.  More Transactions  The number of transactions Visa processed in the first
quarter jumped 15 percent to 12.6 billion, as spending on credit
and debit cards amounted to $897 billion, a 15 percent increase
from a year earlier when adjusted for currency fluctuations, the
company said. Cross-border volume, a measure of spending by
cardholders while traveling abroad, also advanced 15 percent.  Total operating revenue climbed 14 percent to $2.24 billion.
Operating expenses rose 17 percent to $872 million, driven by a
30 percent spending increase on personnel.  Visa bought back 15.3 million shares during the quarter at
an average price of $72.08 each, for a total of $1.1 billion,
according to the statement. About $800 million in shares were
effectively repurchased through the October funding of a
litigation escrow account. As of Dec. 31, the company had $694
million of remaining authorized funds for additional buybacks,
Visa said.  Saunders is contending with investor concern that U.S. caps
on debit-card interchange fees, set to take effect in July, may
lead to more regulation and damage Visa’s business model.  Capping Fees  “With a 70 percent share of U.S. debit, Visa is most at
risk to the new rules,” wrote Alison Williams, a Bloomberg
Research analyst who follows financial services, in a Jan. 26
report. “The spread of interchange regulation to other
geographies or card products is an increasing risk.”  The  Federal Reserve  has proposed capping interchange, or
“swipe” fees, at a flat 12 cents for each debit-card
transaction, replacing a formula that costs merchants about 1
percent of the purchase price. The limits, mandated by the Dodd-
Frank law that overhauled the financial industry last year, may
reduce annual revenue at U.S. banks by more than $12 billion.  Visa and  MasterCard Inc . set interchange fees and pass the
money to card issuers such as  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp ., which estimated that the debit caps may
reduce annual revenue by $2.3 billion. The lender said last
month that it will charge retail customers checking-account fees
unless they maintain minimum balances, make regular deposits,
use credit cards or take advantage of online services.  ‘Bad Policy’  Visa is trying to persuade Congress to delay the caps from
taking effect so lawmakers can more “carefully consider the
complexities” and how it might affect consumers, the economy
and financial institutions, Saunders said in a conference call
with analysts after the earnings release.  “The government is engaging in price fixing to the benefit
of virtually no one,” he said. “The debit price-control
legislation is bad policy and requires thorough review and
revision before potential implementation.”  The caps, pushed by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an
Illinois Democrat, aren’t likely to hurt near-term earnings for
Visa and Purchase, New York-based MasterCard as they don’t
directly affect the networks’ revenue, according to Williams,
who previously worked as a portfolio manager and analyst for
Morgan Stanley.  “Indirectly, U.S. debit volume growth could slow if
issuers switch their focus to alternative payment products,”
she wrote.  MasterCard, the world’s second-biggest payments network, is
scheduled to report fiscal fourth-quarter results before U.S.
markets open today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  