-- Vodafone Names Kleisterlee Chairman to Replace Bond
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2011-02-02T07:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/vodafone-names-philips-ceo-kleisterlee-to-replace-bond-as-chairman-in-july.html
  Vodafone Group Plc  named Gerard Kleisterlee, the chief executive officer of Royal Philips
Electronics NV, as chairman after some shareholders in July
voted against the re-election of incumbent John Bond.  Kleisterlee, who is 64 years old and slated to step down as
Philips CEO in March, will be appointed as a non-executive
director of Vodafone on April 1 before becoming chairman at the
annual meeting in July, the company said today in a statement.  Kleisterlee joins Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-
phone company, after he revived earnings at Philips, the world’s
biggest lighting company. Some shareholders in July demanded
that Bond be ousted as chairman following Vodafone’s
“disastrous” acquisition record. At the time, Bond was re-
elected with 93 percent of the vote.  “I am looking forward greatly to this new challenge, to
contributing to this company’s record of success,” Kleisterlee
said today.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , a Vodafone investor, in
July called for a re-examination of Vodafone’s “disastrous”
acquisition record. OTPP focused on Vodafone’s acquisitions
after the company wrote down the value of its Indian purchase by
2.3 billion pounds ($3.7 billion) in May, citing “intense price
competition.”  “Today’s announcement is the culmination of a succession
planning process which the Board initiated in February 2010,”
Bond said in the statement. Kleisterlee’s “track record at
Philips speaks for itself,” he said.  Asset Sales  OTPP, which voted against directors’ pay in 2007, last year
didn’t oppose the re-election of Chief Executive Officer
Vittorio Colao.  Under Colao, Vodafone has focused on selling smartphones
and investing in faster networks, while selling off minority
assets that it can’t control. Colao has said he is reviewing the
company’s 44 holding in French mobile-phone operator SFR, which
partner  Vivendi SA  wants to buy.  Vodafone is also considering a sale of its 24 percent
holding in Polish mobile-phone operator Polkomtel SA. The owners
are sending out a memorandum to potential bidders, one of the
shareholders said Jan. 31.  Last year, Vodafone sold holdings in Japanese wireless
operator Softbank Corp. for 3.1 billion pounds and disposed of
its stake in China Mobile Ltd. for $6.5 billion in the biggest
divestment since Colao took charge.  Higher Sales  Vodafone may say tomorrow service revenue excluding
currency swings and acquisitions rose 2.4 percent in the fiscal
third quarter, compared with a 1.2 percent drop a year earlier,
according to the average of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Vodafone returned to growth in the quarter that ended
June after a year and a half of declines.  Philips had revived earnings from the low point in 2001 and
2002, the first years of Kleisterlee’s reign, when the company
posted annual losses. With the exception of 2008, the company
has posted profits every year since 2003.  Kleisterlee rose to the position of CEO in 2001 after
decades at  Amsterdam -based Philips.  As head of the company, Kleisterlee reshaped Philips with
targeted acquisitions and divestments to focus on industries
with higher margins and stable earnings. He reduced the number
of units from eight to three.  “It was clear that Philips had to change,” Kleisterlee
said in a speech in May, pointing to the turmoil in the 1990s
and the bursting of the technology bubble in 2000.  Kleisterlee got the company out of components,
semiconductors, corporate communications systems and limited
unprofitable television activities by moving into licensing
agreements. The company’s three main businesses now are health-
care, lighting and consumer lifestyle.  Colao said today that he’s “grateful” to Bond for his
“support and personal advice since becoming CEO, during a phase
of extraordinary economic and industry changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 