-- Wheatley to Lead Britain’s Planned Finance Regulator
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2011-02-02T17:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/wheatley-said-to-head-u-k-consumer-protection-markets-agency.html
Martin Wheatley, the chief executive
officer of  Hong Kong ’s  Securities and Futures Commission , will
lead the U.K. agency that is intended to take over most of the
Financial Services Authority’s powers.  Wheatley, 52, was named chief executive designate of the
Consumer Protection and Markets Authority, Treasury minister
Mark Hoban told lawmakers in London today. Wheatley, also the
former deputy CEO of the London Stock Exchange, will begin work
at the FSA in September to transition the agency to the new
structure, the U.K. Treasury said in a statement.  Wheatley “will join our executive team at a time of
considerable change, as the FSA continues to deliver its
intensive supervisory approach, influence the international
regulatory policy agenda and design the structure of the two
future authorities,”  Hector Sants , the chief executive of the
FSA, said in a separate statement.  The British government plans to abolish the FSA at the end
of 2012, splitting it into a prudential regulatory authority
that will be part of the  Bank of England  and headed by Sants and
the separate consumer-focused agency. The CPMA will be an
independent regulator retaining many of the FSA’s powers. The
government said it will publish more proposals on reforming
financial regulations later this month.  Candidates for the CPMA post were said to have included  Margaret Cole , the head of enforcement at the FSA, and John Fingleton, the chief executive officer of the  Office of Fair
Trading , according to a person familiar with the matter.  LSE Stint  Wheatley spent 18 years at the  London  Stock Exchange prior
to taking the post in Hong Kong. He became deputy-CEO of the
exchange in 2001 under Clara Furse, and left in 2004. Wheatley
had said in December that after six years at Hong Kong’s SFC, he
would leave in June to return to the U.K.  “The appointment is a key step in the establishment of the
CPMA,” Hoban said in a statement. “His responsibilities in
Hong Kong have included dealing with complex retail- and
wholesale-market issues in one of the world’s leading
international financial centers.”  While Wheatley was at the SFC, the agency secured Hong
Kong’s  first jail sentence for insider trading , won a court
battle against billionaire Richard Li’s PCCW Ltd., and
strengthened investor protections amid controversy over improper
sales of notes linked to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .  In response to a public outcry after $1.8 billion of
Lehman-linked structured products became worthless with the
bank’s demise, the regulator brokered a deal with the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority in which 16 banks agreed to buy back the
products, called “minibonds,” from investors.  The SFC in 2009 succeeded in blocking the attempt by Li, a
son of Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-Shing , to take PCCW
private. The agency argued a shareholder vote was manipulated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 