-- Winning Super Bowl Lets Montana Teammates Fumble Elite Investing
-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 2011-02-09T22:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/winning-super-bowls-lets-montana-teammates-fumble-handling-elite-investor.html
(Corrects Cambridge Associates figure for investments it
represented in 15th paragraph for Feb. 2 story.)  Harris Barton, a former right tackle
with the  San Francisco 49ers , remembers the time Reggie White of
the Philadelphia Eagles flattened him. It was Sept. 24, 1989,
and for two downs, Barton had fended off White’s “rip and
club” move of throwing opponents off balance and knocking them
to the turf.  On third down, White hurled Barton on his butt and hit
quarterback Joe Montana so hard he fumbled the ball. Montana
went on to throw four touchdown passes in the fourth quarter to
beat the Eagles, 38-28, on the way to the team’s fourth Super
Bowl victory, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March
issue.  There may be no such comeback for Barton in the investing
game. HRJ Capital LLC, an investment firm he co-founded with
another former 49er, Hall of Fame defensive back Ronnie Lott,
collapsed in 2009 amid complaints by investors who say they were
misled about the extent of its woes. The rise and fall of HRJ is
a story of how former football champions traded on their star
power only to be undone by a rookie mistake in the way they
financed their investments.  “It worked for nine years, but mistakes were made,”
Barton, 46, says as he sips a coffee at an Italian restaurant in
Palo Alto,  California . After HRJ’s demise, he says he was
embarrassed every time he walked into a place like this in
Silicon Valley. “I felt like everyone was looking at me and
saying, ‘There he is, the dumb athlete who couldn’t manage his
firm.’”  Gridiron Glory  Barton, an All-Pro who won Super Bowls in the 1988, 1989
and 1994 seasons with one of the most dominant dynasties to ever
reign in football, set up the fund-of-funds firm in 1999.
Woodside, California-based HRJ, which Montana joined as a
partner from 2003 to 2005, invested in venture capital,  hedge
funds  and private-equity funds.  Wrapped in the glory of their triumphs on the gridiron, the
ex-49ers easily won entree to the most-prestigious names in
finance -- from venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers and hedge fund Tudor Investment Corp. to buyout company  Blackstone Group LP . George Roberts, co-founder of KKR & Co.,
became a mentor and golf partner of Barton’s. Ken Griffin, chief
executive officer of Citadel LLC, invited Lott to make a speech
to his  Chicago  hedge fund’s greenhorn traders on what it takes
to excel as a rookie.  “We used football to get in the door and talk to titans,”
Barton says.  At its peak in May 2008, HRJ managed $2.4 billion from
offices on three continents for sports stars such as
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning and San Francisco
Giants home run king Barry Bonds, according to a roster of the
firm’s clients.  Good Times End  The Houston Firefighters’ Relief and Retirement Fund,
Cornell University’s Office of University Investments and other
institutions also took advantage of HRJ’s access to elite money
managers.  The firm threw parties to celebrate its success: In 2007,
it flew many of its three dozen employees to  London  to schmooze
with European clients at a luxury skybox at Wembley Stadium
while the Miami Dolphins played the  New York  Giants on the field
below.  The good times came to an end two years later because of
the way HRJ financed its investments. Most funds of funds raise
money from investors and then commit the capital to private-
equity managers. HRJ took a different approach: It made
commitments to money managers prior to raising cash from new
clients.  Investors Outraged  When those managers called for capital, HRJ paid primarily
with debt issued by Silicon Valley Bank, a unit of  SVB Financial
Group , a Santa Clara, California-based company with $15.7
billion in assets as of Sept. 30. For five years, HRJ paid down
its debt with money from new investors in its funds.  When credit dried up even for the highest-quality borrowers
in 2008, HRJ was sitting on more than $338 million in unfunded
pledges and was unable to raise cash to cover its bets. HRJ
spiraled toward insolvency until its assets were acquired in
2009 by Capital Dynamics AG, a private-equity fund-of-funds firm
based in Zug,  Switzerland .  “The strategy was unorthodox and unwise,” says Austin Long, co-founder of Alignment Capital Group LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based private-equity consulting firm. “If more funds had
used this method, it would have brought the fund-of-funds
industry to its knees.”  Investors were outraged upon discovering that HRJ had
quietly transferred its overcommitment from an affiliate
controlled by Barton and Lott to the funds of funds themselves,
says Deirdre Nectow, head of business development at Cambridge
Associates LLC, a Boston-based consulting firm that represented
clients with more than $339 million invested in HRJ.  Financial Maneuvers  The move made HRJ’s limited partners responsible for the
debt to SVB and the capital calls issued by buyout firms. Nectow
says in an interview that the shift violated the limited-
partnership agreements HRJ signed with its clients, which
established that the funds would remain debt-free.  Cambridge only learned about the transfer after pressing
Jeffrey Bloom, the firm’s general counsel and chief compliance
officer, for more details on the state of HRJ funds during the
crisis. Cambridge then demanded an accounting of the move.  “We were dismayed by the actions they took,” Nectow says.
“They were not very forthcoming.” Bloom and Barton declined to
comment on the transfers. Lott declined to comment for this
article.  HRJ’s financial maneuvers also triggered litigation from
three senior executives: Lane Auten, a former investment banker
with Banco Santander SA, who headed HRJ’s marketing and
fundraising efforts from 2003 to 2008, and Duran Curis and
Darren Wong, both of whom managed HRJ’s funds of funds and
brought in new clients.  Payments Cut Off  In a lawsuit filed in Santa Clara County Superior Court,
the trio accused Barton, Lott, Capital Dynamics and SVB of
stiffing them on more than $17 million in compensation.  The former executives say HRJ owes them portions of the
management fees paid by clients in the firm’s funds. When HRJ
started running out of cash in 2008, the plaintiffs say the
founders and SVB agreed to cut off those payments to them and
instead use the fees to secure debt HRJ and its affiliates owed
the bank, including $8 million in personal loans it made to
Barton and Lott.  “These guys promised us, ‘You will be paid this money for
all the work you do for 10 years,’ but they overextended
themselves and they broke that promise,” says Auten, 43, a
managing partner at Impact Capital Partners, a San Francisco-
based investment consulting firm.  Under Strain  All of the defendants, who have denied the allegations in
court filings, declined to comment.  Barton says he, too, was hurt by HRJ’s failure. He lost his
equity in the firm from its sale, and his personal finances came
under strain. Barton, who received a bachelor’s degree in
finance from the University of  North Carolina  at Chapel Hill in
1987, made a lineman’s wage in the National Football League,
averaging about $620,000 a year.  In 2004, he bought and renovated a 113-year-old mansion
with five bedrooms in Palo Alto that’s worth about $6 million
today. Barton says he was deeply worried about losing his house
as HRJ unraveled.  Barton, a Georgia native with curly auburn hair and a
boyish grin, has a Southerner’s gift for storytelling. With his
easygoing nature and 12 handicap on the golf course, Barton made
a lot of friends among venture capitalists.  ‘Magical Aura’  In December, he and Lott hosted a gala in  San Francisco ’s
City Hall to benefit Champion Charities, which they founded to
raise money for brain cancer research. Both of Barton’s parents
died from the disease. At 6 feet 4 inches (1.93 meters) tall,
Barton stood head and shoulders above the 400 partygoers,
autographing footballs and greeting friends such as M&A adviser
Frank Quattrone.  “Harris was passionate about creating a compelling
investment firm,” says Andy Rachleff, a founding general
partner at Benchmark Capital, a venture firm in Menlo Park,
California. “And Ronnie had this magical aura around him; you
wanted to be in his company. They understood what their currency
was, and they weren’t embarrassed about using it.”  From the moment the two athletes started their firm as
Champion Ventures during the dot-com boom, they were confident
they could exploit their celebrity, Barton says. After Montana
joined the firm, the principals changed its name to HRJ, using
the first letters of their names.  Master of Access  The trio played with a legendary club that won five Super
Bowls from 1981 to 1994. Montana, a three-time Super Bowl Most
Valuable Player, was known as Joe Cool for his eye-of-the-storm
calm and precise passing.  The hard-hitting Lott earned renown as one of the toughest
defenders to ever play the game. After his pinky finger was
smashed in an on-field collision during a 1985 game, he had part
of it amputated rather than miss games the next season in rehab.  Venture capitalists held the 49ers in as much awe as rank-
and-file fans, Auten says. When Barton and Lott debuted their
$40 million VC fund of funds in 1999, it was invited to invest
in Sequoia Capital, Benchmark and Kleiner, as these funds were
routinely turning away other investors. Barton and Lott were
equally successful in parlaying their friendships with hedge-
fund and private-equity managers into investments in their
funds.  “Harris would always come by and ask, ‘Who do you want to
see?’” a former HRJ managing director says. “He was a master
of access.”  14-Fold Jump  In 2002, the buyout boom picked up where the dot-com bust
left off. HRJ joined a wave of funds of funds that offered
smaller foundation and pension managers a chance to spread their
bets across a number of exclusive private-equity funds. In 2007
alone, 173 private-equity funds of funds raised $57 billion in
capital globally, an almost 14-fold jump from the $4.3 billion
deployed by 27 of them in 1997, according to Preqin Ltd., a
London-based research firm.  “Without funds of funds, we couldn’t get the access we
needed to do this kind of investing,” says Lisa Eslinger, chief
investment officer at the $400 million Iowa State University
Foundation, which placed $8 million in an HRJ fund that bought
distressed assets. “The fund-of-funds structure opened this
door for institutions like ours.”  In keeping with the industry norm, HRJ charged 1 percent on
managed assets and 5 percent of profits on top of fees collected
by the underlying funds themselves.  ‘No Rush Like That’  Barton says he savored being a player in the global
investment game. He hit the links at the ultra-exclusive Nanea
Golf Club on the big island of  Hawaii  with KKR’s Roberts and
talked shop over Italian dinners with  Marc Lasry , CEO of Avenue
Capital Group, a New York-based hedge fund. It was a heady new
chapter for a man who was trained to hurl his body at other big
men for 60 minutes on a Sunday. Barton says he loved visiting
tech startups with Lott in Silicon Valley.  “It was like football in August: You’re in the locker room
and Bill Walsh says we’re going to win the Super Bowl,” Barton
says, referring to the 49ers Hall of Fame head coach, who died
in 2007. “There’s no rush like that, except when you walk into
a company with six guys and one’s from  Poland , and another is
from  Israel , and they’re going to make a hit company, have an
IPO.”  Barton could have easily wound up with the New England
Patriots or New York Jets, both of which almost picked him in
the 1987 draft. Instead, the 49ers selected him in the first
round as they were reaching full bloom under the cerebral Walsh.  Uppercut Move  “I was playing on a team with Montana and Lott at the same
time Yahoo and Cisco were being built down the road,” Barton
says. “That’s pure luck.”  The 280-pound (127-kilogram) tackle rapidly learned that at
the pro level, he would need more than size and strength to
prevail in the head-to-head wrangling on the line of scrimmage;
he would need knowledge. Barton spent long hours dissecting the
tendencies of his opponents.  “He was obsessed with watching film,” says Brent Jones, a
tight end who played alongside Barton. “Harris was always a key
player on our offensive line.”  Barton noticed on film that the late Reggie White liked
charging inside the tackle and used an uppercut move -- the rip
-- to knock the linemen backward before clubbing them down. So
Barton placed more weight on his left foot to withstand White’s
attack. Barton says anticipating your opponent’s first move was
crucial.  “It’s actually like a chess match,” he says.  Broken Fibula  Even as Barton collected Super Bowl rings, he was drawn to
the other front-page story unfolding in the Bay Area: the
computer revolution. Barton says he pinched 49ers letterhead and
wrote to  Cisco Systems Inc . CEO John Chambers and Yahoo! Inc.
co-founder Jerry Yang to express his admiration for their
companies and his desire to learn more about them.  The gambit got him meetings with the executives, and he
later became friends with John Mumford, founder of Crosspoint
Venture Partners, and other venture capitalists. Barton says he
also cold-called KKR’s Roberts, 67, in 1994 to introduce himself
and became a protege of the San Francisco-based dealmaker. Both
Roberts and Mumford declined to comment.  In a preseason game in August 1998, Barton’s NFL career
came to an abrupt end when a Miami Dolphins defender fell on his
ankle and broke his fibula. Barton, then 34, says he went into a
state of withdrawal as he faced life without football.  A few weeks later, he had lunch with Lott, who’d
reluctantly left the game in 1995 after his own body gave out,
at the Peninsula Creamery diner in Palo Alto. Barton told his
former teammate he didn’t know what to do with his life. Lott
suggested they could help athletes invest with venture
capitalists.  Football Pizza Parties  “Let’s call these guys; they’re all friends of yours,”
Lott told Barton. “Let’s go meet Mumford.”  Mumford told the two athletes that to secure allocations in
top VC funds they needed more than capital; they would have to
be active investors who contributed something of value to
startups. So Barton and Lott told John Doerr, senior partner at
Kleiner, and other VCs that they would be happy to visit their
portfolio companies and tell motivational football stories,
throw Monday Night Football pizza parties for employees and help
recruit talent.  After the duo received spots in VC funds, they contacted
their friends in pro sports and offered them a chance to cash in
on the then raging dot-com market. Their fund-of-funds firm was
born.  Silver Spoons  Barton and Lott set up shop in a ranch-style office in
Woodside, a wealthy hamlet near  Stanford University.  Barton, an
effusive personality, couldn’t sit still and wandered the office
slapping backs and asking how the funds were performing. Lott, a
former All-Pro defender, was an intense, taciturn presence who
spoke in sports analogies.  One HRJ recruit says Lott told him that he and Barton
wanted to put an all-star team together and were looking for top
players. Lott liked to say that every team member at HRJ ate
from the same soup bowl. To drive the point home one year, he
gave silver spoons from Tiffany & Co. to every employee.  Barton and Lott raised $309 million for three VC funds of
funds by 2003. When venture-capital fundraising plunged after
the tech bust in 2000, Barton says Roberts advised him to shift
into leveraged-buyout funds.  They were gearing up as the U.S. recession of 2001 left
scores of companies weakened and spurred  interest rates  to fall.
HRJ committed $278 million to 35 buyout funds via HRJ Growth
Capital I and II from 2002 to 2006, according to fund documents.
And Lott led a push into hedge funds with the HRJ Legends Multi-
Strategy funds, a $330 million investment pool.  Autograph Seekers  Montana, who invested in property, joined HRJ in 2003 and
led the development of a real-estate fund of funds. The former
quarterback was thronged by autograph seekers whenever he
visited public pension investment boards to pitch the funds,
former HRJ managing directors say. HRJ invested $308 million in
real estate assets managed by  Fortress Investment Group LLC ,  Lone Star Funds  and other firms.  Yet Montana, a private man who lived on a sprawling Tuscan-
style villa in Napa Valley, loathed the two-hour drive to the
Woodside office and didn’t have the same zest for investing as
his former teammates, the ex-HRJ employees say. In 2005, he quit
as a partner. Montana, 54, who promoted  Skechers  sneakers last
year, declined to comment.  In 2006, HRJ’s first global buyout fund returned 23 percent
compared with 13.6 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
By 2007, HRJ had $1.7 billion in invested capital and 40
employees in offices in Silicon Valley, New York, Chicago,
Zurich and  Shanghai . That year, Barton and Lott launched their
largest fund yet: the $550 million HRJ Global Buy-Out III.  Eleven Rings  The fortunes of HRJ were about to shatter thanks to the
pre-commitment model it had adopted in 2003. Barton says HRJ
used debt so it could lock down more investments with elite
money managers. The move also helped the firm raise funds by
showing potential investors where it was placing its bets.  “We knew what funds they were investing in and that was
valuable,” Iowa State’s Eslinger says.  Bloom, the lawyer who was then also the firm’s chief
financial officer, helped the founders set up an affiliate in
2003 to hold the debt owed to SVB. Called Eleven Rings, the
limited-liability company took its name from the number of Super
Bowl rings won by Barton, Lott and Montana.  Whenever HRJ made commitments to invest in buyout and VC
funds, Eleven Rings drew on its SVB credit line to pay capital
calls issued by those funds. In this way, Barton, Lott and
Eleven Rings bore the lending risk and not HRJ’s clients.  ‘Disastrous Overcommitment’  When the subprime mortgage collapse started rattling
markets in late 2007, Barton says Mumford warned him and Lott to
pull back on making commitments to buyout firms. It was too
late.  By April 2008, Global Buy-Out III had closed $420 million
in pledges to 25 buyout firms, according to HRJ records. When
those firms started issuing capital calls to Eleven Rings to
make payments under threat of default, it burned through its SVB
credit line. HRJ’s fate hung on whether it could bring in new
investors during the worst global financial crisis in decades.  After Eleven Rings transferred its debt obligations to
HRJ’s funds, Suomi Mutual Life Assurance Co., an investor in the
Global Buy-Out III Asia Fund, expressed its pique at the move.  “HRJ Capital, Eleven Rings, and SVB, in an attempt to
address the disastrous overcommitment problem that they created,
have taken actions to improperly shift the problem and the SVB
loan onto the limited partners of the HRJ Asia Fund,” Jussi
Snellman, the Helsinki-based insurer’s lawyer, wrote to an HRJ
attorney on Feb. 9, 2009. An SVB spokeswoman declined to
comment.  ‘This is a Funeral’  On the night of Dec. 15, 2008, Barton, Lott and Bloom
gathered in a conference room at SVB’s Palo Alto office. Barton
says the mood was somber as Greg Becker, SVB’s president,
presented them with a document the bank was about to submit to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  It stated that HRJ was unable to repay almost $69 million
in loans and that SVB was assuming control of its funds and
management fees. There was virtually no chance investors would
give HRJ money to manage once the news hit.  “This is a funeral; you’re going to kill these guys,” HRJ
lawyer Frank Currie told Becker, according to Barton. The 8K
went public at midnight, and HRJ was done.  Four months later, SVB found a buyer for HRJ, preventing
its limited partners from being wiped out in a possible
bankruptcy. In April 2009, Thomas Kubr, CEO of Capital Dynamics,
agreed to pay $29 million to retire HRJ’s $57 million debt to
SVB. Capital Dynamics also assumed the $8 million in personal
loans to Barton and Lott.  Back in the Game  The deal ended HRJ’s overcommitment crisis, and none of
HRJ’s limited partners chose to sue the firm. And HRJ’s VC IV
fund, which invested with the Accel Partners fund backing
Facebook Inc., was worth 1.2 times its invested capital as of
Sept. 30, 2010.  Barton accepts responsibility for the fall of HRJ, a
beating he says that ached far more than the blows he suffered
on the football field.  “At the end of the day, my name was on the door, so I’ll
take the hit,” he says. After spending a year with Capital
Dynamics, he opened H. Barton Asset Management, which will
invest alongside VCs in tech startups.  “I want to be back in the game,” Barton says. “I think I
can make a go of it again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  