-- Bad Weather a Temporary Hitch in U.S. Recovery, Economists Say
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2011-02-02T18:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/winter-storms-placing-a-temporary-hitch-in-u-s-recovery-economists-say.html
A strengthening U.S. recovery means
the depressing influence of the  winter storms  that disrupted
travel from  Chicago  to  New York  over the past few days and
blanketed much of the country in January will be temporary,
economists said.  Sales at chain stores fell 0.9 percent in the month ended
Jan. 29, cutting the gain over the past year to 1.8 percent, the
smallest since May, according to figures from Johnson Redbook
Research issued yesterday. Snow and cold temperatures may have
reduced January payrolls by 60,000 workers, according to a
forecast by economists at UBS Securities LLC.  Weather “will have an impact on January data for sure,”
Kevin Cummins, a UBS economist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
an interview. “For the rest of the quarter, we would expect it
to unwind and return to normal.” UBS forecasts the world’s
largest economy will grow at a 4.2 percent annual pace from
January through March, a point more than the prior quarter.  Growing consumer confidence, expanding manufacturing and
increasing demand from overseas indicate the world’s largest
economy as a whole will probably overcome the effects of bad
weather. A report from the Institute for Supply Management
yesterday showed manufacturing expanded last month at the
fastest pace in more than six years.  A snowstorm may have cut 70,000 workers from the payroll
count for January because it hit during the week covered by the
Labor Department’s survey of employers, according to  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
in New York. The storm spread from the Midwest and the South to  Boston . Employment probably increased by 140,000 last month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of the Feb. 4 report.  Colder Temperatures  UBS economists estimate that temperatures last month were 4
degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees Celsius) below average after
being 1 degree below normal in December. Such a swing has
historically subtracted about 0.5 percentage point from retail
sales, according to their calculations.  To be sure, there will be winners and losers, said Chris Christopher, an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . Restaurants will probably show the biggest
slowdown in sales, while Internet merchants may prosper.  “Restaurants don’t like this stuff at all,” Christopher
said in an interview. “You don’t make up that missed meal later
in the month.”  Online Shopping  On the other hand “there is some evidence that when people
stay at home, they do more online shopping,” he said.  December’s report on retail sales provides evidence that a
late-month storm may have played havoc with holiday shopping and
dining. Purchases at restaurants and bars climbed 0.2 percent,
less than half the November increase, while demand in the
category that includes Internet retailers jumped 2.6 percent,
the biggest gain in more than two years.  The first bits of data for January have shown little sign
of a letup. The ISM’s factory index climbed to 60.8 last month,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists and the highest level since May 2004. Autos
sold at a 12.5 million annual pace, matching the December level
as the highest since August 2009, when the government’s cash-
for-clunkers boosted demand.  “While some economic reports in January and February may
get clipped by the severe weather,”  John Ryding , chief
economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York, said in a note to
clients yesterday, the ISM report “confirms that underlying
growth momentum is quite strong in early 2011 and we would
expect the economy to bounce back from any such effects as soon
as the winter storms are behind us -- whenever that might be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  