-- Yemen Protests Threaten to Hobble U.S. Al-Qaeda Fight
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-02-03T12:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/yemen-s-political-protests-threaten-to-hobble-u-s-fight-against-al-qaeda.html
Protests against Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh are threatening to undermine a U.S.-supported
crackdown against al-Qaeda in  Saudi Arabia ’s impoverished
neighbor, analysts said.  Saleh yesterday followed Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
in caving in to street protests and vowing not to seek re-
election. Tens of thousands of protesters rallied in the capital
today and Saleh’s loosening grip on power may make it harder to
fight the terrorist group that tried to bomb a Detroit-bound
plane on Christmas Day 2009. Saleh’s move came three weeks after
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told a forum in Yemen that
terrorists based in the country were an “urgent concern.”  “The Americans and other international partners need the
Yemeni government to be proactive and to deal with these
issues,” said Christopher Boucek, a Yemen analyst at the
Washington-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
“It’s a huge concern.”  Opposition parties held a “Day of Rage” today, in which
protesters inspired by uprisings in Tunisia and  Egypt  gathered
and chanted slogans against the government. Thousands of pro-
government demonstrators also rallied in the capital. Protests
in the past weeks have largely been peaceful.  ‘Broken State’  “The situation in Yemen may be completely different to
what you see in Egypt, because Yemen is already a broken state
and this might exacerbate conditions there even more,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in a phone interview.
“It’s going to make it more difficult to go after al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula.”  Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace ranked Yemen
15th of 60 countries on their 2010  Failed States Index , saying
only Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among
nations in  Asia  and the Middle East.  The Yemeni government is battling a secessionist movement
in the south and a Shiite uprising in the north.  Al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based wing has launched cross-border
attacks on Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter and
holder of one-fifth of global reserves. In August 2009, it tried
to assassinate the top Saudi anti-terrorism official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz. The group was also responsible
for sending two parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in October.  ‘Government’s Efforts’  “Your government’s efforts to disrupt al-Qaeda’s
operational planning and to deny it safe haven are profoundly in
Yemen’s own interests,” Clinton told the public forum in Sanaa
on Jan. 11. “They have sought, more than once, to attack our
country. Stopping such threats would be a priority for any
nation, and it is a priority for us.”  Saleh, 68, who has been in power since 1978, told
parliament yesterday that he also won’t hand over power to his
son, Brigadier General Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh, and called for
the formation of a national unity government.  “There has been mobilizing in the streets and this will
lead to chaos,” Saleh told legislators. “‘We will make this
concession for the interest of the country.”  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in a
statement yesterday that the U.S. welcomes “any decisions by
President Saleh that advance Yemen’s political development
through non-violent and democratic means.”  Pacify Opposition  Saleh’s pledges may not pacify the opposition.  “This isn’t a situation like in Egypt where President
Mubarak is talking a matter of months, this is something where
the next presidential elections are scheduled for 2013,”
Gregory Johnsen, a Yemen scholar at  Princeton University  in  New
Jersey  said. Mubarak, 82, who has been in office since 1981,
this week said he wouldn’t stand for re-election in September, a
concession that Egyptian protesters rejected as insufficient.  The U.S. has tripled non-military aid to Yemen to about
$130 million. Along with military aid, U.S. assistance to Yemen
is $300 million this year.  Beyond its security challenges, Yemen faces serious water
shortages, declining oil output and a society where more than
half the population of 23 million is under 20 years old. About
40 percent of Yemen’s population, which is expected to almost
double by 2030 to 40 million, lives on less than $2 a day.  “Yemenis have even more grievances than people in Egypt
and  Tunisia ,” said Johnsen. “The real concern for the Yemeni
regime is if all of these different strands of opposition sort
of coalesce into a single narrative that just is focused on
President Saleh, and if that happens the regime is in a lot of
trouble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  