-- Yemenis Flood Capital in Day of Protest After President Makes Concessions
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2011-02-03T21:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/yemenis-prepare-for-protest-as-saleh-vows-to-step-down-in-2013.html
Tens of thousands of Yemeni
protesters, inspired by uprisings in  Tunisia  and Egypt, rallied
in the capital a day after President Ali Abdullah Saleh tried to
defuse tensions by agreeing to step down at the end of his term.  Shops and banks closed as part of a nationwide protest the
opposition dubbed a “Day of Rage.” Pro-government
demonstrators also gathered in the city, chanting slogans in
support of stability. The two crowds in Sanaa were of similar
size and began to disperse by midday.  For the past several weeks, protesters have been holding
rallies against Saleh’s three-decade rule. The president
yesterday told parliament that he won’t seek to extend his term
when it expires in 2013 and called for the formation of a
national unity government. The demonstrations threaten to loosen
Saleh’s grip on power and undermine the U.S.-supported crackdown
against al-Qaeda in the nation, which borders  Saudi Arabia .  The protests “already had an impact by having Saleh say
publicly that he won’t run,” said Gregory Johnsen, a Yemen
analyst at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey . “There is a good
chance that it could escalate.”  In the port city of Aden, police fired tear gas and used
gunfire to break up protests and two people were slightly
injured, the Yemeni Congregation for Reform, the largest
opposition group, said on its website. A person answering the
telephone at the offices of the police said no one was available
to comment.  Call From Obama  President  Barack Obama  called Saleh yesterday to “welcome
the significant reform measures” and to “stress that President
Saleh now needs to follow-up his pledge with concrete actions,”
according to an e-mailed White House statement.  Obama told Saleh that his security forces must “show
restraint and refrain from violence” against protesters. He
also told Saleh that Yemen must take “forceful " action against
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the group responsible for
sending two parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in October and the
attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound plane on Christmas Day
2009.  During the call Obama ‘‘expressed concern’’ about the
release of Abd-Ilah al-Shai, who was sentenced to five years in
prison for his relationship with the group.  Secessionist Movement  In addition to the struggle against al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, Yemen faces an internal uprising in the north and a
secessionist movement in the south. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told a forum in Yemen on Jan. 11 that terrorists
based in the country were an ‘‘urgent concern.’’  The U.S. has tripled non-military aid to about $130
million, with total assistance to Yemen this year at about $300
million.  Protesters are seeking an end to ‘‘exclusion and
marginalization,’’ Najib Ghanim, a senior member of the
Congregation for Reform, said at the Sanaa protest. ‘‘We are not
looking for conflict but we are calling for freedom, a decent
life and stability.’’  Some of the demonstrators shouted, ‘‘The people want the
fall of the president.’’  Those who support the government gathered in the streets of
Sanaa, chanting, ‘‘With our soul and blood, we sacrifice
ourselves for Ali!’’  ‘Tunisia or  Egypt ’  ‘‘We don’t want to become like Tunisia or Egypt,’’ said
Mohammed Saleh, 20, a pro-government demonstrator.  The protests follow unrest in Tunisia, where former leader
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled the country on Jan. 14 after public
demonstrations against rising prices and unemployment turned
into a revolt. Egyptians continued to protest in the streets
today, clashing with pro-government demonstrators, after Egypt’s
ruler of 30 years,  Hosni Mubarak , said he would step down as
president later this year. Jordan’s King Abdullah replaced his
prime minister this week, vowing the move would ‘‘strengthen
democracy” in the Arab country.  Saleh became leader of North Yemen in 1978, and has ruled
the Republic of Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990.
His son, Brigadier General Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh, has served
as an adviser to his father and it was widely believed that he
was being groomed for the presidency, said Ibrahim Sharqieh, a
Yemen expert and deputy director for the Brookings Doha Center
in Qatar. In his parliamentary address yesterday, Saleh said
that he wouldn’t have his son succeed him.  Constitutional Amendment  Yemen’s parliament last month gave preliminary approval to
a constitutional amendment to eliminate  term limits , a measure
that would allow Saleh to stay in power past the end of his
mandate.  Following protests in the capital, Saleh last week ordered
that 500,000 families be included in the country’s social
security program, the official SABA news agency reported Jan.
31. Saleh also ordered the creation of a fund to support
university graduates in the Arabian Peninsula nation and
facilitate their employment.  Growth in the $30 billion economy is expected to slow to
4.1 percent this year from 8 percent in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Yemen has a per-capita output of about $1,100 a year and
one of the world’s most acute water shortages, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem Hasan Ali in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 