-- Hyundai Starts Touting Fuel-Economy Gains by Sharing Monthly MPG Results
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2011-02-03T00:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-02/hyundai-touts-fuel-economy-gains-by-sharing-monthly-mpg-results.html
  Hyundai Motor Co ., aiming to offer
the most efficient U.S. vehicle line, began revealing overall
fuel economy for its cars and light trucks based on monthly
sales as regulators prepare to set tougher rules for automakers.  Autos sold by Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest carmaker, in
January got an average of 34.7 miles per gallon of gasoline,
based on  U.S. Corporate Average Fuel Economy , or CAFE,
guidelines. Hyundai’s U.S. fleet averaged 34.4 miles per gallon
in December and 31.7 in the 2009 model year, the latest period
for industry data, said  John Krafcik , the company’s U.S. chief.  “We look at this information internally, so we thought,
‘Why not share it externally?’” Krafcik said yesterday in an
interview. “It might be helpful to policy makers and the
general public because there’s a lot of discussion about big
CAFE targets.”  Oil price fluctuations and fuel-economy rules aimed at
cutting  carbon emissions  linked to  climate change  are pushing
automakers to introduce more efficient vehicles and hybrid,
plug-in and electric models that use little or no gasoline.  In the U.S., where Hyundai was the fastest-growing mass-
market carmaker last year, regulators are developing rules that
may require vehicle fuel economy of 47 to 62 miles per gallon by
2025, compared with a requirement of 27.3 for 2011 models.  “It puts to bed the old auto industry canard that
consumers don’t care about fuel economy,” said  Dan Becker ,
director of the Safe Climate Campaign, a Washington-based group
that lobbies for higher fuel-economy rules. “This is the first
time I’ve heard of a company doing this. The industry should do
the same to inform consumers, their workers and the government.”  Keeping ‘Honest’  Jose Ucles, a spokesman for the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, which oversees CAFE rules, declined to
comment on Hyundai’s action.  The carmaker rose 1.1 percent to 181,000 won in Seoul
trading on Feb. 1, extending its gain this year to 4.3 percent.
Markets in  Seoul  were closed yesterday and today for a holiday.  Hyundai set a goal in 2008 of increasing its fleet’s CAFE
rating to 35 miles per gallon by 2015 and said last year it aims
to reach 50 miles per gallon across its lineup by 2025.  Fuel efficiency is “one of our top three business
imperatives,” Krafcik said. Disclosing monthly fuel-economy
details is “a way to keep ourselves honest,” he said.  Unlike  General Motors Co . and Nissan Motor Co., which are
boosting sales of rechargeable Volt and Leaf cars, Hyundai aims
to curb fuel consumption mainly by using small, efficient,
direct-injection and turbo-charged engines and lighter steel
alloys that cut a vehicle’s weight.  No Followers  Hyundai began selling the  Sonata Hybrid  in the U.S. in
January, its first gasoline-electric model for that market.
Krafcik declined to say how many of the cars were sold last
month.  For now, none of Hyundai’s biggest competitors in the U.S.
plans to make the same fuel-economy information available.    Toyota Motor Corp . has no plans to report CAFE monthly,
said John Hanson, a company spokesman. Similarly, Honda Motor Co.
and Nissan won’t be giving fuel-economy figures when sales are
released, said Chris Martin, a Honda spokesman, and Katherine Zachary, a spokeswoman for Nissan’s U.S. unit.  “Anything other than on an annual basis could be confusing
to customers because it can widely fluctuate,” said Sharon Basel, a spokeswoman for GM, which also doesn’t plan to follow
Hyundai. “The thing that’s really important to the customer is
what the fuel economy is on the sticker of the vehicle they are
shopping for.”    John Stoll , a Ford spokesman, declined to say if the
automaker would report monthly CAFE results.  Chrysler Group LLC doesn’t have any plans at this time to
report the results each month, Rick Deneau, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Hyundai said yesterday U.S. sales rose 22 percent in
January. The Seoul-based company’s U.S. sales unit is in  Fountain Valley ,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  