-- A Free-Market Fix for the Copyright Racket
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-11-29T21:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/a-free-market-fix-for-the-copyright-racket.html
While most of the punditocracy was
chattering earlier this month about  Mitt Romney ’s “gifts”  gaffe ,
another Republican took an unexpectedly bold stand about a huge
and controversial special-interest handout that largely benefits
Democratic constituencies.  A young Capitol Hill staff member named  Derek S. Khanna 
published a Republican Study Committee  policy brief  titled
“Three Myths About Copyright Law and Where to Start to Fix It.”
The paper attacked the current copyright system, particularly
the continual and retroactive extension of copyright terms at
the behest of entertainment-industry lobbyists.  The target wasn’t new -- today’s expansive copyright law
has long been a pet peeve of many technorati and left-leaning
critics of corporate power -- but Khanna’s critique was
striking. He made his case in the traditional Republican
language of free markets, limited government and constitutional
intent.  “The Federal government has gotten way too big,” the report
declared, “and our copyright law is a symptom of the expansion
in the size and scope of the federal government.” The current
system, it went on, “bears almost no resemblance to the
constitutional provision that enabled it and the conception of
this right by our Founding Fathers.”  The paper drew praise from reformers at outlets across the
political spectrum, from the  American Conservative  to  Publishers
Weekly  to  Daily Kos . But within 24 hours, the study committee
withdrew it, spiking it from its website. Hollywood, it seemed,
had won again.  Substantial Critique  The fight isn’t over. The Khanna paper was a harbinger of
what promises to be a sustained and substantial critique of
today’s copyright regime from intellectuals and activists on the
right.  “Copyright reform,”  says  Republican consultant Patrick
Ruffini, “allows Republicans to demonstrate that they’re pro-
market, not just pro-big business.”  Besides, the movie, music and publishing industries
generally hate Republicans.  Making the intellectual case, the  Mercatus Center  at  George
Mason University , a hub of free-market scholarship, has just
released  “Copyright Unbalanced: From Incentive to Excess,”  a
collection of libertarian and conservative critiques. The book
doesn’t oppose copyright per se, but it excoriates the current
system’s lengthy terms and expansive enforcement powers.  “Whatever your philosophical position, if you are skeptical
of government power, you should likewise be skeptical of the
copyright system that has developed over the last century,”
writes  Jerry Brito , the volume’s editor, in the introduction.  Brito, who directs the center’s technology policy program
and teaches law at  George Mason , argues that copyright is more
akin to the tradable emissions permits used to regulate air
pollution than it is to traditional property in goods or real
estate. Copyright is a “created order,” in which congressional
action deliberately generates scarcity to produce a public
benefit.  Just as an effective emissions-trading system depends on
getting right the exact number of permits and total amount of
emissions, so a good copyright system depends on setting the
right terms, limits on fair use and enforcement mechanisms.  “If copyright is weak, then it will provide little
incentive to create,” Brito writes. “But if it is too strong,
then it will limit the public’s ability to enjoy and build on
creative works, which after all is the reason why we have
copyright in the first place.”  Striking that balance is tricky, even without political
pressure. And lawmakers have shown little interest in trying to
reason out the optimal solution. Instead of balancing the
interests of consumers and future producers with financial
incentives to create new works today, copyright has become an
expanding monopoly privilege for well-connected industries.  Bizarre Combination  Even as digital technology has made reproducing, remixing
and repurposing creative works easier -- with potentially
enormous benefits for consumers and producers of new works --
the monopoly privileges of copyright have expanded. The result
is a bizarre combination of rampant copyright violations,
frequent encroachment on legitimate fair use, suppression of new
technologies and business models, and the ever-present threat of
draconian penalties.  Consider how the law applies to  Robert Frost ’s classic poem
“Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” first published in 1923.
Back then you only got copyright privileges for works officially
registered with the copyright office, and only for a term of 28
years, which could be renewed if you filed again, as Frost did
in 1951.  Requiring such simple procedures reserved copyright
privileges for creators with strong commercial or sentimental
interests in limiting the publication of their works. Today, by
contrast, copyright automatically applies to every eligible
work, including your vacation snapshots and your 4-year-old’s
handmade Mother’s Day card.  Under the law when Frost wrote his poem and renewed the
copyright on the volume including it, it would have presumably
entered the public domain in 1979, more than a decade after its
author’s death in 1963. That’s not what happened. Beginning in
1962, Congress gradually extended copyright terms, and in 1976
it passed a new copyright act that gives works already under
copyright a new term of 75 years from their first publication.
That meant “Stopping by Woods” wouldn’t go into the public
domain until 1998.  That’s not what happened either. Just as the poem’s
copyright was about to expire, Congress passed the Sonny Bono
Copyright Term Extension Act, which gave existing works a new
copyright term of 95 years. (The 1923 Frost volume including the
poem was one of the  works cited  in a lawsuit  unsuccessfully
challenging  the act’s constitutionality.) So Frost’s poem won’t
enter the public domain until 2018 -- assuming that Congress
doesn’t pass yet another extension.  Promoting Progress  Fifty-six years of copyright was clearly enough to
encourage Frost to write the poem. Anything further is just a
windfall for his estate and his publisher. The Constitution,
reformers are quick to note, gave Congress the right to grant
copyrights “to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts,”
not to benefit producers.  A copyright isn’t supposed to be a reward. It’s supposed to
be an incentive.  The good news for poetry lovers is that Frost’s estate
doesn’t act like a movie studio or recording label and hurl
“cease and desist” letters at everyone who reproduces the poem
without permission. YouTube is full of children reciting
“Stopping by Woods” as well as  videos  dramatizing the poem,
including clay animation and Lego versions. Every one is a
potential copyright violation.  Or maybe not. It all depends on the limits of “fair use.”
Eugene Volokh, a law professor at the  University of California 
at  Los Angeles , notes that those cute kids rattling off Frost’s
lines are “highly unlikely to be a substitute for any licensed
video recordings or audio recordings.” The only way to be sure
whether their performances qualify as fair use is to litigate
the question and few proud parents with a video camera and a
YouTube account have a fund reserved for court challenges. The 
costs of litigation make copyright more expansive than it is on 
the books. (For protection from charges of infringement, YouTube
generally removes videos when someone alleges a copyright
violation, even in cases of clear-cut fair use, such as a
 snippet  of President Obama singing a copyrighted song that was
used in a Mitt Romney ad.)  Vigorous enforcement of Frost’s copyright would hamper the
spread of his poetry and deter new creative works illustrating
it -- producing the exact opposite effect intended by the
framers of the Constitution’s copyright clause.  In the concluding essay in “Copyright Unbalanced,”  Tom W.
Bell , a professor at Chapman University School of Law in
 California , argues for a radically conservative reform: a return
to the original U.S. copyright law, passed in 1790, which
protected only maps, charts and books and for only a renewable
14-year term. Although the “parsimonious approach” of what Bell
calls the Founders’ Copyright Act isn’t likely to catch on, even
among reformers, it does offer a useful thought experiment --
and a good reminder of copyright’s intended purposes.  Bell plans to make that experiment more than theoretical.
He’s writing another book on copyright reform for Mercatus,
titled “Intellectual Privilege,” and intends to publish it next
year under the terms of the Founders’ Copyright. After 28 years
it will go into the public domain.  “If it was good enough for old Ben, Tom, George, etc.,” he
says, “it’s good enough for me.”  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour.  Follow  her on Twitter.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 