-- U.S. Retailers’ Sales Miss Estimates After Sandy
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-29T21:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/macy-s-target-sales-trail-estimates-on-sandy.html
U.S. retailers posted November same-
store sales that trailed analysts’ estimates as superstorm Sandy
depressed traffic early in the month, overwhelming gains from
the start of holiday shopping.  Sales at  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-
store company, fell 0.7 percent, compared with the average
projection for a 2.5 percent gain from analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , the  Menomonee
Falls , Wisconsin-based department-store chain, said same-store
sales fell 5.6 percent, trailing estimates for a 2.1 percent
gain, spurring its biggest stock decline in two decades.  Sandy, which may have caused $50 billion in damage, closed
stores and cut spending in the Northeast after making landfall
Oct. 29. The storm may have trimmed 1 percent to 2 percent from
November sales, which usually benefit from promotions the
weekend after Thanksgiving, Erika Maschmeyer, a Robert W. Baird
& Co. analyst in  Chicago , said in a note before the report.  “November is critical, and the fact that it had these
really devastating back-to-back weather events at the beginning
means it may be tough to make up for those missed days in a
heavily populated part of the country,” Alison Paul, who leads
the retail group at Deloitte LLP in Chicago, said today in a
telephone interview.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 1.6 percent,
excluding drugstores, trailing the estimate for a 3.5 percent
gain, the firm said today. That follows a 5 percent increase in
October.  Holiday Gains  Sandy’s impact elevates the importance of December, which
historically provides about half of fourth-quarter sales,
Matthew Boss, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York ,
wrote in a note today. Two more shopping days than last year and
cooler weather will help boost sales, he wrote.  Shoppers spent $59.1 billion in stores and online in the
four days starting Nov. 22, 13 percent more than last year, as
retailers started deals on Thanksgiving and earlier, according
to the  National Retail Federation . That follows a 16 percent
increase in 2011.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously estimated, revised figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 33 in the week
ended Nov. 25, the highest level since April, from minus 33.9
the previous week.  Household  purchases  in the quarter climbed at a 1.4 percent
rate, the least in more than a year and down from a previously
reported 2 percent rate.  Critical Quarter  Strong momentum from the Thanksgiving weekend “may be
tough to maintain with the drumbeat of bad news coming out of
Washington, the controversy around the fiscal cliff and people
being uncertain with what’s going to happen with taxes,” Paul
said. “Retailers are going to have to redouble their efforts to
continue to build excitement through the holiday season.”  Retailers’ fourth quarter, which ends in January, is
typically their most important, accounting for about 20 percent
to 30 percent of annual sales at many companies.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, fell 4.3 percent to $38.62 at
the close in New York after reporting its first same-store sales
decline in at least three years.  Kohl’s dropped 12 percent to $45.02, the biggest one-day
decline since the retailer’s initial public offering in May
1992. It had the biggest loss in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
today.  ‘Weak Start’  “Despite the largest-volume Thanksgiving weekend in our
company’s history, we were not able to overcome the weak start
to the month, which included the disruption of  Hurricane
Sandy ,” Macy’s Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in a
statement today. “Yet we remain on track to deliver a very
strong sales performance in the fourth quarter, consistent with
our guidance.”  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount chain,
posted a 1 percent decline in same-store sales, missing the
estimate for a 2.1 percent increase. The company in a statement
cited “weaker-than-planned” sales in the first two weeks of
the month.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Along with Sandy, the U.S. election at the beginning of the
month proved a drag as a flood of political advertisements
squeezed out retailers’ ads and potentially reduced traffic,
according to Jason Buechel, a senior executive in the retail
practice of Dublin-based consultant  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   Gap Falls  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel company, fell
4.1 percent to $34.36, the biggest one-day decline since June 1,
after reporting same-store sales rose 3 percent in November.
Analysts estimated a 3.8 percent increase. The San Francisco-
based company posted the biggest increase at its namesake brand
in  North America , and the smallest at  Old Navy  in the same
region.  Limited Brands Inc., the operator of the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain, reported comparable sales rose 5 percent in the
month, topping projections for a 3.4 percent gain. December
sales may increase in the “low-single digits,” the company
said on a call today. The Columbus, Ohio-based company said
Sandy reduced its November comparable-store sales growth by as
much as 2 percentage points. The shares rose 1.6 percent to
$51.58.  Warm Thanksgiving  After the warmest Thanksgiving Day in the U.S. since 1998,
temperatures cooled down throughout the weekend in much of the
country, according to weather-data provider Planalytics Inc.
Snow from a nor’easter after Sandy and a cool Black Friday
weekend in major eastern markets helped drive sales of seasonal
apparel, Scott Bernhardt, president of the Berwyn, Pennsylvania-
based firm, said in a Nov. 26 note.  Sandy made landfall Oct. 29 near  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey ,
and killed more than 100 people in 10 states. The worst damage
was concentrated around  New York City  and the New Jersey coast,
one of the most densely populated U.S. regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  