-- Agents Seek to Block Deportation Discretion Directive
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-29T16:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/agents-seek-to-block-deportation-discretion-directive.html
Opponents of a Department of
Homeland Security directive easing deportation rules for illegal
immigrants who came to the U.S. as children asked for a court
order blocking the edict nationwide.  President  Barack Obama  on June 15 announced the policy
change, which would affect about 800,000 undocumented immigrants
brought to the U.S. before age 16, who have been in the country
for at least five years, have no criminal record and are in
school or have obtained a high school diploma or its equivalent.  In papers filed yesterday with U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in  Dallas , 10 federal immigration agents and other
opponents of the directive argued that Congress stripped
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Agents of discretion in
1996 and that those plaintiffs now face irreparable harm unless
the  new directive  is blocked.  “The defendants’ actions place the ICE agent plaintiffs on
the horns of a dilemma,” according to the papers filed today by
attorney Kris W. Kobach. “They must either comply with federal
law and face disciplinary actions, or ignore the requirements of
federal law and participate in the administration of an illegal
program.”  Kobach, who is the Kansas secretary of state, has also been
a Republican Party advocate for tougher policies against illegal
immigration.  Mississippi  joined the litigation last month.  Protecting Borders  “States must protect their borders while the federal
government continues to ignore this growing problem,”
Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant said then  in a statement .  “I believe this action by the Obama administration is
unconstitutional and circumvents Congress’s authority,” Bryant
said. “The fact remains that illegal immigration is a real
issue with real consequences, and ignoring the rule of law is
irresponsible.”  The immigration agents and Mississippi, in their revised
complaint filed on Oct. 10, accused Secretary of Homeland
Security  Janet Napolitano  and other federal customs and
immigration officials of promulgating a “deferred action” plan
that would place the agents at risk of job discipline for
violating federal law while forcing the state to “bear the
foreseeable fiscal cost” of illegal aliens residing there.  The U.S.  Justice Department  on Nov. 13 asked the court to
dismiss the lawsuit, arguing that neither the ICE agents nor
Mississippi have legal standing to pursue what the federal
government called “generalized policy objections.”  “Federal courts sit to decide cases and controversies, not
to resolve disagreements about policy or politics,” lawyers for
the Justice Department said in that filing. They argued that
state and the immigration enforcement agents hadn’t claimed any
“particularized and personally-experienced” injuries resulting
from the deferred action policy.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on the injunction request.  The case is Crane v. Napolitano, 3:12-cv-03247, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  