-- Taiwan Dollar Gains on U.S. Budget Deal Optimism; Bonds Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-11-29T08:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/taiwan-dollar-gains-on-u-s-budget-deal-optimism-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened on
optimism U.S. politicians will agree on budget revisions needed
to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  Government bonds  were
little changed.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he is optimistic lawmakers
can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later,” referring to
the $607 billion combination of tax increases and spending cuts
due to take effect in January. President  Barack Obama  said a
deal could be reached before Christmas as more Republicans are
agreeing on a “balanced approach” to cut the deficit.  Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to NT$29.147 against
its U.S. counterpart, contributing to this year’s 3.9 percent
gain, based on Taipei Forex Inc. prices. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, was little changed at 3.3 percent.  “There’re some good news overnight on finding a solution
to the fiscal cliff problem,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-
based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “But Asian currencies
are likely to have limited moves as central banks want to tame
volatilities in the market.”  Taiwan’s central bank has bought the greenback to counter
gains in the island’s currency on most days in the past seven
months, according to traders who asked not to be identified. The
monetary authority’s mandate is to keep relative exchange-rate
stability and to intervene in the event of abnormal moves,
Governor Perng Fai-nan said on Sept. 26.  The yield on the government’s 1.125 percent bonds due
September 2022 was little changed at 1.133 percent in Taipei,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The overnight  interbank
lending rate  was steady at 0.39 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  