-- Major League Soccer to Present New York City Stadium Plan
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-11-29T23:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/major-league-soccer-to-present-plans-for-new-york-city-stadium.html
Major League Soccer  is taking its
plan to build a 25,000-seat home for a new team in  New York  City
to the politicians in Queens who will decide the project’s fate.  The league will present its plan for a stadium in Flushing
Meadows Corona Park to Borough President Helen Marshall, Queens
city council members and community leaders on Dec. 3, Dan
Andrews, a spokesman for Marshall, said today by e-mail. The
project is backed by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who said it will
create jobs in an area still recovering from the recession that
ended in 2009.  MLS Commissioner Don Garber said this week the league was
“at the finish line” in negotiations with the city. Soccer
officials are talking to a “wide variety” of potential owners,
Garber said, declining to name them.  “There is a lot of work that needs to happen to finalize
our agreement with  New York City  over our use of the land and
our ability to lease that land to build the stadium,” Garber
said in a  conference  call with reporters Nov. 26. “I do believe
that we will resolve that shortly.”  League officials have been trying for three years to bring
a team to New York to create a rivalry with the New York Red
Bulls, owned by Austrian energy-drink company Red Bull GmbH.
That team plays in a 25,189-seat stadium in Harrison,  New
Jersey , a 20-minute train ride from  Wall Street .  Neighborhood Opposition  The league’s intentions have drawn fire from neighborhood
groups and park advocates who say the city would be giving away
valuable public land in the 1,255-acre park, the site of two
World’s Fairs in the 20th century. The park already houses Citi
Field, home of the New York Mets baseball team, and is the site
of the  U.S. Open  tennis tournament.  Flushing Meadows is bordered by the neighborhood of Corona,
where Mexicans, Ecuadoreans, Chileans and other Latinos make it
one of New York’s most passionate soccer fan bases.  “They want to take 10 to 13 acres of land from some of the
most park-deprived people in the city and use it for a
stadium,” said Geoffrey Croft of NYC Park Advocates, a watchdog
group. “It absolutely has everything to do with the developers
thinking they can get away with things in Queens that they could
never get away with in  Manhattan . Imagine them trying to take
away a chunk of  Central Park  for a private commercial
enterprise.”  Tennis Stadiums  In addition to the league’s plans, Mets co-owner  Fred Wilpon  and developer Related Cos. want to build a 1.4 million-
square-foot mall on a parking lot in the park. Also, the U.S.
Tennis Association, which holds the U.S. Open, is seeking to
build two stadiums -- one with 15,000 seats and the other with
8,000 -- in a $500 million redevelopment.  The soccer league wants to build a $300 million to $350
million privately financed stadium at the park’s Fountain of the
Planets, which isn’t operating. Building the stadium would
create 2,200 construction jobs, 800 game-day jobs and 200 full-
time positions, Garber said.  “This is a huge economic opportunity in a borough that
needs it and in a time when our city could really use the job
growth,” Garber said.  Neighborhood activists, including the  Fairness Coalition of
Queens , have questioned Garber’s estimates and want assurances
that jobs associated with the project go to locals.  As part of the plan, the league would replace the turf at
existing recreational soccer fields at the park. MLS wants to
start construction in 2014 and open the venue in 2016.  Replacing Parkland  The league would also have to replace the parkland acre for
acre. It is scouting parcels owned by the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  and the city Transportation Department
along the Flushing Creek, a 1-mile channel near the Van Wyck
Expressway. Officials are also looking at an abandoned branch of
the Long Island Rail Road in Rego Park.  “It would be difficult for me to support any giveaway of
public parkland that does not include solid commitments to park
improvement and other community benefits,” City Council member
Julissa Ferreras, who represents Corona, said in a statement
yesterday.  State Senator Jose Peralta and Assemblyman Francisco Moya,
both Democrats who represent neighborhoods around the park, and
the Queens Chamber of Commerce have voiced support for the
project, according to the New York Daily News and  Gothamist.com .  Cosmos Moved  The last professional soccer team to play in the city was
the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League, which
popularized the game in the U.S. by signing international stars
such as Pele and  Franz Beckenbauer . The Cosmos, started in 1971,
played home games in three venues, the last one in 1976 at the
old Yankee Stadium, before moving to  Giants Stadium  in  East
Rutherford , New Jersey.  Even if the league strikes a deal with the Bloomberg
administration, the plan still would need City Council, state
and federal approval, said Holly Leicht, executive director of
 New Yorkers  for Parks, an advocacy group. Because the U.S.
government gave money to Flushing Meadows Corona Park, any
taking of land requires federal review, she said.  “The mayor sees this as an opportunity to create economic
activity and much-needed jobs in an area of the city that is
still suffering from the economic downturn and would like to see
it finished as soon as possible,” said  Julie Wood , a
spokeswoman for Bloomberg. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Dan Courtemanche, a spokesman for the soccer league, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  