-- AMD Shares Climb on Plans to Sell Austin Campus for Cash
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-11-29T21:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/amd-shares-climb-on-plan-to-raise-cash-by-selling-austin-campus.html
     Nov. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the
second-largest maker of personal-computer processors, rose as
much as 8.2 percent on optimism that the sale of its campus in
Austin,  Texas , may help shore up its cash reserves.  The company seeks to raise $150 million to $200 million in
a transaction that may close in the first quarter, said  Drew Prairie , a spokesman. Once the chipmaker sells the site, which
houses corporate offices, it will lease the space back over
multiple years.  While a cash infusion will help AMD as it burns through
reserves, the company needs more resources if it wants to become
competitive again, said  Patrick Wang , an analyst at  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  Wang estimates AMD will run through about $100
million in cash this quarter.  “The sale-lease back is more of a short-term Band-Aid,”
said the New York-based analyst. “It doesn’t change the fact
that there’s a chance AMD doesn’t exist anymore in 2 years.”  AMD  shares  rose 8 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $2.04 at the
close in  New York  after earlier touching $2.12. The stock has
lost 62 percent of its value this year.  Last month, AMD gave a forecast for fourth-quarter sales
that fell short of analysts’ estimates and said it will cut 15
percent of its staff, citing weak demand across all product
lines in a challenging economic environment.  The revenue projection put the Sunnyvale, California-based
company on course for its fourth consecutive quarterly sales
decline. That led analysts such as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s
Stacy Rasgon to predict that, if the trend continues, cash
reserves may fall short of what AMD says it requires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  