-- AMR Bondholders Urge New Board for a Stand-Alone American
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-29T17:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/amr-bondholders-urge-new-board-for-a-stand-alone-american.html
A group of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  bondholders
with about $885 million in debt has told pilots that its support
for a stand-alone American Airlines after bankruptcy would be
conditioned on the appointment of a new  board .  The debt owners detailed that stance in a letter to Allied
Pilots Association President Keith Wilson that was posted on a
portion of the union website yesterday. According to a September
court filing, the group included  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Pentwater Capital Management LP.  While the ad hoc bondholders don’t hold a seat on AMR’s
unsecured creditors committee, the group has come together to
seek an official voice in the restructuring. Fort Worth, Texas-
based AMR has said it prefers to leave bankruptcy as an
independent company, while  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has been
pushing for a merger with the third-largest U.S. airline.  “The implied message here -- and I don’t think it’s very
subtle -- is we’re getting rid of everybody who brought us to
this day,” Vicki Bryan, a senior bond analyst with Gimme Credit
LLC, said in an interview. “We’re clearing the deck and we will
put in place people in favor of a more promising future, and
that means the merger as soon as possible.”  The bondholder group intends “to be one of the primary
negotiators of any plan of reorganization” because of its
position as a material stakeholder in AMR, Gerard Uzzi of law
firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP wrote in the letter,
which was dated Nov. 15.  Conditional Support  AMR said in August that the ad hoc group was interested in
providing financing for a restructuring, and the company won
bankruptcy court approval in September to move forward on talks
with the ad hoc bondholders. American will pay for the 12-member
group’s advisers.  “Our support for a stand-alone plan of reorganization for
AMR will be conditioned, among other things, on that plan
providing for the naming of a new board of directors,” Uzzi
wrote in the letter for the bondholders group.  Messages left for Uzzi by phone and e-mail about the
group’s current membership weren’t immediately returned. Mike Trevino, an American spokesman, declined to comment on the
bondholders’ letter.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 6 percent to 75.25 cents on the dollar at 5:42
p.m. yesterday in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The notes traded at 17.75 cents after AMR’s bankruptcy filing.  Failed Negotiations  Labor-management relations have long been strained at
American, where five years of union talks starting in 2006
failed to help bring the savings that AMR said it needed to
avert a bankruptcy filing. American’s unions have backed a
merger with US Airways, the fifth-biggest U.S. carrier.  The bondholders expect a new AMR board to consist “of
mostly individuals without prior affiliation with the company,”
Uzzi wrote.  The group’s reference only to a stand-alone reorganization
plan shouldn’t be viewed as a sign of support for that option or
a merger, the Allied Pilots Association told members. A merger
would force a change in AMR’s board.  ‘Written Commitment’  “This letter provides APA with the benefit of a written
commitment by the ad hoc group stating it will not agree to a
plan of reorganization that does not otherwise include a new
independent AMR board of directors and that key stakeholders,
including labor, will be a part of that selection process,” the
union told its members.  American pilots are voting on a tentative labor agreement
with the carrier that would give them a 13.5 percent stake in
the restructured company. The union holds a seat on AMR’s
creditors committee, which has a say in major decisions made
during the bankruptcy.  “Selecting the right leadership, board of directors and
strategic plan for this company is of critical importance to our
pilots, and we now have a commitment from that creditor group to
help us pursue that end goal,” Dennis Tajer, an APA spokesman,
said in an interview.  American filed for bankruptcy protection one year ago
tomorrow. The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  