-- Manchester United Wants Real’s Ozil, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-29T09:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/manchester-united-wants-real-s-ozil-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ozil Signing  Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  may try to sign
Mesut Ozil, who is considering leaving Real Madrid because he’s
not getting playing time,  the Sun said.   Ozil, who lost his place to Luka Modric, would cost double
the 12 million pounds ($19 million) the Spanish team paid for
him two years ago, the newspaper said. Ozil’s salary of 110,000
pound a week would fit in United’s budget, the Sun said.  Bent Reunion  New Queens Park Rangers manager  Harry Redknapp  may try to
reunite with Aston Villa striker  Darren Bent , who he coached at
Tottenham,  the Daily Mirror said.   Bent left Spurs in 2009 after Redknapp criticized him for
missing a scoring opportunity that the manager said his “missus
could have scored,” the newspaper said.  Chelsea Target  Chelsea interim manager Rafa Benitez wants to sign Bayer
Leverkusen striker Andre Schurrle in an effort to ease pressure
on  Fernando Torres ,  the Mirror said.   The London team will have to increase a 22 million-pound
offer for the Germany national team player that Leverkusen
rejected before this season, the newspaper said.  United Pursuit  Manchester United is looking to poach Chelsea’s 16-year-old
midfielder Conor Hunte,  the Daily Mail said.   Ferguson is stepping up interest in the England under-17
national team player, who Manchester City and Liverpool are also
pursuing, the newspaper said.  Europa League  UEFA president  Michel Platini  said the European soccer
ruling body could expand the Champions League to 64 teams and
scrap the second-tier Europa League,  the Guardian  reported.  UEFA will make a decision in 2014, the Guardian added,
citing an interview Platini gave to French daily Ouest-France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  