-- AngloGold Jumps on Spinoff Speculation: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-29T12:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/anglogold-jumps-on-spinoff-speculation-johannesburg-mover.html
AngloGold Ashanti  Ltd. climbed the
most in more than two months in Johannesburg trading on
speculation the third-largest producer of the metal could follow
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and spin off its South African assets.  The stock advanced as much as 5.3 percent, the steepest
intraday gain since Sept. 14, and traded at 276.49 rand as of
1:12 p.m. local time. Gold Fields, the fourth-biggest producer,
rose 7.1 percent, the most in more than three years.  Gold Fields will spin off part of its South African
business as strikes and above-inflation pay gains add to costs
and curb output for mining companies in the country. AngloGold
Ashanti retains the option of splitting up its South African
operations, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said Nov. 21.  “There is the same kind of sentiment that AngloGold could
do the same and that’s why the share is moving today,” Martin Strauss, a Pretoria-based stockbroker at PSG Konsult Ltd., said
by phone. “It strips country-specific risk out of the rest of
their operations, such as the labor unrest we’ve seen and lack
of clarity on government policy.”  Industrial disputes this year will shave 0.5 percentage
point off economic growth in the country and cut exports by more
than 12.5 billion rand ($1.4 billion), the National Treasury has
said. Mining, contributing 6 percent to the economy and
employing almost half a million people, will take a year to
recover from job losses after strikes that began in  South
Africa ’s platinum industry, before spreading to gold, iron-ore,
coal and diamond mining, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
Nov. 26.  About a third of AngloGold’s metal comes from South Africa,
the continent’s biggest economy, where it employs about 35,000.  The company’s  30-day historical volatility , a measure of
stock swings, increased to 31.85 from 29.51 yesterday. The
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s  30-day volatility measure was 
at 8.93 compared with 8.81 yesterday. A higher reading means an
asset’s price can have bigger moves. About 856,000 shares
traded, 66 percent of the daily average in the past three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  