-- Apax Managing Director Aliberti Sued Over Hellas Debt
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-30T00:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/apax-managing-director-aliberti-sued-over-hellas-debt.html
Apax Partners LLP’s Giancarlo Aliberti was accused in a lawsuit of defrauding investors who
bought 1.5 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in Hellas
Telecommunications debt after Apax and TPG Capital LP bought the
Greek mobile telephone company in 2005.  Cortlandt Street Recovery Corp. filed two complaints today
in federal court in  Manhattan . One suit brought in conjunction
with Wilmington Trust Co. seeks 268 million euros plus interest
for defaulted so-called PIK notes issued by Hellas Finance. The
other case asserts a claim for 83.1 million euros plus interest
for defaulted subordinated notes issued by Hellas II.  Apax, based in  London , and  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG
acquired TIM Hellas in June 2005 for about 1.6 billion euros
from  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)  Hellas issued about 1.5 billion in debt
in 2006, of which 1.2 billion euros was paid to the two private
equity funds, according to the complaints, which also name as
defendants Hellas Telecommunications and some of its units.  “Defendants acted in combination and agreement with one
another to achieve a common purpose, namely, to borrow money as
the Hellas defendants and bleed out money to the private equity
defendants, thereby leaving the Hellas defendants with
inadequate assets and defrauding, hindering and delaying
creditors,” from obtaining repayment, Cortlandt Street said.  Apax and TPG weren’t named as defendants in the two
complaints. Jared Stamell, a lawyer for Cortlandt Street, said
in a phone interview that the two buyout firms were sued over
the same matter in  New York  state court last year.  Federal Court  The new complaints were filed in federal court because
Aliberti, one of the architects of the Hellas Telecommunications
acquisition, and the entities created by Apax and TPG to hold
the Greek company and issue debt avoided being served with the
state court complaints, Stamell said.  Aliberti is a Milan-based partner with Apax’s Tech &
Telecom team, according to the company’s website. He leads
Apax’s activities in  Italy , Turkey and Greece, according to the
site. Apax and TPG sold TIM Hellas in 2007 to Weather
Investments SpA, the holding company of Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris , in a deal lead by Aliberti.  Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Apax in New York, declined to
comment on the lawsuits.  The cases are Cortlandt Street Recovery v. Aliberti,
12-8685 and 12-8686, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 