-- Arco Falls to Record Low as Insiders Sell: Tallinn Mover
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-11-29T13:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/arco-falls-to-record-low-as-insiders-sell-tallinn-mover.html
Arco Vara AS (ARC1T)  fell to the lowest
level in Tallinn since its June 2007 listing on reports two
board members sold shares in the only listed Baltic property
developer this quarter and uncertainty about possible steps by
the financial watchdog regarding the company’s management.  The shares fell as much as 3.9 percent to 1.5 euros on the
Nasdaq OMX Tallinn exchange in the Estonian capital, to trade at
1.52 euros at 2:53 p.m. in Tallinn, extending losses from the
previous session, with trade volume exceeding the average for
the past three months by 4 percent.  Board Chairman Richard Tomingas sold 2,045 shares earlier
this month,  Aeripaeev  newspaper reported, citing the Financial
Supervisory Authority. It also said board member Arvo Noges sold
8,000 shares this quarter, without saying how it got the
information.  Arco last month named Tarmo Sild, a former attorney, as its
new chief executive officer, replacing Lembit Tampere “to
stabilize, restructure and refinance Arco Vara group and to
restore the group’s profitability,” the company said on Oct.
16. The board was aware Sild was found guilty of mediating a
bribe in 2006 and paid a fine, Tomingas said then.  “There has been management change in Arco Vara that has
been talked about a lot and has triggered a very angry statement
by the management board member of the financial watchdog,” said
Andres Suimets, the head of Baltic equity sales at Swedbank AS
in Tallinn, in an e-mailed comment. “The stock price has
definitely been hit by insider sales, both directly as well as
what it signals to other investors.”  The financial watchdog may “soon” change bourse rules or
propose legal changes to prevent people found guilty by court as
criminals from being named as managers of listed companies,
Kilvar Kessler, a management board member of the financial
watchdog, said in an interview with Aeripaeev last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  