-- Asian Stocks Rise on U.S. Budget Remarks, Japan Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-29T10:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-budget-remarks-japan-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose as U.S. lawmakers
said they’re optimistic for an agreement to avoid automatic
spending cuts and tax increases and as the leader of  Japan ’s
opposition party called for unlimited monetary policy easing.  Honda Motor Co., a carmaker that gets 44 percent of its
sales in North America, gained 2 percent in  Tokyo . Sky Network
Television Ltd., New Zealand’s largest pay-TV operator, jumped
the most in more than a year in Wellington after announcing a
special dividend.  Starpharma Holdings Ltd. (SPL)  tumbled 29 percent in
Sydney after the biotechnology company said it won’t file an
application for a new drug in the U.S. after a disappointing
clinical trial.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent to 124.25 as
of 7:03 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three stocks climbing for
each that fell. The gauge rose 13 percent through yesterday from
this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added stimulus to
spur growth and data showed a slowdown in  China  may be ending.  “Market expectations are that the U.S. cutbacks will be
watered down and spread over several years,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of markets research at Perpetual Investment,
which manages about $25 billion. “If the cliff is successfully
flattened out over several years, the U.S. recession feared by
markets is unlikely to occur.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1 percent, with the
broader Topix Index also adding 1 percent. The Topix may surge
19 percent in 2013 on compelling valuations and a possible
change in political leadership in Japan, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. strategist Kathy Matsui wrote in a report today.  Abe Comments  If the Liberal Democratic Party takes power in the election
as polls suggest, “we would expect policies aimed at combating
deflation, including public works investment, possible corporate
tax cuts and a re-think of the nuclear phase-out plan,” Matsui
wrote in the note. LDP leader Shinzo Abe, frontrunner to become
the next prime minister, reiterated calls today for unlimited
monetary easing until inflation reaches 2 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1 percent and the Shanghai
Composite Index slid 0.5 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
advanced 1.2 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained 1.1
percent and Taiwan’s Taiex rose 0.9 percent.  Australia Homes  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.7 percent as a
report showed the nation’s sales of newly built homes rose for
the first time in four months in October, indicating the central
bank’s interest-rate reductions are luring buyers.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent
today. The gauge climbed 0.8 percent yesterday, reversing
earlier declines, after Republican House Speaker John Boehner
said he was optimistic budget talks can avert more than $600
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year.  Carmakers accounted for some of the the largest gains on
the  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index. Honda gained 2 percent to 2,726
yen.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  advanced 4.7 percent to 62,000 won and
Hyundai Motor Co. climbed 2.7 percent to 230,500 won in  Seoul  on
expectations for rising sales in the so-called BRIC countries of
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  Sky Dividend  Sky Network Television advanced 3 percent to NZ$5.22, the
largest gain since October 2011. Sky will make a 32 New Zealand
cents-a-share distribution next month, the Auckland-based
company said in a statement. The company is 44 percent owned by
Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  Luk Fook Holdings Ltd. (590)  soared 10 percent to HK$23.15 after
profit at the jeweler topped estimates. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd. advanced 5.4 percent to HK$10.86.  Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. gained 6.6 percent to A$3.25, the
biggest rally across three days since 2008.  Credit Suisse Group
AG (ALL)  upgraded its recommendation on the shares after the gaming-
machine maker yesterday reported full-year profit that topped
forecasts.  Sharp Investment  Sharp Corp. added 3.1 percent to 169 yen after the Wall
Street Journal reported that the TV maker is in talks with Dell
Inc. for an investment of as much as $240 million. Shares of
Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal-display panels have
tumbled 75 percent this year, making it the world’s worst-
performing major stock.  Starpharma slumped 29 percent to A$1.15, its biggest
decline in more than nine years. The biotechnology company won’t
be seeking U.S. approval for its VivaGel drug after the women’s
treatment failed clinical trials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  