-- Asia Debt Risk Tumbles to 16-Month Low; Taqa Plans Dollar Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-11-29T04:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/asia-bond-risk-falls-to-16-month-low-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Asia  debt risk is poised to fall to
its lowest in 16 months as investors direct cash into  emerging
markets . Abu Dhabi National Energy Co., known as  Taqa (TAQA) , is
considering selling U.S. dollar-denominated bonds.  A gauge measuring the cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in Asia from non-payment is set for its lowest
close since July 5, 2011, prices from Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and data provider CMA show. Taqa, which is 72.5
percent indirectly-owned by the Abu Dhabi government, plans to
meet investors in Asia,  London  and the U.S. about a possible
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Congressional leaders will meet Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner  today to discuss automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that are slated to come into effect next year.
Three out of four global investors expect politicians to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff, according to a Nov. 27 Bloomberg
global poll. More than $1 billion flowed into both emerging
markets bond and equity funds in the week to Nov. 21, according
to data provider EPFR Global.  “The market is still buying with month-end approaching and
relentless inflows into Asia,” said Luc Froehlich, a portfolio
manager with Manulife Asset Management Ltd.’s Asia fixed-income
team, which oversees more than $39 billion. “Lots of people
have to put to work the cash they’ve received.”  Mongolia Debut  Sales of dollar bonds in Asia outside of  Japan  total $12.5
billion this month, a 5 percent decrease on $13.1 billion in
October and bringing issues for the year to $160.8 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mongolia raised $1.5 billion selling five- and 10-year
notes yesterday, pricing the securities to yield 4.125 percent
and 5.125 percent respectively, the data show. The sale was the
Mongolian government’s first in the U.S. currency.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased one basis point to 112 as of
9:00 a.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show. The gauge is on track
to fall 5.9 basis points this month, according to CMA.  Australia, Japan  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped four basis points to
167 as of 9:05 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
index, on track to fall 36 basis points this month and 19.8 this
year, is headed for its lowest since April 12, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 133
basis points as of 11:27 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The measure is on track to fall
6.1 basis points this month and 47.5 basis points this year,
according to CMA prices in  New York .  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  