-- Matisse’s Erotic Dance; Major Stuffed Bald Eagle Battle
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/matisse-s-erotic-dance-major-stuffed-bald-eagle-battle.html
The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s
magnificent show “Matisse: In Search of True Painting,” which 
opens to the public Dec. 4, includes 50 masterpieces from
around the globe.  Exponential revelations abound: By the last gallery, I was
nearly breathless trying to keep up with them.  We observe Matisse as he wrestles with his varying moods,
influences and approaches. In a pairing of portraits of a “Young
Sailor” (1906), the artist depicts his subject with frenetic
line in the first canvas and with buoyant colored masses in the
second. Extending each other, they provide two startlingly
contrasting interpretations of the same person on the same day.  Matisse’s settings are cast in various qualities of light
and his figures in various states of being. The idyllic beach
series “Le Luxe” (1907-08) offers a crouched, nude woman made
seemingly of sand in one painting and of pearlescent, turquoise-
tinged air in another.  Dramas expand and unfold. In a group of paintings depicting
a vase of ivy and a small Matisse sculpture of a reclining
female nude, we witness an erotic dance among objects. In one
picture the vase appears startled by the corkscrewing advances
of the odalisque. In another, she is coy, acquiescent to the
vase’s caress.  Flipbooks  It is in the last galleries, with more artist-commissioned
photographs than paintings, that viewers can see, as if through
flipbooks, the staggering progression of Matisse’s studio
practice. Masterpiece after masterpiece is abandoned -- painted
over -- as the artist gets closer to realizing his final vision.  Through photographs of “The Large Blue Dress” (1937), a
seated female figure gradually transforms from representational
portrait into an abstract Byzantine Madonna.  In “The Dream” (1940) sequence, we see a sleeping woman,
expansive and adrift, acquire wings. She changes from seated
dreamer into angel and from angel into dream itself.  Still, “In Search of True Painting” isn’t perfect.
Organized at the Met by Rebecca Rabinow, the show is missing
some key loans.  Yet its larger problem is that the focus on process shifts
our attention and appreciation away from the mysteriousness and
individuality of Matisse’s art to his Herculean labors. Here,
Matisse’s search is in danger of overshadowing the truths he
actually found.  “Matisse: In Search of True Painting” runs Dec. 4 through
Mar. 17 at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave.
Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Rauschenberg’s “Canyon”  After lengthy negotiations involving the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, the Museum of  Modern Art  and the heirs of
gallerist Ileana Sonnabend, MoMA has emerged the victor in
battle over Robert Rauschenberg’s iconic mixed-media combine
“Canyon” (1959).  Constructed from cardboard, photos, wood, fabric, paint,
string and a stuffed bald eagle on canvas, the work was valued
at zero by appraisers.  Owing to the bird -- originally stuffed by one of  Theodore Roosevelt ’s Rough Riders -- the artwork cannot be legally sold
or traded since all bald eagles, dead or alive, are protected by
federal laws.  The I.R.S. said “Canyon” was worth $65 million, and, as
part of the estate settlement, the family donated it to MoMA.  The status of Rauschenberg has continued to build since his
death in 2008, and many consider him an American master.  For me and some others, he’s little more than a Dadaist
huckster with no genuine feeling for the poetic and
transformative possibilities of collage.  Rauschenberg’s goal was to tear down the distinctions
between high art and all things pedestrian. The fact that both
MoMA and the Met went toe-to-toe over this rambling, arbitrary
mess proves that he succeeded.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Jason
Harper  on  cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 