-- Hatzius Says He Expects Fed Will Maintain Asset Purchases
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-29T20:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/hatzius-says-he-expects-fed-will-maintain-asset-purchases.html
Jan Hatzius , chief economist at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said he expects the  Federal Reserve 
will decide to maintain its pace of monthly asset purchases when
policy makers meet next month.  “We’re expecting an increase in the pace of balance sheet
expansion from the current $40 billion per month to something
like $85 billion a month,” Hatzius said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with Sara Eisen.
“That basically implies that the pace of asset purchases of
longer-term Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities stays at
the current $85 billion number or somewhere very, very close to
that.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  said on
Oct. 24 it would continue its record easing strategy until the
labor market improves “substantially.” The central bank is
having the most profitable year on record, according to
quarterly financial reports released by the Fed today in
Washington. It earned $69.4 billion in the first three quarters
of 2012, up from $58.2 billion the same period last year, the
reports said.  Hatzius said “fiscal drag” is the biggest headwind facing
the  U.S. economy .  Above Trend  “If it wasn’t for that fiscal drag, I think we’d be
looking at above-trend growth right now,” Hatzius said.  President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress are
seeking ways to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than
$600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts that
take effect in January if lawmakers fail to reach a compromise.  “It’s a pretty weak economy in early 2013 but then I think
as the year progresses we start to see a gradual acceleration,”
Hatzius said of the outlook if the fiscal cliff is averted and
Europe contains its debt crisis. “We have 2.5 percent growth in
the second half of the year, and we expect further acceleration
into 2014 and 2015.”  The U.S. economy expanded more than previously estimated in
the third quarter of this year, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Gross domestic
product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate, up from a 2 percent
prior estimate.  Editors: Kevin Costelloe,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  