-- Australia’s Ponting to Retire From Cricket After Series Decider
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-29T05:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/australia-s-ricky-ponting-to-retire-from-test-cricket-1-.html
Ricky Ponting ,  Australia ’s record
run-scorer, said he will retire after the third cricket Test
against South Africa in Perth, where the home nation is seeking
to wrest the number-one ranking from the visitors.  “I believe the time is right now to be making this
decision,” Ponting, 37, told a news conference in Perth today.
“This is not a decision that has been made by the selectors.
This is a decision that has been made by me.”  A regular in the national team since debuting in 1995, the
three-time World Cup winner and former captain said his failure
to consistently score runs over the past 18 months prompted his
decision. In the first two tests against  South Africa , where the
series is level after drawn matches in Brisbane and  Adelaide ,
Ponting has scored just 20 runs in three innings.  Ponting began  playing  for the Tasmania state team as a 17-
year-old and made his national debut in a one-day match against
South Africa in 1995 at age 20. He has scored an Australian-
record 13,366 Test runs and has the most Test catches by a non-
wicketkeeper for the nation with 196. The Perth test will be
Ponting’s 168th, equaling the Australian record held by former
captain Steve Waugh.  “I’ve given cricket my all,” said Ponting, who made his
test debut in the same city against Sri Lanka 17 years ago,
narrowly missing a century after being dismissed on 96.  The announcement “will only give us more inspiration” to
win the final test against South Africa, Australian captain
 Michael Clarke  told reporters in Perth. “The boys are obviously
hurting.”  New Attack  Australia excluded fast bowlers  Peter Siddle  and  Ben
Hilfenhaus  from its 12-man squad for the five-day match that
starts tomorrow after the pair’s heavy workload in Adelaide,
where South Africa batted through the fifth day to salvage a
draw. All-rounder Shane Watson returns from injury, while
bowlers Josh Hazlewood, John Hastings,  Mitchell Johnson  and
Mitchell Starc enter the team.  South Africa would retain the No. 1 spot in the
 International Cricket Council ’s Test rankings by avoiding defeat
in the best-of-three contest, while Australia can overtake the
Proteas at the top with a series victory.  Ponting said he wants to win the match more than any other
in his career. He’s notched up 41 centuries with a top score of
257 and averages 52.21 in test match cricket.  Cricketing Greats  Along with South African  Jacques Kallis  and Indian  Sachin Tendulkar , Ponting is regarded as one of the greats among
cricketers still playing the game. Known for his faded baggy
green cap and crisp pull shots, Ponting scored more than 1,000
test runs in a calendar year five times, most recently in 2008.  He averaged more than 100 in 2003. The same year he scored
three double centuries, joining Don Bradman as the only
other Australian to acomplish that feat. Clarke last week
bettered that when he notched his fourth double century of the
year and his second straight against South Africa this summer.  Ponting was captain for an Australian record 77 matches
from 2004 to 2010, winning more games as skipper than any other.
He’s also the only Australian captain to lose three series
against traditional rival  England .  Previously, the right-handed batsman had said he wanted to
take on England in back-to-back Ashes series starting next year.  “I’ve made up my own mind and feel I’m not good enough to
get there,” Ponting said today. “I want to be a consistent
performer and if you look back over the past 12-18 months I
haven’t been able to perform consistently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  