-- Barnes & Noble Drops as Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-11-29T21:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/barnes-noble-loss-matches-estimates-as-nook-sales-rise.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the U.S.
bookstore chain shifting to digital content, dropped the most
since January after posting second-quarter revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates.  The shares sank 11 percent to $14.26 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest drop since Jan. 5. The decline wiped out
this year’s gains, and the stock is now down 1.5 percent in
2012.  Barnes & Noble has been  posting losses  in the past two
years as it spends on developing the Nook brand of tablet
computers and e-books to appeal to consumers who are moving to
digital content from printed books. Meanwhile the retail unit
struggled with lower demand. Sales at the division, which
includes stores and the website, declined 2.9 percent.  “The question is at what speed do the bookstores go out of
business,”  John Tinker , an analyst for Maxim Group LLC in New
York who recommends buying the shares, said in an interview.
“There is no question that people are going to buy fewer books.
If you are a bear you think it’s immediate, if you’re a bull you
think it will be over many years.”  Total  revenue , which includes the college bookstore and
Nook units, in the quarter ended Oct. 27 fell 0.4 percent to
$1.88 billion, the New York-based company said in a statement.
Analysts projected $1.91 billion, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Nook unit’s sales, which accounted for 8.5 percent of
total sales, rose 5.6 percent to $160.3 million after being
little changed and declining in the previous two quarters.  Revenue from devices doubled over the four-day U.S.
Thanksgiving weekend. The gain in sales of Nook devices last
weekend were driven by promotions at  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , the company said. Those chains stopped selling
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle earlier this year.  The net loss in the quarter narrowed to 4 cents a share
from 17 cents a year earlier, the company said. It was in line
with the average of five  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  