-- Basel Burden on Small Banks Faces Scrutiny at House Hearing
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-29T17:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/basel-burden-on-small-banks-faces-scrutiny-at-u-s-house-hearing.html
U.S. community banks and insurers
are pressing their case for separate treatment from the biggest
financial firms as House lawmakers examine the impact of
international capital rules at a Washington hearing.  Industry executives testified today along with regulators
before two House Financial Services subcommittees after a Nov.
14 Senate hearing on efforts to implement standards adopted by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Community bankers have opposed a proposal by the  Federal
Reserve , Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. that would require all U.S. banks to
maintain “loss-absorbing capital” of at least 7 percent of
risk-weighted assets. That stance drew support from House
lawmakers from both sides of the aisle.  “It is my hope that today’s hearing will demonstrate to
the regulatory agencies the importance of appropriately
tailoring these requirements to the different-sized financial
institutions,” Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West
Virginia Republican, said in her opening statement.  Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a  New York  Democrat, said
U.S. regulators erred in proposing that the capital standards
apply to small community banks when they were really meant for
larger international institutions.  Industry’s Demise  “These rules could bring about the demise of the community
banking industry within a decade,” William A. Loving, chairman-
elect of the  Independent Community Bankers of America , said in
remarks prepared for the House hearing. “Unnecessarily high
 capital requirements  are simply not viable for community banks
because we have extremely limited options for raising new
capital, unlike our larger competitors.”  The Basel standards were adopted by the international panel
of regulators to help protect banks against a repeat of the
global credit crisis that peaked in 2008. U.S. officials,
responding to complaints that their proposal would unduly burden
community lenders, told Senate Banking Committee members at the
Nov. 14 hearing that smaller banks’ concerns will be considered
as they craft rules.  “There is a good case for applying a more simplified risk-
based capital regime than the Basel III rules for small
community banks,” James M. Garnett, head of risk oversight at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in remarks for the House hearing. “Federal
banking regulators should reconsider the application of Basel
III to traditional community banks that do not have complex
balance sheets.”  ‘Open Question’  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
will take over as Financial Services Committee chairman next in
January, said that it is “a very open question whether Basel
III should apply to our community banks.”  Regulators are “thinking broadly about ways to reduce
regulatory burden,” Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry 
said in an October speech. Smaller banks may be given longer
transition periods and grandfather clauses to help ease them
into compliance, Curry said.  “We do not want to create a situation where the compliance
costs make them uncompetitive or unable to serve their important
roles,” George French, deputy director for policy in the FDIC’s
risk-management arm, said of community banks at the Senate
hearing.  Marc Jarsulic, chief economist at Better Markets Inc., said
in his prepared statement that affected firms with less than $10
billion in assets should have some of the rules phased rather
than getting an exemption.  ‘Serious Risks’  “The proposed capital rules do not require banks to use
nearly enough equity finance and will allow continued
excessively high debt financing, which will continue to pose
serious risks of runs,” said Jarsulic, whose Washington-based
group promotes financial regulations.  The Fed, FDIC and OCC said this month that they won’t hold
banks to a Jan. 1 deadline in the proposals for boosting
reserves. The agencies are working “as expeditiously as
possible” on the rules, they said in a statement.  The House hearing is also exploring the impact of the new
standards on the  insurance industry .  Kevin M. McCarty, president of the  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners , said in his prepared remarks that the
federal government shouldn’t disrupt existing regulatory walls
around insurers, which have long been regulated by the states.  “The prospect of bank-centric regulatory rules being
imposed on or impacting insurance legal entities that have very
different business models is quite problematic,” McCarty said.  Undermine Management  Instead of adding strength to insurance-based savings and
loan holding companies, the Basel rules “may promote capital
structures and practices that undermine prudential management of
an insurance company,” according to  Paul Smith , senior vice
president and chief financial officer of State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co.  “The proposed bank-oriented Basel framework would impose
an ill-fitting and structurally flawed regulatory structure upon
insurers, which have starkly different business models, risk
exposures, and capital needs than banks,” Smith said in his
prepared remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  