-- Bats Retail Stock Program Starts Dec. 17 in NYSE Challenge
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-29T22:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/bats-retail-stock-program-starts-dec-17-to-compete-with-nyse.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. plans to
start a one-year program Dec. 17 to compete with the  New York 
Stock Exchange by giving retail investors better prices.  The service will allow orders from individuals to get
prices at least a tenth of a cent better than those available to
mutual and hedge funds, brokers, and other firms, according to
Chris Isaacson, chief operating officer at the third-largest
U.S. stock market operator. Bats BYX Exchange, one of its two
equity markets, is seeking more orders from individuals to
compete with firms like Knight Capital Group Inc. and Citadel
LLC that provide transactions to clients of retail brokers.  NYSE’s retail-liquidity program, which began in August, was
the first by a stock exchange to segment orders and offer
different prices based on the type of user. Chief executives of
NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats have said in
congressional testimony, at conferences and on calls with
analysts that their markets are hurt by restrictions on how they
execute orders that don’t apply to brokers and off-exchange
venues that trade within their own walls.  “The pilot is a good market structure innovation the
Securities and Exchange Commission has allowed,” Isaacson said
in a phone interview. “We think our program is well designed
but won’t know the impact until we actually roll it out.”
Isaacson declined to say how much Bats expects the program to
boost its share of U.S. equities trading beyond its current 13
percent. “Our expectations are realistic,” he said.  Dark Pools  Joe Ratterman, chief executive officer and president of
Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats, said at a Baruch College conference
in New York last month that while it would have been better for
the SEC to raise the standards for dark pools, or private
broker-run venues, in lieu of allowing exchanges to offer better
prices only to some investors, taking a step toward making the
rules more equitable was important.  The debate about whether it’s better to bring together more
orders from a diverse set of traders on fewer venues or allow
firms to tailor their executions and costs by trading in
multiple venues has persisted for decades. Critics of the
current regulatory structure of U.S. markets argue that 13  stock
exchanges , several other public markets and more than 40 dark
pools, more than half of which were created in the last seven
years, has produced too much complexity.  ‘Food Chain’  “We’re last in the food chain,” Joe Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in New York, said at the Baruch event.
Exchanges end up with orders that are called the “exhaust,
everything that’s been picked over” by brokers and dark pools,
he said. Winning SEC approval of its retail program took “two
years of negotiating and fighting,” he said.  NYSE Euronext retail liquidity program has given users
prices for 250 million shares that are an average of 1.4 cents
better than the best buy or sell levels publicly available,
according to  information  on the exchange’s website. The service
averaged 5.7 million shares a day from Nov. 16 to Nov. 23, the
company  said . Almost 2,000 companies had better-priced orders
available at the exchange for retail brokers, NYSE said.  About a third of U.S. equities trading, which averaged 6.5
billion shares a day this year, occurs away from exchanges,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg and Bats. The “vast
majority of marketable retail orders” are executed by over-the-
counter market makers away from exchanges, the SEC said when it
approved the Bats program. Retail price-improvement programs
“should promote competition between exchanges and OTC market
makers,” it said.  SEC Approval  The SEC, which  approved  the Bats program on Nov. 27, gave
the exchange an exemption for the trial from the so-called sub-
penny rule, which bans exchanges from accepting and ranking
orders for stocks more than $1 in increments of less than 1
cent. That rule was adopted in 2005.  Incoming orders from retail clients can trade against Bats
orders submitted specifically for those users by firms certified
to supply better-priced liquidity through the program. An order
from an individual investor can get an execution against those
price-improving orders, which are not displayed publicly, or
from other hidden orders designed to trade with anyone at the
midpoint of the national best bid or offer, or NBBO.  If the bid-offer spread is 1 cent, a midpoint order will
give a retail investor a price that’s 0.5 cent better than
what’s publicly available, compared with the minimum 0.1 cent
through the program, Isaacson said. NYSE doesn’t have hidden
orders priced at the midpoint of the NBBO.  Midpoint Orders  “We allow retail orders to execute at multiple prices and
they can interact with midpoint orders,” Isaacson said. He
expects the amount of price improvement investors get per share
on BYX to be superior to what they receive on NYSE, he said.  Bats said in an announcement today it will begin its
program with securities that are the most heavily traded by
individuals. It plans to expand to all exchange-listed products
that are at least $1 and will offer two sets of pricing.  Nasdaq  Stock Market is also planning a program to deliver
better prices to retail customers. Price-improving orders could
be submitted at a tenth of 1 cent better than the best available
price or “implicitly priced” through the equivalent of an
order pegged to the NBBO with what’s called an offset of $0.001,
New York-based Nasdaq said in its Nov. 19  proposal  to the SEC.  Better-priced orders intended for retail clients could be
for fewer than 100 shares, known as a round lot, Nasdaq said.
Orders from retail customers could trade with price-improving
orders and other hidden trade requests at the exchange, as is
the case in the Bats program. The exchange will allow retail
orders to trade only with price-improving orders or also execute
against other buy and sell requests at Nasdaq or on other
venues, the proposal said.  Price Discovery  “While the exchange believes that markets and price
discovery optimally function through the interactions of diverse
flow types, it also believes that growth in internalization has
required differentiation of retail order flow from other order
flow types,” Nasdaq told the SEC. Internalization refers to the
execution of orders within a broker-dealer.  Nasdaq said earlier this year its effort would take the
form of automated 1-second auctions for orders from individuals,
according to  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services, who spoke at a conference in May. A  written
presentation  said the auctions would be similar to those on U.S.
options exchanges, in which market makers vie to win the
investor’s order by providing the best price. Its November
proposal opted for a different set of rules without auctions.  Cuts Fees  To spur  volume  Bats initially won’t earn trading fees. It
will charge those providing price-improving orders for
individual investors the same amount it rebates the brokers of
those retail customers. Usually exchanges earn the difference
between the fee and credit. While the biggest markets charge
incoming orders and use those funds to pay liquidity providers,
some exchanges reverse who pays and is paid to attract users
with different trading and financial priorities.  Bats will start its program with 20 securities. Half,
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Citigroup Inc., Facebook Inc., the
 Direxion Daily Financial Bull 3X Shares (FAS) , and the SPDR S&P 500
ETF Trust, will have rebates and fees of 25 cents per 100
shares. Five stocks and exchange-traded funds in this group have
prices above $100.  The other set of 10 securities, including JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Sirius XM Radio Inc., will have a fee
and rebate of 10 cents per 100 shares. Six of these stocks trade
for less than $10, making the fee a smaller percentage relative
to the stock price. BYX’s current  rebate  for liquidity takers is
2 cents per 100 shares while it gets 2 cents or 3 cents from
firms adding liquidity that’s publicly visible.  Separate Pricing  Direct Edge Holdings LLC has no immediate plans to
introduce a price-improvement program specifically for retail
traders, according to Brian Harkins, chief operating officer at
the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based equities exchange operator.
The firm said Nov. 12 it would offer separate pricing to member
firms acting on behalf of individual investors. That pricing
will go into effect on Dec. 17, the day of Bats’s new program,
Direct Edge  said  on Nov. 27.  “Right now, RLP has had modest success,” Harkins said of
the NYSE’s program. “We don’t think retail brokers are
clamoring for a price-improvement mechanism on equity exchanges.
They’re getting that product from market makers, wholesalers and
broker-dealers today. But we’re keeping an eye on how things
change.”  Adding Liquidity  Retail orders on EDGX Exchange that add liquidity will get
a 32-cent credit per 100 shares instead of the 23-cent rebate
most others receive, while everyone seeking  executions  against
existing buy and sell requests will pay 30 cents per 100 shares
or round lot, Direct Edge said in its announcement.  “We aim to recognize the fact that retail members and
retail order flow has high value to an exchange,” Harkins said
on Nov. 12 by phone. The exchange may build new products based
on the retail-customer designation, he said. “We want to make
EDGX a stand-out destination for retail members,” he said.  Exchanges may have a hard time categorizing investors and
traders beyond the retail segment in an effort to compete with
dark pools, Harkins said.  “The retail one is one the industry generally agrees on,”
he said. “Categorizing others like professional traders and
institutions is harder to do since a lot of firms represent a
blend of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 