-- Belize Rejects Restructuring Offer on $544 Million Superbond
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-29T22:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/belize-rejects-debt-restructuring-proposal-on-544-million-bond.html
Belize rejected a debt restructuring
proposal by creditors holding more than half of a $544 million
defaulted bond three months after the government missed a coupon
payment.  Belize rejected the bondholders’ Nov. 21 restructuring
proposal, which is “wholly incompatible” with the country’s
objective to make its debt sustainable, according to a statement
posted on the central bank’s website today. The Central American
country paid creditors $11.7 million Sept. 20, about half of the
$23 million coupon payment it failed to make Aug. 20.  “The government views the recently-submitted scenarios as
unsustainable, and is disappointed that a counter-proposal of
this nature has come five months after discussions with the
Committee began,” according to the statement.  In response to the bondholders’ proposal, Belize countered
with two debt restructuring scenarios. Belize’s counter
proposals would reduce the coupon rate payment on the so-called
superbond and provide a grace period of five to 10 years.  ‘Alternative Structures’  The government said it will seek feedback from bondholders’
on the presented scenarios and “remain open to discussing
alternative structures.”  “It seems like bondholders and the government still remain
far apart with regards to acceptable terms,” said Joe Kogan,
head of emerging-market strategy at Scotia  Capital Markets .
“The government has revised some assumptions and improved on
its previous offer. That previous offer was very aggressive,
however, Belize’s growth of 7.4 percent in the first half of
2012 makes it even harder for Belize to justify the haircut they
were requesting.”  Scotia estimates that the government’s new offer is worth
roughly 35 cents on the dollar, up from 20 cents previously,
Kogan said in a research note e-mailed to investors.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its growth forecast
for Belize’s economy on Nov. 15, saying that growth would reach
3.5 percent to 4 percent this year, up from a 2.3 percent
forecast in its  World Economic Outlook  report in October.  ‘More Complicated’  Given the improved economic growth, which the government
attributed to stronger than expected recovery in agricultural
production, the revised restructuring offers provide more
favorable coupon rates than the original Aug. 8 proposals.  One scenario would lower the current 8.5 percent coupon
rate to 4.5 percent for five years and then bump up to 6.75
percent thereafter.  “The two parties are still far apart even though it’s
significantly closer than they were,” Carl Ross, an Atlanta-
based managing director of investments at Oppenheimer & Co., a
brokerage firm, said in a telephone interview. “The longer the
process takes, the greater the legal fees pile up. The longer
the government is in default, the greater the past interest
payments build up. The longer it drags on, the more complicated
it becomes.”  Prices on the defaulted debt fell 0.48 cent today to 39.00
cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  