-- Best of BRICs Bond Rally in Euroclear Countdown: Russia Credit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-29T06:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/best-of-brics-bond-rally-in-euroclear-countdown-russia-credit.html
Banks preparing for the opening of
Russia’s bond market to foreigners are loading up on ruble debt,
driving yields to the lowest on record and spurring the best
monthly gains among the largest  emerging markets .  The Treasury sold 13.5 billion rubles ($434 million) of so-
called OFZ bonds due April 2017 yesterday at an average yield of
6.8 percent, the bottom of its guidance and the  lowest rate  at
any of its 10 previous auctions of the debt, central bank data
show. Ruble bonds have returned 1.5 percent this month, beating
Brazil,  China  and  India , JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  President  Vladimir Putin ’s government is opening the local
market to Euroclear Bank SA and Clearstream International SA,
the world’s biggest settlement systems, to turn the country into
a financial hub. A “considerable” portion of funds invested in
OFZs comes from foreigners, and greater access will cut the
government’s borrowing costs, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
told a conference in Moscow yesterday.  “October and November have obviously been the best period
for OFZs,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed-income analysis, at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by e-mail. “Market
sentiment remains strong ahead of Euroclear settlement. This
will persist exactly until it actually starts.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted in September that the
changes will generate inflows of as much as $30 billion by
mid-2013. Demand at the top end of the government’s yield
guidance of 6.8 percent to 6.85 percent was almost double the 15
billion rubles offered at yesterday’s sale, the  Finance Ministry 
said on its website.  Start Operations  Euroclear is still aiming to start operations with OFZ
bonds by year-end, Stephan Pouyat, head of product management
global reach, said by e-mail yesterday. Foreign investors, who
can now trade via a brokerage account in the country, will be
able to settle directly over Euroclear’s international platform.  “If foreign companies have more access to our state debt
market then this will help us lower our borrowing costs
further,” finance chief Siluanov said at the conference
yesterday.  The return on ruble bonds compares with a 0.8 percent gain
for Indian debt, a 0.4 percent increase for Chinese bonds and a
0.6 percent decline for  Brazil ’s, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The yield on the April 2017 notes slid seven basis points
to 6.82 percent, the lowest on record, in trading yesterday. The
rate has dropped 27 basis points this month, following a 42
basis-point decline in October.  ‘Aggressive’ pricing  “The pricing was pretty aggressive,” Dmitry Gritskevich,
an analyst with Moscow-based OAO Promsvyazbank, said by e-mail
yesterday. “It’s a reflection of the fact that the Finance
Ministry doesn’t need to borrow, given this year’s deficit-free
budget.”  Russia will run a surplus equivalent to 0.1 percent to 0.2
percent of gross domestic product this year, Interfax cited
First Deputy Finance Minister Tatiana Nesterenko as saying Nov.
17. The budget, approved yesterday by  Russia ’s upper house of
parliament, predicts a shortfall of 0.8 percent of GDP next year
and 0.2 percent in 2014.  “We expected and were betting on a rally in domestic
bonds,” Vladimir Potapov, global head of  portfolio management 
at VTB Capital Asset Management, said in an interview in Moscow
on Nov. 28. “The main thing is that there aren’t any more
delays in the Euroclear launch.”  Ruble, Bonds  The ruble added 0.4 percent to 31.0599 per dollar by 10:26
a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
31.5085 per dollar in three months.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 were little
changed, leaving the yield steady at 2.517 percent. The yield on
Russia’s international ruble bond due in March 2018 was
unchanged yesterday at 5.987 percent.  Russia is rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings , the second-lowest
investment-grade ranking. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russian government dollar bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries 
fell two basis points to 193, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. The difference compares with 166 basis points for debt
of similarly rated  Mexico  and 150 basis points for Brazil.  ‘Any Price’  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was steady at 145
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The default swaps cost
seven basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one level
lower at BBB- by Fitch. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Two so-called non-competitive deals yesterday accounted for
about 10 billion rubles of the bonds bought, a sign foreign
investors are acquiring the notes, according to Anton Nikitin,
an analyst with Moscow-based VTB Capital.  “The people who really want to buy papers at any price,
they just put in the bids for a certain volume and receive this
volume at the weighted average price,” he said by e-mail.  “The rally is fully related to expectations that Euroclear
is coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  