-- Big Ten-Bound Rutgers Seeking Title as a Big East Parting Gift
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/big-ten-bound-rutgers-seeking-title-as-a-big-east-parting-gift.html
Rutgers University  can win its first
outright  Big East  football title and Bowl Championship Series
berth with a win tonight over the  University of Louisville .  It may be one of the last automatic BCS entries for a
conference that both schools are bolting for more lucrative
leagues.  The Scarlet Knights (9-2 overall, 5-1 Big East) would
clinch the conference title and BCS berth with a victory at High
Point Solutions Stadium in Piscataway,  New Jersey , which is sold
out for the first time since 2009. A win for the Cardinals (9-2,
4-2) would ensure at least a three-way tie for the league title
and position Louisville for a probable BCS bid, its first since
2007.  Kickoff is set for 7:30 p.m. New York time. Rutgers is a
three-point favorite, according to the online sports book
Bovada.lv.  Rutgers announced on Nov. 20 that it would move to the Big
Ten, and Louisville accepted an invitation yesterday to join the
Atlantic Coast Conference.  West Virginia  left the Big East this
season for the Big 12, Texas Christian backed out of a
commitment to the league, and Pittsburgh and Syracuse are moving
to the ACC next year.  “I’ve never made it a secret to you guys when I got here
that were going to fix the finances of athletics and become a
self-sufficient operation,” Rutgers Athletic Director Tim Pernetti said when the school’s move was announced. “This puts
us on a faster track toward doing that.”  The BCS pays $22 million annually to every league with an
automatic qualifier, according to the series’ website. Each
conference, which chooses how to divvy that money among its
members, receives an additional $6 million if it qualifies a
second team, as the  Southeastern Conference  has done in each of
the past six seasons.  Losing Bid  The Big East may lose its automatic bid when the BCS adopts
changes beginning with the 2014 season. Under that system, the
ACC, Southeastern Conference, Big Ten, Big 12 and Pac-12 will
retain automatic berths, with the sixth spot awarded to the
highest-rated champion from a cluster of leagues. That “Group
of Five” includes the Mountain West, Big East, Conference USA,
Mid-American and Sun Belt.  Big East Commissioner Mike Aresco said yesterday in a
statement that the league has prepared for the realignment by
building a nationwide league that stretches from Providence
College in  Rhode Island  to San Diego State in  Southern
California .  “Big East teams will continue to compete and succeed at
the highest level and, as always, will combine athletic and
academic excellence,” Aresco said.  Outside Chances  Syracuse (7-5, 5-2), which has finished its regular season,
is mathematically alive both for a share of the Big East title
and a possible BCS bid. Cincinnati (8-3, 4-2) can win a share of
the league title but cannot go a BCS game.  According to the Big East  website , should Louisville win
tonight and Cincinnati lose on Dec. 1, Rutgers, Syracuse and
Louisville would tie for the league title, with the BCS bid
going to the team with the highest ranking, most likely
Louisville. Should the Cardinals of Louisville and the Bearcats
of Cincinnati win this week, the four-way tie would be broken
first by head-to-head record, eliminating Syracuse and
Cincinnati, then by BCS rank, which would likely favor
Louisville.  Tonight’s game is sold out, and Rutgers is expecting at
least 52,000 fans to attend, according to spokesman Jason Baum.
The Empire State Building, in Midtown Manhattan about 40 miles
to the northeast, will be lit red tonight in honor of the
Scarlet Knights, who haven’t played a BCS game in the system’s
14-year history.  “We’re certainly not naive to what the result of the game
will dictate for either team,” Rutgers coach Kyle Flood told
reporters this week. “It’s the kind of game that you want to be
in as a player and as a coach, and it’s the kind of game as a
program that we hope to be in every year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  