-- Billionaire Paulmann’s Purchase Hits Cencosud Debt: Andes Credit
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-29T18:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/billionaire-paulmann-s-purchase-hits-cencosud-debt-andes-credit.html
Chilean billionaire Horst Paulmann’s
debt-financed acquisition of  Carrefour SA’s (CA)  Colombian assets is
turning  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) ’s bonds into the country’s worst performers.  The extra yield investors demand to own the Santiago-based
retailer’s dollar notes instead of U.S. Treasuries has swelled
0.85 percentage point to 3.38 percentage points since Paulmann
unveiled plans to sell $1 billion of bonds to help finance the
acquisition of Carrefour SA’s Colombian assets on Oct. 19.
Borrowing costs for similarly rated emerging-market companies
rose 0.09 percentage point in the same period versus Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Paulmann, who is making his biggest acquisition after
turning his family-run restaurant in southern  Chile  into a $17
billion retail empire, has boosted Cencosud’s debt relative to
earnings to about 5.5 times, according to  Fitch Ratings 
estimates. That’s more than twice that of  similar-rated  European
retailers such as  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  or  Koninklijke Ahold NV. (AH) 
Fitch Ratings placed Cencosud’s BBB- ranking, the lowest
investment grade, on negative watch on Oct. 19 as the company’s
acquisition pushes its debt load higher.  “If they continue with aggressive acquisitions in 2013 and
don’t lower their debt, we would be looking at a possible
downgrade,” Jose Vertiz, an analyst at Fitch in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. “They would have to reduce debt
levels” to keep the investment grade.  Renato Fernandez, the head of corporate affairs at
Cencosud, declined to comment in an e-mail on Nov. 26 when
contacted by  Bloomberg News , citing legal restrictions related
to the sale of its bonds in the U.S.  Lagging Behind  Cencosud plans to sell $1.2 billion of 10-year bonds to
yield 337.5 basis points over Treasuries, according to a person
familiar with the deal. That compares with a spread of 230 basis
points when the company issued 10-year securities in January
2011. The company increased the size of its planned bond sale
from $1 billion.  The offering comes as the company’s bonds are lagging
behind the debt of peers. The yield on the 2021 bonds was 4.66
percent, 112 basis points above the average yield on Chilean
bonds in dollars, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Chile AAA-BB USD Emerging Market Corporates index. That spread
was 58 basis points at the start of October.  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates the bonds Baa3, and
Fitch said they would consider lowering their ratings on
Cencosud’s debt to junk if the company can’t reduce its debt to
less than 3.5 times earnings in the next few quarters.  Share Sale  “The debt level is high for the rating,” Cristobal Oyarzun, an analyst at Larrain Vial SA, who has a sell
recommendation on Cencosud’s local-currency debt, said by
telephone on Nov. 27 from Santiago. “I would buy if they get
downgraded and the yield jumps.”  The 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) buyout of the Colombian
assets of Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour is
Paulmann’s 17th acquisition. After the proposed share sale, the
billionaire and his family will own more than 60 percent of the
company.  His holding makes Paulmann, a 77-year-old who still speaks
with a German accent after arriving in Chile as a teenager
following World War II, the second-richest person in Chile, with
an estimated net worth of $5.2 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Cencosud, which operates supermarkets and department stores
in Latin America, is reviewing all its planned  capital spending 
for the next 12 to 18 months and is “working on synergies and
analyzing several other options,” Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Rodriguez told analysts in a conference call Nov. 21.  ‘Potential Interest’  “It’s still investment-grade and there’ll be a lot of
potential interest,” in the offering, Michael Discher- Remmlinger, a portfolio manager who helps oversee about $3
billion in emerging-markets debt at Deka Investment GmbH, said
by telephone from  Frankfurt . “Being based in Chile, which is
doing well economically with support from domestic demand,
helps.”  He declined to say whether he plans to buy the new bonds.  Gross domestic product in Chile, the highest-rated country
in  Latin America , rose 5.7 percent in the third quarter, beating
the 5.4 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Chile’s dollar bonds due in 2022 fell two
basis points to 2.31 percent at 1:02 p.m. New York time. The
two-year swap rate added three basis points to 5.19 percent in
Santiago. The yield on Chilean  five-year  inflation-linked
benchmark bonds rose one basis point to 2.53 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years dropped one basis point to 78 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso is the world’s third-best performing currency this
year, with an 8 percent rally against the dollar. It gained 0.4
percent to 479.15 per dollar today.  The yield on Cencosud’s 2021 bonds added one basis point to
4.67 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cencosud posted $1.2 billion profit from $4.4 billion of
revenue in the first quarter. It made $811.6 million of that
profit from  supermarkets with revenue  of $3.3 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paulmann is trying to raise the new cash after asking
investors for $1 billion in an equity offering that closed in
June. At the time he told investors it was to help reduce debt.  “Without the capital increase, the ratings would be under
pressure,” Marianna Waltz, an analyst at Moody’s in  Sao Paulo 
said by phone. “We don’t think they’ll be able to get the
leverage down without it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  