-- Usmanov Spurns IPO Proceeds for Grip on Technology
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A l e x   S a z o n o v
-- 2012-11-30T10:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/billionaire-usmanov-spurns-ipo-proceeds-for-grip-on-technology.html
Alisher Usmanov  didn’t receive a
cent from the $1.7 billion London share sale of his mobile
operator  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , nor did he pocket a dime from the $1
billion initial public offering of his Internet company  Mail.ru
Group Ltd. (MAIL)  two years ago.  The commodity billionaire has a different reason for IPOs.
He’s used the deals to let partners cash out and increase his
control over technology companies, and emerged as Russia’s
wealthiest person this year.  The MegaFon IPO marks the latest success for the 59-year-
old Uzbekistan-born businessman, who built a fortune in  iron ore 
and steel assets while helping Russian President  Vladimir
Putin ’s team in the early 2000s recover natural-gas assets spun
off earlier by OAO Gazprom’s management.  Usmanov’s timing has paid off. He bought into MegaFon in
2007 as Dmitry Medvedev prepared to take over as president from
Putin, with innovation as the keystone of his economic program.  “Usmanov positioned himself as a businessman creating an
innovative technology holding company that fits with Medvedev’s
agenda,” Stanislav Belkovsky, a Moscow-based political analyst,
said by telephone.  Shifting from commodities to technology, Usmanov is riding
a wave of mobile Internet usage. Mail.ru runs Russia’s biggest
e-mail service, social networks and online games.  Twitter, Jobs  Medvedev was the first Russian leader to set up a Twitter
account and met Apple Inc. founder  Steve Jobs  in person in the
U.S. He oversaw the creation of the Skolkovo high-tech center, a
Kremlin-backed version of Silicon Valley.  Usmanov’s telecommunications, Internet and media assets now
account for more than half of his $17 billion fortune, while the
rest comes from his iron ore producer  Metalloinvest , 4 percent
of Russian miner OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, 30 percent of the
Arsenal Football Club and cash, including proceeds from the sale
of shares in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , according to  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  His next IPO may be also in technology. Usmanov’s  UTH
Russia  television company, which brought  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  into a
country-wide channel last year, has been considering a share
sale since 2011. UTH’s press offices declined to comment.  Elena Martynova, spokeswoman for the billionaire’s USM
Holding, declined to comment on Usmanov’s plans.  ‘White Knight’  At MegaFon, Usmanov took on the role of a “white knight,”
buying out “murky” shareholders battling with billionaire
 Mikhail Fridman ’s Altimo in 2007 and 2008, said Evgeny Golosnoy,
an analyst at Moscow-based IFC Metropol.  MegaFon was formed in 2002 through the merger of Russian
mobile assets held by Sweden’s Telia, Finland’s Sonera and funds
controlled by Danish lawyer Jeffrey Galmond. A Zurich-based
arbitration tribunal concluded in May 2006 that then
Communications Minister Leonid Reiman was the beneficial owner
of Galmond’s IPOC fund, which was at the heart of a four-year
battle with Altimo over a 25 percent stake in MegaFon. Reiman
repeatedly denied the connection to IPOC.  “There was a shareholders’ deadlock in MegaFon with three
major owners,” said Evgeny Dumalkin, a vice president at
Moscow-based  Altimo . “Usmanov showed himself to be a wise
negotiator, agreeing on a compromise that fit both us and
TeliaSonera.”  In April, Fridman exited MegaFon, Usmanov gained control
and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  agreed to reduce its stake via the IPO.  Peace-Maker  “Usmanov has built a reputation for resolving difficult
situations and peace-making in corporate conflicts,” said
Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Capital.  Usmanov has been dogged by a six-year prison term he served
in Uzbekistan on a 1980 conviction for fraud and embezzlement.
In 1989, a Soviet court expunged his record and in 2000
Uzbekistan’s  Supreme Court  ruled there were no constituent
elements of crime, according to MegaFon’s IPO prospectus.  The MegaFon deal helped restore peace at the main mobile
service provider to government entities and state companies,
with close ties to the so-called St. Petersburg group, according
to Anna Kurbatova, an analyst at BCS Financial Group, referring
to officials and businessmen who followed Putin from his
hometown to Moscow.  The IPO came under threat this year when Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. withdrew as an adviser, without publicly giving a
reason. Prior to the sale, MegaFon appointed  Paul Myners , a
former U.K. Treasury minister, as an independent director, to
reassure investors about corporate governance.  Biggest IPO  MegaFon recovered to hold the biggest IPO from Russia since
United Co. Rusal’s $2.2 billion share sale in January 2010. The
deal may worth as much as $1.86 billion if the overallotment
option is used in full, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Usmanov’s move into technology appears to serve the goals
of Medvedev’s government, and state banks have willingly funded
his projects, Belkovsky said. Usmanov’s 34 percent of MegaFon is
pledged as collateral to  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  through 2018, the mobile
company said in the prospectus.  Since Usmanov bought into MegaFon four years ago, the
company has spent 240 billion rubles ($7.7 billion) developing
its network infrastructure and, according to researcher  AC&M
Consulting , became a leader in mobile data transmission in the
country. This year, Usmanov also acquired  Scartel , which is
developing a fourth-generation network in the country.  MegaFon and Usmanov are now finalizing the $1.3 billion
acquisition of a 50 percent stake in Russia’s largest handset
retailer Euroset, the other half of which is owned by Fridman’s
mobile operator  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , the largest mobile company in
Russia and controlled billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s AFK
Sistema, has expressed concern that a Euroset deal could hurt
competition in retail sales.  Facebook, Groupon  At Mail.ru, the exit of two of its co-founders in and after
the November 2010 IPO allowed Usmanov to gain a voting majority.
The company’s charter bans foreign shareholders from owning more
than 45 percent. With a market value of $6.5 billion, Mail.ru
has been paying generous dividends to shareholders as it sells
minority stakes in Facebook,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Usmanov, who held Facebook shares via Mail.ru and his
Digital Sky Technologies fund, has sold $1.4 billion of shares
in the social networking site since its May IPO, according to
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. In an interview broadcast on
Russian television in April, Usmanov said DST persuaded Facebook
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  to sell it shares in 2009 by waiving
 voting rights .  MegaFon shares rose 1.8 percent to $20.87 a depositary
receipt at 10:23 a.m. in London today, while Mail.ru added 1.2
percent to $32.65.  “Usmanov successfully diversified away from the raw
materials sector,” said Metropol’s Golosnoy. “It’s quite
unusual for a Russian oligarch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sazonov in Moscow at 
 asazonov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  