-- BNP, SocGen Fight French Banks’ Euro-Crisis Proxy Label
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-11-30T10:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/bnp-like-socgen-fights-french-banks-euro-crisis-proxy-label.html
French banks, which have cut debt
holdings in  Europe ’s troubled periphery by more than 35 percent
since the start of the euro-area crisis, are still struggling to
shake off their image as surrogates for the region’s woes.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole
Group (ACA) , hit last year by Greek writedowns, have cut some of their
riskiest assets and sought more stable funding sources. That
didn’t prevent Moody’s Investors Service Inc. this month from
listing French banks’ “vulnerability” to a deepening crisis
among its reasons for stripping France of its top  credit rating .  “They’re caught in the euro sovereign crisis and that’s
not going away,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 17
billion pounds ($27 billion) at Rathbone Brothers in  London .
“French banks are still a proxy for European troubles.”  French lenders shrank their private and public debt
holdings in  Greece , Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy to $540
billion at the end of June from $833 billion in mid-2009, Bank
for International Settlements figures show. That helped
President  Francois Hollande ’s government to borrow at record-low
costs as investor concern France’s banks may need aid waned.  Although Moody’s said its ratings and outlook for France’s
largest banks were “unaffected” by the country’s sovereign
downgrade, it voiced concern about their presence in the euro-
area’s troubled economies.  Cleaning Efforts  “France is disproportionately exposed to peripheral
European countries such as Italy through its trade linkages and
its banking system,” Moody’s said Nov. 19. “Despite their good
loss-absorption capacity, French banks remain vulnerable to a
further deepening of the crisis.”  European banks have cut international assets by 40 percent,
or $7 trillion, in the past four years, including $2 trillion in
the past year, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Huw van Steenis in
London wrote in a Nov. 20 report.  While “we might be over the worst and most pernicious
phase,” European banks will face a “profound, complex and
multi-year deleveraging,” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  The shrinkage may be marked at French banks, which were
among Europe’s most ambitious and acquisitive. They spent about
$68 billion on assets in other euro-area markets since the
creation of the currency, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, topped the list,
snapping up assets in Belgium and Italy.  ‘Keep Adjusting’  And although the three-year-old euro-area debt crisis has
forced the banks to retreat as their access to U.S. dollar
funding dried up last year and doors to Europe’s debt markets
closed, much remains to be done, said Jean-Pierre Lambert, an
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods Ltd. in London.  “French banks will have to keep adjusting,” he said.
“It’s a permanent effort.”  In addition to cutting risk-weighted assets, the banks
boosted deposits and shrank loan books. BNP Paribas,  Societe
Generale  and  Credit Agricole  increased deposits by 0.8 percent
in the nine months through September to 1.57 trillion euros.
Their total loans fell 3 percent. The banks sold corporate-loan
portfolios overseas while keeping retail lending stable at home.  French banks, like others in the euro area, were buoyed by
the  European Central Bank  plowing 1 trillion euros into the
region’s financial system and ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
decision in September to agree to buy the bonds, under some
conditions, of euro nations whose yields have skyrocketed.  Shares Gain  That lifted some of the anxiety attached to the French
banking industry, with investors rewarding the lenders for their
return from the precipice.  Before today,  BNP Paribas shares  rose 41 percent this year
after falling 36 percent in 2011. They were 0.2 percent higher
at 42.92 euros as of 10:58 a.m. in Paris. Societe Generale,
which has gained 62 percent after sliding 57 percent last year,
was down 0.3 percent at 27.74 euros. Credit Agricole, which
gained 34 percent this year after a decline last year of 54
percent, traded down 0.1 percent at 5.85 euros.  Still, BNP Paribas is down 18 percent from Sept. 1, 2009 --
just before the crisis began -- Societe Generale has fallen 46
percent and Credit Agricole 53 percent.  Also, France’s largest banks’ credit default swaps, which
reflect the cost of insuring against default, have risen more
than their biggest German and U.K. counterparts since Oct. 16,
2009, when former Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
characterized his country’s economic situation as “explosive.”  French Market  CDSs for BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and Credit Agricole
have risen by at least 80 basis points, or 0.8 percent, while
those for Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc have widened
about 41 basis points and 34 basis points respectively. CDSs for
peripheral-country banks,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest, and
Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest, are more than 200 basis
points higher.  The French banks’ fates are also inexorably tied to the
country’s state and economy, which has barely grown in well over
a year. Moody’s called inadequate President’s Hollande’s plan to
rekindle the economy and shrink an  unemployment rate  that’s at a
14-year high.  “As long as banks’ funding conditions depend on their
sovereign, and reciprocally states refinance through banks,
there is an economic link,” said  Emmanuel Dooseman , a partner
at independent audit group Mazars in Paris.  Credit Agricole, France’s largest bank by assets, is owned
by 39 cooperative regional banks and has a 28 percent share of
French deposits. Societe Generale in the first half got 43.5
percent of its revenue in France, while for BNP Paribas it was
32 percent, according to their filings.  Heavy Toll  French banks paid a toll for the sovereign-debt crisis.
Credit Agricole Group had a 2.21 billion-euro  third-quarter loss 
on costs tied to the sale of its Greek unit Emporiki Bank, it
said Nov. 9. Societe Generale, France’s third-largest bank by
assets, is also selling its Greek branches network.  BNP Paribas, which has no branches in Greece, took 3.2
billion euros in writedowns on the country’s sovereign debt last
year. BNP Paribas is also steadily cutting funding to its
profitable Italian branch network.  Unlike Credit Agricole and Societe Generale, BNP Paribas
posted a rebound in third-quarter earnings and said Nov. 7 that
it has reached higher capital levels under Basel III rules than
rivals such as Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG. BNP Paribas at the
end of September reached a 9.5 percent core Tier 1 ratio and it
plans no additional asset cuts after completing its self-imposed
corporate- and investment-banking slimming.  New Rules  “We’ve adapted at the fastest pace possible,” Alain Papiasse, head of BNP Paribas’s corporate and investment bank,
told journalists at a Nov. 21 meeting. “We’re like a large
overhauled store with all aisles now open for business.”  As of end-September, Credit Agricole had surpassed its
cost-cutting target. Societe Generale completed its loan-
portfolio disposals program while it still aims to free up
capital by reducing assets left over from the subprime crisis.  French lenders’ efforts to insulate themselves from
troubled European economies come as the region’s financial
system is pushed to conform to stricter Basel III rules.  The French government is also planning a law to wall off
the most “speculative” trading, including “pure” proprietary
trading, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said this month.  French banking officials have voiced concerns that European
and French banking rules and reforms will constrain business
even as the U.S. takes its time on adopting Basel III.  ‘A Nightmare’  The  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on Nov. 9 said they
“do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become
effective” at the start of next year. The agencies are working
“as expeditiously as possible” to align U.S. banks with
guidelines set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The regulatory regime being imposed on European banks “is
a nightmare,”  Frederic Oudea , Societe Generale’s chief
executive officer, said at a Nov. 15 conference.  “We don’t want Europe to be the victim,” BNP Paribas
Chairman  Baudouin Prot  said at the conference.  In France, Basel III liquidity rules would be “the most
powerful cause for the contraction in bank credit,” an Institut
Montaigne report chaired by BNP Paribas’s Honorary Chairman
Michel Pebereau said this month.  “The weakening of the financial system, and existing
periodical tensions on interbank markets threaten from now on
the economy’s financing and create a credit crunch risk in
Europe,” the report warned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 