-- BofA Sees More Life in World-Beating Bond Advance: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-30T15:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/bofa-sees-more-life-in-world-beating-bond-advance-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s first investment-grade
rating in almost two decades kicked off the best month since
January for bondholders, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch is
among those saying there are more  gains  to come.  Yields on two-year notes dropped 115 basis points this
month after Fitch Ratings upgraded the country on Nov. 5, the
most among 19 major emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg and
triple the decline for second-placed  Poland . The investment-
grade rating, the first since 1994, sent the cost of insuring
Turkish debt using credit-default swaps to below that of higher-
rated Russia,  Israel  and South Africa.  “Bonds remain the asset to hold in Turkey,” Arko Sen, a
debt strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said by e-mail
from  London  yesterday. “Given the ratings trajectory, foreign
allocations to local bonds have room to increase.”  Turkish bonds are rewarding investors who bet on a country
with the world’s largest  current-account deficit  after the U.S.,
a higher  inflation rate  than east European peers and a currency
that was the worst performer against the dollar last year.  Yields hit a record low of 5.93 percent today, extending
their decline this year to 508 basis points, or 5.08 percentage
points, also the biggest drop among the 19 major  emerging
markets . The drop in November was beaten this year only by the
157 basis-point decrease in January, Bloomberg data show.  Still Junk  Credit-default swaps, which pay out should a borrower
renege on debt agreements, fell to 130 basis points today, 15
points above a record low in 2006.  A subsequent upgrade from either Standard & Poor’s or
Moody’s Investors Service would be needed for Turkish bonds to
be certified as investment grade and included in some global
indexes that would bring additional investment inflows.  S&P ranks Turkey two levels below investment grade after
five straight increases since the aftermath of a currency crisis
in 2001. Moody’s puts the country at its highest junk grade
after three increases since 2005, the last in June this year.  Moody’s on Nov. 21 rejected arguments for an upgrade used
by Fitch, citing risks in funding Turkey’s current-account
deficit. It kept Turkey’s debt at Ba1. Moody’s said Turkey was
the only country in  Europe  with a positive outlook. It didn’t
give a schedule for its next review, saying a ratings action
could occur at any time.  Dedicated Funds  “I still think it’s possible that Moody’s will upgrade
Turkey sometime during the first half of 2013, which should
attract more traditional non-emerging markets-dedicated
investors to buy Turkey bonds,” Esther Law, a strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “I see
potential for the local bond yield to go lower from here,
especially as we see the usual first-quarter risk rally.”  The local-currency bond market is being boosted by central
bank Governor Erdem Basci’s record-low interest rates as he
tries to stimulate domestic demand.  The pace of economic growth declined to 2.9 percent in the
second quarter, the slowest since a 2009 economic contraction.
The increase in gross domestic product will probably accelerate
to 4 percent in 2013 from 3.2 percent for 2012 as a whole,
according to government estimates.  Basci lends to banks within a so-called corridor of 5.75
percent, the benchmark one-week repo rate, and an upper limit of
9 percent, the overnight lending rate. Banks can also finance
themselves at competitive auctions using a one-month rate, which
helped drive the  average cost of funding  to 5.63 percent as of
Nov. 28, a record low.  Lira Rally  The lira weakened less than 0.1 percent to 1.7864 against
the dollar in Istanbul today, bringing this year’s gain to 5.9
percent. That marks a turnaround from last year, when the
currency dropped 18 percent against the dollar.  Investors took fright from surging loan demand that swelled
the current-account deficit to $77.1 billion by the end of 2011,
or about 10 percent of GDP. The deficit narrowed for an 11th
month in September as imports waned, while  inflation  dropped to
7.8 percent last month from 10.5 percent at the end of 2011.  Bonds last year also plunged, with yields rising 390 basis
points. Credit-default swaps surged to 300 basis points.  In the past month, Turkey’s swap prices have fallen 33
basis points to 130, as its creditworthiness improved. That put
them below  Russia  at 135, Israel at 141 and South Africa at 149.
Russia and South Africa are each rated three levels higher at
Moody’s, and Israel is six levels higher.  Keep Going  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 176
today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.
That gives Turkey the second-lowest rate in major eastern
European markets, behind Poland. The extra yield for Hungary’s
debt was double that for Turkey at 368 basis points, and the
emerging market average was 285.  “The lira will perform better and the market will get used
to the easing rhetoric of the central bank, so Turkey will keep
on outperforming its peers,” Bugra Bilgi, manager of the hedge
fund at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest bank by
stock market value, said in an e-mail from Istanbul yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  