-- Brazil Swap Rates Climb After Selic Decision; Currency Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-29T20:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/brazil-swap-rates-rise-after-selic-decision-real-little-changed.html
Brazil’s swap rates rose on concern
inflation will accelerate after the central bank said it plans
to keep borrowing costs at a record low for a “prolonged
period” and U.S. lawmakers expressed optimism they can avert a
 budget crisis .  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 climbed two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.31 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo. The real declined 0.2 percent to 2.0987 per
dollar. The currency fell Nov. 23 to a three-year intraday low
of 2.1172, spurring policy makers to intervene in the foreign-
exchange market.  The central bank reiterated yesterday its intent to hold
the target lending rate, known as the Selic, at a record low
7.25 percent as it tries to keep inflation within its target
range of 2.5 to 6.5 percent without derailing the economic
recovery. The bank’s decision to leave the rate unchanged at
that level snapped a streak of 10 reductions.  “Nothing changed in the signals of monetary policy, and
rates should remain at this level,” Flavio Serrano, a senior
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. ‘The markets abroad are stronger, which is prompting
people to charge more of an inflation premium.’’  The real also fell as currency-swaps traders pushed it
lower before the central bank announces tomorrow the  exchange
rate  for the end of the month, known as the Ptax, which serves
as the reference for maturing contracts, said Andre de Carvalho Ferreira, director at Futura Corretora in Sao Paulo.  ‘Speculative Movement’  “It’s a speculative movement,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The market already has more people buying dollars
at the end of the year because of companies’ remittances.”  The currency traded in a range of 2 to 2.1 per dollar from
July 4 through Nov. 21 before touching the three-year low on
Nov. 23 and prompting the central bank to intervene. A decline
in the currency hurts Brazilian companies whose expenses are
mostly in dollars.  The real rallied the most in four months on Nov. 23 as the
central bank auctioned currency swaps for the first time since
June, selling 32,500 contracts maturing in December valued at
$1.6 billion. From August through October, the bank sold reverse
currency swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar and
make  Brazil ’s exporters more competitive.  The monetary policy committee’s unanimous rate decision,
which was forecast by all 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
took into account the “the balance of risks for inflation,”
the board said in its statement, which was almost identical to
last month’s announcement.  Faster Inflation  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
5.64 percent in the month through mid-November compared with
5.56 in the prior period, the national statistics institute
reported last week. Inflation will be faster than the 4.5
percent midpoint of policy makers’ target range through next
year, a central bank survey of economists indicates.  The consumer default rate remained at 7.9 percent in
October for the fourth straight month, the central bank reported
today. That matches the highest since November 2009. The company
loan default rate rose to 4.1 percent from 4 percent a month
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  