-- California Defends Sex Offender Law Facing Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/california-defends-sex-offender-law-facing-lawsuit.html
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  defended a voter-approved ballot measure that expands sex
offender registration requirements and denied the claims
in a lawsuit challenging the law’s constitutionality.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and the Electronic
Frontier Foundation sued this month to block portions of the
law, which requires anyone who is a registered sex offender to
turn over a list of all their Internet identifiers and service
providers to  law enforcement . The restrictions are part of
California’s Proposition 35, which also includes increased
prison terms for human trafficking.  “To the extent that any of plaintiffs’ constitutional
rights are implicated by the challenged statutory provisions,
the invasion of rights is incidental and is outweighed by
California’s countervailing interest in strengthening its laws
regarding sexual exploitation, including sex offender
registration requirements,” Harris said in yesterday’s filing
in federal court in  San Francisco .  The groups suing said the measure’s online speech
regulations are overly broad and violate the First Amendment,
both because they prohibit anonymous speech and because the
reporting requirements burden all sorts of online speech, even
when the speaker is using his own real name as a screen name.  The lawsuit, which seeks a judge’s order blocking the
allegedly unconstitutional portions of the law, was filed Nov. 7
by two registered sex offenders and the nonprofit group
 California Reform Sex Offender Laws .  The case is Roe v. Harris, 12-05713, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  