-- Cameron’s Coalition Is Split Over Law to Set Up Press Regulator
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-29T16:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cameron-s-coalition-is-split-over-law-to-set-up-press-regulator.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition was split over whether to accept in full the
recommendations of a press inquiry he set up and to pass laws to
back up a new media regulator.  The Conservative premier said that while he supports the
principles of Judge Brian Leveson’s report into media ethics
published earlier today, he believes new legislation is
unnecessary and would represent the first attempt by government
to pass laws about the press in centuries. That put him at odds
both with Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
with the opposition  Labour Party .  “Once you start writing a piece of legislation that backs
up an independent regulator, you have to write into that what
are its powers, what is its makeup,” Cameron told the House of
Commons in London today, 90 minutes after Leveson published his
call for an oversight body with statutory underpinning. “That’s
the concern, and that’s the Rubicon you’ve got to think very
carefully before you cross.”  The prime minister stopped short of ruling out a new law,
instead repeatedly stressing that it might be more difficult
than envisaged by its supporters.  “He’s not absolutely ruling it out, he’s saying it would
be a big step,” Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told reporters.
“The legal changes being proposed are something we need to look
at in detail.” He said it was “entirely possible” there would
be a free vote on the report, with government lawmakers not
obliged to support a party line.  Clegg Disagrees  In a break from the usual parliamentary convention, Clegg
gave a statement immediately after Cameron, disagreeing with the
premier and saying Leveson wasn’t proposing an “illiberal state
regulator.”  “This isn’t and cannot be characterized as a statutory
regulator of the press,” Clegg told lawmakers. He said he hoped
an agreement could be reached. “The absolute worst outcome in
all of this would be for nothing to happen at all.”  Leveson proposed an independent watchdog with the power to
issue fines of as much as 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) for
serious journalistic infractions, and that news organizations
that decline to join the system should face higher civil damages
if they’re sued by victims. Though the judge didn’t propose
forcing news organizations to join the regulator, he did say
legislation would be needed to give it a legal framework.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  welcomed Cameron’s invitation to
begin immediate cross-party talks and said he hoped the prime
minister would change his mind on the issue of legislation.  ‘Last-Chance Saloons’  “The case is compelling,” Miliband said. “The evidence
is overwhelming. This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
make change the public can trust. There can be no more last-
chance saloons.”  The last line was an echo of a comment by a former
Conservative Culture Secretary, David Mellor, in 1991 that the
press was “drinking in the last-chance saloon” and would need
to improve its behavior or face statutory regulation.  Even before Clegg had spoken, Liberal Democrat lawmakers
signaled their discontent. “We’re not being asked by Leveson to
cross a Rubicon,” Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat party
president, told Cameron. “It’s barely even a brook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  