-- Cameron Struggles for Consensus Over Media Regulation
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-29T11:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cameron-struggles-for-consensus-over-media-regulation.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said yesterday he wants a system of media regulation that has
support from the opposition Labour Party. He may not even get
the support of his coalition partners or his own lawmakers.  Brian Leveson, the judge appointed by Cameron last year to
conduct an inquiry into media ethics in the wake of the phone-
hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid, will
announce his findings at 1.30 p.m. today in London. Cameron, who
was given the report yesterday, will give his initial response
in Parliament 60 minutes later. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg
will make a separate statement after that.  Cameron assembled a team from his Conservative Party and
the Liberal Democrats, who are led by Clegg, in his Downing
Street office this morning in a bid to agree on a joint position
on regulation.  “We should try to work across party lines on this issue,”
Cameron told Parliament during his weekly questions session
yesterday. “What matters most, I believe, is that we end up
with an independent regulatory system that can deliver.”  Clegg, who discussed the report with Cameron last night,
hinted early today that they might have reached an agreement.  ‘Raucous Press’  “Everybody wants two things: firstly a strong,
independent, raucous press who can hold people in positions of
power to account,” he told reporters as he left his  London  home
for work. “And secondly to protect ordinary people, the
vulnerable, the innocent when the press overstep the mark.
That’s the balance we’re trying to strike, and I’m sure we
will.”  Even so, Clegg’s office announced that the deputy premier
will make a separate statement to the Commons once Cameron has
finished.  The move, in contrast to the usual practice of letting the
prime minister speak for the whole government, reflects the
seriousness of the issues and the report, rather than a
disagreement between the two men, according to the deputy
premier’s office.  It’s the latest example of how Britain’s first coalition
government since World War II is having to rewrite conventions
in order to accommodate power-sharing.  Tory Divisions  The premier’s Tory lawmakers are themselves divided about
how a press-regulation system should be enforced. Earlier this
month, 42 of them signed a letter calling for a new regulator to
replace the existing  Press Complaints Commission , which is run
by the newspaper industry, to be backed by legislation.  More than 80 lawmakers from all sides, including all the
Conservative members of Parliament’s Culture Committee, then put
their names to a letter published yesterday rejecting a
statutory basis for regulation.  Clegg, whose party was attacked by Conservative-supporting
papers in the run-up to and after the 2010 election, told
Leveson’s inquiry that the Liberal Democrats were concerned too
much power was concentrated in the hands of News Corp. Chairman
Rupert Murdoch.  News Corp. publishes three U.K. national newspapers, even
after closing the News of the World last year as the hacking
scandal escalated, and has a 40 percent stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the biggest pay-television operator.  Clegg said he wanted a regulatory system that ensured
accountability and protected freedom of the press. He said he
would be open to a statutory system to ensure all newspapers
join in.  Ministerial Testimony  Today’s report may contain criticism of Cameron himself
over his closeness to Murdoch and his executives. In the course
of the inquiry, Cameron and three former prime ministers, as
well as a third of his Cabinet, testified about their
relationship with the press.  Text messages released to the inquiry between Cameron and
former News Corp. executive Rebekah Brooks, who’s now awaiting
trial on charges including phone hacking and bribery, showed she
told him they were “in it together” before he became prime
minister. Their country homes were near each other, and she
invited him for a “country supper.”  Cameron also hired former News of the World editor Andy Coulson as his press chief in 2007. Coulson, who quit that job
last year, is awaiting trial on charges of phone hacking,
bribery and perjury.  Hunt-Black  Media groups have said any backing for a new regulator in
law would threaten a free press. Guy Black, a director of the
Telegraph Media Group, and David Hunt, the chairman of the PCC,
have proposed a new regulatory system with binding contracts and
fines.  The National Union of Journalists criticized the Hunt-Black
model as not offering enough protection to individual reporters
who might be asked to break the law by their editors. The
Guardian, Independent and Financial Times newspapers have also
rejected it as insufficiently independent of the press.  Cameron too indicated yesterday that he thinks the plan
doesn’t go far enough.  “The status quo, I would argue, does not just need
updating; the status quo is unacceptable and needs to change,”
he told lawmakers before returning to his office to read
Leveson’s report. “People should be able to rely on a good
regulatory system as well, in order to get the redress they
want, whether prominent apologies, fines for newspapers or the
other things that are clearly so necessary.”  He signaled partial agreement with Conservative Philip Davies, who argued that the press wouldn’t be free if it were
regulated by the state.  “A free press is absolutely vital for a healthy
democracy,” Cameron said. “That is vitally important and,
whatever the changes we make, we want a robust and free press in
our country.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  