-- Canada Oct. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-29T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/canada-oct-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) was down 0.1% in
October compared with September, largely the result of lower
prices for petroleum and coal products. The Raw Materials Price
Index (RMPI) was unchanged in October. The decline in non-
ferrous metals was offset by increases in most commodity groups,
particularly mineral fuels.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI edged down 0.1% in October, following a 0.5%
increase in September. With this decline, the index returned to
the same level as in January.  The largest contributor to the IPPI decrease in October was
petroleum and coal products (-1.1%). General price declines were
observed for gasoline and fuel oil products, especially gasoline
(-3.1%), which was down for the first time in four months. The
IPPI excluding petroleum and coal products rose 0.2%.  Among other groups that decreased was primary metal
products (-0.8%), specifically aluminum products (-2.1%), other
non-ferrous metal products (-1.3%) and copper and copper alloy
products (-1.9%).  The decrease of the IPPI was moderated primarily by motor
vehicles and other transportation equipment (+0.7%), which rose
for the first time since June. The decrease of the Canadian
dollar against the US dollar in October was largely responsible
for the advance.  Most Canadian producers who export their products are paid
in US dollars. Consequently, the 0.9% decrease in the value of
the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar in October could
have the effect of increasing the corresponding prices in
Canadian dollars. Without the measurable impact of the exchange
rate, the IPPI would have fallen 0.3% instead of 0.1%.  Increased prices for chemical products; meat, fish and
dairy products; and machinery and equipment also moderated the
decline of the IPPI.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with October 2011, the IPPI was down 0.2%, its
third consecutive year-over-year decline.  The index was mainly driven down by primary metal products
(-3.1%), in particular, lower prices for aluminum products (-
10.6%) and iron and steel products (-2.9%).  Motor vehicles and other transportation equipment (-1.5%)
and chemical products (-3.0%) also contributed significantly to
the decline of the IPPI.  The 3.3% year-over-year increase in the value of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar could have the effect of
decreasing the IPPI. Without the measurable impact of the
exchange rate, the IPPI would have risen 0.6% instead of falling
0.2%.  Compared with October 2011, the IPPI decline was moderated
primarily by lumber and other wood products (+7.1%) and, to a
lesser extent, by fruit, vegetables, feeds and other food
products and by petroleum and coal products.  The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal products fell 0.4% on
a year-over-year basis.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  After posting three consecutive monthly increases, the RMPI
was unchanged in October. The decline in non-ferrous metals was
offset by increases in most commodity groups, particularly
mineral fuels.  The decrease in non-ferrous metals (-2.3%) mainly resulted
from lower prices for copper concentrates (-3.3%), radioactive
concentrates (-5.6%) and zinc concentrates (-3.8%). The decline
in copper prices was partly attributable to reduced demand.  Conversely, the decline in metals was moderated by mineral
fuels, specifically crude oil (+0.5%), which posted its fourth
consecutive increase. The RMPI excluding mineral fuels was down
0.5% in October.  Among other groups that increased were wood products,
animals and animal products, and ferrous materials.  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with October 2011, the RMPI fell 2.8%, its eighth
consecutive year-over-year decrease.  The decline of the RMPI was largely the result of mineral
fuels, specifically crude oil (-5.3%). The RMPI excluding
mineral fuels decreased 0.2% compared with October 2011.  Downward pressure was also exerted on the RMPI by animals
and animal products and by ferrous materials.  Compared with October 2011, the RMPI decline was slightly
moderated by wood products (+6.4%) and vegetable products
(+1.7%).  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including transportation, wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially in US dollars,
which are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular,
this is the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood
products. Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian
dollar against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the
conversion into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents
provide their prices. This is not a measure that takes into
account the full effect of exchange rates.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada , and it is available on CANSIM in table
176-0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the release, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  