-- Canada Third Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-29T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/canada-third-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of  Canada ’s
current account report for the third quarter released by
Statistics Canada.  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) increased $0.5 billion to $18.9 billion in the third
quarter, as the deficit on trade in goods expanded further. This
increase was attributable to a larger decline in exports than
imports.  In the financial account (unadjusted for seasonal
variation), non-resident investors added Canadian securities to
their holdings for a 15th straight quarter, a period largely
coinciding with the re-emergence of Canada’s current account
deficit. However, stronger Canadian direct investment abroad
moderated the overall net inflow of funds to the Canadian
economy over the quarter.  Current account  Deficit on goods increases further  The balance on trade in goods posted a $4.8 billion deficit
in the third quarter, following a $3.6 billion deficit in the
previous quarter. Exports were down with reductions in a number
of commodities in the quarter, led by energy. Canada’s trade
surplus with the United States declined $0.6 billion, as exports
were down $2.4 billion and imports were down $1.8 billion.  Total exports of goods were down $3.7 billion to $112.7
billion. This marked the third consecutive quarterly reduction
in the value of goods exported. Each of the 13 principal
categories of goods either declined or was unchanged in the
third quarter. Exports of energy products were down $1.6 billion,
on lower volumes of crude petroleum and refined petroleum
products. Notable reductions were posted by consumer goods (-
$0.6 billion), as a result of reduced volumes, and by industrial
chemical products (-$0.4 billion), as a result of lower prices.  Imports of goods declined $2.5 billion in the third quarter,
following the high set in the previous quarter. Motor vehicles
and parts fell $0.7 billion and energy products declined $0.5
billion. Motor vehicles and parts imports reflected lower
volumes and prices, while energy product imports were reduced by
lower prices. Except for farm, fishing and food products, other
major import categories were either lower or unchanged in the
quarter.  Deficit for trade in services reaches a new high  The deficit on trade in services widened $0.3 billion in
the third quarter to a high of $6.3 billion, just above the
previous high set in the second quarter of 2011. The deficit on
transportation services increased $0.3 billion in the third
quarter, as payments on water and air transport increased and
receipts on water and air transport decreased. The international
travel deficit narrowed $0.1 billion to $4.6 billion. That
deficit was supported by sustained strong expenditure by
Canadians travelling in the United States. The surplus on trade
in commercial services edged down in the quarter on lower
imports and exports.  Investment income deficit narrows  The deficit on investment income fell $1.2 billion in the
third quarter to $6.3 billion. Income of Canadian direct
investors was up $0.4 billion, mainly on higher undistributed
earnings on foreign operations. Interest and dividends received
by Canadians on their investment in foreign securities were up
slightly. Income accruing to non-residents on their direct
investment in Canada was down $0.7 billion on lower
undistributed profits of their Canadian subsidiaries. This
decline was partly offset by higher dividends received by non-
residents on their holdings of Canadian equity securities.  Financial account  Foreign investors continue to accumulate Canadian securities  Non-residents acquired $28.2 billion of Canadian securities
in the third quarter, mainly focused in debt securities. This
acquisition was on par with the level of investment in the last
quarter. However, purchases of Canadian securities by non-
residents in the third quarter were partially offset by higher
investment in foreign equities by residents. The third quarter
marked the 15th straight quarterly net foreign investment in
Canadian securities. Since the first quarter of 2009, investment
from abroad has been primarily focused in Canadian debt
securities.  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds was $19.9 billion and
was led by Canadian government bonds purchased on the secondary
market, mainly focused in shorter-term instruments. Investment
in federal bonds at $9.5 billion was robust for a fourth
straight quarter. Foreign investors purchased $0.9 billion of
Canadian paper, down from $10.2 billion in the second quarter.
In particular, non-residents divested Treasury bills in the
third quarter, after acquiring large amounts in the previous
quarter.  Non-resident investors added $7.3 billion of Canadian
stocks to their holdings, the largest investment since the first
quarter of 2011. Inflows reflected both foreign purchases of
Canadian stocks on the secondary market and new issues of
Canadian shares resulting from cross-border merger and
acquisition activity. Canadian stock prices were up 6.2% in the
quarter and the Canadian dollar appreciated against its US
counterpart.  Canadian investment in foreign securities highest in more than
three years  Canadian investment in foreign securities advanced to $8.9
billion in the third quarter, led by equities. Investment in
foreign equities was $6.2 billion and was focused in the US
stock market. US stock prices gained 5.8% to reach, by quarter-
end, levels last seen at the end of 2007. This was the largest
such activity since the first quarter of 2009, a period
characterized by relatively low stock prices following the
financial crisis.  Canadian investors added $2.7 billion of foreign debt
securities to their portfolios, mainly US corporate bonds.
Canadian investment in maple bonds was modest in the quarter
despite an increase in new issue activity in September, largely
offset by retirements in July.  Outward direct investment more than double inward direct
investment  Canadian direct investment abroad was $19.1 billion in the
third quarter, the largest such outflow since the fourth quarter
of 2010. Cross-border mergers and acquisitions accounted for
$9.6 billion of the overall outflow after three quarters of more
moderate activity. The finance and insurance sector as well as
the holding companies sector together accounted for half of
Canadian direct investment abroad in the quarter.  Foreign direct investment in Canada was virtually unchanged,
at $8.4 billion in the third quarter. Earnings reinvested in
Canadian affiliates by foreign direct investors accounted for
most of the activity. The bulk of foreign direct investment in
Canada was from European and US investors. Inward mergers and
acquisitions activity were subdued for a second straight quarter.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in
three accounts: the current account, the capital account, and
the financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
compensation of employees, investment income and current
transfers.  The current account data in this release are seasonally
adjusted. For more information on seasonal adjustment, see
Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=eng) .  The capital account covers capital transfers and
transactions in non-produced non-financial assets.  The financial account comprises transactions in financial
assets and liabilities.  In principle, a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived
from the sum of the current and capital accounts corresponds to
a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived from the financial
account. In practice, as data are compiled from multiple sources,
this is rarely the case and gives rise to measurement error. The
discrepancy (net errors and omissions) is the unobserved net
inflow or outflow.  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
was released in October 2012. Information on Canada’s Balance of
International Payments new CANSIM tables
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/data -
donnees/cansim/tables-tableaux/bop-bdp/c-eng.htm) and output
formats ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/data -
donnees/publications/tables-tableaux/bop-bdp/tab-eng.htm) is
available on the National economic accounts website. Data in
this current release reflect conceptual, classification and
presentational changes related to the historical revision. It
also fully integrates the results of the redesigned quarterly
investment survey and methodology updates.  For more information about the balance of payments, consult
the “Frequently asked questions ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/faq-foq/bp-eng.htm) " section in the National economic
accounts module of our website. The module also presents the
most recent balance of payments statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  