-- Canadian Currency Weakens as Current-Account Deficit Increases
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-29T22:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/canadian-currency-trades-at-almost-3-week-high-on-bets-on-u-s-.html
Canada ’s dollar declined versus 10
of its 16 most-traded counterparts as the country’s current-
account deficit widened to the second-largest on record.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, briefly extended losses after U.S.
House Speaker  John Boehner  said there had been “no substantive
progress” in a budget-deficit showdown that may throw Canada’s
biggest trade partner into recession. The loonie earlier
approached a three-week high versus the U.S. dollar before
erasing gains as data showed exports fell faster than imports.  “The current account has widened to another record
number,”  Greg Moore , a currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “That doesn’t
particularly bode well, considering we’re a small export
economy. For the Canadian dollar, that trend is picking up a
little bit more steam.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 99.25 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after weakening as much as 0.2
percent. It gained earlier to 99.12. The loonie touched 99.06
cents on Nov. 27, the strongest since Nov. 7. It has
strengthened 0.7 percent this month and 2.9 percent this year.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0076.  The loonie gained yesterday, after falling for the previous
two days, as risk appetite rose on optimism U.S. lawmakers can
reach a budget agreement and avoid a fiscal cliff of $607
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases set to
begin Jan. 1. The shock would cause the world’s biggest economy
to contract 0.5 percent next year, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Boehner ‘Disappointed’  Boehner, a Republican, told reporters today after meeting
with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  he was “disappointed
in where we are” in negotiations. Democrats “have yet to get
serious about real spending cuts,” he said. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, said President  Barack Obama  has
made his position clear and Democrats need a proposal from
Republicans on what sort of spending cuts they want.  “If there is a resolution to the cliff, what’s good for
the U.S. is generally good for Canada,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview.  The Canadian currency may gain to the strongest level in
almost 11 weeks against the greenback after bouncing off a key
level of support yesterday, 99.62 cents, said Cilline Bain, a
London-based technical analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. If it
strengthens beyond a resistance area from 98.72 to 98.95 cents
per  U.S. dollar , it could appreciate to 96.32, the strongest
since Sept. 14, Bain said.  Resistance refers to an area on a chart where sell orders
may be gathered, and support is where there may be buy orders.  Current Account  The loonie weakened after  Statistics Canada  reported the
nation’s current account deficit  grew  to C$18.9 billion ($19.1
billion) in the third quarter, from C$18.4 billion in the
previous three months. The current account is the broadest
measure of international trade. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast a C$19.2 billion gap, according to the median of 16
responses.  The shortfall has widened for four straight quarters,
underlining the increasing global strains on the world’s 11th-
largest economy, where exports account for one-third of output.
Exports of goods fell C$3.7 billion to C$112.7 billion, and
imports fell C$2.5 billion from a record high to C$117.6
billion.  The third-quarter deficit trails only the C$19.4 billion
reached in the third quarter of 2010, according to the agency.  Growth Report  Canadian economic growth  slowed  in the third quarter to a
0.8 percent annualized pace, from 1.9 percent from April through
June, economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast before the
government reports the data tomorrow.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian currency reached its lowest level
today since May 2001, 5.55 percent. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of currency swings. The average over the past decade is
9.97 percent.  Government bonds  rose, pushing yields on benchmark 10-year
debt down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.7
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent securities due in June
2022 increased 10 cents to C$109.13.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced as much as 0.7
percent before trimming the gain to 0.4 percent after Boehner’s
comments. Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export,
rose 1.4 percent to $87.71 a barrel in  New York  after increasing
earlier as much as 2.5 percent.  The loonie has climbed 1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has dropped 2.2 percent, and
the yen has been the biggest loser, sliding 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  