-- CBO Says U.S. Won’t Reach Debt Limit Before Mid-February
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-29T21:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cbo-says-u-s-won-t-reach-debt-limit-until-mid-february.html
The U.S. Treasury Department is
estimated to have enough authority to continue borrowing through
“at least mid-February” 2013, the  Congressional Budget Office 
said in a  report today  that will affect the negotiations over
the fiscal cliff.  The U.S., with $16.3 trillion in debt, is nearing the $16.4
trillion debt ceiling and Congress must act to raise it. CBO’s
estimate assumes that Treasury will use a series of
“extraordinary” steps, as it has done in the past. The
estimate, CBO said, is subject to adjustment based on actual
revenue collections and payments.  “Given the magnitude of the government’s daily cash flows
and uncertainty about the size of certain key transactions over
the next few months, it is difficult to be precise about the
date on which the Treasury will lose its authority to borrow
additional funds,” the report said.  The Treasury Department has said publicly only that it
expects to use up the extraordinary measures by early 2013.  Lawmakers have been sparring over how to address the debt
limit as part of the fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect in January.  Democrats want the debt-limit increase to occur as part of
an agreement to avert the fiscal cliff.  ‘Without Drama’  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said yesterday
that he expected that Congress would increase the limit
“without drama.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , today
reiterated his condition for increasing the debt limit. Any
increase, he said, should be accompanied by an equal cut in
spending.  “If we’re going to talk about the debt limit in this,” he
said, “there’s going to be some price tag associated with it.”  Lawmakers went right up to the deadline in August 2011
before agreeing to the latest increase in the debt limit. The
agreement included caps on domestic spending and set up $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts, half in defense programs,
scheduled to begin in January.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan said in a statement
that the 2011 episode caused the country economic harm.  ‘Loud and Clear’  “The American people spoke loud and clear that they are
tired of Republicans manufacturing crisis after crisis and
hurting the American economy in the process,” said Levin, the
top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. “It’s time
for Republicans to start acting like the adults that Americans
want them to.”  The U.S. staved off hitting the debt limit until August of
last year by taking what Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
called “extraordinary measures” that included declaring a
“debt-issuance suspension period” under the statute governing
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. That allows
the U.S. to redeem existing Treasury securities held by that
fund as investments.  The Treasury also stopped issuing State and Local
Government Series securities. The bonds, known as SLGS, help
fund expenditures such as infrastructure projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  