-- Celtics’ Rondo Suspended Two Games by NBA After Fight With Nets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/celtics-rondo-suspended-two-games-by-nba-for-fight-with-nets.html
Rajon Rondo of the  Boston Celtics 
was suspended for two games by the  National Basketball
Association  for starting a fight that spilled into the stands
during a 95-83 home loss two nights ago to the Brooklyn Nets.  The scuffle occurred with the Celtics trailing by 16 points
with 29 seconds left in the first half at TD Garden in Boston.
Rondo, the Celtics’ 6-foot-1 point guard, shoved Kris Humphries
in the chest with both hands after the Nets forward fouled
Boston’s  Kevin Garnett . Humphries also hit Garnett in the face
on a drive to the basket.  The 6-foot-9, 235-pound Humphries then grappled with Rondo,
who pushed him backward into the seats behind the basket as
players, officials and coaches from both teams tried to separate
the two. Rondo emerged from the pile without his jersey and was
ejected from the game for fighting.  “I don’t think I did anything dirty,” Rondo told
reporters yesterday after practice, hours before the punishment
was announced by the league. “I didn’t try to start a riot. I
don’t think it was more than just a pushing war.”  Humphries also was ejected, while teammate  Gerald Wallace 
was thrown out when he picked up his second technical foul of
the game for scuffling with Garnett.  Garnett was assessed a technical and remained in the game,
since it was his first.  Wallace was fined $35,000 and Garnett was fined $25,000 for
escalating the altercation. The punishments were announced by
Stu Jackson, the league’s executive vice president for
basketball operations, in a statement released by the NBA.  The ejection ended Rondo’s streak of 37 straight games with
at least 10 assists, a run that matched John Stockton for the
second longest in NBA history behind  Magic Johnson ’s 46-game
record. Rondo had three assists at the time.  The Celtics, who are in third place behind the Nets and the
 New York  Knicks in the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division
with a 9-6 record, host the Portland Trail Blazers tonight. They
visit the Milwaukee Bucks tomorrow and are home to the  Minnesota
Timberwolves  on Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  