-- CFTC Swap-Data Policies Amended Following CME Group Lawsuit
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cftc-swap-data-policies-amended-following-cme-group-lawsuit.html
U.S. policies for swaps data have
been amended and opened for additional public comment after a
lawsuit challenging the rules was filed by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner
of the world’s largest futures exchange.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  withdrew  part
of a document governing how trade price and volume information
is routed to new databases under the Dodd-Frank Act. The agency
also  sought  comment yesterday on CME’s proposed policy of having
data for trades guaranteed by its clearinghouse sent to its own
so-called swap-data repository.  Chicago-based CME, which is seeking an injunction against
CFTC rules for reporting private trade information, was granted
provisional registration for its own swap-data repository, the
agency said Nov. 21.  “As market participants look for alternatives in the SDR
space, our service offers them the ability to optimize their
existing connections to CME Clearing for automatic SDR
reporting, which delivers a lower-cost option for firms
transitioning to the clearing mandate,”  Kim Taylor , president
of CME Clearing and the CME Repository Service, said in a
statement on Nov. 21.  After the data-repository rulemaking, the CFTC’s staff on
Oct. 11 published a document addressing frequently asked
questions about reporting. CME said the document contradicted
the rules by saying buyers and sellers of a swap would be
allowed to decide which database would get trade information.  “To the extent the FAQ requires CME to report nonpublic
regulatory data on cleared swaps to SDRs chosen by the original
swap counterparties, CME will suffer harm,” Mark D. Young, a
Washington-based partner representing CME at Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, said in the lawsuit.  Lawsuit Faulted  CME’s lawsuit was faulted by the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. for undermining Dodd-Frank rules to boost
transparency following the 2008 credit crisis.  The suit, filed in federal court on Nov. 8, “threatens to
dismantle and disrupt the entire regulatory regime statutorily
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act in order to preserve CME’s
exclusive access to data that it acquires through its role as a
derivatives clearing organization,” DTCC General Counsel Larry E. Thompson said in a Nov. 11 letter to the CFTC.  Michael Shore , a spokesman for CME, declined to comment on
the CFTC’s actions yesterday.  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  