-- Chariot to Sell Stakes in Namibia, Mauritania Before Drilling
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-29T13:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/chariot-to-sell-stakes-in-namibia-mauritania-before-drilling.html
Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR) , a U.K.
explorer focused on West Africa, will sell stakes in fields off
 Namibia  and  Mauritania  to help fund drilling costs next year.  The company plans to drill at least two wells in Namibia’s
Central Blocks and possibly one in the  C-19  area of Mauritania,
Chief Executive Officer Paul Welch said. A data room will be
opened next year for possible bidders to acquire interests in
the licenses.  “Namibia is still one of our primary focuses,” Welch said
in an interview in  London . “We have more than 50 percent of our
assets in Namibia.”  Chariot Oil has lost about 80 percent of its  market value 
since May after failing to make a find at the Tapir South or
Nimrod prospects, which had been expected to mirror oil
discoveries on the other side of the Atlantic. Namibia has
attracted attention from some of the world’s biggest oil
companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  and Repsol SA.  The explorer plans to drill the Delta 1 well in the central
area of Namibia, which will be followed by one more, according
to a company  presentation . At the same time, it is “moving to
diversify” interests in West Africa, Welch said.  “We’ve got a very aggressive plan” in Mauritania, he
said. “We are pretty excited as there are many different play
types.”  The company is acquiring three-dimensional seismic data
over Block C-19 and expects to map out prospects similar to the
 Banda gas field , operated by  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  It expects to avoid
a repeat of  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s experience with
the Chinguetti, Mauritania’s first oil field which failed to
meet output targets, according to Welch.  “We are in a completely different geological environment,
so we are not going to have the same kind of issues,” he said.  Chariot has been also acquiring exploration interests in
 Morocco , with plans to drill its first well as soon as 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  