-- Chevron’s $19 Billion ‘Disaster’ Gets Hearing
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-29T18:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/chevron-s-19-billion-disaster-gets-hearing-corporate-canada.html
A judge hearing  Chevron Corp.’s (CVX) 
first test of whether Amazon rainforest-dwellers will collect
$19 billion in environmental damages from the world’s fourth-
largest oil company said the case should be tried in the U.S.  “You should all be in  New York ,” Ontario Superior Court
Justice  David Brown  said several times during the first day of
hearings today in Toronto. “On the issue of jurisdiction, the
law is not clear on this at all. Why should the Ontario court
stick their nose” into the matter.  A group of 47 Ecuadoreans have asked the Ontario court to
seize Chevron assets in  Canada , ranging from an oil sands
project to offshore wells, to satisfy a 2011 court ruling in the
Latin American nation that ordered the company to pay for oil
pollution dating to the 1960s.  Today’s hearing in Toronto marks the Ecuadoreans’ inaugural
step in a global collection effort that includes seizure
attempts in  Argentina  and Brazil. The Ecuadoreans estimated
Chevron has $12 billion in Canadian assets, a figure that
equates to almost half of the company’s 2011 profit. An adverse
Ontario ruling for Chevron would put at risk fuel-manufacturing
and oil-production operations across Canada.  ‘Long Time’  “It’s a cause for concern and it probably means this isn’t
going to go away,” Robert Sweet, who helps manage $150 million
at Horizon Investment Services in Hammond,  Indiana , said in a
telephone interview. “As with all ecological disasters, this is
going to take a long, long time to resolve.”  The company’s presence in Canada dates back to the 1930s
and includes an oil-refining complex in British Columbia, an
Alberta oil-sands venture, offshore wells in the Atlantic Ocean,
and cash held in Canadian bank accounts.  San Ramon , California-based Chevron was on the losing side
of last year’s ruling by a provincial Ecuadorean court that
blamed decades of toxic soil and water contamination on Texaco
Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001. Texaco was found to have
discharged into the environment saltwater and other byproducts
of oil drilling. Texaco quit the country and its equipment was
taken over by the Ecuadorean state oil company in 1992.  The $19 billion ruling handed down last year by a court in
 Lago Agrio , a town near  Ecuador ’s border with  Colombia , held
Chevron accountable for health and environmental damages
resulting from chemical-laden wastewater dumped from 1964 to
1992.  Corporate Veil  The Ecuadorean plaintiffs, from the remote northern Amazon
River basin, are seeking enforcement of the judgment outside
their home country because Chevron has no refineries,  oil wells ,
storage terminals or other properties in the nation. Pablo
Fajardo, their lead lawyer in Ecuador, said during a February
2011 conference call with reporters he would “use every
strategy and manner at our disposal” to collect the award.  During today’s hearing, Brown leaned in favor of Chevron’s
argument that the Ontario court has no jurisdiction to grant the
Ecuadorean judgment because the company’s Canadian units are
indirect subsidiaries with independent boards separated from the
U.S. parent by several levels of ownership.  Attorneys for the Ecuadoreans are scheduled to present
their arguments to Brown tomorrow.  The Ecuadoreans face an “uphill battle” because they must
convince the court that Chevron and its Canadian operations
should be treated as one entity rather than separate companies,
Barry Leon, a partner and head of the international arbitration
group at Perley-Robertson, Hill & McDougall LLP in Ottawa, said
during an interview before the hearing.  “The expression that gets used legally is ‘lifting the
corporate veil’ and disregarding the separate personalities,”
Leon said. “The courts generally, in Canada and elsewhere, have
been reluctant to do that.”  Pending Arbitration  Chevron rose 16 cents to $105.74 at 1:08 p.m. in New York
today. The shares have increased 8.6 percent in the past year.  Chevron has refused to pay the $19 billion judgment or
entertain the notion of settlement talks because it maintains
the ruling resulted from bribery and fraud.  The Ecuadoreans’ lawyers “have blackmailed judges, bribed
judges, falsified evidence, falsified expert witnesses,
ghostwritten expert opinions and ghostwritten court judgments,”
Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Watson said in
comments at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York today.
If the plaintiffs were confident in the “integrity” of the
ruling, they would seek enforcement in U.S. courts with
jurisdiction over the parent company,  Kent Robertson , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hard-Fought  “Now that the Ecuador courts have ruled against the
company, it is manufacturing fraud charges in a desperate effort
to escape justice,”  Karen Hinton , a spokeswoman for the
Ecuadorean plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement today.
Chevron is engaging in “legal theater,” Hinton wrote.  Alan Lenczner, the Toronto attorney from the firm Lenczner
Slaght Royce Smith Griffin LP representing the Ecuadoreans,
declined to comment on the case when reached by phone before the
hearings began.  “Whatever the outcome, it’s likely that the initial
decisions will be appealed,” Leon said. “It’s been extremely
hard-fought by both sides having many lawyers and having spent
what’s been a phenomenal amount of money because there’s so much
at stake.”  Chevron doesn’t disclose how much it spends on legal fees,
Robertson said in a telephone interview.  Chevron is awaiting a ruling in a related case before the
Permanent Court of Arbitration, the 113-year-old panel based in
The Hague that handles trade disputes between corporations and
nations. Chevron filed the arbitration claim in 2009, accusing
the government of Ecuador of reneging on a 1998 contract that
absolved Texaco of Amazonian pollution claims. Three days of
hearings in the case concluded yesterday, Robertson said.  Unfair Influence  Chevron’s campaign to avoid payment suffered a setback last
month when the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a lower-court decision
that rejected the company’s request for a pre-emptive block on
collection efforts in Chevron’s home country. The lower court
had ruled that it didn’t have authority to thwart payment when
the Ecuadoreans hadn’t yet filed such a claim in the U.S.  Following the filing of their Canadian seizure request in
May, the Ecuadoreans sought similar forfeitures in a Brazilian
tribunal in June and in Argentina earlier this month. A judge in
 Buenos Aires  ordered some Chevron bank deposits held in escrow
while the case is pending, Enrique Bruchou, a lawyer for the
Ecuadoreans, said in an interview on Nov. 7.  Today, in paid statements published in two Argentine
newspapers, Chevron urged the local court to release its money
from escrow and indicated the company intends to pursue a legal
defense identical to that employed in Canada. “Chevron
Argentina has never had operations in Ecuador and has no
relation with the fraudulent trial in Ecuador,” the company
said in the newspapers Clarin and La Nacion.  “I’m more concerned now than I was a couple of months ago
now that the Ecuadoreans have found other governments that
appear to be at least moderately friendly to their case,” Sweet
said.  Transparency International  Chevron has accused the Ecuadorean government of unfairly
influencing court proceedings that led to the $19 billion ruling
and alleged that a damage assessment provided by a court-
appointed expert was ghostwritten by consultants and lawyers
hired by the plaintiffs.  Lawyers for the Ecuadoreans including Stephen Donzinger
have accused Chevron of engaging in a campaign to discredit
them, entrap an Ecuadorean judge that presided over the case and
set up dummy corporations in Ecuador to hide Chevron’s alleged
role in testing soil samples from the pollution sites.  Ecuador  ranked  120th out of 183 nations in  Transparency
International ’s 2011 corruption-perception index, where No. 1
 New Zealand  is perceived to be the most honest. Albania, Liberia
and Lesotho were perceived as less corrupt than Ecuador,
according to the index.  In February 2011, Chevron filed a racketeering lawsuit
that’s ongoing against the Ecuadoreans and their lawyers in New
York for “leading a fraudulent litigation and PR campaign
against the company.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the world’s biggest oil company by
market value, followed by PetroChina Company Ltd. and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  