-- Chile Oct. Manufacturing Growth Triples Analyst Estimates
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-29T13:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/chile-manufacturing-rose-faster-than-forecast-9-1-in-oct-1-.html
Chilean  manufacturing output  grew in
October at its fastest pace since March last year, more than
tripling estimates made by analysts as the production of refined
products and food soared.  Manufacturing increased 9.1 percent from the year earlier,
compared with the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg for a gain of 3 percent. Production of oil derivatives
led growth with a 27 percent increase followed by output of
furniture, food and metal products, the National Statistics
Institute said in a report today.  The increase reverses a decline in September and reflects
the three additional working days in October from last year.
While the data indicates the economy grew at a faster pace than
in September, it’s too early to determine whether manufacturing
is rebounding after growing just 1.8 percent in the first three
quarters, economist Matias  Madrid  said.  “This is a good result, but we have to wait for more data
to see if this marks a new trend,” Madrid, chief economist at
Banco Penta, said by phone from Santiago.  Retail sales grew 6.6 percent in October, compared with the
7.7 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Supermarket revenue declined 1.2 percent, the institute said.  Chile’s copper output climbed 1.4 percent in October to
476,202 metric tons compared with a year ago, it said, as  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  completed an expansion at its Los Bronces mine.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  also completed improvements to its Escondida mine,
the world’s largest.  The economy  probably grew about 6.4 percent in October from
last year after climbing 5.7 percent in the third quarter,
Madrid said. Gross domestic product increased 5.7 percent in the
second quarter and 5.2 percent in the first.  Policy makers have kept their  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent for 10 straight months as growth exceeds
estimates at home and decelerates abroad.  Two-year  interest rate  swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, have increased 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 5.18 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in
Santiago from the Nov. 13 rate decision meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  