-- China’s Push for Stability Undermines Law, Sociologist Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-29T07:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/china-s-push-for-stability-undermines-law-sociologist-says-1-.html
The Chinese government’s emphasis on
maintaining stability has undermined rule of law in the country,
leading local officials to “do evil,” Tsinghua University
Professor Sun Liping said at a conference in Beijing today.  China  has been moving away from the rule of law in the last
couple of years as local officials push to enforce limits on
childbirth and reach tax collection quotas, Sun, 57, one of the
country’s  best-known  social scientists, told the Caijing Annual
Conference in Beijing.  The attitude of local officials on the government’s one-
child policy is “I just don’t want to see newborn babies, and I
don’t care whatever you do to ensure the baby is not
delivered,” Sun said.  Sun has publicized the rise of domestic incidents --
strikes, riots and demonstrations -- that are not made publicly
available by the government. He delivered the comments two weeks
after  Xi Jinping  took over as general secretary of the ruling
Communist Party and vowed to crack down on corruption.  Under the previous party leader,  Hu Jintao , and his
security chief  Zhou Yongkang , spending on internal police
soared, passing the total spent on national defense in 2010. The
government said in March that it planned to raise internal
police spending by 11.5 percent this year to 701.8 billion  yuan 
($113 billion), more than the 670.3 billion yuan earmarked for
national defense. The police enforce so-called stability
maintenance.  The new ruling Politburo Standing Committee led by Xi was
reduced to seven men from nine following this month’s 18th Party
Congress, downgrading the post overseeing the security forces.  Mass Incidents  In 2011, Sun said that between 2006 and 2010 so-called mass
incidents doubled to 180,000 a year. Xi, 59, studied for his
doctorate in Marxist theory at Tsinghua while Sun served as an
adviser for PhD students.  In another example of how local officials may ignore the
law to meet their goals, Sun gave an example of a tax bureau
chief who was told he’d be fired unless he raised revenues by 20
percent even though growth in the region was below that.  Hu was also criticized at the conference by Jiang Ping, a
political science professor at China University of Political
Science and Law. He said Hu had missed a “golden opportunity”
to push ahead with political reform in his second term as the
Communist Party’s general secretary, which began in 2007.  Hu has been “very disappointing” on the reform issue,
Jiang said. He said China should create rules requiring
officials to disclose their wealth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  