-- Chow Tai Fook Profit Misses Estimates on Hedging, Demand
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-11-30T02:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/chow-tai-fook-profit-misses-estimates-on-hedging-demand.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) ,
a Hong Kong-based chain with more revenue than  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,
reported first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates amid
hedging losses on gold contracts and slower  consumer spending .  Net income  dropped 32 percent to HK$1.82 billion ($235
million) for the six months ended Sept. 30, lagging the median
estimate of HK$2.02 billion of four analysts compiled by
 Bloomberg News .  Unrealized hedging loss on gold loans and bullion forward
contracts caused gross profit margin to decline by about 2.7
percent in the fiscal first half, the company said in a Hong
Kong stock exchange filing yesterday. Same-store sales at the
group fell 1.7 percent as economic growth slows and third-
quarter gross domestic product rose at its slowest pace in three
years.  “While we expect the sector outlook to gradually improve,
albeit slowing, we believe CTF’s recovery pace will continue to
lag its peers,” Phoebe Wong, an analyst at BoCom International,
said in a note to clients today.  Chow Tai Fook shares dropped as much as 5.2 percent to
HK$10.30 in  Hong Kong  trading, headed for the biggest decline
since Nov. 9. It traded 2 percent lower as of 10:47 a.m. local
time. The stock has fallen 24 percent this year, compared with a
20 percent gain in Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Political Uncertainties  Political and economic uncertainties in  China  have
restricted demand. Still, Hong Kong sales showed signs of
recovering in November, Finance Director Hamilton Cheng told
reporters at a press conference.  “Hong Kong has already shown some signs of recovery, while
sales in China should recover once the political and economic
uncertainties are cleared,” Chairman Henry Cheng said at the
media briefing.  Chow Tai Fook plans to reduce its hedging to about 70
percent of total gold inventory from an “almost fully hedged
level,” according to Hamilton Cheng. Gross margins may improve
in the second half as the effects of existing hedges are
reversed, he said.  The world’s biggest jewelry retailer by market value raised
about HK$16 billion in a public offering last December and joins
companies including  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and  Prada SpA (1913)  in betting
on China’s demand for  luxury goods .  Revenue climbed 6.5 percent to HK$25.4 billion and the
jeweler said it will stick to plans to add 200 outlets a year to
reach a total 2,000 by the end of fiscal 2014.  Chow Tai Fook has expanded in China to profit from an
increasingly affluent middle class. Sales of discretionary goods
in China will grow by a compounded annual rate of 13.4 percent
between 2010 and 2020, as shoppers in the world’s largest
economy after the U.S. become richer, McKinsey & Co. said in a
report in March.  Founded in 1929 in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou ,
the jeweler was named after founder Chow Chi Yuen. “Tai Fook”
means “big blessing” in Chinese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  