-- CME Group Drops Challenge to Swap-Data Repository Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-30T19:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cme-group-drops-challenge-to-swap-data-repository-rules.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s
largest futures market, dropped a legal challenge to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s new rules on trade-data
reporting after the agency backed away from the requirements.  CME, in a filing yesterday in federal court in  Washington ,
said it was dismissing the case at least for now that sought to
block the agency’s cleared-swaps reporting regulations under the
Dodd-Frank Act financial reform legislation. Yesterday, the
agency amended one policy and said it’s seeking public comment
on how CME proposes to report swap data.  “We hope the CFTC will reconsider in the coming months
whether these redundant rules are necessary and appropriate at
all or could be improved to address better the reporting of
cleared swaps data,” Laurie Bischel, a CME Group spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  CME sued the commission on Nov. 8 seeking a permanent
injunction against rules requiring registered derivatives-
clearing organizations, such as itself, to provide nonpublic
reports of cleared swap transactions to a new swap data
repository established under the act.  On Nov. 28, the commission withdrew part of a document
governing how trade price and volume information is routed to
new databases under the Dodd-Frank Act. The agency also sought
comment Nov. 28 on CME’s  proposed policy  of having data for
trades guaranteed by its clearinghouse sent to its own so-called
swap-data repository.  ‘Sort It Out’  “The commission will hear from the public and sort it
out,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, told reporters today. He
declined to say if he supports the CME’s proposed policy.  The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. faulted the agency
yesterday for amending its policies after spending more than a
year crafting rules for data reporting.  “The commission’s action late yesterday was an unexplained
and an abrupt reversal of course,” the New York-based DTCC,
which operates a swap-database, said in a Nov. 29 statement
asking the CFTC to change its decision. “This action is
inconsistent with the commission’s previous actions, and will
cause market participants to question the finality of any
commission rule or interpretation.”  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  