-- CNN Names Ex-NBC Chief Jeff Zucker as President
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-29T16:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cnn-says-jeff-zucker-will-become-president-of-network-in-january.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN named  Jeff Zucker  as its next president, turning to the former head of  NBC
Universal  to lead a comeback bid at the global news network.  Zucker will take the job in January, putting him in charge
of the operation’s 23 news and information businesses worldwide,
Time Warner said today in a statement. He will report to Turner
Broadcasting System Chief Executive Officer Phil Kent.  The job offers a fresh start to Zucker after he failed to
lift ratings while head of NBC Universal, now controlled by
Comcast Corp. Zucker rose through the ranks of NBC after getting
his start as a researcher on the “Today Show” in the 1980s.  “I spent the most rewarding years of my career as a
journalist, and it’s where I look forward to spending many
more,” Zucker said in today’s statement.  Time Warner is counting on new leadership to reverse a
ratings slump at the network.  CNN , once the cable-news leader,
now has a third as many viewers as News Corp.’s Fox News.
Current CNN President Jim Walton, who announced in July he would
step down at the end of the year, said at the time the network
needs “new thinking” in its leadership.  “Jeff will provide that,” Kent wrote in a memo to
employees. “While he has enormous respect for our organization
and brand, I expect that he also will challenge our thinking --
yours and mine -- in a very healthy and inclusive way.”  Time Warner shares  rose 0.8 percent to $47.37 at 11:10 a.m.
in  New York . The stock has gained 31 percent this year.  ‘Today Show’  Zucker, 47, made his mark in the news business as the
youngest-ever executive producer of the “Today Show” in the
1990s. By 2007, he ascended to the top job at NBC Universal,
overseeing the  broadcast network , the Universal Pictures film
studio, theme parks and cable channels.  In that role, he struggled to develop prime-time programs
that could recapture the success enjoyed by “Friends” and
“Seinfeld” in the 1990s. His decision in 2009 to put comedian
 Jay Leno  in prime time backfired by cutting the 11 p.m. audience
for local news and sparking protests from NBC’s affiliate TV
stations. Zucker was replaced as CEO when Comcast took over the
business in 2011.  Since 2011, Zucker has been executive producer of
“Katie,” the daytime talk show of  Katie Couric , the former
anchor of “CBS Evening News” and “Today Show.”  The CNN job gives Zucker a chance to prove himself again.
Even so, his high-profile career in television may make him
overqualified to run the network, said Todd Juenger, an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. CNN gets lower
ratings than MSNBC, which once was a small part of the
conglomerate that Zucker oversaw.  “How does a guy who used to call all the shots across the
mighty empire of NBCU be satisfied running a network that is
struggling to compete with  MSNBC , which was hardly big enough to
matter in his old role?” Juenger said in an interview. “Can
Zucker really be happy?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  