-- Congo Army Prepares for War as Rebels Say Withdrawal Begins
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-29T14:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/congo-army-prepares-for-war-as-rebels-say-goma-withdrawal-begins.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
army began preparations for war as the M23 rebel group said it’s
started withdrawing from Goma in the resource-rich east of the
country.  Congo’s armed forces are massing in Minova and ready to
fight, Lieutenant-General Francois Olenga, interim head of the
nation’s ground forces, told reporters on the outskirts of the
town, which is about 50 kilometers (31 miles) by road from Goma.
There was no immediate sign the insurgents were pulling out of
Goma, the capital of Congo’s North Kivu province.  “We are preparing for war,” Olenga said. “There will be
no more negotiations after negotiations. Now it’s war that will
bring peace.”  Congo’s North and South Kivu provinces are one of the
world’s largest sources of columbite-tantalite, the mineral
known as coltan that’s used in mobile phones and computers. The
central African nation is also the continent’s biggest producer
of tin ore, most of which is mined in the Kivus.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,
based in Toronto, operates the Twangiza gold mine about 200
kilometers south of Goma in South Kivu.  The M23 rebels seized Goma, on the Rwandan border, on Nov.
20 and have said they will withdraw if the government negotiates
with them. Congo accuses neighboring Rwanda and Uganda of
backing the rebels, charges that both countries deny.  ‘Residents at Risk’  “Our troops will gather tomorrow in Sake and they will
continue their withdrawal,” rebel spokesman Colonel Vianney
Kazarama said in an interview in Goma. Kazarama said the city’s
residents would be at risk of attack from poorly paid government
soldiers once they returned.  Throughout Goma, fears of rebel looting caused shopkeepers
to close their doors early, according to store owners including
Pierrot Machara, who runs a small supermarket in the city.  “The shops are closed because they are worried that M23
will pillage because it’s the last day before they leave,”
Machara said in an interview.  M23 said on Nov. 27 its forces would only retreat once the
government meets a series of demands including talks with
opposition parties and civil-society groups, the dissolution of
the electoral commission and the release of political prisoners.  Congo rejected the call for broad-based negotiations and
said any talks would focus solely on the implementation of a
March 23, 2009 peace deal. The rebel group, which takes its name
from the date of that pact, mutinied from the national army
after saying the government failed to respect it.  Civilian Clothing  M23 rebels remained in their positions in and around the
city of Goma today. Some rebels had changed into civilian
clothes, said residents including one 30-year-old man in Sake
who declined to be identified because he feared reprisals from
the rebels.  Reporters saw rebel fighters in the hills in Sake, 26
kilometers from Goma, and along a road for about 4 kilometers
toward army positions in Minova. A United Nations peacekeeping
helicopter was seen flying overhead.  About 30 soldiers from a pro-government militia known as
the APCLS, or the Alliance of Patriots for a Free and Sovereign
Congo, patrolled the no-man’s land between the rebel and army
positions.  “We’re advancing toward the enemy,” Major Janvier Baraka
of the APCLS said in the town of Kirotche, about 6 kilometers
from the rebels. “They’re foreigners who came here to take our
land. We are natives, we are from here.”  Fighters  Baraka said he had about 150 men with him to fight the M23
alongside the national army.  M23’s indecision about whether to withdraw reflects
internal divisions, particularly between its political and
military wings, Jason Stearns, who researches armed groups for
the Nairobi-based Rift Valley Institute and headed a UN group of
experts panel in 2008, said yesterday.  The split dates back to the group’s former incarnation as
the National Congress for the Defense of the People, or CNDP,
which was led by General Laurent Nkunda.  In January 2009,  Rwanda  placed Nkunda under house arrest,
allowing current leader General Bosco Ntaganda to take control
of the rebellion and sign the March peace agreement. Nkunda’s
supporters within the rebellion, including M23 commander
Brigadier-General Sultani Makenga, resented the move, Stearns
said.  Ntaganda is wanted by the International Criminal Court for
war crimes.  Makenga didn’t answer his phone when called for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Goma at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  