-- Continental Overturns Manslaughter Verdict on Concorde Crash
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-29T15:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/continental-cleared-of-criminal-responsibility-in-concorde-case.html
Continental Airlines Inc. won a bid
to overturn its manslaughter conviction for the deaths of 113
people in the crash of Air  France ’s Concorde supersonic jet
12 years ago.  The appeals court in Versailles, near Paris, reversed the
2010 guilty verdict in a ruling today, while holding the carrier
and two employees civilly responsible for the crash and awarding
Air France 1 million euros ($1.3 million) in damages. Judge
Michele Luga also awarded victims payments worth hundreds of
thousands of euros.  Continental, now part of  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
and a maintenance engineer fought the lower court’s decision to
hold them responsible for the deaths, saying the Concorde’s
explosion wasn’t the result of debris from a Continental plane.  Continental’s image “is completely cleaned” by the
“historic” verdict, said  Olivier Metzner , the carrier’s
lawyer. “There’s no criminal blame placed on Continental,” he
said. In France, “civil blame is interpreted much more
broadly.”  The Concorde crashed soon after take-off on July 25, 2000,
when a fireball was ignited after the jet ran over a piece of
metal fallen from a prior Continental flight, investigators
said. The probe found the strip tore one of the tires and sent
debris into its fuel tanks. Continental has disputed that
scenario, saying the fire began before the jet hit the strip.  DC-10 Wearstrip  The two men held civilly responsible are John Taylor, who
serviced the DC-10 and installed the wearstrip that fell from
the plane, and Stanley Ford, a supervisor.  The men and airline were faulted for negligence in the work
done on the DC-10, while Judge Luga said they couldn’t be held
criminally responsible for the Concorde crash. Taylor was given
a suspended sentence by the lower court.  “This was a tragic accident and we support the court’s
decision that Continental did not bear fault,” Megan McCarthy,
a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  “We have long maintained that neither Continental nor its
employees were responsible for this tragic event and are
satisfied that this verdict was overturned.”  The crash hastened the demise of the Concorde. Flights were
grounded for 16 months afterwards and the plane went back into
service just as demand for air travel fell after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks. The Concorde’s last commercial flight
was in 2003.  Air France, now part of  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , joined the
appeal to dispute Continental arguments that the company ignored
warning signs about the supersonic jet.  “Air France is very satisfied with this decision,” its
lawyer Fernand Garnault said by phone. “The court upheld that
Air France is absolutely not responsible for this accident.”
The 1 million euros awarded in civil damages is the same as the
lower court awarded, he said.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental merged in
2010 to form Chicago-based United Continental Holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  