-- Copper Rises to Five-Week High on U.S. Budget, China
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-29T18:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/copper-rises-to-five-week-high-on-u-s-budget-china.html
Copper rose to a five-week high on
optimism that U.S. lawmakers will reach a budget accord, while
signs increased that metal demand will rise in  China .  Three out of four global investors expect U.S. officials to
reach a short-term agreement to avert more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases set begin on Jan. 1. Copper
shortfalls will extend into the first half as an accelerating
Chinese economy more than doubles the pace of growth in global
consumption.  “China is showing signs of improvement, and people are
feeling more confident that politicians in U.S. will be able to
resolve the crisis,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said in
a telephone interview.  Copper futures for March delivery jumped 1.9 percent to
settle at $3.6055 a pound at 1:11 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price reached $3.622, the highest for a most-active
contract since Oct. 23.  The metal pared gains of as much as 2.4 percent after House
Speaker Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said that “no substantive
progress” had been made in budget talks. He also said he
remains “hopeful” on negotiations.  In the third quarter, the economy in the U.S. expanded more
than previously estimated, and fewer Americans filed first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments last week, government
reports showed today. Last week, a Chinese manufacturing index
signaled the first expansion in 13 months.  China is the world’s biggest copper consumer, followed by
the U.S.  “I am optimistic about global demand going forward and
think the market is set to gradually rally,”  Bill O’Neill , a
partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months increased 1.7 percent to $7,899.50 a metric ton ($3.58 a
pound). Aluminum jumped 3.2 percent to $2,064 a ton, the biggest
gain since Sept. 14. Zinc, lead, nickel and tin also advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  