-- Cox Considers Buying Business Services to Step Up AT&T Challenge
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-29T18:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/cox-considers-buying-business-services-to-step-up-at-t-challenge.html
Cox Communications Inc. is
considering acquisitions of business-services companies with
annual revenue of about $200 million and could announce a deal
in the next six months.  The third-largest U.S. cable company is targeting
telecommunications-services and cloud-computing companies as it
seeks to increase its potential revenue base by 10 percent in
2013, Phil Meeks, senior vice president of Cox Business, said in
an interview. Atlanta-based Cox is also looking at partnerships
and acquisitions of smaller companies, he said.  U.S. cable companies are counting on faster-growing
business services to buoy growth as residential video customers
decrease. While closely held Cox doesn’t release figures, the
company has taken market share from  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , its three largest
competitors, providing small businesses with Internet, TV and
phone services, Meeks said.  Cox is complementing its voice and high-speed  Internet
service  by offering information-technology support and services.
Buying a company that specializes in cloud-computing services
would give Cox a broader array of ways to make money from
businesses with fewer than 20 employees, Meeks said. With cloud
computing, companies pay to store their data and applications in
remote locations.  Cox’s cable rivals are making deals as well.  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable company, purchased
NaviSite Inc., a company that manages and stores data for
businesses, for $274 million in April 2011. Comcast Corp. is the
nation’s biggest cable provider.  Cox’s business-services revenue is expected to grow about
13 percent to $1.4 billion in 2012 and is on pace to reach its
$2 billion sales target by 2016, Meeks said. Sixty-five percent
of Cox Business’s revenue comes from businesses with 19
employees or fewer, he said. Cox’s total annual sales are $9
billion a year, he said.  Cox sold $1.5 billion of bonds earlier this week in its
first debt offering since 2009. Proceeds from the sale may be
used to fund a dividend, repay debt or for general corporate
purposes, a person familiar with the offering said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  