-- Norway Fund Pays Credit Suisse $1 Billion for Office
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-29T17:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/credit-suisse-sells-zurich-office-to-norway-fund-for-1-billion.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sold an
office complex in Zurich to  Norway ’s $660 billion sovereign-
wealth fund for 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.08 billion) as the
Swiss lender tries to boost its capital.  Norges Bank Investment Management acted as the buyer on
behalf of the Norway Government Pension Fund Global, the Zurich-
based bank said in a statement today. The Uetlihof office
complex is about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) southwest of Zurich’s
center, according to Credit Suisse.  “The transaction marks the fund’s first property
investment in Switzerland,” Karsten Kallevig, chief investment
officer for real estate at the Norwegian fund, said in a
separate statement.  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss lender after UBS
AG, is selling the building to strengthen its capital position
amid stricter regulation. It plans to cut 1 billion francs in
annual costs by the end of 2014, adding to a 1 billion-franc
savings program from July and a 2 billion-franc expense
reduction achieved since last year.  The Swiss bank will lease the property, which has 174,000
square meters (1.87 million square feet) of rentable space, for
25 years starting today. It can extend its lease by as many as
15 years, according to the statement.  German Deal  The Norwegian sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s biggest,
and Axa Investment Managers SA last month agreed to buy two
buildings in Frankfurt and Berlin for 784 million euros ($1
billion) in the biggest German commercial real estate
transaction this year. The properties were sold by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in a deal that will probably be completed by
the end of the year, Axa Real Estate and Norges Bank Investment
Management said in separate statements on Oct. 10.  Credit Suisse rose 2.1 percent after Bank of America Corp.
added it to a list of most preferred lenders. The shares were up
44 centimes to 21.93 Swiss Francs at the close of Zurich
trading, giving the company a market value of 28.95 billion
Swiss francs.  Switzerland ’s economy returned to growth in the third
quarter as it expanded to the fastest pace since 2010 on
increased exports. Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent from
the second quarter, when it fell 0.1 percent, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs said in Bern today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 