-- TCW in Mortgage Reversal as Fighting Fed Futile: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-29T11:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/tcw-in-mortgage-reversal-as-fighting-fed-futile-credit-markets.html
TCW Group Inc. and Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp.’s Standish unit say it’s time to stop betting
against the  Federal Reserve .  The firms are buying government-backed mortgage bonds after
reducing their holdings as the debt initially rallied following
the Fed’s Sept. 13 announcement that it would purchase $40
billion more of the securities each month. While the move paid
off as the bonds reversed course and slumped, the investors say
sustained weakness is unlikely as the Fed seeks to boost the
economy through its unprecedented stimulus measures.  “The Fed’s activities will win the day in the end,” Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW, said
in a telephone interview. As the gap between yields on
Treasuries and the type of mortgage bonds the central bank is
buying reached a record low in September, TCW stopped wagering
that the spread would narrow. The firm, which oversees $135
billion, has since changed its position to a “slight
overweight.”  The difference in  yields  between the  Fannie Mae  securities
and the average of those for five- and 10-year Treasuries shrank
to an all-time low of 55 basis points following the Fed’s
announcement, before expanding to 110 basis points Nov. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread closed at 104 yesterday.  ‘Large Effect’  Even after relative yields retraced most of the decline
this month,  Simon Potter , the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
markets group chief, said Nov. 27 the central bank’s third round
of so-called quantitative easing has had a “large effect” on
mortgage bonds and has pushed down home-loan rates.  The average rate on a typical 30-year fixed mortgage fell
to a record low 3.31 percent in the week ended Nov. 22, down
from 3.55 percent in early September, according to Freddie Mac.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts recommended in an outlook
report for 2013 that investors should be “ringing in the New
Year with an overweight position” on the debt the Fed’s buying
while Barclays Plc said the purchases would “overwhelm all
other factors.”  “We have been re-engaging at the wider yields,” both
because the Fed’s actions are a “very supportive dynamic” and
because generally low bond rates create “demand for an asset
that’s going to yield more than Treasuries and yet maintain a
high quality,” Robert Bayston, managing director of  interest
rate  strategies at Boston-based Standish, said in a telephone
interview. The firm oversees $104 billion of fixed-income
assets.  Costco, Chavez  Elsewhere in credit markets, Costco Wholesale Corp. sold
$3.5 billion of debt as it prepared to pay a special shareholder
dividend. Venezuelan  government bonds  were raised to the
equivalent of “buy” by Bank of America Corp. as President  Hugo Chavez  sought more cancer treatment in Cuba, spurring
speculation the government may change. Tommy Hilfiger brand
owner PVH Corp. is said to have set the interest rate on $3.83
billion of loans to back its purchase of Warnaco Group Inc.  A credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against
losses or to speculate on corporate creditworthiness in the U.S.
fell for the first time in three days. The Markit CDX North
American Investment-Grade index declined 1.2 basis points to
100.9 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
It reached 111.4 on Nov. 15, the highest level since July 25.  Stress Gauge  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped 2.6 to 122.5 at 11:45 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  decreased 1 to
112.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, decreased a second day, narrowing 1
basis point to 11.5 basis points. The measure tightens when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Walt Disney Co. were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers yesterday,
the day after it raised $3 billion, with 174 trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The debt of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or
PDVSA, was fourth-most active after Chavez sought treatment in
Havana four months after saying he was “totally free” of
cancer.  Regime Prospects  The president’s illness raises the prospects of a new
regime that may end policies such as nationalizations and
currency controls,  Francisco Rodriguez , a Bank of America
economist, wrote in a research note to clients. He also said
bonds would benefit from a  currency devaluation  and reduced
issuance.  PDVSA’s $6.15 billion of 8.5 percent bonds due in November
2017 held at about the highest since they were issued in 2010
after gaining 1.9 cents to 94.6 cents on the dollar Nov. 27 to
yield 9.9 percent, Trace data show.  Costco, in its first offering in almost six years, sold
$1.2 billion of 0.65 percent, three-year notes to yield 35 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $1.1 billion of
1.125 percent, five-year securities at a 50 basis-point spread
and $1.2 billion of 1.7 percent, seven-year bonds at 70,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  PVH Loans  The Issaquah, Washington-based company is planning to pay a
special dividend of about $3 billion to shareholders before
pending tax increases in 2013.  PVH’s financing includes a $1.88 billion seven-year  term
loan  B that will pay interest at 2.75 percentage points to 3
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars from each
other, will have a 75 basis point floor.  PVH is proposing to sell the debt at 99.5 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield to investors.  The rates on a $1.2 billion five-year term loan A portion
and a $750 million five-year revolving line of credit will be
tied to a leveraged based grid and will pay interest at 1.5
percentage points to 2.25 percentage points more than Libor, the
person said. Pricing is set to open at 2 percentage points more
than Libor.  Expanded Stimulus  In  emerging markets , spreads narrowed 2 basis point to 289
basis points, or 2.89 percentage points, JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
index shows. The measure has climbed from 269.7 basis points on
Oct. 18, the least since February 2011.  In the U.S. mortgage-bond market, the Fed’s buying is
targeting the $5.2 trillion of debt guaranteed by government-
supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.
It focuses on 30-year securities trading closest to face value,
called current-coupon bonds, because lenders package most new
home loans into those notes.  The Fed’s QE3 purchases add to a program started 13 months
ago in which it reinvests the proceeds from debt acquired under
previous initiatives, including $1.25 trillion of mortgage-bond
buying ended in March 2010. That lifts its total purchases each
month to about $70 billion.  Investors Overweight  The buying failed to prevent a sell-off that pushed
relative yields to within 4 basis points of where they were
before the QE3 announcement. The gap between yields on Fannie
Mae’s 30-year current-coupon securities and the average of rates
on five- and 10-year Treasuries ended last year at 152.  With the outstanding amount of fixed-rate agency mortgage
securities set to fall by $75 billion next year, money managers
will need to be convinced to sell holdings to give the Fed
enough to buy, JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff wrote in a
Nov. 21 report.  About half of money managers are currently “overweight”
mortgage bonds, or holding more than found in benchmark indexes,
according to surveys by the bank. That’s down by 10 percentage
points from before QE3, the analysts said.  The widening of current-coupon spreads earlier this month
partly reflected concern that homeowner refinancing will
increase as lenders add staff while low  mortgage rates  persist,
and as a second Obama administration looks to aid borrowers,
said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , Barclays’s New York-based head of rates
and securitized research.  Operation Twist  Investors who buy mortgage bonds trading for more than 100
cents on the dollar face lower returns when principal is repaid
faster at par. More homeowners replacing higher-rate notes also
fuels greater issuance of low-coupon securities.  Investors have also been speculating the Fed will extend
its Treasury purchases after the end of its so-called Operation
Twist program, bolstering their relative demand, Rajadhyaksha
said in an interview. Even with spreads on low-coupon mortgage
bonds tighter than historical levels amid the Fed’s purchases,
the debt is attractive based on low benchmark yields and
suppressed  volatility , he said.  “We’re in unprecedented territory and will be for a
while,” he said. “As we settle back into this ‘low for long’
range, we would be long agency MBS.”  The supply of new mortgage bonds also jumped this month as
lenders rushed to create securities before Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac begin on Dec. 1 to charge more for their guarantees,
according to Bank of America analyst Satish Mansukhani. At the
same time, a slump in the shares of  real-estate investment
trusts  that buy mortgage debt fueled concern they would sell
holdings to repurchase stock, he said in a Nov. 16 report.  Fiscal Cliff  The JPMorgan analysts cited challenges including concern
over the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending
cuts set to take effect next year, which has driven  spreads
wider  on competing investments such as high-grade corporate
bonds. “Once the market gets through these year-end pressures,
we believe mortgages are well positioned for outperformance,”
they said.  James Camp , managing director of fixed income at Eagle
Asset Management Inc., said he’s continued to favor agency
mortgage securities because corporate spreads are still too
tight as companies take “non-bondholder-friendly” steps such
as stock buybacks, and as Europe’s debt crisis wears on.  While Camp views “QE3 skeptically in terms of the real
impact” on the economy, “we’re not fighting the trade” of
thinking it will drive spreads tighter, he said in a telephone
interview from  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  