-- Czechs Need to Boost Private Pension Savings, Premier Necas Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-29T13:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/czechs-need-to-boost-private-pension-savings-premier-necas-says.html
Czechs need to boost individual
savings for retirement in a new system managed by pension funds
and rely less on the state, Prime Minister Petr Necas said.  “The message to the people is clear: Don’t rely only on
the state,” Necas told a pension-industry conference in  Prague 
today. “Maintaining a view that the state pension is
untouchable is naive.”  Necas has made an overhaul of the pension system one of the
main goals of his government. Plans to implement measures
reducing social spending were among reasons cited by Standard &
Poor’s when it last year lifted the rating on the country’s debt
two notches to AA-, its fourth-highest grade.  Necas’s government is seeking to boost private savings as
the aging population is increasing the deficit in the state
system where workers pay for pensions of the retired. Under the
new plan, set to start next year, participants will be allowed
to redirect part of their compulsory payments from the pay-as-
you-go pension program into private accounts.  The Cabinet is preparing the pension change as other
eastern European Union members abolish or scale down similar
programs to help narrow their fiscal deficits.  Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orban has effectively
nationalized $13 billion of private pension-fund assets, while
neighboring Slovakia reduced citizens’ contributions into
private pension funds by more than a half.  The Social Democrats, the largest Czech opposition party
which leads in opinion polls, will scrap the private pension
system if it takes power, Jan Mladek, the party’s shadow finance
minister, told the same conference.  “Starting pension reform in the year of a deep crisis is
worse than a crime; it’s foolishness,” Mladek said as he
praised Orban’s pension reversal. “I want to say, with full
seriousness, that the next government will abolish” the new
system, he said.  The next Czech elections are scheduled for 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  