-- Dartmouth Names Michigan Provost Hanlon as President
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-11-29T19:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/dartmouth-names-michigan-provost-hanlon-as-president.html
Dartmouth College named Philip J. Hanlon, provost of the  University of Michigan , as president,
replacing Jim Yong Kim who left the  Ivy League  school in July to
lead the  World Bank .  Hanlon, 57, who earned an undergraduate degree at
Dartmouth, will begin on July 1, the Hanover, New Hampshire-
based school said today in a statement. A mathematician, he has
a doctorate from the California Institute of Technology and has
been at Michigan, in Ann Arbor, since 1986.  With Kim’s departure, and the announced retirements of
Shirley Tilghman at  Princeton University  and Richard C. Levin at
 Yale University , three of the most prestigious jobs in higher
education had been open at the same time. Earlier this month,
Yale named its provost Peter Salovey as president. Unlike Kim,
who had no affiliation to Dartmouth, Hanlon knows the school as
an alumnus. He brings a “great love,” Steve Mandel, chairman
of Dartmouth’s board of trustees, said in the statement.  “All of us are inspired by the exceptional qualities he
will bring to the presidency as a world-class academic, an
accomplished administrative leader, and a passionate scholar-
teacher,” said Mandel, who graduated in the class behind
Hanlon.  Carol Folt, who has served as interim president, will stay
in the role through June 30, when she will return to her
previous post as Provost, Dartmouth said.  Lifelong Bonds  Hanlon, a member of the class of 1977, said Dartmouth is
the place where he “grew up and forged lifelong friendship and
bonds” and gave him the “confidence to pursue his academic
dreams.”  Raised in the mining community of Gouverneur in upstate New
York, Hanlon becomes the 10th Dartmouth alumnus to serve as
president, according to the school.  He teaches first-year calculus at Michigan, and plans to
stay in the classroom at Dartmouth, based on a belief that
“great universities are distinguished by their focus on
preparing the next generation of leaders for a lifetime of
impact and learning,” Hanlon said in the statement.  He was appointed provost at Michigan in 2010, succeeding
 Teresa Sullivan , who left to run the  University of Virginia . As
provost, he was the chief academic officer and also the top
officer for the school’s budget. He has held administrative
leadership positions for more than a decade there.  As a mathematician, Hanlon focuses on probability and
combinatorics, the study of finite structures and their
significance as they relate to bioinformatics, computer science,
and other fields, Dartmouth said in the statement.  Search Committee  A 16-member search committee spent more than six months in
the selection process. Hanlon impressed the group with passion
for his alma mater and a vision for how the school can excel,
said Diana Taylor, vice chair of the committee and his college
classmate.  “Dartmouth is at the heart of Phil’s remarkable life
story, one inspired by faculty who challenged and nurtured him
because they so loved what they were doing,” Taylor said in the
statement.  Dartmouth’s endowment was valued at $3.49 billion as of
June 30. Its 5.8 percent return on investments led the eight-
member Ivy League. It is the smallest member, with  almost 6,150
students,  according to the most recent enrollment figures.  Almuni of Dartmouth, founded in 1769, include Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and his immediate predecessor,
 Henry Paulson .  Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of
General Electric Co., is an alumnus and trustee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  