-- Deal Path Is $1 Trillion Revenue With Cuts, Baucus Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-29T19:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/deal-path-is-1-trillion-revenue-with-cuts-baucus-says.html
A revenue increase of at least $1
trillion over 10 years and “significant” spending cuts could
form the framework of an agreement to avert the fiscal cliff,
said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus .  “If there is substantial revenue, over $1 trillion, and
significant spending cuts, we are close to getting a deal,”
Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said today on Bloomberg Television.  An agreement must include higher tax rates for top earners
to generate the needed revenue, Baucus said. The top rate, he
said, doesn’t necessarily have to return to the 39.6 percent
level it would reach if Congress doesn’t act.  Baucus, whose committee has jurisdiction over  tax policy 
and entitlement programs, spoke today as Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  was shuttling between the offices of
congressional leaders.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
earlier today that no substantial progress has been made on
averting the cliff, composed of more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take
effect in January. Boehner said President  Barack Obama  hasn’t
been serious in offering spending cuts.  Lawmakers are divided over how to avert the cliff and
replace it with longer-term policies to reduce the  budget
deficit . Democrats say higher tax rates must be part of a deal,
while Republicans resist tax rate increases and insist on major
changes to programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.  Limiting Deductions  Baucus said proposals to limit  tax deductions  to a
percentage of income would be “easier” than placing a flat
dollar cap on deductions.  “There may be some middle ground there,” said Baucus, 70.
“The more both sides explain the numbers, the American people
can help us decide what they want and do not want.”  Like the administration, Baucus pointed to Obama’s budget
proposal for examples of spending cuts that Democrats could
accept.  Baucus, first elected to the Senate in 1978 and up for re-
election in 2014, said he was “hopeful” that Congress would
reach an agreement.  “I think this is the early stages,” he said. “There is
still time left. Both sides are trying to position themselves a
little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  