-- Denton, Dechert, Milbank, Sidley, Katten: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/denton-dechert-milbank-sidley-katten-business-of-law.html
The partners of SNR Denton LLP,
Salans LLP of  France  and  Canada ’s Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP
yesterday approved a three-way merger to form Dentons, a global
firm with more than 2,500 lawyers in 52 countries.  Elliott Portnoy will be the global chief executive officer
and Joe Andrew will be the global chairman of the merged firm.
Both currently are partners at SNR Denton, and were originally
with Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP, which merged with
 London ’s Denton Wilde & Sapte LLP in 2010.  In a telephone interview yesterday with the two partners,
Portnoy said that the three firms had been in discussions for
less than a year. He said the firms had no redundancies and as a
result, didn’t expect any job losses.  Integrating firms this large is inherently difficult and
one of the biggest questions was the name of the combined firm,
Andrew said.  “If we would have had our choice, we would have selected a
new name,” Andrew said. “But in many jurisdictions, we needed
some form or some derivation of the current names.”  Before deciding, “we ran through a multicultural study to
ensure that the name had no negative meaning in another
language. It became clear that the strongest name with no
negative connotation was Denton. We added the ’s’ because it is
often tradition to make a name plural,” Andrew added.  The combination is scheduled to be completed in the first
quarter of 2013.  In the Courts  Vitro Loses Appeals Court Ruling on Mexican Bankruptcy Plan  Vitro SAB (VITROA) , the Mexican glassmaker that has been fighting
Elliott Management Corp. and other creditors over its
restructuring, lost an appeals court bid to enforce its
bankruptcy plan in the U.S.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  ruled against
Vitro and upheld a bankruptcy court ruling that denied
enforcement of the reorganization, according to a decision filed
yesterday.  Vitro was appealing a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Harlin DeWayne Hale in June that handed a victory to Elliott and
other holders of Vitro’s $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds. Hale
refused to grant enforcement of the company’s Mexican bankruptcy
plan, saying it was contrary to U.S. policy.  The bondholders have blasted the plan as a “testament to
audacity, brazen manipulation and greed.” They argued the plan
improperly extinguishes guaranty obligations of Vitro
subsidiaries even though the units haven’t filed for bankruptcy.  Vitro said in a statement that it is disappointed in the
appeals court ruling and is considering “possible legal next
steps in order to have our restructuring plan enforced in the
U.S. as it has been in  Mexico .”  Partner Allan Brilliant, along with partners G. Eric Brunstad, James McGuire, Craig Druehl, Benjamin Rosenberg and
Dennis Hranitzky of Dechert LLP represented the bondholders.
Jeffrey Prostok of Forshey Prostok LLP was local counsel.  According to documents in the case, Vitro is represented by
Andrew Leblanc and Alan Stone from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy
LLP and  David Bennett  from Thompson & Knight LLP.  The appeal is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro
SAB, 12-10542, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  Sirius XM Subscribers Seek to Overturn ‘Unfair’ Settlement  Some satellite radio subscribers asked an appeals court to
overturn a class-action settlement between  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) 
and its customers, claiming that the class won too little while
lawyers were awarded too much.  Attorneys for dissenting members of the class argued before
the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  yesterday, seeking the
rejection of a lower court’s approval of the settlement valued
at $180 million. The judges said they would rule later.  “This settlement has no meaningful value,” Paul
Rothstein, a lawyer in Gainesville,  Florida , who represents the
dissenting members, told the three appeals judges.  Subscribers sued Sirius XM Radio in 2009, claiming that it
violated antitrust law when it raised prices after Sirius
Satellite Radio acquired its only competitor, XM Satellite
Radio, in 2008. They said Sirius broke promises it made in order
to win merger approval from the Federal Communications
Commission.  Sirius XM argued that the price increases were justified to
cover higher costs.  In August 2011 Sirius XM won approval of the settlement
from U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan before a trial
was to take place. The settlement provided that the subscription
price remained unchanged for a five-month period ended Dec. 31,
2011, and subscribers who canceled their plans could reconnect
without a fee. The deal was valued at $180 million, although no
subscriber received money.  The lawyers who represented the class received $13 million
in fees in a “flagrantly unfair settlement,” opposing class
members said in a brief. “The award of attorneys’ fees should
be reversed,” they added.  Dissenting class members, which include the investment
adviser Asset Strategies Inc., also said that “the $180 million
figure put forth and accepted by the district court as the
settlement value is grossly inflated.”  James Sabella, a director at Grant & Eisenhofer PA who
represents the class, said the $180 million was based on what
subscribers would have paid during the five-month price freeze.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 11-3696, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-
court case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 09-10035, U.S.
District Court, District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  ACC Sues University of Maryland for Quitting Conference  The  Atlantic Coast Conference  sued the  University of
Maryland  for $52.3 million in penalties after the school said
its teams would leave to compete in the Big Ten, joining a
recent rearrangement of collegiate sports leagues.  A member that withdraws from the conference is subject to a
payment three times the organization’s operating budget, the ACC
said in a filing yesterday in superior court in North Carolina.
The annual operating budget for the 2012-2013 year is $17.4
million, according to the complaint.  “There is the expectation that  Maryland  will fulfill its
exit-fee obligation,” John Swofford, the ACC commissioner, said
in a statement.  Dozens of National Collegiate Athletic Association schools
have announced conference moves in recent years as athletic
departments jockey for financial paydays from television
contracts as well as stable affiliations.  The 12 ACC teams voted in September to boost exit fees,
with Maryland and Florida State University voting against the
increase. Maryland, which is a 59-year charter member of the
Greensboro, North Carolina-based ACC, said on Nov. 19 that it
would move to the Big Ten on July 1, 2014.  University of Maryland President Wallace Loh said at the
news conference announcing the move that the school would
discuss the exit payment privately with the ACC.  In an e-mail, Brian Ullman, a spokesman for Maryland,
declined to comment on the ACC’s lawsuit.  The case is Atlantic Coast Conference v. University of
Maryland, 12-10736, State of  North Carolina , Guilford County,
General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division.  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Counsel From the Food and Drug Administration Joins Sidley  William A. McConagha has joined Sidley Austin LLP as a
partner in the firm’s Washington office.  McConagha previously worked at the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in a variety of roles and most recently was
acting as the health policy adviser to the chairmen of the
Senate’s Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.  He will join Sidley’s food, drug and medical device
practice.  Sidley Austin has about 1,700 lawyers practicing in 18 U.S.
and international cities, including Beijing, Brussels, Sydney
and  Tokyo .  Environmental Attorney Joins Katten Muchin in Austin, Texas  Matt Paulson will join Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP as a
partner in the firm’s Austin, Texas, office and will head the
firm’s environmental aspects of energy production practice.  Paulson focuses his work on environmental permitting,
compliance, internal investigations, enforcement, litigation and
crisis response. He was previously a partner at Baker Botts LLP.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys in locations across the
U.S. and in London and  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  