-- Detroit Bonds Cut Deeper Into Junk as Cash Crunch Nears
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/detroit-bonds-cut-deeper-into-junk-as-cash-crunch-nears.html
Detroit  had its bond ratings cut
deeper into noninvestment-grade territory by Moody’s Investors
Service, citing a cash crisis that may mean bankruptcy or
default in the next 12 to 24 months.  “These downgrades reflect the city’s ongoing precariously
narrow cash position and a weakened state oversight framework,”
Moody’s analysts Genevieve Nolan and Henrietta Chang said in a
statement from the New York-based credit-scoring company. The 
downgrades affect $8.2 billion in Detroit debt, according to 
 David Jacobson , a Moody's spokesman.  Michigan  voters on Nov. 6 repealed a 2011 law that gave
state-appointed emergency managers sweeping authority to fix
distressed cities’ finances, including the power to cancel union
contracts. Detroit’s inability to enact changes demanded under a
consent agreement with the state also led to the downgrade and a
negative outlook on the ratings, according to the analysts.  Moody’s dropped the city’s general obligation unlimited tax
bonds and certificates of participation one step to Caa1, seven
steps below investment grade, from B3. It cut Detroit’s general
obligation limited tax debt to Caa2 from Caa1, and lowered
ratings on water and sewer revenue securities as well.  Detroit may run out of cash in December as the result of a
dispute between Mayor Dave Bing and the City Council over hiring
Miller Canfield Paddock & Stone PLC , a  law firm , for advice on
the state fiscal recovery plan. Michigan has refused to release
$30 million from a bond sale to stabilize municipal finances
unless a law firm is hired as an adviser under a revised plan.  Bing said last week he would impose unpaid time off for
municipal employees starting in January to cope with the cash
shortage, and said the city wouldn’t seek bankruptcy protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  