-- Dismissed LSU All-American ‘Honey Badger’ Mathieu Off to NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-29T18:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/dismissed-lsu-all-american-honey-badger-mathieu-to-jump-to-nfl.html
Tyrann Mathieu, an All-American
cornerback nicknamed the “Honey Badger” who was kicked off the
 Louisiana State University  football team before this season,
will enter the 2013 National Football League draft.  Mathieu won the 2011 Chuck Bednarik Award as the best
defensive player in college football and was one of five
finalists for the Heisman Trophy as the sport’s top player.  Mathieu, 20, in August was dismissed from the LSU football
program three weeks before the start of his junior season by
coach Les Miles for violating team rules. Mathieu’s father told
local media that Mathieu was in a drug-rehabilitation center,
and the  Southeastern Conference ’s 2011 defensive player of the
year was arrested in October for marijuana possession.  LSU spokesman Michael Bonnette confirmed in an e-mail that
Mathieu will enter the draft. Mathieu had remained enrolled at
LSU instead of transferring to another school below college
football’s top division to play.  Mathieu as a sophomore had two interceptions and recovered
five fumbles, two of which he returned for touchdowns. He also
returned two punts for touchdowns and earned the nickname Honey
Badger for his tenacity.  NFL draft analyst Drew Boylhart of the Huddle Report
projects Mathieu as a fourth- or fifth-round pick, not because
of his off-field issues but because the 5-foot-9 defender’s poor
coverage skills outweigh his ability as a playmaker.  Special Teams  “His strength right now is as a special-teams player,”
Boylhart, the author of the book “The Draftnik,” said in a
telephone interview. “That’s where he could come into the
league and have an impact. Teams would draft him for that and
hope he develops into a starting safety.”  In the 2012 draft, cornerback Janoris Jenkins fell to the
second round -- taken 39th by the  St. Louis Rams  -- following a
college career in which he was dismissed from the University of
 Florida  for a second drug-related arrest and played his final
season at North Alabama. Jenkins, who was regarded as a possible
first-round pick, is tied for the Rams’ team lead with three
interceptions this season and scored twice on interception
returns last week.  “Jenkins has far better coverage skills than Mathieu,”
Boylhart said. “Mathieu might be able to sneak into the third
round, but that’s going on his ability. It’s at the combine and
in interviews with teams where he’ll have to answer questions
about the off-the-field stuff.”  The draft will be held April 25-27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  