-- Dollar Drops as Fiscal-Cliff Negotiations Go Public; Euro Gains
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-29T22:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/dollar-pares-losses-against-euro-after-boehner-damps-optimism.html
The dollar declined for a second day
against the euro as U.S. lawmakers publicly wrangled over the
spending cuts and tax increases of the so-called fiscal cliff.  The greenback was mixed against higher-yielding currencies
after a report showed the  U.S. economy  grew more than previously
estimated in the third quarter and House Speaker  John Boehner 
said “no substantive progress” was made in budget talks. The
euro gained against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as
Italy’s benchmark bonds rose for a third day as borrowing costs
declined at a debt auction. Sweden’s krona weakened after the
economy expanded at a slower pace last quarter.  “You can’t get too caught up in the headlines,” said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of G-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “Often when you get the very
closest to a deal is when you get most aggressive in negotiating
strategy, because you’re comfortable you have a fall-back
position that you can accept”  The dollar dropped 0.2 percent to $1.2979 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after falling as much as 0.5 percent. It is
down 0.1 percent in November. The single currency traded 0.3
percent higher at 106.58 yen and has climbed 3.1 percent this
month. The yen declined 0.1 percent to 82.12 per dollar and is
down 2.9 percent this month.  The MSCI  World Index (MXWO)  rose 0.8 percent, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbing 0.4 percent.  Krona, Shekel  The krona extended its weekly decline as  Statistics Sweden 
said GDP expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent, compared
with growth of 0.7 percent the prior quarter. Economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast growth of 0.2 percent.
Annual growth slowed to 0.7 percent from 1.3 percent, the agency
said.  Sweden’s currency dropped 0.3 percent to 6.6657 per dollar
and is down 0.6 percent this week.  Israel’s shekel jumped to the strongest level in more than
a month as investors sought riskier assets amid optimism U.S.
lawmakers will reach an agreement to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff.  The shekel rose as much as 0.8 percent to 3.8138 per
dollar, the strongest intraday level since Oct. 23, before
paring to 3.8218 and a 0.6 percent gain.  China ’s  yuan  fell as the central bank cut the  reference
rate  to a level that forces a retreat for a second day, fueling
speculation policy makers are seeking to curb gains after the
currency reached a 19-year high this week.  The People’s Bank of China weakened the fixing by 0.01
percent to 6.2910 per dollar, 1.01 percent below yesterday’s
closing level in the  spot market . The yuan is allowed to
fluctuate a maximum 1 percent on either side of the fixing.  Bond Yields  Further gains in the shared currency may be limited as the
seven-day relative strength  index (SPX)  versus the dollar rose to 73.
A reading higher than 70 indicates a currency’s rally may have
been too far, too fast and may be due for a correction.  Italian 10-year bond yields declined to the least in two
years while Spain’s similar-maturity bond yield touched the
lowest level in eight months, signaling the debt crisis that has
weighed on the shared currency since 2010 may be easing.  The euro has fallen 2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar is down 2.2 percent and
the yen dropped 9 percent to lead decliners.  Boehner ‘Tactic’  The dollar briefly erased losses against the euro after
Boehner’s comments. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said later
that Democrats were all on the same page on the budget talks and
Senator Chuck Schumer said there has been progress. House
Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said Boehner’s comments were a
“tactic.”  The Dollar Index fell for a second day as U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate, up from a 2
percent prior estimate, revised figures from the Commerce
Department showed today. The gauge dropped 0.2 percent 80.210.  “It’s very hard right now to play the headline risk in
foreign exchange,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “We’re going to get conflicting
comments, with a deal eventually getting done, which would be
positive for risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  