-- LDP Seen Winning Japan Vote That Risks Policy Gridlock
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-30T07:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ldp-seen-retaking-power-in-japan-vote-that-risks-policy-gridlock.html
Three years after its half-century
rule of  Japan  ended, the Liberal Democratic Party is poised to
regain power. Even so, a splintered political landscape risks
the same gridlock that has led to six leaders in as many years.  Polls show that while the LDP will get the most seats in
the Dec. 16 election in the Diet’s lower house, other parties
may limit its victory. A party run by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto
is favored over Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s Democratic Party
of Japan, and groups calling for the abolition of nuclear power
and opposed to a U.S.-led trade deal are also drawing support.  While the LDP and its partner New Komeito may win a
majority, legislation can be blocked in the upper house, where
they hold fewer than half the seats. That may hamper LDP leader
Shinzo Abe’s pledges to revive the world’s third-largest economy
through more expansive monetary easing and to increase control
of islands disputed with China.  “It’s a chaotic situation,” said Steven Reed, professor
of political science at Chuo University in  Tokyo . “It could
turn out that a coalition can put together enough seats to take
a majority, but are not able to govern.”  At least 12 parties are campaigning for the 480-member
lower house that is made up of 300 single constituencies and 180
proportionally apportioned seats. The DPJ had 233 seats and the
LDP 118 when Noda dissolved the chamber on Nov. 16.  ‘Tough Fight’  The LDP is backed by 23 percent of voters, while 15 percent
support the Japan Restoration Party of Hashimoto and ex-Tokyo
Governor Shintaro Ishihara, a Nikkei newspaper poll yesterday
showed. The DPJ had 13 percent and New Komeito 4 percent, while
support for three parties that formed an anti-nuclear coalition
got 5 percent. The survey of 865 people gave no margin of error.  “It’s going to be a really tough fight,” said Hiroshige Seko, an upper house LDP lawmaker who served as a press aide to
Abe during his previous term as premier in 2006-2007. “We can’t
let our guard down. We are used to fighting campaigns against
the DPJ, but this time we also have to differentiate ourselves
clearly from the JRP.”  Ishihara, whose April proposal to buy an island chain also
claimed by  China  forced Noda’s government to purchase the
property in September, agreed this month to join Hashimoto.  Support for the Democrats plummeted over its handling of
last year’s record earthquake and tsunami that spawned the
Fukushima nuclear crisis. Noda, the party’s third premier in
three years, sparked an internal split by pushing through an
unpopular bill that will double the 5 percent sales tax to cope
with record debt and rising welfare costs in an economy that
contracted last quarter.  Public Confidence  “If we have lost public confidence it is because of poor
party governance,” DPJ lawmaker Kouhei Ohtsuka said. “We need
to get people to understand that our policies have worked.”  The sales  tax  is set to rise to 8 percent in April 2014 and
10 percent in October 2015. Noda today in a televised debate
defended the increase as necessary to sustain the social
security system in the world’s most rapidly aging society.  “We did it for future generations,” he said in the debate
with 10 other party heads. “At the moment, we are funding
social security not only from the working population, but are
reaching into the pockets of the next generation.”  Japan’s currency has risen almost 11 percent against the
dollar since the DPJ took power in September 2009, while the
benchmark Nikkei Stock Average has fallen 10 percent. The yen’s
strength has hurt exporters like  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
both of which had their credit ratings cut to junk last week for
the first time by Fitch Ratings.  ‘New Level’  Abe, who was elected head of the LDP in September after
resigning the premiership in 2007 after one year in office,
helped send the yen to a seven-month low last week by saying the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  should conduct “unlimited” easing and set an
inflation target of at least 2 percent to end more than a decade
of deflation.  “We are not the LDP of three years ago, particularly in
terms of economic policy,” he said in a debate last night. “We
want to push ahead with anti-deflationary policies on a new
level.”  The Nikkei index rose 1 percent yesterday after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said shares would benefit from an LDP victory.  “We would expect policies aimed at combating deflation,
including public works investment, possible corporate tax cuts
and a re-think of the nuclear phase-out plan,” Goldman
strategist Kathy Matsui wrote in a report.  Defense Spending  The LDP leader has also called for strengthening control
over islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China and
pledged to boost defense spending. Japan’s purchase of the
island chain sparked violent demonstrations in China and damaged
the $340 billion trade relationship between the world’s second
and third largest economies.  Abe’s policy platform has sparked resistance within the
Komeito party, whose coalition with the LDP has lasted more than
a decade in and out of government.  “Ties between Japan and China are in a bad way, and we
must avoid any worsening of international disputes,” said
Makoto Nishida, head of Komeito’s upper house parliamentary
affairs committee. “Telling the BOJ to deal with deflation and
the strong yen on its own by increasing monetary easing is
placing all the responsibility on the central bank and I don’t
think that’s appropriate.”  As a result, the LDP may have to compromise to maintain the
partnership, he said.  “Realistically, what you say as an opposition leader and
what you say in a coalition government are different,” Nishida
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  