-- Drake & Scull Price Estimate Cut at NBK Capital on Revenue Drop
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-29T12:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/drake-scull-price-estimate-cut-at-nbk-capital-on-revenue-drop.html
Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI) , a
supplier of engineering services to the  construction industry ,
had its price estimate lowered 12 percent to 76 fils at NBK
Capital after third-quarter revenue was lower than expected.  Dubai-based Drake & Scull’s quarterly revenue, which fell
26 percent, was a fifth below NBK Capital’s forecast due to slow
execution of projects in Abu Dhabi, Egypt and Algeria, analysts
Lois Pelichet and Samah Ragab said in an e-mailed note dated
yesterday, maintaining a  hold recommendation  on the stock.  “We have cut our forecasts and valuation to reflect our
concerns about both execution capacity and the  cash flow 
situation,” NBK, a unit of  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK) , said. Drake
& Scull’s “working capital requirements continued deteriorating
in real terms,” it said.  Third-quarter profit tumbled 93 percent to 3.9 million
dirhams ($1.1 million) following declines of 53 percent and 26
percent in the  first and second quarters , respectively, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Profit for the three months ended
Sept. 30 missed the 38 million-dirham  median estimate  of four
analysts on Bloomberg. Cash flow in the quarter was negative 167
million dirhams, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Drake & Scull’s shares have declined 4.5 percent in 2012,
compared with a rally of 19 percent for the benchmark  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  and a surge of 46 percent for  Emaar Properties
PJSC, (EMAAR)  developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper. NBK’s price
estimate is a 6 percent premium to Drake & Scull’s 71.7 fils
closing price today.  The company’s full-year profit may drop 26 percent to 162
million dirhams, according to the mean estimate of 12 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Four analysts have a buy rating on the
stock, while eight say to hold it and one recommends selling,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  