-- Drug-Resistant Staph Bacteria Found on 8% of Dutch Broiler Farms
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-29T16:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/drug-resistant-staph-bacteria-found-on-8-of-dutch-broiler-farms.html
The Dutch food-safety authority
found methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, on 8
percent of  broiler  farms in a survey.  The bacteria was found in chicks and stable dust, the
authority wrote in a  report  on its website today. Infected
animals can sometimes transmit the resistant bacteria to humans,
according to the authority.  A strain of MRSA known as CC398 has been reported in
livestock, most often in intensively raised pigs, veal calves
and chickens, according to the European Food Safety Authority.
People in contact with live animals are at greater risk of
acquiring the strain, though infections are rare, the  EFSA  said.  “This mainly concerns the livestock-related variant of
MRSA,” the Dutch food-safety authority wrote. “Additional
measures are necessary to better protect those professional
groups that are in contact with live broilers.”  MRSA infections are usually spread through contact with
infected objects and surfaces and in the most severe cases can
be life-threatening, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention .  On broiler farms, 9 percent of breeders carried the
bacteria, while for employees in slaughterhouses the rate can
climb to 14 percent, according to the report.  The MRSA infection rate in slaughterhouses that gas
broilers before slaughtering is four times smaller than in those
using electric stunning in water baths, the food safety
authority wrote. Gassed broilers move less, meaning fewer dust
particles are released, reducing infection odds, it said.  The food safety authority advised slaughterers to use
methods that involve animals moving as little as possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  