-- Dubai Shares Advance on Emaar Mall Plan, Saudi King’s Health
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-29T10:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/dubai-shares-advance-on-emaar-mall-plan-saudi-king-s-health.html
Dubai stocks rose the most in two
months after  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  said it’s expanding the
world’s largest mall and amid optimism the Saudi king’s health
is improving after he underwent back surgery.  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, gained
1.6 percent after saying it will add a new shopping boulevard,
residences and hotels to the Dubai Mall.  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) ,
the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest publicly traded construction
company, advanced the most in a week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
climbed 1.2 percent, the biggest gain since Oct. 1, to 1,607.90
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, trimming this month’s decline to
0.7 percent. Dubai’s market will close beginning Dec. 2 for a
two-day national holiday.  Emaar rallied to a one-month high on Nov. 25 after Dubai’s
government said the company will help build a district called
“Mohammed Bin Rashid City,” named after the emirate’s ruler, a
plan that includes a mall surpassing the Dubai Mall in size.  “Positive sentiment is being supported by new projects
announced by Emaar, and the good news about the health of the
Saudi king after his appearance in the media yesterday for the
first time after his back surgery,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based brokerage Al Fajr Securities LLC.  King’s Appearance  Saudi shares fell 3.8 percent this month as concern mounted
that King Abdullah’s health may deteriorate after he underwent
surgery, renewing questions about succession as the  Middle East 
goes through unprecedented political change. The oil-rich
kingdom’s state television yesterday showed images of Abdullah
meeting with senior government officials.  Dubai, seeking to stimulate its economy, is seeking to
resume several projects that were halted after the global credit
crunch drove down property values by 65 percent and caused
companies to suspend construction of hundreds of developments.
New projects announced in the past two months include a replica
of the  Taj Mahal  at four times the size of the Indian original.
Dubai’s index is the best performer in the  Gulf Cooperation
Council (BGCC200)  in 2012, with an advance of 19 percent.  Emaar gained to 3.76 dirhams, the highest close since Oct.
7, while Arabtec rallied 1.8 percent, the biggest gain since
Nov. 21, to 2.28 dirhams.  The DFM General Index’s performance this year outpaces a
gain of 1.8 percent for the  Saudi Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , the
largest Arab stock market. Saudi shares will rally on Saturday
following the footage of the king, Al Fajr’s Farhat said. The
market is closed today for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  