-- Duke’s Rogers to Resign Next Year in North Carolina Deal
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-30T22:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/duke-reaches-settlement-pact-with-north-carolina-over-ceo-swap.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jim Rogers must step down by the end of next
year as part of a settlement with North Carolina regulators
stunned by a July boardroom coup.  The settlement, which lays out a series of executive
changes and employment and financial concessions, represents a
rebuke to the largest U.S. utility owner by market value.  Approval by the North Carolina Utilities Commission would
end its investigation into the ouster of former Progress Energy
CEO Bill Johnson and reinstatement of Rogers hours after the
company closed its $17.8 billion takeover of Progress.
Commissioners had just approved the merger and accused Duke of
misleading them with the CEO switch.  “This settlement agreement is an important step forward
for the company because it resolves one of our key near-term
priorities: bringing closure to the NCUC merger review
process,” Rogers said in a statement released after the close
of trading in New York yesterday.  Duke rose 2.3 percent to $63.82 at the close in New York.
Shares have fallen 3.3 percent this year.  Restoring Balance  Duke will create a special committee of the board comprised
equally of pre-merger Duke and Progress directors to choose a
successor for Rogers, according to a filing yesterday with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The committee “will
make its best effort” to have a new chairman, president and CEO
of Duke in place by July 1, and no later than Dec. 31, 2013,
according to the settlement.  “One of the goals of the settlement was to restore the
balance between legacy Duke and legacy Progress,” said Sam
Watson, general counsel for the commission, in a telephone
interview. The agreement doesn’t affect a separate investigation
by North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper into whether
Duke’s actions violated state law, Watson said.  Lloyd Yates, former head of Carolina Power & Light, one of
Progress’s flagship utilities, will be promoted to replace
Duke’s Keith Trent as head of regulated utilities, according to
the filing.  Reassignments Follow  Marc Manly, another legacy Duke executive, will be replaced
as general counsel by a new hire. John McArthur, Progress’s last
general counsel, will be retained for two years to advise Duke
“on regulatory and legislative matters in North Carolina,”
according to Duke’s statement. McArthur resigned from his post-
merger job as Duke’s executive vice-president for regulated
utilities shortly after Johnson was replaced.  Trent and Manly will be reassigned once the commission
approves the settlement, according to the filing.  In the agreement, Duke guaranteed $25 million in additional
fuel-related cost savings to customers on top of $650 million
already promised for the first five years after the takeover.
The company agreed to maintain at least 1,000 employees in
Raleigh, North Carolina, the former headquarters of Progress
Energy, and make an additional $5 million payment for workforce
development and low-income assistance in the state.  Duke denied any illegal or improper actions in the CEO
shakeup, although it agreed “its activities have fallen short
of the Commission’s understanding of Duke’s obligations” as a
regulated utility, according to a company regulatory filing
yesterday. Rogers agreed to retire at the end of 2013, as
scheduled before the shakeup, “to assist” the settlement,
according to the filing.  Review Concluded  The accord was reached with the North Carolina Public Staff
and the state utilities commission to end its investigation of
Johnson’s ouster after Duke’s all-stock acquisition of Progress
on July 2, 2012. Johnson, who served as CEO of Progress, had
been expected to take over leadership of the combined companies.  Neither Rogers nor Johnson are eligible to serve as
chairman, president or CEO of Duke, according to the agreement.
Johnson was named Nov. 5 to become CEO of the Tennessee Valley
Authority, a federal power agency.  Duke also agreed to defer a rate increase request for its
North Carolina utility until February 2013.  The settlement has “the potential to remove uncertainty
associated with this rather unusual probe,” said Paul Patterson, a New York-based utility analyst for Glenrock
Associates LLC. “The whole saga has been a bit of a head-
scratcher to begin with, and hopefully this is the end of it,”
Patterson said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  