-- Dung Sees Vietnam Inflation at Decade Low, Investment Rising
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T06:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/dung-sees-vietnam-inflation-at-decade-low-with-investment-rising.html
Vietnam ’s Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung pledged to bring inflation down to a decade low as the
nation seeks to boost foreign investment and cope with the
aftermath of a credit boom that’s hobbled the banking industry.  “Inflation in 2012 will be about 7 percent and next year
we will have even better control of it, at about 6 percent,”
Dung, 63, said in an interview in Hanoi on Nov. 28. He said
overseas investment will rise “sharply” in the next two years
as officials overhaul state enterprises and recapitalize banks.  Slower gains in  consumer prices  would reduce the risk of
labor strikes undermining Vietnam’s campaign to position itself
as an alternative manufacturing base to  China . Concern that
growth has peaked after a quarter-century of market opening, and
that policy makers are struggling to manage a legacy of non-
performing loans, contributed to a 21 percent slide in
investment pledges from abroad so far this year.  “It would help Vietnam’s image significantly” to contain
inflation, said Peter Ryder, the Hanoi-based chief executive of
 fund manager  and property developer Indochina Capital. “Clearly
the fact that inflation hit 20-plus percent in two of the last
four years has made people question the government’s management
of the economy.”  Dung’s administration has made inroads into quelling what
was  Asia ’s fastest inflation in 2011, at 18 percent in December
from the previous year. Consumer prices rose 7.1 percent in
November. The last year costs rose less than 6 percent was in
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  The nation of 89 million will see  economic expansion  of 5.5
percent next year, Dung, who has been prime minister since 2006,
predicted in the interview at his office building known as the
White House. The rate would be little changed from an estimated
5.2 percent in 2012, the weakest performance in 13 years.  Growth has slowed from the 7 percent average pace recorded
since the “doi moi” market-opening reforms began in 1986 as
Vietnam tightened credit to stem inflation and the rise of bad
loans. Government-run banks often have been subject to  political
pressure  to lend to favored state-owned enterprises, according
to a January study from the Harvard Kennedy School.  Central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh told the National
Assembly on Nov. 13 the ratio of non-performing loans as of Sept.
30 was seen at 8.82 percent. The monetary authority aims to
lower the ratio to below 3 percent by 2015, Binh said last month.
Binh also has vowed to crack down on violations by groups with
vested interests that manipulate bank operations.  Cleaning Up  “If the government goes about cleaning up the banking
system the right way and reining in the state-owned companies,
while growth would likely stay slow it’s reasonable to think
that inflation would also remain under control,” said Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist with the Harvard
Kennedy School’s Vietnam program.  Vietnam’s stocks  have underperformed in the past year as
its banking crisis deepened. The VN Index of shares is down
about 0.6 percent over the period, compared with the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s (MXAP)  advance of 9.8 percent.  Dung, a former central bank chief, has faced domestic
criticism over his management of the economy, with a rare
suggestion in the Communist nation by a National Assembly
delegate this month that the prime minister introduce a
“culture of resignation.”  Preventing ‘Collapse’  “Vietnam is determined to restructure its banking system
at the lowest cost possible, preventing any systemic collapse,”
Dung said in a written response that was sent by his office
after the interview.  Even amid the financial strains, some overseas lenders have
boosted their presence in the country. HSBC Holdings Plc,
Standard Chartered Plc, Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. are among foreign
banks that have bought shares in Vietnamese banks or opened
branches in the Southeast Asian country.  Some foreign companies operating in Vietnam have seen their
local units or suppliers affected by labor disputes. Yamaha
Motor Co. halted production of motorbikes in Hanoi when 4,000
employees downed tools in March last year. They were given a pay
raise to return to work. Dung asked officials and unions earlier
this year to halve the number of strikes compared with 2011.  The ruling Communist Party has identified restructuring
state-owned companies as one of its main areas of focus through
2015. The government has pledged to speed up a share-sale
program known as equitization after delays in plans to sell
stakes in enterprises such as Vietnam Mobile Telecom Services Co.
and Vietnam Airlines Corp.  Stock Listings  “We encourage state companies that have sold stakes to the
public to list on  stock exchanges  domestically and
internationally,” Dung said.  A more stable economy should contribute to an increase in
foreign investment next year and in 2014, the prime minister,
who oversaw Vietnam’s entry into the  World Trade Organization  in
2007, said in the interview. “We highly welcome foreign
companies to invest in and take part in the process of
restructuring state-owned companies, including our banks.”  Policy makers are planning new tax policies and land
regulations to make Vietnam more attractive to foreign investors,
with a focus on finding companies with “value-added projects
and high technology,” he said.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL) 
are among companies that have set up or are expanding in Vietnam,
spurring the nation’s exports even as foreign investment pledges
have dropped this year. Shipments of mobile phones and other
electronics rose 91 percent in the first 10 months of the year
to $16 billion, making them the biggest source of  export  revenue.  Foreign Reserves  The export gains have contributed to a buttressing in
Vietnam’s foreign-exchange reserves, which Dung said are
expected to reach the equivalent to about 12 weeks of imports by
the end of the year. Such a figure would mark an increase from
the 11 weeks of imports Dung estimated in an Oct. 22 address to
the National Assembly.  The Southeast Asian nation will probably ship 7.5 million
tons of rice this year, Dung said in a written response. Vietnam
exported about 7 million tons of the grain last year, when it
was the world’s biggest rice exporter after  Thailand , based on
figures from the U.S. Foreign Agricultural Service.  “Foreign companies are doing well in Vietnam with their
export turnover rising 30 percent in eleven months through
November and accounting for about two-thirds of total exports,”
the prime minister said in the written responses.  Vietnam is a central player in what’s likely to be a
migration in international manufacturing from China toward
 Southeast Asia , according to analysts at Daiwa Capital Markets
 Hong Kong  Ltd.  The nation, along with smaller neighbor  Cambodia , is
“among the best candidates to replace China as low-cost textile
and clothing makers due to their low labor costs,”  Sun Mingchun ,
chief economist for greater China at Daiwa in Hong Kong, wrote
in a Nov. 27 research note.  -- Matthew Winkler , Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen, Jason Folkmanis. With
assistance from K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi. Editors: Chris Anstey,
Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net 
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  