-- E-Mail Privacy Change in Netflix Bill Clears Senate Panel
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-11-29T16:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/e-mail-privacy-change-in-netflix-bill-clears-senate-panel.html
Authorities would have to get a
search warrant to obtain older e-mails that can now be obtained
without a judge’s permission if a measure approved by the Senate
Judiciary Committee becomes law.  The privacy provision was attached to a measure backed by
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to make it easier for people to share information
about their video viewing on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and other social
networking sites. The video part of the proposal has already
passed in the U.S. House.  The e-mail provision was added by Judiciary Committee
Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, changing a law that
in some cases lets authorities get access without warrants to
messages that are more than 180 days old. The bill, H.R. 2471,
was approved by the Senate committee today on a voice vote.  “Like many Americans, I am concerned about the growing and
unwelcome intrusion into our private lives in cyberspace,”
Leahy said.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said there
are “issues to be addressed” before the bill gets a vote from
the full Senate. The measure may make it harder for the
Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate  insider
trading , Grassley said.  The House may not finish consideration of the bill this
year, Grassley said, and Leahy said the legislation would be
back before both chambers next year.  It would amend a 1986 electronic communications law that
Leahy said has become outdated with changing technology. Courts
have taken different positions on whether a warrant is needed
for older e-mails, Chris Calabrese, legislative counsel for the
 American Civil Liberties Union  in Washington, said in an
interview.  Bork’s List  The ACLU is among groups that support the e-mail warrant
requirement. The FBI Agents Association has expressed concern
the change would hinder investigations.  The legislation also revises a 1988 video-privacy law
passed after then-Supreme Court nominee  Robert Bork ’s video-
store rental history was published in a Washington newspaper.  Netflix, the world’s largest video-subscription service,
says the change is needed to let its customers share information
about their video viewing with friends through its partnership
with Facebook.  The two companies last year announced a way for users to
link their accounts to share the titles of movies they’re
streaming with friends on the social network. The partnership
has taken effect in more than 40 countries and territories where
Netflix operates but isn’t available in the U.S. because of the
1988 law, according to Netflix.  A provision was added to the bill approved by the Senate
Judiciary Committee today giving consumers a “clear and
conspicuous” opportunity to withdraw from disclosing their
videos on a case-by-case basis. Netflix supports the change,
Christopher Libertelli, the company’s head of global public
policy, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  