-- Tearful Gillibrand Leads Senators Seeking Aid After Sandy
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-29T19:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/tearful-gillibrand-leads-senators-seeking-aid-after-sandy.html
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand was near
tears when she told colleagues about a Staten Island family’s
tragedy in Superstorm Sandy as she and other lawmakers appealed
for federal aid. An assistance package could be introduced in
Congress as early as tomorrow.  Gillibrand, a  New York  Democrat, haltingly recounted the
experience of a mother whose two young children were swept from
her arms in a flood as they left their home heading for safety
with relatives in Brooklyn. Appearing at a Senate Environment
and Public Works hearing, Gillibrand said the mom was caught
in the 10-foot  storm surge  as she tried to rescue her children,
ages 2 and 4. They were later found drowned.  “As we begin to rebuild, folks are looking to  Washington 
for how can you help us,” Gillibrand said. “We must help these
families begin to rebuild. The devastation is so severe. For New
York families, lives have been lost and homes are destroyed.
Businesses are in rubble.”  President  Barack Obama  may send Congress an aid package
covering the the costs of Sandy, the largest Atlantic storm in
recorded history, as early as tomorrow, or by the middle of next
week, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today at a
Washington news conference.  “This is something that is important, that we do as soon
as we can,” Reid told reporters. “We’re talking about hundreds
of thousands of people who don’t have a place to live.”  White House  At a White House briefing today, Obama spokesman  Jay Carney 
said, “This is very much on the president’s mind.”  Lawmakers from the region asked colleagues at today’s
hearing to pass emergency spending legislation that would help
citizens rebuild, and to adequately fund new construction and
infrastructure projects to mitigate the damage of storms in the
future. New York state is seeking $41 billion for repairs,
 Howard Glaser , the state’s operations director, said this week.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat and chairwoman
of the committee, said  climate change  was making severe weather
events more frequent.  She said she held the hearing to create a “historic
record” of the storm in hopes it would help spur Congress to
act to mitigate the risks of global warming.  Deniers Denounced  “There is a new normal of new extremes and we have to be
prepared for it,” said Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode
Island Democrat.  “Climate change is real. We’ve tolerated the
deniers for far too long. We have to face the fact the deniers
are wrong.”  Senators from the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast showed
before and after photographs to underscore damage wrought on
homes and businesses, wildlife refuges, roads and bridges, and
Atlantic shoreline beaches, an important economic engine in the
region.  The toll would reach well into the billions of dollars as
hundreds of thousands of buildings in the densely populated
region were severely damaged by the storm.  At least 8 million homes and businesses lost power during
the storm. More than 100 deaths are blamed on Sandy, which
skirted the Atlantic Seaboard before turning west to make a
direct hit on the coast from  New Jersey  to New England.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said Congress
should pass legislation to accelerate seven flood control
projects in his state, which he estimated would cost $500
million to $1 billion.  The process for approving flood projects managed by the
Corps of Engineers should be streamlined, and Schumer called for
a comprehensive study to predict the risks of future severe
weather events in the future.  Boxer said the Sandy showed what damage severe weather
events can have.  “I think it’s a  turning point  in our approach to climate
change,” Boxer said. “I hope it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  