-- ECB Exemption From Disclosures Is Bad for Euro
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-29T20:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ecb-exemption-from-disclosures-is-bad-for-euro.html
When did the  European Central Bank 
learn that  Greece  was concealing the catastrophic extent of its
debts? And what did it know about the quality of the collateral
the Greek government used to secure loans from the bank?  A European Union court  said  today that the ECB can keep
secret internal documents that might throw light on these vital
questions. In doing so, it rejected the first legal challenge to
the bank’s blanket exceptions to freedom-of-information rights
and set a worrying precedent that will discourage openness.  The ruling by the General Court in Luxembourg makes a
mockery of ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s statement in October
that his bank -- one of the most powerful yet least accountable
to democratic oversight in the developed world -- is “very
transparent.” As the ECB prepares to receive new powers to
regulate banks across 17 countries, its opacity is worrisome.  The decision, which can be appealed to the  European Court 
of Justice, involves a freedom-of-information request from
Bloomberg News reporter Gabi Thesing that the ECB rejected in
October 2010. The request was for two documents that ECB staff
drew up for a meeting of the bank’s executive board in March
that year. The first document is titled “The impact on
government deficit and debt from off-market swaps. The Greek
case.” The second is “The Titlos transaction and possible
existence of similar transactions impacting on the euro area
government debt or deficit levels.”  Titlos refers to securities that the National Bank of
Greece, the country’s largest lender, issued for use as
collateral in securing credit from the ECB. The underlying asset
that backed the securities was an interest-rate swap between the
Greek bank and the government.  Financial Subterfuge  A note attached to the papers and obtained by  Bloomberg
News  said they show how Greece used swaps to hide its
borrowings, a subterfuge that ended in 2009 when a new
government revealed that Greece had been underreporting its
 budget deficit  by half. The result was an instant collapse in
market trust that sent Greece’s borrowing costs soaring and
pushed the country toward default.  The ECB said in its response to Bloomberg’s request that
the documents had informed its policy -- leaving little doubt as
to their importance. The bank also said releasing them could
undermine confidence in Greece’s ability to pay its debt.  By law, EU citizens have a legal right to see any document
that is produced by any EU institution. As always, there are
exceptions for reasons of security and other valid concerns. Our
discomfort is with the extent of the exceptions as they apply to
 Europe ’s most powerful economic institution.  For instance, a 2004  regulation  issued by the ECB allows it
to withhold information to protect the public interest as it
applies to its own proceedings; the financial, monetary or
economic policy of the EU or a member state; and international
economic relations. In 2011, another exemption was added for
information that might threaten financial stability.  The upshot? Pretty much anything the ECB does is exempt, an
unhappy state of affairs enshrined by today’s ruling.  How did the court come to this conclusion? It said it could
challenge the ECB’s interpretation of the public interest only
if the ECB was “manifestly” wrong on the facts. It also said it
had no latitude to balance the ECB’s interpretation of the
public interest (in this case, the risk that releasing seven-
month-old data and analyses could affect already-turbulent
markets) against any wider public interest. That broader
interest is self-evident: Given the 240 billion euros ($311
billion) that the Greek collapse has already cost, Europe’s
taxpayers and bond investors need to understand what the ECB
knew, how it analyzed complex Greek collateral and what it
accepted in return for loans.  Costly Losses  The law also specifies that if a legal challenge to the
ECB’s decision fails, the challenger must pay the central bank’s
legal costs. This ruling makes it unlikely that other media
companies or interested parties will follow Bloomberg’s attempt.  There was a time when central banks made their decisions
behind closed doors and publicly listed companies weren’t
compelled to disclose essential commercial data. The U.S.
Federal Reserve, for example, didn’t reveal its interest-rate
targets until the 1990s. Since then, it has become clear that
transparency is good for markets, good for consumers and good
for competition. Those days of operating in the dark seem, at
best, quaint.  The Fed and the  Bank of England  are now relatively quick to
publish the minutes of their interest-rate deliberations. The
ECB, however, isn’t required to publish its minutes for 30
years. The Bank of England also publishes a record of how each
member of its Monetary Policy Committee voted. The ECB doesn’t
even have to reveal whether a vote was taken. The news
conferences that follow ECB rate decisions are a poor substitute
for transparency.  As we’ve said before, the ECB’s secrecy limits the scrutiny
that proper accountability demands. Secrecy makes it harder for
markets to predict where  interest rates  are headed or what other
policies may be coming from an institution that has, in fact if
not in law, become the euro area’s lender of last resort. This
lack of predictability hurts stability and makes it harder for a
young bank, administering a young currency, to gain credibility.  The ECB should publish its minutes within a month and it
should reveal the votes that its 23 members cast. We still don’t
know what’s in the two documents at issue, but today’s court
decision should serve as a warning that the exceptions the ECB
has written for itself are too broad and should be tightened.
The ECB should have less freedom to withhold information and
judges should have more leeway to order its release.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 