-- ECB Wins Ruling to Deny Access to Secret Greek Swap Files
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-29T10:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ecb-wins-ruling-to-deny-access-to-secret-greek-swap-files.html
The  European Central Bank  will be
allowed to keep private files showing how  Greece  used
derivatives to hide its debt after defeating the first court
challenge using the bloc’s freedom of information rules.  “Disclosure of those documents would have undermined the
protection of the public interest so far as concerns the
economic policy of the European Union and Greece,” the  EU
General Court  in Luxembourg said today, rejecting a request by
Bloomberg News initially filed in August 2010.  Today’s ruling by three judges denies European taxpayers,
on the hook for the cost of Greece’s 240 billion-euro ($311
billion) bailout, the opportunity to see whether EU officials
knew of irregularities in Greece’s public accounts before they
became public in 2009. The decision underscores the ECB’s lack
of accountability as it expands its powers to become the euro
area’s chief banking regulator, said Georg Erber, a research
associate at the German Institute for  Economic Research .  “The courts are bending the rules to legalize the policies
of the European institutions and help stabilize the region,”
said Erber, a specialist in financial-market regulation. “It
reveals implicitly that the EU was well-informed about what was
going on and didn’t take steps to avert the crisis.”  ‘Speculative’ Document  Bloomberg’s freedom-of-information request was twice
rejected by the ECB before the news organization sued in
December 2010. Bloomberg sought access to two internal papers
drafted for the central bank’s six-member Executive Board. The
first document is entitled “The impact on government deficit
and debt from off-market swaps: the Greek case.” The second
reviews Titlos Plc, a structure that allowed  National Bank of
Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest lender, to borrow from the ECB
by creating collateral.  The ECB said at a June hearing that publishing the files
could still aggravate the sovereign-debt crisis, putting the
future of the single currency at risk. The files contain
assumptions and hypotheses that were used to shape decisions and
their release could threaten policy making, the ECB argued.  “If it was an internal document and not intended for
public view, it might have been speculative about what else was
lurking out there,” said  William White , chairman of the
economic development and review committee at the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and former chief
economist at the  Bank for International Settlements . “That
might have been what they were concerned about.”  ‘Right to Know’  The ECB was entitled to refuse access to protect the
confidentiality of the proceedings of its decision-making
bodies, the judges ruled after viewing the documents.  “European citizens have the right to know how their money
is used to bail out secret financial deals, especially as the
European Central Bank takes on more regulatory responsibility
for  Europe ’s banks,” Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief Matthew Winkler said. “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling to
continue the culture of secrecy.”  Officials at the ECB didn’t have an immediate comment on
the ruling. The central bank, which puts greater limits on its
disclosures about its decision making than its British and U.S.
equivalents, is under pressure from policy makers including
governing council member Erkki Liikanen to boost transparency.
ECB President  Mario Draghi  last month defended the bank, saying
it was already a “very transparent” institution.  Today’s ruling bodes badly for transparency in Europe, said
Gunnar Beck, a barrister and a reader in EU law at the
University of  London .  ‘Lip Service’  “The ECB is becoming less transparent, even though it pays
lip service to it,” he said.  The briefings give officials’ views on the impact of the
swaps and analyzed how the Titlos transaction would affect “the
Eurosystem collateral framework, and associated risk control
measures,” then ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in his
reply to Bloomberg’s initial request for information.  Titlos, created in February 2009, allowed National Bank of
Greece to borrow from the ECB by creating collateral from a
securitization of swaps on Greek government debt, the Executive
Board said in a March 2010 cover note to the two documents seen
by  Bloomberg News . The Greek lender loaned its government 5.4
billion euros as part of the deal, according to the ECB note.  Collateral Rules  One of the cornerstones of the ECB’s response to the crisis
was to provide banks with as much money as they needed in return
for collateral. In October 2010, the ECB changed the rules on
the asset-backed securities it accepted, and gave itself more
discretionary power to reject collateral.  Separately, in April 2009 -- months before the Greek crisis
erupted -- ECB officials spotted the “swap operation in unusual
terms” involving National Bank of Greece, according to the
March 2010 cover note.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s budget figures starting in
October 2009 spurred a surge in the country’s borrowing costs,
eventually forcing the nation to seek aid from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . In 2010, Eurostat, the EU
statistics agency, gained additional powers allowing it to audit
countries’ financial data.  Under Eurostat accounting rules, nations were permitted
until 2008 to use so-called off-market rates in swaps to manage
their debt. The use of off-market swaps, which Greece hadn’t
previously disclosed as debt, let the country increase
borrowings by 5.3 billion euros, Eurostat said in 2010.  In the largest derivative disclosed, Greece borrowed 2.8
billion euros from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 2001 through a
derivative that swapped dollar- and yen-denominated debt issued
by the nation for euros using a historical  exchange rate .  The case is:  T-590/10 , Thesing and Bloomberg Finance v.
ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net  