-- MegaFon Beats IPO Price on MSCI Fast-Track Index Addition
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-29T13:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/megafon-beats-ipo-price-on-msci-fast-track-index-addition.html
OAO MegaFon (MFON)  shares rebounded from
yesterday’s losses after the biggest initial public offering
from  Russia  in three years as  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  said the stock qualifies
for early entry to indexes tracked by investors.  The stock rallied 4.3 percent to $20.45 by 12:35 p.m. in
London, erasing yesterday’s 2 percent drop and trading above its
IPO price of $20. It rose as much as 4.6 percent earlier and the
amount of shares traded was 4.6 million.  MegaFon’s global depositary receipts meet criteria for
early entry into the Russia index, effective Dec. 12, MSCI said
in an e-mailed report today. The mobile operator sold GDRs at
the bottom of its $20 to $25 range to raise $1.7 billion in the
biggest issue by a Russian company in three years. Alfa Bank
analysts forecast as much as $300 million in fund inflows as a
result of the MSCI inclusion, according to an e-mailed note.  “The impact of $400-500 million of passive inflows should
not be underestimated,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global
Trading UK in  London , said by e-mail. Investors who didn’t sell
yesterday “shall be rewarded,” he said.  MSCI will use GDRs instead of the Russian shares because of
the lower trading volumes in Moscow, according to the note. The
 amount of shares  traded in Moscow yesterday was 3,480, compared
with 40.3 million in London, data compiled by Bloomberg data
show.  MSCI will add 620 million MegaFon shares to the index, and
the foreign inclusion factor will equal 0.14, according to the
statement.  “The MSCI announcement today pushed investors to buy the
stock so that the weighting of MegaFon in their portfolios is
similar to that of the MSCI index,” Kirill Bagachenko, who
manages about $3 billion in Russian equities at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  