-- Egypt’s Constitutional Panel Votes on Draft Constitution
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-11-29T17:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/egypt-s-embattled-constitutional-panel-set-to-vote-on-draft.html
Egypt ’s constitutional committee
began voting on a draft charter today, potentially fueling
tensions between Islamists and secularists rallying against
President Mohamed Mursi.  The 100-member Islamist-dominated committee moved to
complete the draft before a Supreme Constitutional Court hearing
Dec. 2 in which its legitimacy is being challenged. The panel’s
predecessor was disbanded following a court ruling.  The vote comes amid escalating tensions that boiled over
this week with mass demonstrations against Mursi’s Nov. 22 edict
shielding his decisions from judicial review and giving the
committee immunity from dissolution by the courts. His critics
derided the move, accusing him of becoming a dictator. Mursi
defended the decree, saying it was temporary and aimed at
ensuring the goals of last year’s revolution are realized.  “This document lacks legitimacy because it’s by an
assembly that has lost its political and moral legitimacy when
those representing diversity in the Egyptian society withdrew,”
Wahid Abdel Meguid, the committee’s former spokesman who
subsequently withdrew from the panel, said by phone. “There’s a
premeditated intention for this constitution to be a tool for
new tyranny just like the former constitution was a tool for
Mubarak’s tyranny.”  Escalating Tensions  New demonstrations are expected tomorrow, and the Muslim
Brotherhood is holding a mass rally Dec. 1, days after more than
200,000 packed Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  in an outpouring of anger
at Mursi and his decree.  The unrest has sent Egypt’s borrowing costs surging by the
most since February 2011, the month that witnessed Mubarak’s
ouster. The country’s one-year borrowing costs soared 125 basis
points at an auction today to 14.15 percent. The  benchmark stock
index  lost 12 percent this week, the most since March 2011.  The Brotherhood, which called for a mass rally in Cairo in
solidarity with Mursi, planned to move the gathering outside
Tahrir,  Al Jazeera  reported. Holding the protests in the square
would be tantamount to a call for “a small-scale civil war,”
Mohamed Adel, one of the co-founders of the April 6 youth
movement protesting the presidential decree, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The vote, announced yesterday even after Mursi extended its
mandate for another two months, was held after about a quarter
of its members announced their withdrawal. Eleven
representatives were replaced and 85 were in attendance at the
start of voting, Hossam el-Gheriani, the head of the committee,
said in a live television broadcast.  Islamic Law  One the charter’s most divisive articles dealing with the
issue of Islamic law was left unchanged from the previous
constitution, reading that “principles of Shariah” were the
main source of legislation. A new clause was added stating that
Al-Azhar, the Sunni-Muslim world’s pre-eminent religious
institution, would be consulted on Shariah-related matters.  The new draft doesn’t specify the protection of  women’s
rights , while another article says the state would protect “the
nature” of the Egyptian family and women’s ability to balance
between their familial responsibilities and their outside work.  “Egypt’s constitution now no longer includes an obligation
not to discriminate against women = ZERO protection for women’s
rights,” Heba Morayef,  Human Rights Watch  Egypt director, wrote
on her Twitter account.  The new charter, if approved, would be sent to Mursi. The
president then has to put it to a national referendum.  Legal Vacuum  Pushing ahead with the process “is a way to try to end the
constitutional and legal vacuum in the country that’s been going
on for almost two years,” Yasser El-Shimy, Middle East analyst
with the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said by
phone from Cairo. “But we would have liked to see a more
consensual approach.”  The draft charter also approves the temporary transfer of
legislative authority to the upper house of parliament, which
currently only has a consultative role, until a new lower house
is elected, MENA said. Under an earlier edict, Mursi took
legislative authority after the lower house was dissolved.  The draft includes articles allowing for the military
trials of civilians for crimes related to the armed forces, and
the establishment of a National Defense Council responsible for
the armed forces’ budget and laws related to the military.  The charter will also bar former senior officials in
Mubarak’s ruling party from holding office for a decade, the
state-run Ahram Gate website reported. A similar law was struck
down by the constitutional court earlier this year.  The draft enables the army to be a “state within a
state,” Ashraf el-Sherif, adjunct lecturer in political science
at the American University in Cairo, said by phone. “This is a
military, Brotherhood and Salafi constitution.”  “These are the groups that wrote it,” he said. “This is
not the constitution of Egypt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  