-- Emaar Gains to 7-Week High on Mall Expansion Plans: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-29T12:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/emaar-gains-to-7-week-high-on-mall-expansion-plans-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  rose to the
highest level in more than seven weeks after the developer said
it will expand the Dubai Mall, among the world’s biggest,
boosting the outlook for earnings growth.  The shares of the stock with the heaviest weighting on
Dubai’s gauge climbed 1.6 percent to 3.76 dirhams, the highest
since Oct. 7, at the close in the emirate, bringing an advance
this month to 4.2 percent. The gain helped push Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  up 1.2 percent, the most since Oct. 1, to
1,607.90. Emaar’s  14-day relative strength index  climbed to 60
today. A level of 70 indicates to some analysts that a security
is poised to decline.  Emaar’s $20 billion Downtown Dubai project, where the Dubai
Mall is situated, is centered around  Burj Khalifa , the world’s
tallest tower. Emaar said today it will expand the Dubai Mall by
adding a shopping boulevard lined with restaurants, water
attractions as well as luxury homes, serviced apartments and a
hotel.  “The city is busy again and Emaar benefits from various
sectors, including real estate, hospitality and retail,” said
Nabil Al Rantisi, managing director of brokerage at Abu Dhabi-
based Menacorp. “Those segments have boomed recently, so this
will reflect on the balance sheet of Emaar.”  The developer said in February it will add 1 million square
feet (92,903 square meters) to the Dubai Mall as it capitalizes
on retail and hospitality growth. The company may post a 21
percent gain in full-year profit to 2.17 billion dirhams ($591
million), according to the  mean estimate  of 11 analysts on
Bloomberg.  Bigger Mall  Emaar, the emirate’s biggest publicly traded developer,
will also cooperate with Dubai Holding LLC to build a new
district in the emirate that includes an even bigger mall, the
Dubai government said this month. The project, known as MBR
City, is designed to include gardens bigger than  London ’s Hyde
Park, a theme park and art galleries. Another development
announced this week will have five theme parks set to cost 10
billion dirhams.  The economy of Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms that comprise
the  United Arab Emirates , is making a comeback as several state-
linked companies restructured or paid debt this year. Economic
growth will accelerate to 5 percent this year from 3 percent in
2011, according to government forecasts.  Shares of Emaar surged 24 percent in the third quarter,
making it the best performer on Dubai’s gauge in the period. The
stock is up  46 percent in 2012,  compared with an advance of 19
percent for the DFM General Index.  Twelve analysts  recommend
investors buy Emaar shares while four have a hold rating on the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  