-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in 11 Weeks on Commodity Rally
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-29T22:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/emerging-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-as-indian-shares-surge.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced the
most in 11 weeks as commodities rallied after U.S. politicians
expressed confidence they will reach a budget deal and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. upgraded Indian shares.  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone provider,
climbed above its initial offer price on the second day of
London trading. Brazilian steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA  rallied.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the world’s fourth-
biggest gold producer, gained the most in a year on plans to
spin off some South African operations.  Franshion Properties
China Ltd. (817)  rose the most on the benchmark gauge for emerging-
market stocks as ICBC International said the developer met its
sales target.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.3 percent to
1,003.79 in  New York , the highest since Nov. 7. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  jumped 1.7 percent to the highest close since
April 2011 as Goldman Sachs upgraded the country’s shares to
overweight. The world economy is at its healthiest in 18 months,
with the U.S. looking likely to avoid tax increases and spending
cuts, the latest Bloomberg Global Poll of investors showed.
Commodities climbed for the first time this week.  “Global risk appetite and investor sentiment has been
improving,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from London. “We’ve had
pretty good data from the U.S. on top of hopes for action to
avoid the fiscal cliff, and commodities are up, so that’s all
supportive.”  Budget Talks  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  met today with
congressional leaders as part of an effort to avert the so-
called fiscal cliff, automatic spending cuts and tax increases
that are set to begin Jan. 1.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said Democrats were on
the same page on budget talks as Senator Chuck Schumer said
there has been progress. The comments countered remarks from
Republican House Speaker  John Boehner , who said today no
progress was being made toward a compromise.  “Much of the concerns over the U.S. budget issues appear
to be already reflected and any progress on talks will help
boost investors’ sentiment,” Heo Pil Seok, chief executive
officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees $5.3 billion, said by phone in Seoul.  The  U.S. economy  expanded more than previously estimated at
a 2.7 percent annual rate in the third quarter on a narrower
trade deficit and gains in inventory, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed today. The 21 nations in MSCI’s
developing-nations gauge send about 17 percent of their exports
to the U.S. on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  Commodities Gain  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge  of 24 raw materials
advanced 1.1 percent, halting three days of declines, as oil
jumped 1.8 percent to $88.07 a barrel and copper climbed 1.9
percent to a five-week high on the Comex in New York.  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets (EEM)  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.7
percent to $41.82. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, slid 1.5 percent to
$21.83.  Russia’s  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  climbed for the first time in four
days, trading 0.5 percent higher as oil rebounded. Brazil’s
Bovespa index gained 2.3 percent and Pakistan’s benchmark stock
index advanced 0.6 percent to a record. Benchmark indexes in the
Czech Republic, Hungary and  South Africa  all gained more than 1
percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
list in  Hong Kong  increased 0.9 percent as Goldman Sachs and
Citigroup Inc. predict Chinese  stocks  will rally next year.
South Korea’s Kospi index added 1.2 percent, its steepest gain
since Sept. 14. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.5 percent,
declining for a fourth day, as brokerages tumbled.  Low Volatility  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 50-day volatility held
near the lowest level since 2004. Commodity producers and
consumer discretionary companies led gains among the broader
index’s 10 industry groups, climbing at least 2 percent.  The MSCI developing nation index has risen 9.5 percent this
year, trailing an 11 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The emerging-market gauge traded at 11.6
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  MegaFon, Gold Fields  MegaFon, Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone provider,
rallied 4.6 percent to $20.50, reversing yesterday’s 2 percent
decline. The depositary receipts qualify for early entry into
the Russia index, effective Dec. 12, MSCI said in an e-mailed
report today. MegaFon raised $1.7 billion in the biggest initial
public offering by a Russian company in three years.  Gold Fields jumped 5.7 percent, the most since September
2011, as the benchmark gauge for South African equities climbed
to a record level.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, rallied 9.6 percent after Banco Santander SA raised
the stock to buy from underperform as the government shields the
industry from import competition. Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais, known as Usiminas, increased 6.1 percent to an eight-
month high.  Franshion, a Hong Kong-based real estate developer with
projects on the mainland, jumped 9.8 percent and  Evergrande Real
Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  rallied 5.6 percent after Moody’s Investors
Service raised its outlook on the company’s credit rating.  ‘Bounce Strongly’  Indian stocks surged, with  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  rising 4.4
percent and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  adding 4.6 percent. Goldman Sachs
upgraded the nation’s equities, citing recovery in growth,
continued policy reforms and declining inflation.  “With structural issues being addressed and a cyclical
recovery on the horizon, the equity market may bounce strongly
next year,” Goldman Sachs said in a report dated today.  India’s rupee was the best performing emerging market
currency rising 1.2 percent against the dollar, the most in more
than two months, followed by a 1.1 percent advance in the
Russian ruble.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest carmaker, advanced
2.7 percent, while affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  rallied 4.7
percent. The companies’ market share in the BRIC countries of
Brazil, Russia, India and China increased to 8.2 percent in
October and strong sales will continue for the rest of the year,
Shinhan Investment Corp. said in a report.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA sank 7.5 percent, the
worst performer in the  emerging-markets  gauge, as the company’s
30-day price volatility soared to the highest level in at least
a decade. The stock has fallen 52 percent in November, the worst
monthly decline on record.  LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-biggest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, slipped 3.8 percent in Seoul. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch cut its rating on the stock to neutral, citing
limited upside potential in the share price.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 289, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  