-- Rice’s Holdings in Oil Sands Pipeline May Pose Conflict
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-11-29T19:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/environmental-group-spotlights-rice-s-oil-sands-stakes.html
Susan Rice ’s holdings in an energy
company seeking State Department approval for an oil pipeline
from Canada may pose a conflict of interest if she is nominated
to become U.S. secretary of state.  Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, and her
husband own stock in  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  valued at $300,002 to
$600,000, according to her most recent financial disclosure
 report . The company has filed for a State Department permit to
build Keystone XL, a pipeline that would carry crude oil from
Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on the U.S. Gulf coast.  Rice also holds stock worth $1.25 million to $1.5 million
in  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , the second-largest Canadian oil producer.
Imperial is 70 percent owned by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Her portfolio
includes Canadian companies  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , all of which operate
in Western Canada’s oil sands region.  “She’s qualified to be secretary of state but she’s not
qualified to make an unbiased decision on the Keystone
pipeline,” Jane Kleeb, director of Bold Nebraska, a group that
opposes the pipeline, said in an interview. “You can’t be a
department staff person and not be influenced by her holdings.
You can say that you are but I find that difficult and I think
the American public would find that difficult to believe.”  Rice’s holdings were reported this week on the  OnEarth
website  of the  Natural Resources Defense Council , which opposes
the pipeline.  “Ambassador Rice is in full compliance with all financial
disclosure requirements related to her service in the U.S.
government and is committed to continuing to meet these
obligations,” her spokeswoman, Erin Pelton, said in an e-mail.  Environmental Issues  President  Barack Obama  rejected Keystone XL in January amid
protests over the project’s potential impact on an aquifer in
Nebraska’s environmentally sensitive Sand Hills region. Critics
also said oil from Western Canada produces more heat-trapping
carbon dioxide than conventional crude. TransCanada has offered
a new route to avoid the Sand Hills.  The State Department has jurisdiction because the pipeline
would cross an international border. In 2011, an environmental
study by the department found that the project poses “no
significant impacts to most resources” along its route.  If Rice is nominated and confirmed as secretary of state,
Obama should reassign responsibility for the pipeline review to
another federal agency, Kleeb said.  Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, director of international programs
at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said Rice should
divest herself of holdings in TransCanada and other oil sands
related companies if she becomes the nation’s top diplomat.  Rigorous Review  “We expect that she would do that,” Casey-Lefkowitz said
in an interview. “U.S. law actually requires a pretty rigorous
conflict of interest check and we would expect that she would be
getting rid of holdings that are in conflict with a decision on
a project like the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline.”  Rice has been criticized by Republicans including Sen,  John McCain  of Arizona over what they said were misleading statements
on television after the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya. Republican Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine said
she couldn’t back Rice without more information about her
comments on the attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three other Americans.  Obama defended Rice in a news conference Nov. 14, saying
she has done “exemplary work” and represented the U.S. “with
skill and professionalism and toughness and grace.” If he
decides Rice is the best candidate for secretary of state, Obama
said, “then I will nominate her.”  Asked about whether the stock holding poses a conflict of
interests, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today, “I’m
not going to speculate” about an appointment the president has
not made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  