-- Mercury Has Frozen Water Possibly Brought by Ice Balls
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mercury-has-frozen-water-possibly-brought-by-ice-balls.html
Data from a U.S. spacecraft launched
in 2004 to study Mercury confirmed there’s ice on the hot and
airless planet’s north pole, a finding that may point to the
origin of water on Earth and elsewhere, scientists said.  The ice detected by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s  Messenger spacecraft  was found on parts of
Mercury that remain permanently in the shade on its north pole,
according to three papers  published online ahead of print  in the
journal Science. The atmosphere-less planet’s conditions are
probably too extreme for life, said Greg Neumann, an author of
two of the papers.  The water was likely deposited there by comets or icy
asteroids, though that isn’t certain, said Neumann, a
geophysicist at NASA’s  Goddard Space Flight Center  in Greenbelt,
 Maryland . Observing how the deposits form may be important for
understanding how other planets acquire water, Neumann said.  “We’d like to know how these deposits actually form,”
Neumann said. “These processes aren’t easily simulated in the
lab. There are parallels with how water is found on other
planets, and this may be how water was found on earth.”  Interstellar ice balls seem the most obvious culprits,
though they aren’t the only way water could have arrived. Water
is easily formed, consisting of hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrogen is
ejected from the Sun in solar winds, and can interact with
oxygen already on Mercury’s surface. Or perhaps the water erupts
from the inside of the planet, Neumann said.  Dark material, probably organic deposits, covers the ice
elsewhere, the scientists report.  Extreme Mercury  Mercury is an extreme planet, with surface temperatures
that can reach over 700 degrees Kelvin, or about 800 degrees
Fahrenheit. This, in combination with the planet’s lack of
atmosphere, means water exposed to sunlight would rapidly turn
into gas and escape into space,  according to NASA . However, the
ice is located in permanently shadowed craters near the poles,
where the temperatures never rise over 102 degrees Kelvin, or
about -276 degrees Fahrenheit.  NASA ’s  Messenger spacecraft  began orbiting the planet in
2011. Previously, radar had seen shininess that might be ice;
today’s reports use more sophisticated technology to confirm its
existence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 