-- Ethiopian Prime Minister Changes Cabinet to Give Ethnic Balance
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-11-29T15:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ethiopian-prime-minister-changes-cabinet-to-give-ethnic-balance.html
Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn appointed two new deputy premiers to share the
leadership of the government between the four ethnic-based
parties of the Horn of Africa nation’s ruling coalition.  The second and third deputies are Muktar Kedir, a former
adviser to the prime minister and leading member of the Oromo
People’s Democratic Organization, and Information Technology
Minister Debretsion Gebremichael, who is also deputy chairman of
the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, Hailemariam told lawmakers
today in the capital,  Addis Ababa . Demeke Mekonnen, the
education minister and leader of the Amhara National Democratic
Movement, was appointed as a deputy prime minister in September.  The appointments reflect a balancing act within the ruling
 Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front , said Jason
Mosley, associate fellow of the Africa program at London-based
 Chatham House . “They’ve now got all four parties represented
within the prime minister and deputy prime minister slots.”  Hailemariam leads a multi-ethnic bloc from southern
 Ethiopia  in the ruling party. He was appointed prime minister in
September following the death of former Premier Meles Zenawi on
Aug. 20.  Ethiopia, the continent’s second-most populous nation, is a
key U.S. ally in its battle against al-Qaeda in the region.
Ethiopian troops in December invaded Somalia for the second time
in four years to join the battle against al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda’s
Somalia affiliate.  Meles, an ethnic Tigray who ruled Ethiopia for 21 years
after leading a victorious rebel movement and who oversaw one of
 Africa ’s fastest-growing economies, died from an infection
contracted while he was recovering from an undisclosed illness.  ‘Awkward Phase’  Today’s changes confirm that the  EPRDF  is in an “awkward
phase” as it tries to “rule by committee” and replace a
leadership dominated by revolutionary fighters, Mosley said in
an e-mailed response to questions today.  “Hailemariam is not in a position to centralise power,
whatever his personal inclinations might be,” he said.  Among other changes, Tedros Adhanom, the former health
minister and a member of the TPLF’s politburo, was appointed
foreign minister, Hailemariam said.  Debretsion, whose ministry oversees the state-owned Ethio
Telecom monopoly and who is also chairman of the board of
Ethiopia Electric Power Corp., will coordinate the economy as a
deputy prime minister, Hailemariam said.  Muktar’s portfolio as deputy will be governance and he also
will become civil service minister, replacing Junedin Sado,
whose wife is being tried on terrorism charges.  Tedros is succeeded at the Health Ministry by former state
minister Kesete Birhan, Hailemariam said. Tedros was given the
2011 Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter Humanitarian Award for his
leadership of Ethiopia’s health program. His strategies helped
to reduce the  mortality rate  for under-5s by 28 percent in the
past five years, according to the U.S. Agency for International
Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  