-- Metro Said to be Near Sale of East European Stores
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-11-29T16:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/metro-said-to-be-near-sale-of-east-european-stores.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest
retailer, is near an agreement to sell its Real grocery stores
in eastern Europe to Groupe Auchan SA of  France  for about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion), according to two people familiar
with the negotiations.  The companies are discussing final terms of the deal and an
announcement may come as early as this week, though could take
longer, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private. The sale would include Real’s operations in
 Poland ,  Romania , Russia and Ukraine, while excluding those in
Turkey and some real estate, according to one of the people.  Metro spokesman Ruediger Stahlschmidt and Francois Cathalifaud, a spokesman for Auchan, declined to comment.  “It’s the first big action in a very long time, so it will
be a breakthrough if they can pull it off,” said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler. The price is “really
good,” especially as it doesn’t include  Turkey , he said.  Metro  shares  rose 1.3 percent to 21.59 euros at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , after gaining as much as 4.2 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch, who took office at the
start of the year, has pledged to focus on the Cash & Carry
wholesale unit and Media-Saturn electronics stores while cutting
investment in Kaufhof department stores and Real, both of which
it has tried to sell for several years. The Dusseldorf-based
company cut its 2012 profit forecast last month, saying Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is weighing on sales.  Revenue at Real, which accounts for about  17 percent  of
Metro’s total sales, dropped 2.3 percent to 11.23 billion euros
last year. The business operates 420 stores, of which 312 are in
 Germany , according to Metro’s website.  Metro’s majority shareholder Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH said
on Nov. 27 that it plans to reduce its stake in the company to
30 percent from 34.2 percent within 18 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net 
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  