-- EU May Get Budget Deal, Set Ukraine Ties in 2013, Sikorski Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-11-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/eu-may-get-budget-deal-set-ukraine-ties-in-2013-sikorski-says.html
The European Union will probably
reach agreement over its seven-year budget early next year and
move toward financial stability after this week’s debt agreement
with  Greece ,  Poland ’s Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said.  “Greece’s latest package seems to be finally one that can
lead Greece into the green pastures of sustainability. Another
anchor that we need is to pass the multiannual budget,”
Sikorski said yesterday at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. “I
think we will get it done in January, and then that’ll be
another building block of the return to stability.”  National governments finance  70 percent  of the EU budget,
which totals 994 billion euros ($1.29 trillion) in 2007-2013.
The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, has proposed a
4 percent boost, to 1.03 trillion euros in 2014-2020.  The richest EU countries including the U.K. and  Germany 
oppose an increase, saying it would be inconsistent with efforts
by national governments to narrow their budget deficits.  Association agreements between the EU and Ukraine,  Georgia 
and Moldova may be signed in the last quarter of next year
during an Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius, according to
Sikorski.  “Ideally, we could sign association agreements with
Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, and that will be a big success of
the Eastern Partnership,” he said.  The EU last year indefinitely postponed signing an
agreement that would have established a tariff-free exchange for
a range of goods between Ukraine and the world’s largest trading
bloc to protest against the jailing of former Premier Yulia Tymoshenko.  The EU has been negotiating the association agreements with
Georgia since July 2010 and Moldova since January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Simpson  at 
 jsimpson12@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  