-- EU Nations Authorize Start of Free-Trade Talks With Japan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-11-29T15:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/eu-nations-authorize-start-of-free-trade-talks-with-japan.html
European Union governments
authorized the start of talks with  Japan  on a free-trade
agreement, brushing aside concerns from EU carmakers in a bid to
expand economic ties with  Asia  after an accord with South  Korea .  EU trade ministers gave the European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, a mandate for negotiations with Japan to expand
a 150 billion-euro ($195 billion) commercial relationship by
removing tariffs. The European goal is also to scale back non-
tariff barriers in the Japanese market for financial services
and for goods such as automobiles and pharmaceuticals.  “This is an important political decision and necessary if
we want to foster growth and jobs in  Europe ,” European Trade
Commissioner Karel De Gucht told reporters today in Brussels
after the ministerial agreement. “We have a clear mandate.”  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce deals with
individual countries or groups of nations. Japan is the EU’s
second-biggest trade partner in Asia after  China .  The 27-nation bloc struck a trade accord with Korea that
took effect last year and is close to ratifying a pact with
Colombia and  Peru  that will strengthen European ties with  Latin
America  after earlier agreements with Mexico and  Chile . The EU
is also nearing completion of free-trade negotiations with
Canada and considering seeking a similar deal with the U.S.  Broader Coverage  An agreement with Japan would cover almost twice as much
trade in goods and services as the EU had with Korea. EU-Japan
trade in products was worth almost 117 billion euros in 2011,
while services trade totaled around 34 billion euros in 2010,
according to the latest data from the commission.  De Gucht said Europe, battling the third year of the euro-
area debt crisis, can’t afford to forgo the chance for a
commercial accord with Japan. In July, when asking EU
governments to approve the start of talks, he said a “huge
number” of European industries including pharmaceuticals,
chemicals, food and drink, and express delivery support the
initiative and a deal could create 400,000 jobs in the EU. He
repeated that employment projection today.  The European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, whose
members include  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Fiat SpA (F) ,
criticized the ministerial green light.  ‘One-Way Street’  The association said a free-trade pact with Japan would
threaten as many as 73,000 car-industry jobs in Europe because
an increase in EU imports of Japanese autos wouldn’t be offset
by a rise in exports of European vehicles to the country.  “This deal is a one-way street as far as the automobile
industry is concerned,” Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the
Brussels-based lobby group, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The negotiations with Japan could last for years. Some EU
governments and industries are sensitive about deepening
commercial ties with Asia.  The accord with Korea was opposed by European carmakers,
which say a jump in EU imports of Korean cars after the deal
took effect in July 2011 points to the risks of a pact with
Japan.  De Gucht  said the EU would target the removal of car-
market regulatory obstacles in Japan to ensure a level playing
field.  “The mandate sets out a strict and clear parallelism
between the elimination of our duties and non-tariff barriers in
Japan,” he said. “So, if you will, like for like.”  Fewer NTBs  The EU imposes a 10 percent duty on Japanese cars, while
Japan applies no levy on European autos, according to the
commission. In this regard, the car market highlights the
challenges ahead in the talks in general as the commission
focuses on eliminating non-tariff barriers, or NTBs, in Japan
and Japanese negotiators seek lower European  import duties .  “You have very low tariffs in Japan but very little access
to the market because of the NTBs,” De Gucht said. “Our
tariffs are higher, but I would say we have much fewer NTBs.”  He also pledged to cut off talks with Japan after 12 months
should the Japanese government fail to follow through on pledges
to dismantle non-tariff barriers.  De Gucht said talks would kick off at the next EU-Japan
summit, due to be held in the coming months after Japanese
elections, and would “easily” last two to three years. It
could take four to five years for any deal to be ratified, he
said.  Safety Clause  French Trade Minister Nicole Bricq said  France  insisted
that any accord with Japan include a provision to guard against
a possible surge in European imports of “sensitive” goods such
as cars.  The EU-Korea agreement has such a clause, which can be
activated after a request from a national government. It entails
a surveillance system under which European importers notify the
commission of their projections of car shipments from Korea.
That can be followed, on the basis of a separate request, by
“safeguard” measures such as a suspension of planned EU duty
cuts or the reinstatement of the bloc’s traditional levy.  In August, after Peugeot, France’s largest carmaker, 
said it would close a factory near Paris and eliminate
14,000 jobs, the French government of Socialist President
 Francois Hollande  asked the commission to activate the
surveillance system. De Gucht rejected the request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  