-- EU Parliament Endorses Handing ECB Bank Supervisory Powers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-29T13:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/eu-parliament-committee-endorses-handing-ecb-supervisory-powers.html
European Union lawmakers gave broad
approval to plans for the  European Central Bank  to take on bank
oversight duties in a bid to tame the bloc’s fiscal crisis.  In a vote in Brussels today, the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee backed the plan, calling
for the ECB to be given far-reaching powers over bank capital
and the granting of bank licenses, while saying it should
cooperate closely with national regulators.  EU leaders agreed in June and October to move forward with
common ECB-led bank supervision to separate financial-sector
risks from sovereign debt troubles, with the goal of agreeing on
a political framework by Jan. 1. If a common supervisor is set
up next year, it would open the door for the euro area’s
firewall fund to offer direct aid to banks. The EU is racing to
meet an end-2012 deadline for agreeing on how the ECB
supervision should work.  The single supervisor would operate throughout the euro
area, with nations outside the currency bloc able to voluntarily
sign up for ECB oversight.  Sharon Bowles , the committee’s chairwoman, said that
finance ministers must reach a deal on the supervisory law at
their meeting on Dec. 4 if a final agreement on the legislation
is to be achieved by year-end.  National governments “must take responsibility if we don’t
meet the December deadline,” Bowles said. Parliament “has
delivered on a very tight timetable.”  Oversight Board  The committee also said that members of the ECB’s bank
oversight board should be prevented from taking paid jobs with
banks for two years after they step down. They sought the power
to set up a committee of inquiry if they felt that the ECB’s
bank oversight responsibilities were affecting its monetary
policy decisions, or vice versa.  Governments must agree unanimously on the legislation
before it can take effect. Lawmakers in the parliament are only
consulted on the ECB plan, but have binding power over a related
draft law to adjust the powers of the European Banking
Authority.  Bowles said parliament would use its power over the EBA law
as a negotiating tool with governments so that it can shape the
ECB legislation. Lawmakers will treat the two proposals “as a
package,” she said.  Parliament and Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency
of the EU, have provisionally scheduled negotiation meetings on
Dec. 5, 6 and 7 to broker a final deal on the legislation,
Bowles said.  Single Supervisor  On the EBA law, the committee backed changes to the
authority’s voting rules to prevent the 17 members of the euro
area from systematically imposing decisions on nations that stay
outside the single supervisory system. Under the plans, the use
of one-member one-vote rules in the EBA would be reduced, with
more voting based on weighed majority.  The new system would be temporary, and would phase out when
less than 5 EU nations remain outside the single supervisor,
Sven Giegold, the lead lawmaker on the EBA rules, told reporters
after today’s vote.  This solution would balance the “democratic problem” of
giving special rights to opt-out nations with the need to
address these governments’ fears that they could be
marginalized, Giegold said.  The committee also called for the EBA to relocate to
 Frankfurt  from  London , as part of a push to centralize financial
oversight and rule-making in the German city.  ‘Certain Opt-Outs’  “This is not something against London,” Giegold said.
“It’s something for a strong common supervisor, which needs to
be in one place to be effective.”  Parliament will resist attempts by governments to limit the
ECB’s oversight powers, Giegold said.  “All the member states want certain opt-outs,” he said.
“Ultimate responsibility for all issues should be with one
supervisor.”  Giegold said he also expects difficult negotiations over
proposals to give the ECB bank oversight board a steering
committee that wouldn’t include officials from national
authorities or regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  