-- European Stocks Climb Amid Optimism on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-11-29T17:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/european-stock-futures-climb-on-u-s-budget-optimism.html
European stocks rallied to their
highest in 17 months as optimism grew that U.S. President  Barack
Obama  will reach an agreement with Congress on a new budget.  Rio Tinto Group gained 5.1 percent after the  world’s
second-largest mining company  said it will reduce costs by $5
billion during 2013. Invensys Plc surged 8.9 percent as RBC
Capital wrote that the company may be acquired after selling its
rail unit to Siemens AG. Electricite de  France  SA slid 1 percent
as the country’s highest court ruled that the utility has
overcharged households.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 1.2 percent to 276.31
at the close in  London , its highest level since June 1, 2011.
The equity benchmark erased a decline of as much as 0.6 percent
yesterday as Republican House Speaker John Boehner expressed
optimism that Congress will reach a deal to prevent the so-
called fiscal cliff coming into force.  “The President is on strong ground, having defeated his
Republican challenger, and the House Speaker is sounding
conciliatory too,” said Manish Singh, who helps manage $2
billion as head of investment at Crossbridge Capital LLP in
London. “A deal is a certainty. News on the fiscal cliff has
been incrementally positive, so investors are increasingly
optimistic too.”  Fiscal Cliff  Obama said after  European (SXXP)  markets closed yesterday that the
two political parties can agree on a framework for a budget deal
to prevent $607 billion of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts from coming into effect in January.  “My hope is to get this done before Christmas,” he said
at the White House. A Bloomberg Global Poll conducted on Nov. 27
found that three out of four investors expect Republicans and
Democrats to reach a short-term agreement.  A European Commission report showed that  economic
confidence  in the euro area climbed in November from a three-
year low. The index of executive and consumer sentiment in the
region increased to 85.7 from a revised 84.3 in October.
 Economists had forecast  the gauge would be unchanged from an
initial reading of 84.5.  Another release showed  German unemployment  rose less this
month than economists had predicted. The number of people
without jobs increased 5,000 to 2.94 million, the Federal Labor
Agency said. Economists had forecast joblessness would climb by
16,000, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Goldman Forecast  The Stoxx 600 will advance to 310 by the end of 2013 and
earnings will grow 9 percent, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategists led by Peter Oppenheimer wrote in a report. That
indicates a rally of 13 percent from yesterday’s close.  The gauge has  surged 18 percent  from this year’s low on
June 4 as the European Central Bank announced an unlimited bond-
buying plan and the Federal Reserve began a third round of asset
purchases in the U.S.  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-
European market except  Greece . The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 1.2
percent, France’s CAC 40 gained 1.5 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
added 0.8 percent.  Rio Tinto jumped 5.1 percent to 3,090 pence after saying it
will cut $5 billion from operating and support costs next year.
The mining company also said that it will increase production at
its iron ore, copper and alumina units.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  soared 8.9 percent to 305 pence. The maker of
software for London Underground trains will probably be acquired
after completing the sale of its rail-signaling division to
Siemens AG, RBC said. After the close of European trading
yesterday, Invensys said it agreed to sell the unit to Siemens
for 1.74 billion pounds ($2.8 billion).  Invensys Sale  The British company will use the proceeds to reduce its
pension deficit, making it easier for an acquirer to buy the
business, RBC analyst Andrew Carter wrote. He upgraded the stock
to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from underperform.  Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp. also recommended
buying the shares. Invensys posted its biggest two-day rally
since at least 1988.  Zurich Insurance Group AG gained 2.5 percent to 236.50
Swiss francs after Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn promised
investors an “attractive and sustainable dividend.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  added 1.3 percent to 165.80 euros, its
highest price in at least 20 years, after  Europe’s largest
carmaker  said it will extend its partnership with  China ’s FAW
Group beyond 2016, when the existing contract expires. The new
joint venture will run for an additional 25 years. Both
companies concluded that neither side has infringed on
technology patents, Volkswagen said.  Banco Popular  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  climbed 5 percent to 65.7 euro
cents after saying it completed a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.2
billion) share sale to help cover a capital shortfall uncovered
by stress tests of Spanish banks. The stock has  surged 21
percent  over the last three days.  Eiffage SA (FGR) , which controls the APRR toll-road business,
soared 9.6 percent to 30.20 euros. A Paris court will rule today
on whether Eiffage can compulsorily purchase APRR shares,
according to a spokesman for the unit. Eiffage said on April 18
that it would buy the remaining stake by the end of the year if
it won the court’s approval.  Electricite de France slid 1 percent to 14.13 euros after
the Conseil d’Etat ruled that the utility overcharged its
customers. A group of about 80 communities that distribute power
to consumers said that EDF overcharged by 8.8 billion euros.  Gemalto NV (GTO)  dropped 2.8 percent to 70.30 euros after Morgan
Stanley advised investors to take profits. The inventor of smart
chips used in bank and phone cards will probably not forecast
earnings for 2013 that beat estimates, analysts led by Andrew Humphrey wrote in a report, downgrading the shares to equal
weight, the equivalent of hold, from overweight.  The VStoxx Index, which measures volatility on the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 50 Index, slid 4.5 percent to 16.49, its
lowest level since June 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  