-- Caviar Distributor Pleads Guilty to $10 Million Fraud Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-29T22:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ex-caviar-distributor-pleads-guilty-to-10-million-customs-fraud.html
A former caviar distributor who
spent more than 23 years as a fugitive pleaded guilty to a fraud
scheme where he illegally imported more than 100,000 pounds of
Russian and Iranian caviar worth more than $10 million.  Isidoro Garbarino, 69, an Italian citizen who was president
of the now-defunct Aquamar Gourmet Imports, pleaded guilty today
in  Manhattan  federal court before U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy to illegally importing Iranian and Russian caviar between
1984 to 1987.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan said Garbarino was initially charged in 1987 and while
free on bail fled the country in July 1989. He was arrested by
Panamanian authorities in September and returned to the U.S.,
prosecutors said.  Documents in the case had elements of a time capsule. The
typed indictment was signed by  Rudolph Giuliani , the U.S.
attorney at the time, who later became mayor of  New York .
Shipping manifests show the caviar was sold to now-defunct Pan
American World Airways Inc. to be served to passengers in first
class on international flights.  Garbarino pleaded guilty today to one count of falsely
classifying imported goods and one count of making false
statements in connection with the importation of the caviar. He
also agreed to make $3 million restitution to the  U.S. Customs 
and  Border Protection . Bharara’s office said the money
represents the duties, penalties and interest he owes for the
unlawful shipments.  Garbarino, who remains in custody, faces as long as four
years in prison when he is sentenced by Duffy on Jan. 7.  Marc Greenwald, a lawyer for Garbarino, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment about his client’s plea.  The case is U.S. v. Garbarino, 87-cr-00860, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 