-- Former Level Global Analyst Says Two SAC Friends Got Inside Tips
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ex-level-global-analyst-says-two-at-sac-got-inside-tips-1-.html
A former Level Global Investors LP
analyst testified that the fund’s co-founder, Anthony Chiasson,
knew that he was sharing inside information with his friends,
including two men who were analysts at SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, 41, who worked as a technology
analyst for Chiasson at the New York-based fund, told a jury in
Manhattan federal court yesterday that Chiasson knew he was
sharing illicit tips with a group of friends that included Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management
unit, and Ron Dennis, a former analyst with SAC’s CR Intrinsic
unit.  Adondakis told the jury that he had passed nonpublic
information about technology companies to Chiasson, allowing the
fund to earn more than $63 million. Chiasson is on trial with
 Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager for  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Diamondback Capital Management LLC, accused of
trading on inside information in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
based on tips provided to them by analysts who worked for them.
Both men have pleaded not guilty.  Adondakis said he obtained and swapped illegal tips with a
group of friends that included Horvath, Dennis and Jesse Tortora, a former analyst at Diamondback who worked for Newman.  Adondakis testified he had conversations with Chiasson in
which he told him he was sharing nonpublic information with at
least five others, including Dennis and Horvath. Adondakis said
Chiasson knew that Horvath was passing the information to his
 fund manager , Michael Steinberg. Barry Berke, a lawyer for
Steinberg, declined to comment on the claim.  Adondakis Testimony   “I told him Jon and I were friends and that he worked for
Mike Steinberg,” Adondakis said during his testimony before
U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan.  “What if anything did you tell Mr. Chiasson about Ron
Dennis?” Assistant U.S. Attorney John Zach asked.  “I mentioned that we had a friend at CR Intrinsic who we
were sharing information with.”  Dennis hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing by the U.S.  Later, Zach asked Adondakis what Chiasson said about
Steinberg.  “He mentioned that he did know Mike Steinberg because
they’d worked together at SAC Capital,” Adondakis said.  Chiasson and portfolio manager David Ganek founded Level
Global after leaving SAC.  Reid Weingarten , a lawyer for Chiasson, asked Adondakis if
Chiasson knew that Horvath and Dennis were getting information
about technology companies from him.  ‘Sharing Information’  “I believe he knew we were all sharing information,” said
Adondakis, who testified he worked for Chiasson from 2006 until
May 2010. In October 2010, a month before agents with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  executed raids at Level Global,
Adondakis said FBI agents approached him and asked him to
cooperate with the government. He testified he agreed to work
with the U.S. soon after and pleaded guilty this year.  Horvath, who was arrested and charged in January with
Chiasson and Newman, pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  on Sept.
28, admitting he passed nonpublic information to his portfolio
manager. He is cooperating with the U.S.  At a hearing outside the jury’s presence earlier this
month, Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps, who is a prosecutor
on the case, described Steinberg as an “unindicted co-
conspirator” of Newman and Chiasson’s scheme. Barry Berke, a
lawyer for Steinberg, has declined to comment on the
government’s assertion.  Steinberg was placed on leave by SAC in September, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on Dennis and Steinberg.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  