-- Ex-Orioles Player DeCinces Charged With Insider Trading
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-11-29T23:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ex-orioles-player-decinces-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Doug DeCinces, the former Baltimore
Orioles third baseman, was charged with making $1.3 million in
illicit profit through  insider trading  ahead of the 2009
acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics Inc.  DeCinces, 60, was indicted yesterday in federal court in
 Santa Ana ,  California , with three friends accused of illegally
profiting by $689,871 from his tips, according to U.S. Attorney
Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles. DeCinces paid $2.5 million in
August to resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission civil
lawsuit over his purchase of Advanced Medical Optics shares
before it was acquired by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  for $2.8 billion.  A former Orioles teammate of DeCinces, Hall of Famer Eddie Murray, paid $358,151 in August to settle an SEC suit that said
he profited from the tips. Murray denied wrongdoing in settling
the case. Prosecutors didn’t charge him with any crimes.  “To put it mildly, we do not agree with the decision to
bring a criminal case against Doug DeCinces,” Gordon Greenberg,
his lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement. “But the proper
place to have this resolved is in the courtroom and not on the
courthouse steps.”  The indictment accused DeCinces of getting tips from a
source identified as an officer and director of American Medical
Optics who was involved in negotiations over the acquisition.
The source was a close friend and neighbor of DeCinces and a
member of his golf club. They vacationed together, and the
source invested in a business run by a son of DeCinces,
according to the indictment.  Various Meetings  The source learned of the deal through various meetings
with insiders, including Abbott’s chief executive officer,
according to prosecutors. The indictment outlines a series of
meetings and phone calls in November and December 2008, when the
source allegedly provided DeCinces with tips. DeCinces began
buying the first block of Advanced Medical Optics shares on Nov.
5, 2008, and continued until Jan. 5, 2009, prosecutors said.  DeCinces bought a total of 75,700 shares through various
brokerage accounts, including four for his grandchildren,
according to the indictment. On Jan. 12, after the Abbott
acquisition was announced, Advanced Medical Optics shares rose
143 percent and DeCinces sold all of his holdings, prosecutors
allege.  Nonpublic Information  An SEC complaint filed in August added Murray and two
others to the case, including former Advanced Medical Optics CEO
James V. Mazzo. The SEC identified Mazzo as the source. In a
court filing yesterday, Mazzo denied providing material,
nonpublic information to DeCinces. He demanded a  jury trial .  DeCinces is charged with 21 counts of insider trading and
21 counts of tender offer fraud. He also is charged with  money
laundering . He faces as many as 20 years in prison on the most
serious charge.  DeCinces, of Laguna Beach, California, played  Major League
Baseball  from 1973 to 1987. Besides the Orioles, he played for
the California Angels and St.  Louis Cardinals , hitting 237
career home runs. An SEC complaint filed in August 2011 said he
was the president and CEO of a real estate development firm in
 Irvine , California.  That complaint said the source of the tips was an employee
of Santa Ana-based Advanced Medical Optics who was “directly
involved” in the transaction. DeCinces and his three tippees
agreed to pay more than $3.3 million to settle the case.  Same Club  Mazzo’s answer to the complaint yesterday said he was
involved in the Abbott negotiations and attended many of the
meetings cited. It said he and DeCinces “communicated with one
another, and belonged to the same Orange County golf club.”  He denied most of the rest of the case while making various
admissions, including that “Eddie Murray’s name and telephone
number appeared in Mr. Mazzo’s electronic contact list.”  Mazzo is senior vice president, Medical Optics, and is
retiring at the end of the year, said Adelle M.Infante, a
spokeswoman at Abbott.  DeCinces liquidated his stock portfolio to buy Advanced
Medical Optics shares and passed the information on to three of
his friends to make up for prior investment advice that had gone
bad, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. DeCinces, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey 
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 