-- Exelixis’s Thyroid Cancer Treatment Gains U.S. Approval
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-29T21:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/exelixis-s-thyroid-cancer-treatment-gains-u-s-approval.html
Exelixis Inc. (EXEL)  won U.S. regulatory
approval for cabozantinib to treat thyroid cancer patients,
giving the company its first marketed product.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug, to be
known as Cometriq, for medullary thyroid cancer, the agency said
today in a statement. The drug extended progression free
survival for patients in a Phase 3 study to 11.2 months compared
with four months with a placebo, South San Francisco,
California-based Exelixis said in June.  Exelixis also is studying cabozantinib as a treatment for
prostate cancer and today’s approval is the first in a series of
diseases the drug may work against,  Michael Morrissey , the
company’s chief executive officer, said at a conference.  “I think the true value of cabo can be viewed in terms of
it as a franchise, having franchise potential across multiple
indications outside of the initial potential indication around
thyroid cancer,” Morrissey said according to a transcript of
the Nov. 15 conference. “Certainly the vast majority of our
Phase 2 work over the last few years has been focused in other
tumor indications.”  The treatment will carry a boxed warning alerting patients
about the possibility of experiencing severe and fatal bleeding
and holes in the colon, the FDA said today.  Other Cancers  In addition to prostate cancer, Exelixis is testing
cabozantinib in breast, ovarian and renal cancers, as well as
solid tumors, non-small cell lung cancer and multiple myeloma.
The treatment is the FDA’s 31st new drug approval this year,
surpassing a seven-year high of 30 approvals in 2011.  This is the second drug in two years the agency has
approved to treat medullary thyroid cancer, said  Richard Pazdur ,
director of the FDA’s Office of Hematology and Oncology Products
in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. The first was
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Caprelsa in April 2011.  Cabozantinib is designed to block tumors from growing and
spreading by inhibiting two pathways, called MET and VEGF. The
thyroid is a hormone-creating gland that regulates  blood
pressure , body temperature, heart rate and weight.  Exelixis declined less than 1 percent to $5.24 at the close
in  New York  before the FDA’s announcement. The company has
gained 27 percent in the past 12 months.  The market for cabozantinib in this indication is limited,
said Ted Tenthoff, a New York-based analyst for Piper Jaffray,
in a Nov. 26 note to clients. About 4 percent of thyroid cancers
are medullary thyroid cancer, making it one of the rarer types,
the FDA said in the statement.  About 56,500 new cases of  thyroid cancer  are diagnosed each
year in the U.S., according to the  National Cancer Institute .
About 1,780 people die annually from the disease.  A year ago Exelixis plunged the most in 11 years after the
company and the FDA failed to agree on special rules for
studying cabozantinib in prostate cancer patients. Instead, the
company began a late-stage trial under a normal regulatory
framework. Pivotal data from that study is expected in the first
half of 2014, Tenthoff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  