-- Farrell Returns to England Rugby Lineup for New Zealand Test
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-29T12:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/farrell-returns-to-england-rugby-lineup-for-new-zealand-test.html
Owen Farrell returns to start at
fly-half for the England rugby team in this weekend’s Test
against world champion New Zealand.  The 21-year-old replaces  Toby Flood , who suffered a toe
injury in last week’s 16-15 loss to South Africa. It’s the only
change to the starting lineup for the Dec. 1 game at Twickenham
in London.  England is looking to end its autumn series on a winning
note after losses to Australia and South Africa.  “We asked for a big response from the players after
Australia and we got one last Saturday against South Africa,
although ultimately we were denied,” coach Stuart Lancaster
said on the Rugby Football Association’s  website . “That
frustration has been channeled this week and the whole squad has
reacted with a determination to get a victory against the top
team in the world.”  Lancaster also made two changes to his bench with Freddie
Burns taking over for Flood and Courtney Lawes replacing Mouritz
Botha.  Dan Carter  returns at fly-half for New Zealand after
missing last week’s 33-10 win over Wales with a leg injury.  England team: Alex Goode, Chris Ashton, Manu Tuilagi, Brad
Barritt, Mike Brown, Owen Farrell, Ben Youngs, Alex Corbisiero,
Tom Youngs, Dan Cole, Joe Launchbury, Geoff Parling, Tom Wood,
Chris Ropshaw (captain), Ben Morgan.  Reserves: David Paice, David Wilson, Mako Vunipola,
Courtney Lawes,  James Haskell ,  Danny Care , Freddie Burns,
Jonathan Joseph.  New Zealand team: Israel Dagg, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith,
Ma’a Nonu, Julian Savea, Dan Carter, Aaron Smith, Kieran Read,
Richie McCaw (captain), Liam Messam, Samuel Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Owen Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Dane Coles,  Wyatt Crockett , Charlie Faumuina,
Luke Romano, Victor Vito,  Piri Weepu , Aaron Cruden, Ben Smith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 