-- Fed Reports Record Profit for Year Through September
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-11-29T15:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/fed-reports-record-69-4-billion-profit-for-year-through-sept-.html
The  Federal Reserve  is having the
most profitable year on record as its $2.87 trillion balance
sheet generates a windfall of interest income.  The  central bank  has earned $69.4 billion in the first
three quarters of 2012, up from $58.2 billion in the same period
last year, according to quarterly financial reports released by
the Fed today in Washington.  The Fed earns profits from its asset holdings, which
include $1.65 trillion of  Treasury securities  and $900.6 billion
of mortgage-backed securities. Those assets were mostly acquired
through two rounds of large-scale asset purchases, known as QE.
The Fed pays its operating expenses from these funds and turns
most of what’s left over to the Treasury.  The central bank in August began publishing new unaudited
quarterly reports aimed at providing “greater transparency by
communicating financial information on a more frequent basis and
in greater detail.” The data was previously disclosed on an
annual basis when the Fed releases its audited financial
statements.  The Fed’s balance sheet began growing after its Sept. 13
decision to undertake $40 billion a month of mortgage-bond
purchases until the labor market improves “substantially.”  The central bank earns profits from the ability to create
currency which has no interest expense and  bank deposits , on
which the Fed pays interest of 0.25 percent. It also purchases
mortgage bonds and Treasuries which have a higher yield than
0.25 percent.  National Average  The yield on the 10-year Treasury was 1.63 percent at 10:28
a.m. in  New York , little changed from yesterday. The national
average on a 30-year fixed rate mortgage was 3.32 percent in the
week ended today, up from the all-time low of 3.31 percent,
according to an index from  Freddie Mac .  The Fed has sent $67.7 billion to the Treasury so far this
year, an increase from $57.5 billion in the same period last
year. The central bank doesn’t require an appropriation from
Congress to fund its operations because of the self-funding that
results from the interest income.  Funding from the Fed’s balance sheet to two entities
created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul
increased. The Fed sent $42 million to the Office of Financial
Research, up from $11 million in the same period last year.
Funding for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
increased to $249 million from $147 million in the same period
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  