-- Finland Rejects Speculation of New Aid to Greece
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-11-29T11:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/finland-rejects-speculation-of-new-aid-to-greece.html
Speculation on whether  Greece  needs
another bailout is premature and  Europe  needs to wait and see
whether measures agreed to date help the nation regain control
of its debt, Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “The decisions taken now are the correct ones to support
Greece in its extremely difficult situation,” Katainen said in
an interview in Helsinki today. “We are committed to the deal
by the finance ministers. There’s no point in conjecturing on
what that might mean in the future.”  Euro-area finance ministers this week drew up a debt-relief
agreement for Greece that reduced the rates on bailout loans and
suspended interest payments for a decade. The government in
 Athens  was also given more time to repay its debt and will be
able to buy back its bonds. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  have since hinted
at the prospect of further aid amid conjecture the measures may
prove inadequate to spur a sustainable recovery.  The ultimate objective is to ensure Greece stays inside the
euro, Katainen said. A splintering of the currency bloc would
have devastating consequences for all 17 members, he said.  “Our aim isn’t to force Greece out of the euro,” he said.
“That would be a catastrophe for Greece and the rest of the
euro area.”  Finland is one of four remaining AAA rated euro nations
that have been firm in their demands that bailout recipients
comply with strict austerity programs. Finland and  Germany  have
rejected joint borrowing and pushed fiscal policy coordination
to ensure euro members’ budgets remain sustainable.  Collateral Deal  Finland is the only euro member to have negotiated
collateral in exchange for backing emergency loans that don’t
give it seniority. For that privilege, the nation was required
to fork over its contribution to the European Stability
Mechanism’s capital upfront. Finland also agreed to forgo any
profits on loans made by the temporary fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility.  This week’s accord also cleared Greece to receive a 34.4
billion-euro ($44.7 billion) loan installment next month. The
deal targets a reduction in government debt to 124 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020 and below 110 percent of GDP by
2022.  “Whether Greece will attain this goal is anyone’s guess,”
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said in an interview
in Helsinki. “It’s largely up to Greece, on how well they are
able to stick to their commitments and implement reforms.”  Moody’s Warning  Even with those measures, Greece’s debt load, which will
peak at almost twice the size of its economy in 2014, remains
unsustainable, Moody’s Investors Service said today. The chance
of a default is “high,” Moody’s analysts wrote.  “Of course the euro area, at least  Finland , think it has
realistic chances of achieving this,” Urpilainen said. “That’s
why we’ve been flexible in certain issues.”  The cost of easing Greece’s debt terms will be about 2.78
billion euros for Germany in the form of forgone profit from
future European Central Bank Greek holdings, Schaeuble said. The
Netherlands faces a loss of 70 million euros a year over the
next 14 years, according to Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  Finland’s bill from the measures is about 10 million euros
from lower rates on bilateral loans, Urpilainen said. That
doesn’t include lost profits to the Bank of Finland, she said
yesterday. The focus now is on executing the decision,
Urpilainen said.  “We shouldn’t double-guess on what’s going to happen in
the future, instead we should implement the decisions that have
been taken now,” Urpilainen said. “We should proceed step-by-
step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  