-- Fitschen Says Europe Main Threat as U.S. Seen Agreeing on Budget
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-11-29T11:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/fitschen-says-europe-main-threat-as-u-s-seen-agreeing-on-budget.html
Europe , in the third year of a debt
crisis, is perceived as the biggest obstacle to a global
economic recovery as U.S. lawmakers are expected to reach an
agreement in budget talks, said  Juergen Fitschen ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s co-chief executive officer.  Europe is “still considered to be the biggest threat to
global growth together with one aspect that’s hopefully going to
be history rather sooner than later, that’s the fiscal cliff in
the states,” Fitschen said in a speech in Hamburg today,
referring to about $607 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts that will hit in January unless U.S. lawmakers act.  Investors face uncertainty as Europe’s leaders squabble
over how to battle excessive debt levels, U.S. politicians
remain at loggerheads over the budget deficit and after China
elected a new leadership. While Europe ranks highest on that
list of concerns, the euro area isn’t close to collapse,
Fitschen said.  “We still have to work very hard to get out of the
crisis,” said Fitschen, 64, who leads Europe’s biggest bank by
assets with co-CEO Anshu Jain. “Hopefully by the end of next
year, we can say that we have some positive growth.”  China  is heading into a decade under new leadership, with
Xi Jinping, appointed chief of the ruling Communist Party this
month, set to become president next year and Li Keqiang, the
party’s No. 2, in line to replace Wen Jiabao as premier.  “Anyone who predicts what they are going to do is a fool
because how do we know, they haven’t spoken up yet,” Fitschen
said. “Is there need for dramatic changes, I don’t think so.”  Some investors from outside China have a perception that
they aren’t treated on the same terms as their competitors
inside the country and that needs to be addressed, Fitschen
said, without specifying which companies he was referring to.  Deutsche Bank owns just under 20 percent of Chinese lender
 Huaxia Bank Co. (600015)  That’s the maximum share allowed for foreigners
under Chinese regulations, according to the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  