-- Fluor CEO Sees Shale Gas Reviving U.S. Industries
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-11-29T21:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/fluor-ceo-sees-shale-gas-reviving-u-s-industries.html
Fluor Corp. (FLR) , the largest U.S.
publicly traded engineering and construction company,
anticipates growth in the country’s chemical and manufacturing
industries as a result of rising shale-gas output.  Producers and industrial users of natural gas from shale
deposits are at the start of a long-term spending drive, which
should benefit contractors such as Fluor, Chief Executive
Officer David Seaton said in an interview in Dubai today. In the
U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast region alone there are $30 billion of
potential projects tied mainly to shale production, he said.  “Shale gas, and the downstream derivatives of that, is
what’s going to drive a resurgence of manufacturing in the
U.S.,” he said. Seaton described the U.S. as the only developed
economy with an opportunity “to really grow.”  Developed economies such as those in  Europe  and the U.S.
have suffered as the global financial crisis dried up capital
liquidity and cut spending on projects.  Emerging markets  have
been sustaining global economic growth as rising populations in
China,  India  and the  Middle East  demand more  consumer goods  and
add industrial production to meet their needs and add jobs.  Competitive U.S.  “The U.S. is building capacity for petrochemicals for the
first time in decades and cost in the U.S. is becoming very
competitive,” Omar Blouos, Middle East regional director for
management consultant  Accenture Plc (ACN) , said in a separate
interview in Dubai. “The Middle East will continue to be a
player in this industry,” he said.  Fluor, based in Irving,  Texas , sees prospects for growth in
the Middle East and Australia, where production of chemicals and
commodities is rising along with demand for them. The company
foresees a resurgence in mining worldwide when the global
economy recovers and doesn’t plan to cut back on its minerals
projects, Seaton said. Fluor removed two mining projects in Peru
and  Australia , valued at a combined $2 billion, from its backlog
in the third quarter.  Fluor rose 0.6 percent to $53.50 in  New York  at the close.
The  shares have gained  6.5 percent this year, trailing a 13
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company, with a cash pile of about $2.8 billion, plans
to use about $1 billion for projects already under way for
clients and another $1 billion on company operations. The rest
could be used for acquisitions that help add capacity in areas
like pipeline or power plant construction, or to buy its own
shares, Seaton said.  Qatar, Yanbu  Fluor, with a project pipeline of about $40 billion in
contracts, is looking at two planned chemical projects in  Qatar ,
conducting a pre-feasibility study for a joint-venture refinery
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. will build in the Red Sea port of Yanbu
and is bidding on two refinery contracts in Kuwait, Jose
Bustamante, Fluor’s senior vice president for regional sales,
said in the same interview today.  The company expects to hear by the end of the year if it’s
been short-listed as a bidder for engineering and construction
contracts in Kuwait, he said. The country may announce a winner
for the contracts by summer, Bustamante said.  Seaton said he views Iraq as a long-term market with great
potential. Fluor is working on oilfield operations for Exxon
Mobil Corp. at the West Qurna field and is also partnering with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  on feasibility studies for a project to
collect and use natural gas at Iraq’s southern oil fields, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  