-- Fracking Companies Embrace Solar to Cut Carbon Emissions: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-11-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/fracking-companies-embrace-solar-to-cut-carbon-emissions-energy.html
The vast majority of hydraulic
fracturing sites in the U.S. are powered by emissions-spewing,
noisy  diesel engines .  So, Ron Hyden, who’s seen a lot during his four decades in
the oil patch, is eager to show off something new: a machine
used in fracking that relies on gravity and electricity
generated from solar panels to send sand into a labyrinth of
tubes before it’s shot underground to prop open tiny cracks in
natural gas- or oil-bearing rock.  The irony of gravity and solar panels being used to help
capture fossil fuels isn’t lost on Hyden, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Dec. 3 issue. “You would’ve never thought we’d
give a flip about this,” Hyden said in a Texas twang as he
gazes at the solar panels atop his new contraption. “We’re big
into it.”  Hyden works for  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , remembered by many for
having done the cement job on  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo deep­water well
prior to its 2010 blowout that caused the largest offshore
oilspill in the U.S. The $31 billion oil-field giant is the
world leader in providing services to companies involved in
hydraulic fracturing or fracking -- the process of breaking up
shale by injecting high-pressure sand and chemically infused
water to release hydrocarbons.  Halliburton calls its two-year-old solar-powered invention
the SandCastle. It has rolled out dozens of SandCastles in the
U.S.  Environmental Criticism  Stung by environmental criticism, the  petroleum industry  is
trying to clean up its operations. Halliburton and the other
three largest oil-field service providers spent $2.04 billion on
research and development in 2011, up 32 percent from two years
earlier. Some of that went to finding ways to make fracking more
eco-friendly.  Other companies that have pitched alternative technologies
include  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and General Electric Co., as
well as oil-patch interlopers such as  Verenium Corp. (VRNM) , a biotech
company, and Ecologix Environmental Systems LLC, which makes
wastewater-treatment systems.  Beyond changing the public’s perception of fracking, the
companies hope to get a bigger payday by providing more green-
friendly services. Cleaning up wastewater from fracked and
conventional wells, for example, already is an $18 billion
annual business, Houston-based PacWest Consulting Partners LLC
said. The oil-field industry is also hoping its green efforts
will help soften calls for regulation.  Gas Leader  While fracking has vaulted the U.S. ahead of  Russia  as the
world’s leading gas producer, its success has generated
controversy. A single fracked well can consume as much as 6
million gallons of water -- a threat to local water supplies,
according to critics. Chemical-laden wastewater from fracking
sites has been linked to pollution of streams and rivers.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has already
promulgated rules aimed at reducing fracking emissions and has
been asked by some states to consider whether fracking fluids
should be regulated as a hazardous waste, and several states
have moved to regulate the process.  Research has centered on two fronts: curbing air pollution,
the aim of Halliburton’s SandCastles, and the bigger challenge
of eliminating toxic chemicals. Ecologix sells technology that
can recycle fracking wastewater by using air bubbles to separate
out polluting solids, forming them into a sludge blanket that
can be scooped up.  Verenium is marketing nontoxic enzymes aimed at reducing a
caustic chemical, ammonium persulfate -- a standard ingredient
in hair bleach -- used during fracking.  Reusing Water  GE has introduced the Mobile Evaporator, a boiler-on-wheels
the size of a semi-truck that can be towed from well to well and
cleans about 50 gallons (189 liters) of water a minute by
boiling it to separate out contaminants.  The cleaned water can be reused or fed into waterways.
Chesapeake Energy has developed an in-house initiative called
Green Frac, which it said eliminated 25 percent of the additives
used in fracking fluids in most of its shale wells.  Halliburton is promoting CleanStim, a fracking fluid with
additives it said are made almost entirely of enzymes from fruit
and vegetable compounds. While the delivery method “doesn’t
quite call for the downhole delivery of fruits and vegetables,
it does rely on some of the same acids and enzymes present in
those items,” Halliburton says on its website. The company
won’t disclose the new ingredients, so far used in 23 wells,
calling them proprietary.  In front of hundreds of oil and gas executives in  San
Antonio  for the Society of Petroleum Engineers annual conference
in October, Chief Executive Officer David Lesar took a swig of
CleanStim from a small jar. “There’s not one petroleum product
in it,” he said. Still, he added, “It doesn’t taste very
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  