-- Frontline Sees Financial Difficulties for Vessel Owners
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-11-29T17:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/frontline-sees-financial-difficulties-for-vessel-owners-1-.html
Slowing demand for  oil tankers  may
lead to financial difficulties for ship owners, according to
 Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the world’s largest operator of supertankers.  An increase in oil-tanker earnings, spurred by demand for
crude from refineries in Asia this month, is expected to be
“short-lived,” the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said today
in a statement. Frontline reported a third-quarter loss of $49
million and said it won’t pay a  dividend  for the period.  Earnings for very large crude carriers plying the benchmark
route to  Japan  from  Saudi Arabia  climbed to the highest since
May this month, according to data from the London-based Baltic
Exchange, a publisher of over 50 maritime routes. Daily rates
slumped 4.2 percent to $16,843 today. The VLCC fleet will expand
5.7 percent next year, above demand growth of 3.9 percent,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Frontline expects operating result in the fourth quarter to
improve compared with the third quarter. Frontline declined 2.8
percent to 19.02 krone ($3.34), the lowest since Nov. 13, by the
close in Oslo trading today.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. They can
boost returns by slowing ships on return journeys after
unloading cargoes. Each ship can hold 2 million barrels of oil.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, fell 0.2 percent to
$616.03 a metric ton, figures compiled by Bloomberg from 25
global ports showed. That’s the lowest since Nov. 14.  Rates Decline  Charter  rates  for the largest tankers on the voyage to  Asia 
fell 2 percent to 47.94 industry-standard Worldscale points,
exchange figures showed. That’s the lowest level since Nov. 13,
according to data from the bourse.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 47.94 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a gauge of costs to
transport crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, lost
0.4 percent to 705, the exchange’s data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  