-- GE Teams With Accenture in Data Push Spanning Jets to Hospitals
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-29T00:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ge-teams-with-accenture-in-data-push-spanning-jets-to-hospitals.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is joining with
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  to use data-gathering sensors to help predict when
airplanes need maintenance, reducing delays and cutting
carriers’ costs.  The partnership is one of nine initiatives GE will unveil
tomorrow in San Francisco with customers from  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC)  to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , all focused on harvesting and
analyzing information from industrial equipment to help increase
productivity.  GE, the world’s largest manufacturer of jet engines, diesel
locomotives and medical-imaging equipment, said the new products
will help it make more money from service contracts on its
products. They’ll also help reduce waste in industries from
manufacturing to subsea drilling by as much as $150 billion over
15 years, the company said.  GE is investing $1 billion in the so-called industrial
Internet, centered around a new software development facility in
San Ramon, California, where it has poached employees from
technology firms including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) 
The offerings will add to existing products that monitor the
performance of wind turbines and help coordinate rail traffic.  Other initiatives include software that optimizes hospital
bed assignments and departmental work flow, an algorithm that
analyzes airline operation data to reduce fuel consumption,
technology that helps manage power-generation equipment in
response to electricity demand, and software that monitors deep-
sea drilling equipment, GE said.  Service contracts on GE equipment brought in $42 billion of
revenue last year, or 45 percent of its $94 billion in
industrial sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in San Francisco at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  