-- Genting Quarterly Net Slides 53% With Lower Gaming Revenue
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-11-30T10:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/genting-quarterly-profit-slides-53-with-lower-gaming-revenue.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , the Malaysian company
which controls casino operators in  Southeast Asia , the U.S. and
the U.K., said third-quarter profit fell 53 percent as gaming
revenue and palm oil prices declined.  Net income  dropped to 279.4 million ringgit ($92 million)
in the three months ended Sept. 30, or 7.6 sen a share, from
597.2 million ringgit, or 16.2 sen, a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange yesterday.
Revenue declined 14 percent to 4.2 billion ringgit.  The  company  posted its third consecutive quarterly drop in
profit after its Singapore unit, which runs one of the island-
state’s two gaming resorts, reported a 47 percent slump in net
income. Genting  Singapore  Plc plans to open new attractions,
including Marine Life Park, on Dec. 7 at its Resorts World
Sentosa casino resort in the city-state to boost sales.  “The full opening of Resorts World Sentosa will allow the
company to capitalize on sales and marketing initiatives that
appeal to a wider base of affluent travelers and new markets,”
Genting said in its exchange filing.  Genting Singapore, which opened its casino resort in the
city-state at the start of 2010, reported gaming revenue dropped
20 percent in the third quarter as slower economic growth and
tighter rules curbed spending by gamblers.  ‘Volatile’ Singapore  Shares of Genting have declined 18 percent in  Kuala Lumpur 
this year, compared with a 5.2 percent advance in the benchmark
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. The stock climbed 2 percent to
close at 9 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur, its biggest daily gain since
Oct. 1.  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) , a unit operating the only casino
resort in the Southeast Asia nation, fell 2.3 percent to 3.42
ringgit. Genting Singapore advanced 2.4 percent to S$1.28 in
Singapore trading.  “Genting’s dependency on the volatile Singapore market,
which is currently facing some headwinds with the ever-changing
government regulations, would be an obstacle to its share price
performance in the medium term,” Hoe Lee Leng, an analyst at
RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report today.  Genting last year got 40 percent of its total revenue from
Singapore and another 40 percent from  Malaysia , while the U.S.
contributed 10 percent and the U.K. accounted for 6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The group said it lost money in the U.K during the quarter,
while profit from its gaming business in Malaysia rose 2 percent,
according to the statement.  Genting’s  plantation  division saw profit contributions drop
21 percent to 122.3 million ringgit, it said yesterday. Pretax
profit from power generation more than doubled to 73.6 million
ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  