-- Spanish Bond Yields Drop to 8-Month Low
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-29T17:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/german-bonds-fall-before-geithner-holds-meetings-on-fiscal-cliff.html
Spain ’s 10-year bond yields fell to
the lowest in eight months and the rate on similar-maturity
Italian debt dropped to the least since 2010, signaling the debt
crisis that triggered global financial-market turmoil is easing  Italy ’s benchmark bonds gained for a third day as borrowing
costs declined when the nation sold 6 billion euros ($7.78
billion) of five- and 10-year debt. German bunds slipped amid
speculation U.S. lawmakers are making progress to avoid the
fiscal cliff, damping demand for safer assets. Spanish bonds
erased gains after the nation said it would sell securities next
week. Austrian and  Belgium  yields fell to record lows.  “Yields on benchmark 10-year maturities are falling to
eight-month lows on improving prospects for the financial sector
-- critical in our opinion to heralding a turning point in
economic fortunes,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , wrote in a note to clients.  Spain’s  10-year yield  was little changed at 5.34 percent at
5 p.m. in  London  after dropping as much as 13 basis points to
5.20 percent, the lowest level since March 20. The 5.85 percent
bond due in January 2022 traded at 103.61.  The Italian 10-year bond yield declined three basis points
to 4.56 percent after falling to 4.47 percent, the least since
December 2010.  Spanish and Italian 10-year yields have both dropped more
than 1.5 percentage points since European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said in July that policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the euro.  ‘Calming Down’  “The rally in the bond markets of Italy and Spain is
explained by the situation and the new policy measures announced
by the ECB in July that’s still ongoing and calming down
markets,” said Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage about $19 billion
as head of fixed income at Frankfurt Trust and holds Spanish
bonds. “The fears that Spanish  government bonds  could be ranked
in the sub-investment grade turned out to be too early or
misled. That’s the overall story why the market is friendly.”  Spain’s bonds are headed for a fourth monthly gain amid
speculation Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is taking the steps
needed to stabilize the nation’s debt.  OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said today European
nations should make an “unequivocal declaration” that if Spain
sought a bailout, it would be accepted.  ‘Reasonably Well’  “Spanish bonds are doing reasonably well because of the
realization that the Spanish authorities are taking what they
have to do quite seriously,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed markets debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
Bunds “are down on the day but that is perfectly reflective of
the environment, which is positive for risky assets.”  The Spanish central bank said today the nation will sell
securities maturing in 2015, 2019 and 2022 on Dec. 5.  Italy sold 3 billion euros of its benchmark 10-year bonds
today at a yield of 4.45 percent, the lowest since November
2010, and down from 4.92 percent at the previous auction on Oct.
30. The Treasury also sold 3 billion euros of a 2017 bond at
3.23 percent, the lowest since October 2010.  “The Italian auction looks to have gotten away reasonably
well, which is a positive, and today in general has been broadly
positive,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
London. “It’s a long way before we call this crisis over, but
in the meantime investors are more comfortable taking on
peripheral risk.”  Bunds Decline  German bunds fell amid speculation U.S. lawmakers will
reach agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled for Jan. 1  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  meets
congressional leaders today after Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday he was optimistic that officials can
“avert this crisis sooner rather than later.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual
rate, up from a 2 percent prior estimate, revised figures from
the Commerce Department showed today.  Germany ’s 10-year yield climbed less than one basis point
to 1.37 percent after rising as much as three basis points.  The Austrian 10-year yield fell to an all-time low of 1.734
percent, and Belgium’s dropped to 2.164 percent.  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in developed
markets today, followed by those of Portugal and Italy,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt,
the spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit
default swaps.  Spain’s bonds returned 5.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities rose 20 percent and Germany’s gained 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 