-- German Unemployment Rose for an Eighth Month in November
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-11-29T10:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/german-unemployment-increased-for-an-eighth-month-in-november.html
German  unemployment  climbed for an
eighth straight month in November as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
company investment and economic growth.  The number of people without a job increased a seasonally
adjusted 5,000 to 2.94 million, the Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg said today. Economists forecast a gain of 16,000, the
median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The
adjusted jobless rate held at 6.9 percent. Separately, a gauge
of economic confidence in the euro area unexpectedly rose.  With the 17-nation currency bloc in  recession  and growth
slowing in  emerging markets , German firms are postponing
investment and hiring decisions. The  unemployment rate  rose for
the first time in three years in September. While Europe’s
largest economy expanded 0.2 percent in the third quarter,
latest reports suggest growth may grind to a halt in the fourth
as export demand wanes.  “It is doubtful whether private consumption can really
take over the baton as the main growth driver for the German
economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “German unemployment looks set to increase further.
This increase, however, should only be very mild, mainly located
in the export industry.”  The euro advanced to $1.2983 at 11:15 a.m. in  Frankfurt  for
a 0.2 percent gain today. European stocks rose to their highest
level in three weeks amid optimism that U.S. President  Barack Obama  will reach an agreement with Congress over a new budget.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to 275.39.  Economic Confidence  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area increased to 85.7 from a revised 84.3 in October, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast no change from an initial October reading of 84.5.  Still, the euro-area economy posted two successive quarters
of negative growth through September and economists foresee a
further contraction in the fourth quarter. Unemployment for the
region as a whole is at a record high of 11.6 percent.  By contrast,  Germany ’s jobless rate is still close to a
two-decade low, helping to fuel household spending and temper
the economic slowdown.  “The rise in unemployment in Germany is extremely moderate
and provides a good foundation for the economy as such,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “If people are
working and earning money, they have money to spend, and that
will offset some of the problems in investment.”  Company Investment  German investment in plant and machinery declined 2 percent
in the third quarter from the second, while companies depleting
inventories also dragged on growth. Economic expansion was
driven by exports, construction and household and public
spending.  While exports slumped 2.5 percent in September and the
manufacturing and service industries are contracting, business
confidence unexpectedly rose for the first time in eight months
in November, signaling growth may rebound next year.  Germany’s  Daimler AG (DAI) , a luxury carmaker, is planning to
almost double its 2011 car sales by 2020 by targeting demand in
 China ,  Russia  and the U.S., the company said Nov. 14.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at an annual pace of 2.8
percent in the third quarter, more than an initial reading of 2
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
before a government release today. Initial jobless claims
probably fell to 390,000 in the week ended Nov. 24, a separate
survey showed.  German Growth  Switzerland ’s economy returned to growth in the third
quarter, expanding 0.6 percent, the State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs in Bern said today.  The German economy will expand 0.8 percent this year and
next, the European Commission forecasts. It predicts a 0.4
percent contraction in the euro area this year and growth of
just 0.1 percent in 2013.  Schaeffler AG, the German roller-bearing maker that’s the
biggest investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, this
month lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand
in Europe and  Asia .  Hornbach Holding AG, a home-improvement retailer, cut its
annual sales and earnings forecasts on Nov. 27, citing weakening
 consumer confidence  across Europe.  Market research company GfK SE said this week that its
German consumer-sentiment index will drop for the first time in
seven months in December as Europe’s debt crisis damps
households’ income expectations and willingness to spend.  “We have seen a change of trend in the labor market in the
last couple of months,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at
Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “With growth rates slowing over
the whole year and negative growth expected for the final
quarter, the labor market won’t be gaining momentum in the near
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  