-- How to Give Google More Competition
-- B y   R a n d a l   C .   P i c k e r
-- 2012-11-29T23:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/give-google-some-competition-and-make-it-personal.html
Where should you go out for dinner
tonight? This is a common  Google (GOOG)  question, but regulators in the
U.S. and the European Union suspect that Google is tilting its
answers in favor of its own properties.  Not its own restaurants, of course, because the company
isn’t in the restaurant business. Rather,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has moved
from merely organizing search to owning content and the answers
to questions. By competing with  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  and others in category
searches, such as reviews of local businesses, it has drawn
scrutiny from regulators.  Since at least May, the EU has been looking at whether
Google is biasing its results for these so-called vertical
searches. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission isn’t as public
about its process, but Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
spent Nov. 27 with the FTC, an indicator that the commission’s
investigation of Google has  reached  a critical stage.  Antitrust issues often seem arcane to outsiders, but this
is where modern societies establish the  ground rules  for
innovation and competition policy. Industrialized economies
generate most of their growth from new ideas and ways of doing
business, and effective competition is crucial to making that
system work.  The FTC should move forward with a  case  against Google only
if the commission can identify serious harm to competition and
innovation -- and only if it has a real solution available.
Although Google appears to be engaged in extensive hard-wiring
in favor of its own websites, there is a remedy available --
call it “competitive personalization” -- that will allow Google
and new companies to continue innovating and competing
aggressively.  Providing Answers  The young Google -- circa 1998-2002 -- responded to search
queries with 10 blue links and quickly moved you to the site you
were seeking. This strategy has changed. Google is now in the
content business and provides the answers itself. Search and ye
shall find here (and you won’t need to click elsewhere). It
bought YouTube, ITA Software, Frommer’s and Zagat, and it has
tried to build a local Web-pages service with user-generated
reviews, now part of its Google+ social offering.  Run a search on Google for a local restaurant and look at
the results. Businesses compete vigorously to improve their
chances of making the all-important first page of results, but
they can’t buy a spot directly.  In the early days of search, the  FTC  was concerned about
pay-to-play, and the regulators issued rules to limit that
practice. Instead, businesses buy ads and Google holds a
staggering number of auctions each day for advertising slots as
it responds to searches.  Even with all of that competition, however, other parts of
the search page appear to be hard-wired in favor of Google. Your
dining search will come with a Google map of the restaurants,
not a map from rival MapQuest Inc. or, heaven help us, from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  And the heart of the response will be a table of
restaurants, what the industry calls a “onebox.” That will
include local contact information with links to the restaurant
websites and also to Google review pages. These hard-wired links
to its review pages, and perhaps to the maps, have stirred the
interest of the FTC and the EU.  Let’s focus on the big picture instead. Companies such as
Google drive the creation of new value in the economy when they
improve their products. Yet we have innovation on both sides of
this discussion. If Google can easily convert its position in
traditional search into closely related markets such as those
for local business reviews, we will discourage innovation in
those areas. Upstarts won’t be able to compete equally if the
giant search operation can squelch them by hard-wiring links to
new Google properties.  Personalized Searches  This is dicey territory for the FTC and the  EU . One idea
worth considering is competitive personalization. Google has
moved into providing personalized-search responses. You and I
search and get different responses based on our prior searches.
Personalization is controversial, because it raises privacy
questions -- an issue for another day -- but it could give
customers a straightforward chance to designate a default
provider for reviews or maps.  Google hard-wires its search results in favor of its own
maps, so a restaurant search on Google will return results with
maps from Google. Perhaps I prefer MapQuest to  Google Maps .
Regulators would be understandably concerned that the rise of
 Google Maps  has been driven by how tightly linked it is to
Google’s underlying search engine and not because it is a
superior product on its own.  If consumers could designate a default maps provider,
antitrust regulators would have much greater confidence that
Google Maps is winning on its own merits.  The company’s hard-wiring in favor of its own Google+ local
review pages raises similar issues. Again, making it possible
for consumers to designate a default provider for local reviews
would help to ensure direct head-to-head competition with Yelp
and other review sites.  Competitive personalization would improve consumer choice
and increase continuing competition between Google and the next
set of college kids tinkering away in the garage. Policy makers
need to make sure that is possible.  ( Randal C. Picker  is a professor at the  University of
Chicago Law School . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Randal C. Picker at  r-picker@uchicago.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 