-- GM Plans to Increase Thailand, Indonesia Dealerships
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T07:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/gm-plans-thailand-indonesia-dealership-expansion-to-drive-sales.html
(Corrects interview location in the fourth paragraph.)  General Motors Co. (GM)  plans to increase
the number of dealerships in  Indonesia  and  Thailand  to tap
rising incomes in the two Southeast Asian countries with a
combined population the size of the U.S.  GM will boost the number of dealers in Thailand to 120 by
the end of next year from 91 currently, and the total in
Indonesia to 55 from 35, Martin Apfel, the U.S. automaker’s
Southeast Asia head, said in an interview on Nov. 28. Among
other countries in the region, Myanmar holds “great prospect
and opportunity” as it opens up to foreign investment, he said.  GM is among foreign automakers seeking to expand in
Southeast Asia as incomes rise with economic growth. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  this month made visits to Myanmar and
 Cambodia  and attended a summit of regional leaders as he seeks
to expand trade ties to regain economic influence.  “It’s a region full of opportunity,” Apfel said at an
auto show outside of Bangkok. “We’re very appreciative of the
government’s attention to this region.”  Indonesia is the most populous country in  Southeast Asia 
with 246 million people, according to the U.S. census bureau.
Its economy will expand 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent next year,
while Thailand, with 66.7 million people, will reach 4.6
percent, according to forecasts by their respective central
banks.  Chevrolet sales in Thailand more than tripled in the first
10 months to 59,652 units, led by the Colorado pickup truck,
according to the company.  GM will manufacture the seven-seat Chevrolet Spin at its
 Bekasi plant  in Indonesia and supply the multipurpose vehicle to
other countries in Southeast Asia including Thailand and the
 Philippines , the automaker has said.  ‘Key Focus’  “If I look at countries like Indonesia, it’s actually
macroeconomic fundamentals times demographics, so if you look at
that, that’s a huge opportunity,” Apfel said. “I would say the
hub clearly, Thailand, Indonesia, that’s where our key focus is,
but all the other countries, very interesting as well.”  In  Laos , the Detroit-based automaker has sold 500 vehicles
since July and will soon have a new distributor in Cambodia,
Apfel said.  The automaker is studying the Myanmar market and doesn’t
yet have “concrete plans” for the country, he said.  Obama’s visit to Myanmar earlier this month made him the
first U.S. president to visit the former military-ruled country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  