-- GM Says Nascar Chevy SS Similar to Production Model
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/gm-says-nascar-chevy-ss-similar-to-production-model.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , preparing 13 new
Chevrolet models for the U.S. next year, unveiled a Nascar
version of the upcoming SS sedan that the automaker says looks
similar to what will be sold in showrooms.  The production version of the rear-wheel-drive sedan will
be shown at Speedweeks in February at Daytona International
Speedway in  Florida , where the new race car will compete,  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “If you look at where the sport has gone, there wasn’t a
lot of stock left in stock-car racing,” he said. “We really
wanted to get a car, a really genuine, honest car in our
showrooms that we could race in Nascar and really bring the
coordination and realization that you could actually buy a car
that’s not too far off from the race car.”  Along with the SS, Chevrolet is also planning a redesigned
Corvette sports car, which will be first shown in January in
advance of the  Detroit auto show . Together, the cars will add
some new muscle to the  Chevrolet  brand that has emphasized the
Volt plug-in hybrid sedan and small cars, such as the Cruze and
Spark, since Detroit-based GM emerged from a U.S.-backed
bankruptcy in 2009. It’s all part of Chevrolet’s new product
push next year that also includes a redesigned Silverado pickup.  “The bandwidth of Chevrolet has always been one of its
strengths,” Reuss said. “The performance DNA where we race and
the innovation that brings into all of our cars, even EVs, is
something that is really, really important.”  The Nascar race car version of the SS shown yesterday in
Las Vegas will be Chevy’s newest entry in in the Nascar Sprint
Cup Series, replacing the Impala. Speedweeks is a  series of
events  before the Daytona 500.  The SS is the first rear-wheel-drive sedan for Chevrolet in
the U.S. in 17 years, GM said in a statement. It’s a derivative
of the same vehicle architecture as the Chevrolet Camaro. The
new SS goes on sale in the U.S. in late 2013, GM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  