-- Gold Fields to Spin Off South African Mines as Strikes Add Costs
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-29T15:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/gold-fields-proposes-spinning-off-some-south-african-operations.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-biggest
producer of the metal, will spin off part of its South African
business as a wave of strikes and above-inflation pay gains add
to costs and curb output for mining companies in the country.  Sibanye Gold Ltd. will trade in Johannesburg and New York
and include the Kloof-Driefontein Complex, Africa’s largest gold
operation, and the Beatrix mines, Gold Fields said today in a
statement. The company will keep South Deep, its second-biggest
facility, and mines in  Peru , Ghana and  Australia . The stock rose
the most in 14 months in Johannesburg.  The company is partly reacting to rolling wildcat strikes
that began in  South Africa ’s platinum industry, before spreading
to gold, iron-ore, coal and diamond mining. About 29,000 Gold
Fields workers walked out in the past two months, winning pay
gains that added to rising power costs and  capital spending .  “If anything, the strike has accentuated the need for a
different focus so that we can stop a decline in production and
increase in costs,” Chief Executive Officer  Nick Holland  said.
“This is something we’ve been thinking about for some time.”  Gold Fields has won approval from the South African Reserve
Bank for the spinoff and is waiting for the  Johannesburg Stock
Exchange , where Sibanye will begin trading in February, he said.  Gold Fields gained 5.7 percent to 108.60 rand by the close,
the most since Sept. 19 last year. The stock is still down 15
percent since the end of 2006, while spot gold prices have
almost tripled.  Equities Stuck  “We’ve seen a gold price that’s gone way beyond our
wildest dreams in the last five or six years and yet our
equities are stuck in the mud, not just Gold Fields,” Holland
told investors on a call. “If that continues into the future,
then this industry will be in for a massive shakeup.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-biggest producer of the
metal, retains the option of splitting off its South African
operations, CEO  Mark Cutifani  said Nov. 21. “Nothing has
changed,”  Alan Fine , an AngloGold spokesman, said today by
phone. “He’s been consistent in that message.”  About a third of AngloGold’s metal comes from South Africa,
the continent’s biggest economy, where it employs about 35,000.
The company’s stock rose by the most in three weeks, gaining 3.9
percent to 275 rand.  Labor unrest this year will lower economic growth in the
country and cut exports by more than 12.5 billion rand ($1.4
billion), the National Treasury says. Mining, contributing 6
percent of the economy and employing almost half a million
people, will take a year to recover from job losses after the
strikes, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Nov. 26.  Largest Creation  The newly created Sibanye will be the largest gold-mining
company in South Africa and be headed by Neal Froneman, who is
resigning as CEO of  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO) , according to
Gold Fields.  “There will be opportunities for regional consolidation,”
Froneman said. Gold One won’t initially be looked at, he said.  The South African share of Gold Fields’ total output will
fall to 13 percent from 47 percent after its unbundling, the
company said. That proportion will grow to 28 percent in 2016
with the planned increase in production at the South Deep mine.  “The KDC and Beatrix gold mines, which are being hived
off, are cash-generative and the plan is to use the cash to
extend the mine life of these assets and pay a dividend,”  John
Meyer , a mining analyst at SP Angel in  London , said in a note.
“This may also enable international investors who do not want
to own South African assets to retain a holding.”  Gold Fields’  dollar-denominated debt  will remain with the
company and it won’t have a stake in Sibanye, Holland said.  Sibanye Gold will retain Gold Fields’ net debt of around 4
billion rand, while about $1.4 billion of offshore debt will be
retained by Gold Fields, the company said in a statement.  Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are acting
as financial co-advisers on the transaction, while Credit Suisse
is also an underwriter of the company’s debt facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  