-- Greece’s Debt Buyback May Address Holdouts, Troika Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-11-29T10:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/greece-s-debt-buyback-may-address-holdouts-troika-says.html
Greece’s debt-buyback operation may
extend to holders of almost 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of
 government bonds  who opted not to participate in the country’s
debt restructuring earlier this year, the biggest in history.  The buyback will “address” the holders of bonds governed
by non-Greek law who refused to tender them in the 200 billion-
euro debt swap in March, hoping to get paid in full, according
to an updated draft of Greece’s debt-sustainability assessment
from the troika comprising the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  The Greek buyback is part of a package of measures approved
by euro-area finance ministers this week to cut the nation’s
debt. While Greece has gotten pledges for 240 billion euros of
aid, the funds have been frozen since June as the government
tries to get its bailout program back on track after it was
disrupted by two elections and a deepening recession.  The buyback, which Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said
will be unveiled next week, will target 62 billion euros of new
bonds issued after the debt swap. Greek banks hold 15 billion
euros of the new bonds, while the country’s pension funds hold 8
billion euros.  The deal aims to bring Greece’s debt down to 124 percent of
gross domestic product in 2020 from the 190 percent it was
projected to reach in 2014 without the measures.  More Aid?  Other steps mentioned in the report, which was posted on
the Dutch government’s website and is dated Nov. 27, include
forgoing a reduction in Greece’s Treasury bill stock, which
pares Greece’s financing in the next two years by 9 billion
euros, and postponing a build-up of the Treasury’s cash buffers.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told  Bloomberg News 
yesterday that Greece may need more financial help to stay in
the euro.  “We now have a menu, an approach which brings the debt of
Greece back into the realm of what we anticipated when the
second package was installed in February,” Rutte said.  The troika also said it foresees earnings from ECB holdings
in Greek bonds through its Securities Markets Program being
returned to Greece via euro-area members.  The IMF has set the 2020 debt-reduction target as a
condition for continuing to fund a third of Greece’s bailout
program. IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said after the
euro-area finance ministers’ meeting that the fund will examine
the results of the buyback before deciding whether to approve
disbursement of additional aid.  Finance ministers plan to make a formal decision on
 Greece ’s 34.4 billion-euro disbursement by Dec. 13. The
ministers included no details in their statement of how the
buyback would be implemented or funded, or specifics about the
size and what would count as success.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  