-- Groupon CEO Mason to Stay After Board Reviews His Tenure
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-11-30T21:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/groupon-ceo-mason-to-stay-after-board-meets-to-discuss-tenure.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest provider
of online coupons, has no immediate plans to replace Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  after its board met to deliberate
whether to make changes to senior management.  Directors of the Chicago-based company met yesterday and
some members were planning to voice frustration with Mason’s
leadership, a person with knowledge of the matter said this
week. Groupon shares fell in late trading yesterday after the
disclosure that he wouldn’t be ousted.  “The board and the management team are focused on the
performance of the company and they are all working together
with heads down to achieve Groupon’s objectives,”  Paul Taaffe ,
a spokesman for Groupon, said in an interview.  The board was faced with deliberating whether Mason, a 32-
year-old college music major with little prior business
experience, has matured into an effective manager -- or become a
hindrance to growth at the company he helped create. One option
is for Groupon to take a cue from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which flourished
after its co-founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  made way for a
more seasoned executive in Eric Schmidt, said  Erik Gordon , who
teaches at the University of Michigan.  “It’s an oft-told, oft-expected story that the genius
entrepreneur steps aside when he or she succeeds at building a
company big enough to need an experienced CEO,” said Gordon,
clinical assistant professor at the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business. “The Google guys did it, and the results were
spectacular.”  Questions Surface  Questions around Mason’s role had accumulated over the year
since the company held an initial public offering. Growth has
slowed and Groupon’s stock has plummeted as demand for daily
deals dwindled. Mason has struggled to shore up the core
business and push the company into new areas to generate added
sources of revenue.  Replacing Mason would require his resignation or a majority
vote from Groupon’s eight-person board, according to the
company’s bylaws. Though Groupon’s dual-class stock structure
grants Mason, along with co-founders Eric Lefkofsky and Brad Keywell, more than one-half of the voting power in decisions put
before shareholders, each director has the same amount of sway
when voting for the removal of an officer.  Groupon shares fell 8.7 percent to $4.15 at the close in
New York. The stock has dropped 80 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  