-- Mitsubishi Heavy-Hitachi Merge Power Units Deepening Ties
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-11-30T01:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mhi-hitachi.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  agreed to merge energy-equipment businesses with
combined sales of 1.1 trillion yen ($13 billion), deepening ties
between two of Japan’s largest industrial manufacturers.  Mitsubishi will own 65 percent of the venture, which will
make gas turbines, boilers and fuel cells, according to a
statement yesterday. Hitachi will hold the rest. The two Tokyo-
based companies both rose on the city’s stock exchange today.  The combination unites Mitsubishi Heavy’s large-turbine
technology with Hitachi’s expertise in smaller models as Japan
steps up investment in thermal-power plants following a shutdown
of atomic facilities triggered by last year’s Fukushima disaster.
The new business will also compete with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and General
Electric Co. overseas as growth in  Asia  spurs demand for
electricity-generating equipment.  “It’s very positive,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees
the equivalent of $1.8 billion in assets in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. “The businesses have growth potential and
merging with each other gives them a stronger competitive
edge.”  Asia Opportunities  The new venture will aim to become the world’s biggest
provider of thermal-power equipment, Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. It will target
opportunities in Asia and work to bolster its service businesses,
he said. The company is due to begin operations in 2014.  “The merged entity should be able to better compete with
foreign firms,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Shinji Kuroda
and Yunchao Zhao wrote in a note today. “Joint procurement
could result in lower costs for parts and materials.”  Hitachi rose as much as 3.5 percent to 473 yen, the highest
since Sept. 19. It was at 472 yen as of 10:02 a.m. Mitsubishi
Heavy jumped as much as 3.2 percent to 384 yen. The benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.2 percent.  The new tie-up builds up on relations dating back more than
a decade. The two companies set up  MHI-Hitachi Metals Machinery,
Inc. , which makes equipment for  steel mills , in 2000. They
formed a venture for selling trains overseas in 2010, and
combined hydroelectric-power equipment units along with
 Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  last year.  The companies may deepen ties in transportation and could
eventually work together in nuclear power, Mitsubishi Heavy
President Hideaki Omiya said at the press briefing.  “We’d like to cooperate on several fronts,” he said. “It
may take longer on the nuclear power side given the delay in
restarting reactors in Japan.”  Japan shuttered atomic plants after the Fukushima reactor
was crippled by a tsunami, stoking concerns about radiation
leaks and safety standards.  Talks Breakdown  Mitsubishi Heavy last year broke off talks about merging a
number of units with Hitachi, which also makes servers,
construction equipment and appliance, after media reports, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. Television
footage had shown Hitachi’s Nakanishi saying “yes” when asked
whether discussions were under way.  Separately, Mitsubishi Heavy also agreed to sell its
forklift-making unit to affiliate  Nippon Yusoki Co. (7105)  in return
for new shares. Mitsubishi Heavy will own 49 percent of the
 voting rights  in Nippon Yusoki following the deal, as well as
having additional class A stock. Nippon Yusoki surged as much as
26 percent today, the most since 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  