-- Iberia Workers to Strike Week Before Christmas Over Job Cuts
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-11-29T11:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/iberia-workers-to-strike-week-before-christmas-over-job-cuts.html
Spanish airline Iberia faces a week
of strikes in the run-up to Christmas as unions protest job cuts
ordered by parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA. (IAG)   All staff except pilots are called to strike Dec. 14 and
Dec. 17 to Dec. 21, UGT and Comisiones Obreras union officials
told reporters in  Madrid  today. Worker representatives are
discussing the protest with the government and hope to sit down
with Iberia before the start of the planned walkout, they said.  “We will not take part in the orderly dismantling of the
company,” said  Francisco Rodriguez , head of air transport
issues at UGT.  IAG plans to shrink Iberia’s fleet and scrap 4,500 jobs,
more than one-fifth of the total, as Europe’s third-biggest
airline seeks to stem losses that have wiped out earnings from
its British Airways brand. Iberia is struggling to compete with
low-cost airlines amid a five-year  economic  slump and 26 percent
unemployment rate.  Spanish unions are stepping up pressure on companies and
the government and this month staged a second general strike in
less than a year. The campaigners reject changes to labor rules
that make it easier and cheaper to fire workers at struggling
companies, combined with the deepest spending cuts on record.  Iberia had no immediate comment on the strike.  Walsh Cuts  IAG traded 0.2 percent lower at 169.80 pence as of 11:27
a.m. in London. The stock has added 15 percent this year as
Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  follows  Air France-KLM
Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in cutting jobs.  Walsh, who has led IAG since its formation from an Anglo-
Spanish merger in 2011, is seeking a 600 million-euro ($779
million) turnaround in earnings by 2015 at Iberia, which lost
262 million euros in the first  nine  months. He’s pushing through
lower pay for new recruits two years after riding out a strike
by cabin-crew at British Airways.  IAG has also made a bid for shares it doesn’t yet own of
Spanish discount carrier  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) , following the
creation of its own lower-cost unit, Iberia Express.  Iberia pilots, represented by the Sepla union, aren’t
supporting the December strike since they’re bound by terms of
an arbitration ruling on a dispute over Iberia Express.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  