-- Icahn to Drop Oshkosh Offer If Support Falls Short Next Week
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-11-29T17:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/icahn-to-drop-oshkosh-offer-if-support-falls-short-next-week-1-.html
Billionaire activist investor Carl
Icahn said he will drop his offer to buy  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  if less
than 25 percent of shares are tendered by next week.  His offer to buy all outstanding shares of the Oshkosh,
Wisconsin-based truckmaker at $32.50 a share, or about $3
billion, is set to expire at midnight Dec. 3.  If at least a quarter of shares are tendered, “we intend
to continue our proxy fight and extend the expiration date of
the offer until Oshkosh holds its upcoming annual shareholder
meeting,” Icahn said in a statement today. Otherwise, “we will
respect the shareholders’ wishes, drop our tender offer and
proxy fight and move on to other endeavors.”  The statement didn’t say how many shares have been tendered
so far.  Oshkosh encourages shareholders “to ignore  Carl Icahn ’s
last minute plea to support his highly conditional, inadequate
and opportunistic offer,” the company said today in a
statement.  “Mr. Icahn continues to pursue flawed and ever-changing
platforms, devoid of credible ideas or analysis,” according to
the statement.  Oshkosh, the U.S. military’s leading supplier of medium-and
heavy-duty trucks, fell 2.32 percent to $30.69 at 12:02 p.m. in
 New York . The shares are up 44 percent this year.  ‘Strong Signal’  Icahn, 76, is the Oshkosh’s largest shareholder with a 9.5
percent stake. He announced his offer to buy the company on Oct.
11. The board rejected the bid on Oct. 26 and urged shareholders
to do the same. The annual meeting will be held in January.  Icahn wants to replace the firm’s 13-member board of
directors with his own nominees. He has criticized Oshkosh’s
executives for poor performance and led an unsuccessful proxy
fight earlier this year.  In his letter, the billionaire said he’s not asking
shareholders to make a decision on selling their stock at this
time, only “to support an extension of the offer and to send a
strong signal to the Board and management team at Oshkosh.”  While Icahn said he believes Oshkosh has made some
concessions in response to his offer, such as outlining a stock
repurchase program, they’re “too little, too late,” he wrote.  Icahn has said he wants to spin off the company’s JLG unit,
which makes construction lift equipment, because it is more
valuable as a separate entity. Oshkosh bought the company in
2006.  “We believe that it is mandatory that JLG be separated
from the remainder of the Oshkosh assets, something that the
company apparently is not willing to do,” he wrote.  Walter Liptak, an analyst at Barrington Research Associates
Inc. in  Chicago , said he doesn’t believe JLG should be separated
from Oshkosh. He has an outperform rating on Oshkosh.  “We believe that much of Carl Icahn’s premise for the
spin-off of JLG is based on a short-term view of a cyclical
company,” he wrote in a Nov. 27 note to clients. “The spin-off
of JLG would destroy value rather than create it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  