-- Michigan Professor Tied to Insider Trading Case Resigns
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-30T18:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/michigan-professor-tied-to-insider-trading-case-resigns.html
Sid Gilman, the  University of
Michigan  neurologist linked to an insider trading case, has
resigned his university position.  Gilman, 80 was named by authorities as the person who
leaked data to Mathew Martoma, 38, an SAC Capital Advisors LP
hedge fund manager charged with insider trading. Gilman quit his
university post on Nov. 27, Pete Barkey, a spokesman for the Ann
Arbor-based university’s medical school, said in an e-mail.  Gilman had been paid $1,000 an hour to act as a consultant
to Martoma and in 2008 allegedly gave the hedge fund manager
details of a clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s drug being
developed by Wyeth LLC. The neurologist treated Martoma as a
“friend and pupil” while leaking him secret data for 18
months, authorities said.  Martoma has been arrested and charged with  insider trading ,
and is accused of helping the firm make $276 million using the
information provided by the university researcher.  Gilman was chairman of a safety-monitoring committee that
oversaw a clinical trial by Wyeth, now owned by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , and
Elan Corp. into whether the drug bapineuzumab was safe for
patients with mild-to-moderate  Alzheimer’s disease . He also
moonlighted for a New York-based expert network, providing
advice at a fee, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Justice Department.  The university said in a  statement  Nov. 21 that it “is
carefully reviewing all of Dr. Gilman’s activities while a
faculty member.” Barkey said had no further comment about what
other steps the university might take.  Gilman’s Agreement  Gilman wasn’t charged by the  Justice Department . The non-
prosecution agreement between Gilman and the Justice Department,
dated Nov. 15, requires him to forfeit $186,781, representing
his payments from Elan and an expert-networking post that
connected him with Martoma. Gilman was sued by the SEC in its
civil complaint.  The doctor earned almost $108,000 for 59 consultations with
Martoma, CR Intrinsic and a firm referred to as “Investment
Adviser A,” according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. He also served as a consultant to Elan and Wyeth
from 2003 until 2009. Elan paid him $79,000 for his work on
bapieuzumab in 2007 and 2008, the SEC said.  The doctor passed Martoma confidential clinical trial
results showing the Alzheimer’s drug hadn’t worked as well as
had been expected, allowing the hedge fund manager to sell his
stake in the companies before the negative data became public,
according to the SEC and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Professional Career  Gilman earned his undergraduate degree in 1954 and medical
degree in 1957, both from the  University of California , Los
Angeles. He was on the faculties at  Harvard Medical School  and
 Columbia University  before heading to the University of
Michigan, according to the school health system’s website .  He was chairman of Michigan’s department of neurology from
1977 to 2004, with research work focusing on neurodegenerative
disorders including  Parkinson’s disease  and Alzheimer’s. He had
been director of the Michigan Alzheimer’s Disease Research
Center in the university’s medical school, according to the
website.  In 2003, the university hospital’s neurology service was
named after Gilman, a past president of the American
Neurological Association, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  