-- Incheon Airport May Build Terminal for Budget Travelers
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-11-29T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/incheon-airport-may-build-terminal-for-budget-travelers.html
Incheon Airport, South Korea’s
busiest, is considering building a dedicated terminal for low-
cost carriers after budget passenger numbers surged sevenfold in
three years.  Management will decide by year-end at the earliest whether
to build the facility or to convert an existing concourse to
budget operations, Lee Chae Wook, chief executive officer of
operator  Incheon International Airport Corp. , said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday.  “We’ve reached a point where we need to consider a way to
better serve travelers and budget airlines,” he said. “The
number of passengers has increased at a very rapid pace in a
very short time.”  Osaka ’s Kansai airport and Kuala Lumpur have already built
budget terminals, and Tokyo Narita plans to add one, as the
growth of low-cost airlines such as  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  spurs passenger
numbers. The number of budget travelers at Incheon, 50
kilometers (31 miles) west of  Seoul , will probably reach 3
million this year, from about 400,000 in 2009, Lee said.  About 12 budget carriers offer flights to the airport,
including  AirAsia X  and Peach Aviation Ltd. Their passengers
will account for about 8 percent of the 39 million travelers
expected to use the facility this year, Lee said.  Second Terminal  Incheon is already working on plans to open a second
terminal by 2017, which will boost capacity to more than 60
million passengers a year. A budget terminal would be in
addition to this, Lee said. The airport may hit its current
designed capacity by as early as 2016, he said.  The airport operator also intends to build a casino,
hotels, convention center and a shopping mall on land near the
airport by March 2016 to attract more travelers, Lee said. The
development is being undertaken with a venture between  Paradise
Group  and  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)   The company generates about 65 percent of sales from shops,
hotels and other businesses not directly related to flying.
Incheon surpassed Dubai and London Heathrow to become the
world’s biggest airport in terms of duty-free sales last year,
helped by rising numbers of Chinese visitors and the opening of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s first  airport outlet 
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  