-- Indonesia May Change Palm Oil Export Tax to Counter Malaysia Cut
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-11-29T06:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/indonesia-may-change-palm-oil-export-tax-to-counter-malaysia-cut.html
Indonesia , the world’s largest  palm
oil  producer, is discussing changes to its export tax structure
to counter competition from  Malaysia  which will cut tariffs from
Jan. 1 to boost shipments and pare record inventories.  “We will decide soon to provide certainty in 2013,”
Agriculture Minister Suswono told reporters at an industry
conference in Bali, Indonesia today. The tax changes will be
aimed at reducing stockpiles that are near Indonesia’s maximum
storage capacity, he said.  Malaysia, the second-largest producer, will cut the tax on
exports of the crude variety and abolish a duty-free shipments
quota from Jan. 1, moves that will increase competition with
Indonesia. The changes were announced on Oct. 12 after
inventories in Malaysia surged to a record and futures slumped
to a three-year low. Indonesia last year lowered its taxes,
making local crude palm oil cheaper than in Malaysia, cutting
costs for refiners.  “We want the taxes to be similar if not exactly the same
as Malaysia,” Joko Supriyono, secretary-general of the
Indonesian Palm Oil Association, said in an interview. Duties
could range between 3 percent to a maximum 8 percent, he said.
The association has submitted a proposal to the  Finance Ministry 
regarding the tax structure, he said.  Malaysia’s new tax rates will range from 4.5 percent to 8.5
percent, rising as prices climb from 2,250 ringgit ($738) a ton
to 3,600 ringgit. The existing levy is 23 percent.  Indonesia cut the maximum duty on refined, bleached and
deodorized, or RBD, palm oil to 10 percent from 23 percent last
year. The rate for RBD palm olein was cut to 13 percent from 25
percent, while the highest tax for crude oil was set at 22.5
percent. The tax on crude palm oil is 9 percent this month.  Palm oil has tumbled 25 percent this year, set for a second
straight annual loss, after stockpiles surged in Indonesia and
Malaysia. The contract for February delivery lost as much as 1.1
percent to 2,367 ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange today, the lowest price since Nov. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  