-- Insolvent Danish Banks May Win Time in Regulator’s Review
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-30T10:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/insolvent-danish-banks-stand-to-win-time-in-bankruptcy-review.html
Denmark ’s financial regulator is
looking into extending a deadline for banks that fail solvency
tests to give them more time to find fresh capital and escape
bankruptcy.  Banks, which now have 48 hours to come up with new capital
if they fail an inspection by the Financial Supervisory
Authority, could be given a grace period of up to three months
if they commit to selling assets, issuing capital, restructuring
their business or changing management, according to Ulrik Noedgaard, the Copenhagen-based FSA’s general director.  “We’ll have a more patient approach,” Noedgaard said in
an interview in Copenhagen. “If the board is ahead of the
curve, we would clearly just stay away and, if nothing happens,
then we would get closer to the process and potentially issue
orders.”  The strategy constitutes an about-face for the agency,
whose aggressive enforcement has led the industry to allege some
banks were prematurely shut down. The FSA has declared more than
a dozen banks insolvent since Denmark’s property bubble burst in
2008. The regulator argues banks failed to take big enough
writedowns to reflect the slump in the real estate market. House
prices have collapsed about 25 percent since their peak in 2007,
government figures show.  Global Shift  A softer approach from Denmark’s financial watchdog
reflects concern globally that banks may need more time to
comply with tougher rules as much of  Europe  sinks into a
recession. Denmark’s economy barely grew last quarter while a
contraction in the three months through June was deeper than
previously estimated, the statistics office said today. Gross
domestic product expanded 0.1 percent on the quarter and shrank
0.7 percent in the previous period, it said.  In the U.S., regulators said earlier this month they won’t
meet a Jan. 1 deadline for capital requirements, prompting the
European Banking Federation to ask European Union Commissioner
Michel Barnier for a delay.  The Danish FSA’s proposal to give banks more time to raise
capital is under consideration in parliament, along with a more
stringent method for calculating solvency requirements.  Shares in Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender, rose 1
percent to 97.90 kroner as of 11:01 a.m. in Copenhagen, their
highest level since Oct. 30. That compares with little change in
the 38-member Bloomberg index of European financial stocks. An
index of Danish bank shares rose 0.6 percent, also the highest
since the end of October.  First Bail-In  Denmark last year became the first country in Europe to
enforce bail-in legislation, leading to senior creditor losses
after the FSA declared Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S
insolvent.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen, who is also the president of the European Banking
Federation, said last month that stricter writedown rules
imposed by the FSA in April were “extreme” in a global
context.  “Here in Denmark, our approach so far has been quite tough
compared to what you see in other countries,” said Noedgaard,
who became head of the FSA in 2009. The proposal now to take a
“more patient approach,” will be “a really big change,” he
said.  The shift “fits well with the timing,” Noedgaard said.
“We are currently in a quite stressed situation for the
banks.”  Revived Concerns  Continued failures have revived concerns among investors
that Denmark’s banking crisis is far from over. Toender Bank
A/S, a regional lender close to the German border, failed
earlier this month after the FSA said bad loans were 10 times
the size those reported by the bank. It was taken over by
Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s third-biggest listed lender.  Danish banks pay more to fund themselves than their rivals
in neighboring  Sweden  and  Norway . Credit default swaps on Danske
Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender, traded at about 150 basis
points this week, or about 60 basis points higher than contracts
insuring against a default on senior notes issued by Sweden’s
Nordea.  Danske is fighting for so-called Sifi designation, arguing
that a systemically important financial institution would not be
allowed to fail by the government. Making that point clear to
investors would help reduce its funding costs, Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding said in an interview earlier this month.  Roughly a quarter of Danish banks don’t generate enough
core earnings to cover average industry writedowns, the FSA
estimates. About 3.2 percent of the country’s lenders are under
“intensified supervision” because they risk failing to meet
their solvency requirements, according to the agency.  Bank Failures  Three regional  banks (DANSKE)  failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, published Oct. 25. A fourth bank would be close to
breaching capital rules, while the nation’s four biggest
lenders, including Danske, all passed.  Including mergers, the number of Danish banks has dropped
by 28 percent, to about 106, since the crisis started, according
to FSA figures. The numbers don’t include mortgage banks, which
operate under separate licenses in Denmark.  The FSA wants to preserve its right to intervene and even
shut down a bank if it fails to show it’s making appropriate
efforts to turn around its business, Noedgaard said.  “You have to come up with a plan,” Noedgaard said. If
that doesn’t work, “we should have increased authority if the
necessary actions aren’t taken, so that we would take the
necessary actions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at :
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  