-- Investors Unprepared for Bond Danger, BlackRock’s Rosenberg Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-11-29T17:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/investors-unprepared-for-bond-danger-blackrock-s-rosenberg-says.html
Investors are “putting a back-up
generator in the basement of a flood-prone area” by piling into
longer-dated fixed-income securities with yields at about record
lows, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  Jeffrey Rosenberg .  Investors that have fled stocks after the biggest financial
crisis since the Great Depression “have been flocking to fixed
income, and that’s worked, but  interest rates  are at historic
low levels and so there’s a lot more danger in areas of the
market where they think there’s a lot of safety,” Rosenberg,
the chief investment strategist for fixed income at the world’s
biggest asset manager, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Betty Liu.  U.S. Treasuries due in 10 years that are yielding 1.62
percent amid an inflation rate more than 2 percent signals
“your savings are not keeping up with the level of inflation,”
New York-based Rosenberg said.  Average yields  on investment-
grade corporate securities in the U.S. have plunged 112 basis
points this year and reached a record-low 2.73 percent on Nov.
8, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  A 37 percent plunge in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock
index in 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, has
helped to dissuade investors from equities, Rosenberg said, even
with  2012 returns  of 15 percent outpacing the 5.36 percent gain
for corporate and government bonds.  “There’s been a disconnect between investor preference and
investment returns,” he said. “This has been an environment
where investors are driven by fear, fear of a repeat of what
they didn’t understand happened to their equity portfolio.”  BlackRock oversees $3.6 trillion worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  