-- Iran Delay of Reactor to 2014 Gives Talks Time: Diplomats
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-11-29T17:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/iran-delay-of-reactor-to-2014-gives-talks-time-diplomats.html
Iran’s decision to delay the startup
of a plutonium-producing reactor until 2014 creates time for
negotiations and may reduce threats of military strikes to
disrupt the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear work, said four
western diplomats familiar with the talks.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors reported
earlier this month that Iran wouldn’t begin operating a new
heavy-water reactor in Arak this year as the Iranians originally
planned. The  United Nations Security Council  has repeatedly
ordered the country to stop work on the project.  The diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity because
of the subject’s sensitivity, said the delay creates a window of
opportunity for a peaceful resolution to the decade-long
stalemate over Iran’s nuclear work. The Islamic Republic’s
atomic program will be the subject of talks at today’s quarterly
IAEA meeting in Vienna.  No country in the  Middle East  has finished building a
plutonium-producing reactor since  Israel ’s Dimona reactor began
operating in 1963. Israeli warplanes destroyed Iraq’s Osirak
heavy-water reactor in a June 1981 raid. Another Israeli attack
destroyed an alleged Syrian heavy-water reactor near al-Kibar in
September 2007.  ‘Little Concern’  “There has been relatively little concern expressed about
the prospect that the Arak reactor would give Iran a capability
to generate weapons-grade plutonium,” said  Mark Hibbs , a
nuclear analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. “Many of the world’s unsafeguarded nuclear programs --
in  North Korea ,  Pakistan , Israel and  India  -- have pursued the
plutonium route to the bomb using reactors similar to that which
Iran is currently building.”  Arak has no scientific or technological problems and
scientists will begin testing the reactor in the “near future”
by loading inert slugs without nuclear material into the fuel
rods, the  Islamic Republic News Agency  said yesterday, citing
Fereydoon Abbasi-Davani, head of the country’s Atomic Energy
Organization. IAEA inspectors haven’t been able to monitor
Arak’s construction since Iran completed its dome in 2009.  Access Dispute  Access to Arak has been a central point of contention
between  Iran  and IAEA inspectors. Iran says investigators aren’t
entitled to design information about the facility until nuclear
fuel has been loaded into the plant. The UN agency contends the
country is obligated to provide detailed data about the site.  The so-called P5+1 -- comprising  China ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- is seeking another round of
negotiations with Iran in December, the diplomats said. IAEA
inspectors will travel to Tehran on Dec. 13 for talks seeking to
win wider access to the country’s facilities.  Plutonium can be extracted from fuel rods inside heavy-
water reactors to make atomic bombs. North Korea obtained
plutonium for its nuclear weapons from the heavy-water reactor
in Yongbyon. Detonation of one kilogram (2.2 pounds) of
plutonium is equivalent to about 20,000 tons of chemical
explosives, according to the  Federation of American Scientists .  The first plutonium weapon ever used, the U.S. “Fat Boy”
bomb that destroyed Nagasaki in 1945, contained about 6.2
kilograms of plutonium.  Israeli Threats  The U.S. administration of President  Barack Obama  cautioned
against reading too much into the technical status of Iran’s
activities because it offers little insight into the country’s
intentions, a senior official said on condition of anonymity
because of the issue’s sensitivity.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has urged the
international community to set a clear “red line” on the
Islamic Republic’s nuclear work. Netanyahu, up for re-election
in January, said on Nov. 5 that Iran’s atomic program will cease
to exist by the end of his next term if he wins the vote.  Iran should engage seriously in negotiations, an Israeli
government official said today, without commenting on whether a
delay of the Arak reactor would change the calculation over a
military strike to stop the nuclear program.  “I do not want to set a red line or a deadline,” IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano said today at a press briefing in
Vienna, adding that military threats against Iran aren’t
disrupting the agency’s work. “Our inspectors continue to be
able to verify material placed under safeguards agreement.”  Tehran Negotiations  Inspectors traveling to Tehran for negotiations next month
will be ready to visit Iran’s Parchin military complex on short
notice if they’re invited, Amano said. Iranian activities at the
site, suspected of housing a chamber used for nuclear- weapons-
related research, risk undermining IAEA investigators’ ability
to verify the events that took place there, he said.  Iran faces another referral to the UN Security Council in
March if it doesn’t boost cooperation with IAEA inspectors, U.S.
envoy Robert Wood told reporters today in Vienna at a press
conference. The Council has already issued four sets of
sanctions against Iran since 2006.  While Iran has said Arak will be used to produce medical
isotopes, arms-control analysts have called the facility a
“ plutonium bomb factory ” because its production capacity
exceeds what is needed for peaceful purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  