-- Israel’s Iron Dome Did ‘Remarkably Well,’ Panetta Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-29T23:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/iron-dome-system-performed-remarkably-well-panetta-says.html
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said
Iron Dome, the U.S.-funded Israeli missile defense system,
performed “remarkably well” in defending  Israel  against Hamas
rockets.  Panetta said yesterday the system intercepted about 400
rockets fired at Israel, or about 85 percent of those targeted
by its radar and battle-management system as heading toward
populated areas.  A cease-fire last week halted eight days of bloodshed
between Israel and Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip and is
considered a terrorist group by the U.S., Israel and the
European Union. Panetta commented during a Pentagon news
conference with Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak, who said
this week that he is retiring from politics. Barak presented
Panetta with a glass-enclosed model of an Iron Dome interceptor.  Iron Dome, made in Israel by Rafael Advanced Defense
Systems Ltd., is designed to intercept and destroy rockets
capable of flying as far as 70 kilometers (44 miles). Israel has
fielded its first five batteries of launchers and interceptors
costing as much as $90,000 apiece, according to the nonpartisan
U.S. Congressional Research Service.  Barak praised the  United States (X)  for an investment of about
$275 million that allowed Israel’s military to more quickly
deploy the initial batteries in southern Israel.  Asked whether the Pentagon might buy the Israeli-made Iron
Dome to fulfill the U.S. Army’s request for a missile-defense
system, Panetta said any choice must be “cost-effective.” The
Pentagon and Army need to look at all options, he said.  Barak said Israel’s territory this month absorbed more than
1,500 Hamas-fired missiles launched into an area about one-tenth
of Israel with about 20 percent of the population.  Iron Dome was “extremely successful against salvos,”
sparing the military from wasting many interceptors on missiles
not headed toward populated areas, Barak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  