-- Mismatched Data Hamper U.S. Accounting of Medicaid Costs
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-29T17:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mismatched-data-hamper-u-s-accounting-of-medicaid-costs.html
The full extent of U.S. spending on
Medicaid, the  $459 billion  state-federal health insurance
program for the poor, is unclear because of mismatches between
government databases, auditors reported.  A $43 billion gap showed up in a comparison of 2009
spending data from the states, which run Medicaid, and the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which pays for more
than half the program, according to a  report  released today by
the Government Accountability Office. In a separate  report , the
inspector general for the U.S. Health and Human Services
department said the agency hadn’t audited about $4 billion in
payments to doctors and hospitals for installations of
electronic record systems.  Medicaid is central to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law, which will expand the program beginning in 2014 to cover
all Americans earning wages close to the poverty line. Obama has
also prioritized electronic health records, allocating about $27
billion in his 2009 economic stimulus law for medical providers
who install them.  Delays in reporting the data and inconsistencies between
the two databases “limit their usefulness as oversight tools,”
auditors said in the report. States are supposed to report one
set of Medicaid spending to the federal government within 45
days of the expenditures. The statistics can be as many as three
years late, GAO said.  Hospitals are under increasing scrutiny for their use of
computer systems to increase their billings to Medicare, the
$591 billion U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled.
Doctors and hospitals are supposed to prove they are
“meaningful” users of the records to receive government
payments for installing the systems.  Oversight Obstacles  The Medicare agency “faces obstacles to overseeing the
Medicare EHR incentive program that leave the program vulnerable
to paying incentives to professionals and hospitals that do not
fully meet the meaningful use requirements,” the inspector
general, Daniel Levinson, said in his report.  The acting administrator of the Medicare agency,  Marilyn Tavenner , said in a letter attached to the inspector general’s
report that she “does not believe prepayment audit is
necessary” for the medical-records incentives. Auditing the
payments before they’re made could “significantly delay”
reimbursement to hospitals and doctors, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  