-- Israeli Shekel Gains as Bonds Fall on U.S. Fiscal-Cliff Progress
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-11-29T15:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/israeli-shekel-gains-as-bonds-fall-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff-progress.html
Israel ’s shekel jumped to the
strongest level in more than a month and government bonds fell
as investors sought riskier assets amid optimism U.S. lawmakers
will reach an agreement to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The shekel rose as much as 0.8 percent to 3.8140 per
dollar, the strongest intraday level since Oct. 23, before
paring to 3.8179 by 4:53 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The U.S. currency
weakened against 10 of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Yields on 5.5 percent benchmark government bonds due in 2022
rose for the first time since Nov. 21, gaining one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.85 percent. They fell 13 basis
points this month. The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose for the fourth time this
week.  The  dollar index  fell for a second day and U.S. Treasuries
declined as a Bloomberg Global Poll showed three out of four
global investors expect President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders to reach a short-term agreement to avert more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to come into
force on Jan. 1. Exports comprise about 40 percent of Israel’s
economic output, and the U.S. is one of its largest markets.  “The shekel is benefiting from positive momentum in global
markets and increased appetite for riskier assets,” said Eytan Admoni, head of the international department at  Bank of
Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd. “Israel’s economy is still growing at a fairly
solid pace while  interest rates  at 2 percent are relatively high
and are also supportive of the shekel.”  ‘More Positive’  The shekel has climbed 1.7 percent this month, the second-
best performer among an expanded list of 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency’s three-month implied
volatility, which reflects traders’ expectations of currency
fluctuations over the period, declined five basis points to 7.8
percent, the lowest level since Oct. 23.  Indicators for 2013 are becoming “more positive” and
economic growth may surpass the 3 percent forecast, Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Nov. 14. Growth is expected
to slow to 3.5 percent this year, from 4.6 percent last year,
the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said Oct. 15.  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for borrowing costs over the period, rose 1 basis
point to 1.81 percent. The swaps have fallen 13 basis points
this month. Policy makers this week kept the key interest rate
at 2 percent after a surprise cut last month.  Israel’s five-year credit default swaps fell one basis
point to 144, the lowest since Nov. 8, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to meet its obligations.  The two-year break-even rate, the difference between yields
on inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government notes of
similar maturity, shrank three basis points to 212 basis points,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.12 percent over
the period.  The  Tel Aviv  Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, retreated for a second day,
falling 0.1 percent to 279.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  