-- Mississippi’s Pinnacles of Thebes Should Fall: Shippers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-29T22:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mississippi-s-pinnacles-of-thebes-should-fall-shippers.html
Rock formations have studded the
bottom of the  Mississippi  River for eons. With drought-stressed
water levels near record lows, shippers say they must be blasted
away now to keep commerce moving on the nation’s busiest
waterway.  That is setting up a conflict with the U.S.  Army Corps of
Engineers , which has plans to wait until February to award a
contract to remove rocks, known as pinnacles, near the  Illinois 
towns of Thebes and Grand Tower. It’s a complicated project
involving synchronized dynamite blasts that may cost as much as
$10 million.  “We need to spend our due diligence on the front side,”
Mike Rodgers, the Corps of Engineers’ project manager for the
rock removal, said yesterday in a phone interview. “The last
thing we want to do is to get a contractor out there sooner and
to have him not be able to perform the work.”  Corps officials are open to expedited dynamiting of the
rocks and increasing the flow from a tributary to keep river
traffic flowing, Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said
today after a meeting of lawmakers with Jo-Ellen Darcy, Army
assistant secretary for civil works and head of the corps.  At the White House, spokesman  Jay Carney  said the president
is exploring “all possible options” to maintain river traffic.  Slowing Traffic  Mississippi River  barge traffic is slowing as the worst
drought in five decades combines with a seasonal dry period to
push water levels to a near-record low, prompting shippers,
including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , to seek alternatives.
Computer models suggest that, without more rain, navigating the
Mississippi will start to be affected Dec. 11 and the river will
reach a record low Dec. 22, said  Army Corps  spokesman Bob
Anderson, based in Vicksburg, Mississippi.  Industry groups have been pressing to get the work under
way quicker to keep open a route through which $7 billion in
goods pass in a typical December and January. The American
Waterways Operators and Waterways Council Inc. issued a Nov. 8
statement urging Congress to expedite the rock removal.  “There are two small areas,”  Andrew Carter , vice
president of sales and distribution for Knighthawk Coal LLC in
Percy, Illinois, about 66 miles (106 kilometers) southeast of
St. Louis, said in a phone interview. “If they would blast
that, if they could get out there and do that work in December,
we could have close to nine-foot drafts. That solves your
problem right there.”  ‘Simple Deal’  “If this were a business it’s a five-minute
conversation,” he said. “You remove the rocks, you maintain
the flow. It’s a pretty simple deal.”  Lawmakers led by Senators Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, and
 Roy Blunt , a  Missouri  Republican, and industry groups including
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and  American Petroleum Institute 
want President  Barack Obama  to declare a federal emergency along
the river. Demolishing the pinnacles immediately would avert a
“looming crisis” caused by the drought and seasonal water-flow
restrictions on the Missouri River, lawmakers said in a Nov. 16
letter to the Corps’ Darcy.  “It’s going to take some time to get somebody prepared to
do this work,” Michael Petersen, a Corps spokesman based in St.
Louis, said. “It’s not typical work, and there’s not a lot of
folks who do it. Here on the Middle Miss, we haven’t had rock
work done in quite a while.”  Removal Request  The Corps of Engineers by tomorrow plans to issue its
request for proposals to remove almost 7,000 cubic yards of
submerged rocks located on a stretch of river between  St. Louis 
and Cairo, at the southern tip of Illinois.  At least 14 companies, including  Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Corp. (GLDD)  of  Oak Brook , Illinois, and closely held LS Marine Inc. of
Vadnais Heights,  Minnesota , are listed as “interested vendors”
on a U.S. contracting website for the project.  “You can drill it and blast it and dig it out, or you
hammer it and dig it out,” Taylor Luke, operations manager at
LS Marine, said in a phone interview. “If it’s not too dense,
you can try to do it with a backhoe.”  Contractors will need to remove dense limestone, including
some within a fault zone, according to the project’s per-
solicitation  notice . About 6,500 cubic yards of it is located
near Thebes, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) north of the
junction of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, according to
Rodgers of the Corps of Engineers.  Drill, Blast  “The most reliable method that we know of is the drill-
and-blast method,” he said.  In such a process, workers bore a hole to a certain depth
and fill it with explosives and smaller rock fragments, which
helps focus the impact on the river bed, according to Rodgers.
Small, controlled blasts are detonated every 30 seconds or so to
minimize the effect on marine wildlife, he said.  The agency plans to make an award in late January or early
February, and it expects about 900 cubic yards of the most
hazardous pinnacles, near Thebes, to be blasted away within 60
days after work begins, he said. Blasting has to be coordinated
with the seasonal spawning of pallid sturgeon, according to a
 brief  on the Corps of Engineers website.  Barge captains have long navigated the contours of the
Mississippi River made famous by  Mark Twain , carefully following
a channel that winds between submerged pinnacles.  Too Low  Now, the water is approaching levels that are too low,
according to Martin Hettel, senior manager of bulk sales for AEP
River Operations LLC, in Chesterfield, Missouri, near St. Louis.
The company, a subsidiary of power provider  American Electric
Power Co. (AEP) , carries such commodities as coal, wheat, iron and
soybeans along the Mississippi.  “You need to have a foot of clearance between the bottom
of the barge and the bottom of the river,” Hettel said in a
phone interview. The Mississippi river near St. Louis is already
about seven feet low, and the pinnacles will pose a navigational
risk if the water falls another three feet, he said.  The government timed the project for a period when river
traffic and water levels are relatively low. The Corps of
Engineers plans to keep the river near Thebes and Grand Tower
navigable while the rock removal is under way. It is authorized
to maintain a channel at least 300 feet wide by nine feet deep,
according to Rodgers.  “You really can’t time Mother Nature,” he said. “We’re
taking advantage of what she’s providing, which is low water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  