-- Italy Business Confidence Rises After Economic Recession Eased
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-11-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/italy-business-confidence-rises-after-economic-recession-eased.html
Italian business confidence rose
this month as executives grew optimistic about the outlook for
the euro region’s second-biggest economy after the country’s
recession eased in the third quarter.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  increased to 88.5 from a
revised 87.8 in October, Rome-based national statistics
institute Istat said today. Economists had predicted a November
reading of 88, according to the median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Italy ’s economy shrank less than economists forecast in the
quarter through September as the country’s fourth recession
since 2001 entered its second year. Still, as export growth
fails to offset weak domestic demand, the contraction is
deepening and a “very negative context” marks the final
quarter of the year, business lobby Confindustria said in a
report yesterday.  Italy entered the recession in the fourth quarter of 2011
as the global slowdown aggravated the effects of waning 
productivity and tax increases and public spending cuts
passed by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government to contain the
euro-region’s second-biggest debt. The Italian economy will
shrink 2.2 percent this year and 1 percent next, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in
its latest Economic Outlook report on Nov. 28.  Car Sales  Industrial  output  declined the most in five months in
September amid declining orders and sales. Car sales in Italy
fell 12 percent in October.  Consumer confidence  fell in November
to the lowest since records began in 1996 amid rising pessimism
among households on the outlook for growth and jobs.  Separately, Istat said today that the institute’s economic
sentiment indicator fell to 76.4, the lowest since March 2009,
from a revised 77.1 in October as executives of the service
businesses  were more pessimistic than manufacturers about the
economic outlook. Istat originally reported an economic
sentiment reading of 76.6 in October.  Istat originally reported a business confidence reading of
87.6 in October.  -- With assistance from Giovanni Salzano in  Rome . Editors:
 Andrew Davis , Jerrold Colten  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Lorenzo Totaro} in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  