-- Mitsubishi Heavy, Hitachi Agree to Merge Thermal-Power Units
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-11-29T07:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mitsubishi-heavy-hitachi-agree-to-merge-thermal-power-units.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  agreed to merge power-equipment businesses with
combined sales of 1.1 trillion yen ($13 billion) to bolster 
their product line-ups and global sales reach.  Mitsubishi Heavy will take a 65 percent stake in the new
thermal-power venture, with Hitachi holding the rest, according
to a statement from the two Tokyo-based companies today. 
Operations will begin in January 2014.  The combination will unite Mitsubishi Heavy’s focus on
large gas turbines with Hitachi’s expertise in smaller models.
The new business will compete with Siemens AG and General
Electric Co. as economic growth in Asia spurs demand for
electricity-generating equipment.  “It’s very positive,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees
the equivalent of $1.8 billion in assets in Tokyo at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. “The businesses have growth potential and
merging with each other gives them a stronger competitive
edge.”  Mitsubishi Heavy’s earned 36 percent of sales from its
power-systems unit in the six months ended September. The figure
for Hitachi was less than 10 percent.  The two companies already have a venture that makes
steelmaking equipment and another selling trains overseas. They
also last year agreed to combine hydroelectric-power equipment
units along with Mitsubishi Electric Corp.  Mitsubishi Heavy last year broke off talks about merging a
number of units with Hitachi after media reports, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. Footage on TBS had
shown Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi saying “yes” when
asked whether discussions were under way.  Separately, Mitsubishi Heavy agreed to sell its forklift-
making unit to affiliate  Nippon Yusoki Co. (7105)  in return for new
shares. Mitsubishi Heavy will own 49 percent of the  voting
rights  in Nippon Yusoki following the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  