-- HIV Soars Among Greece’s Drug Users Amid Austerity
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-30T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/hiv-soars-among-greece-s-drug-users-while-programs-cut.html
HIV infections among drug users in
 Greece  jumped more than 20-fold in fewer than two years, fueled
by a lack of needle exchange and methadone programs, according
to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.  The ECDC, the European Union agency that monitors
infectious disease, reported 314 cases of the AIDS-causing virus
among injecting drug users in the first eight months of this
year. That compares with 208 for all of 2011 and no more than 15
cases a year from 2001 to 2010, the ECDC said in today’s  report .  While the extent to which Greece’s economic crisis has
contributed to the outbreak is unclear, austerity measures and
high unemployment may fuel new infections in Athens and beyond
the capital unless programs to provide methadone, clean needles
and condoms are expanded, the Stockholm-based ECDC said.  “The current economic turmoil will continue to have
adverse effects on HIV prevention not only in Greece, but also
in other parts of  Europe ,” the ECDC said. “The cost of
prevention to avert HIV infections will be less than the
provision of treatment to those who become infected.”  Waiting lists for methadone programs in Athens were more
than seven years long in August 2010, and about seven syringes
were distributed per drug user per year, according to the
report. Programs implemented by Greece’s health authorities
since the outbreak began have reduced the waiting list to fewer
than four years and increased the number of syringes to 45 per
user per year, the ECDC said. Still, that’s well below the
international standard of 200 needles, according to the report.  Not Enough  Those programs aren’t enough, said Apostolos Veizis, head
of medical operational support for Doctors Without Borders in
 Athens . More comprehensive projects are needed that address
mental health and homelessness, and that include other high-risk
groups such as sex workers and illegal immigrants who are denied
access to health-care services, he said.  “I want to be optimistic, but the 2012 data doesn’t allow
me to be,” Veizis said in a telephone interview today. “If you
don’t address all the vulnerable groups, I don’t think we will
have the picture that we would like to have.”  An increase in the number of prostitutes in downtown Athens
has reduced the market price for commercial sex to as little as
2 euros ($2.60), Veizis said. Some men pay 10 euros more for sex
without a condom, he said.  The Tzaneio Hospital in Piraeus has run out of anti-AIDS
drugs and doesn’t have the funds to order more, the Kathimerini
newspaper  reported  Nov. 23.  Care Capacity  “There are currently concerns that the HIV clinical care
capacity in Athens has already reached a ceiling due to the
increased number of HIV cases detected in 2012,” the ECDC said.
“The response to the HIV outbreak by public authorities and
NGOs is being managed in the context of social uncertainty, with
exceedingly scarce financial resources.”  Greece signed a three-year agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, European Commission and European Central Bank in
May 2010 that stipulated the nation cut health spending to no
more than 6 percent of gross domestic product from 9.7 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers this week drew up a debt-relief
agreement for Greece that reduced the rates on bailout loans and
suspended interest payments for a decade. The government in
Athens was also given more time to repay its debt and will be
able to buy back its bonds.  Even with those measures, Greece’s debt load, which will
peak at almost twice the size of its economy in 2014, remains
unsustainable, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday. The
chance of a default is “high,” Moody’s analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  