-- LivingSocial Cuts 400 Staff Positions in Cost-Saving Move
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-11-30T03:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/livingsocial-cuts-400-staff-positions-in-cost-saving-move.html
LivingSocial Inc., the second-
biggest provider of online daily deals, is cutting about 400 of
its 4,500 employees, while it plans to increase spending in the
areas of marketing and mobile.  The cuts, which affected mostly sales and customer-service
positions in the U.S., were announced today, said Andrew
Weinstein, a spokesman for the Washington-based company. The
moves were the result of a recent operational review in which
management also approved 100 new hires and increased spending in
certain areas of the business to target growth.  LivingSocial is using job cuts to help it cope with the
slump in demand for online coupons that has resulted in losses
and forced part-owner  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to write down the value of
its 29 percent stake.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the leader in online
coupons, is suffering too, as slowing growth and other
challenges have caused the stock to fall 77 percent since its
November 2011 initial public offering.  “We wanted to align our cost structure with the company’s
plans for 2013,” Weinstein said in a telephone interview. “We
also wanted to ensure that we had sufficient resources to invest
in priorities like marketing and mobile while continuing toward
long-term growth and profitability.”  The company plans to hire staff in areas including mobile
technology. Eric Eichmann, president of the international
business unit, is also leaving, Weinstein said. Eichmann didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Amazon reported a third-quarter charge of $169 million
related to its stake in LivingSocial. The online retailer had
invested $175 million in the coupon service in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  