-- Japan, Russia Under Pressure to Renew Climate Vows, De Boer Says
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/japan-russia-under-pressure-to-renew-climate-vows-de-boer-says.html
Japan, Russia and  Canada  face
“significant pressure” to extend carbon-reduction pledges, and
their refusal would jeopardize the  Kyoto Protocol , the UN’s
former climate chief Yvo De Boer said.  The three nations, which agreed to legally binding cuts in
 greenhouse gases  under the 1997 accord, have indicated they
won’t sign up for extended obligations after their initial
commitments end this. They did agree at last year’s climate
talks to work toward a new deal that would take effect in 2020
and include the biggest emitters, especially the U.S. and  China .  “Japan, Russia and Canada will face significant pressure
to change their positions,” De Boer, head of the United Nations
Framework Convention on  Climate Change  until 2010, and now
global climate change adviser at  KPMG  in Amsterdam, said in an
interview this week. Their refusal could alienate developing
nations and even the European Union, he said. “If the EU opts
out, what is left of the Kyoto Protocol but an empty shell?”  De Boer , who will be in Doha next week for the 18th annual
climate summit, said a lack of clarity in last year’s agreement
is likely to muddy negotiations as about 200 nations reconvene.
While envoys made “great progress” at last year’s talks,
agreeing to forge a new climate deal by 2015 to take legal
affect from 2020, they didn’t clearly define the legal nature of
national pledges, he said.  “The Durban agreement is unclear in terms of the
obligations countries will make, a bit like a couple agreeing on
a relationship without it being clear if the purpose is marriage,
or just to live together,” he said.  Broken Promises  This year’s conference also needs to specify how national
vows to reduce emissions can be enforced, and what happens to
emitters that fail on their pledges, De Boer said.  Japan  may agree to a second term of Kyoto without promising
binding emission reductions, Akihiro Kuroki, an adviser to the
government, said last month in Bangkok. He cited the Fukushima
nuclear disaster as one reason Japan can’t promise reductions.  If Japan needs to use more  fossil fuel , it should revise
its climate pledge and stick to it, rather than try to submit a
target without a commitment, De Boer said.  The negotiations should address rewards for keeping climate
promises, as well as penalties for failure, De Boer said. Access
to global funding might be an incentive for reaching climate
targets, while access to funds or global markets could be denied
to underachievers, he said.  Climate Demons  Even with the possibility for disappointment, the backdrop
for this year’s talks is more support for climate action,
De Boer said. Extreme weather events such as  Hurricane Sandy ,
which caused an estimated $37 billion of damage earlier this
year in New Jersey, have put the climate issue back on the map,
especially in the U.S., he said.  “In the U.S., measures to address climate change used to
be demonized,” De Boer said. “Now, more Americans understand
it’s a real issue, and it needs to be addressed.”  Still, De Boer doesn’t predict a bigger U.S. commitment to
climate action this year. The U.S. is among the majority of  
nations suffering from what he calls the ambition gap.   “I doubt any treaty that tries to place legally binding
obligations on the U.S. would make it through the Senate,” he
said. Enforcement at the national rather than international
level is more likely to be successful, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  