-- Japan’s Retail Sales Fall in October as Car Sales Drop
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2012-11-29T06:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/japan-s-retail-sales-fall-in-october-as-car-tv-sales-fall-1-.html
Japan ’s retail sales fell in October
by the most in 11 months as consumers purchased fewer cars and
televisions, adding pressure on the government to stimulate an
economy that may be entering a recession.  Sales fell 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the Trade
Ministry said in  Tokyo  today, after a 0.4 percent advance in
September. The  median estimate  of 10 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a 0.8 percent decline. From a month
earlier, sales increased 0.7 percent.  Weakening consumer demand is dragging on growth in the
world’s third-largest economy before Dec. 16 elections.
Candidates from the two largest political parties have said they
will implement additional spending to rekindle expansion after
exports fell for a fifth month in October and wages stagnated.  “Japan’s consumption has been losing steam since
September, when the government terminated subsidies for energy-
efficient car purchases,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Tokyo. “Weakening overseas demand has hurt
employment and wages, discouraging spending,” she said.  Japanese stocks rose, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
poised to rebound from yesterday’s loss after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said shares will benefit from policy changes if the
opposition wins next month’s election. The gauge ended the day
up 1 percent at the 3:00 p.m. close in Tokyo. The yen fell 0.1
percent to 82.16 per dollar after touching a seven-month low of
82.84 last week.  Fiscal Stimulus  The government has said it will announce a second round of
stimulus tomorrow, tapping about 1 trillion yen ($12.2 billion)
in reserve funds. The plan would follow about 750 billion yen of
stimulus announced last month.  Opposition leader Shinzo Abe today called for unlimited
monetary easing and public spending to create inflation
expectations, which would drive down the yen, boost stock prices
and eventually lead to increased consumption and rising exports.
A poll published in the Nikkei newspaper today found Abe’s
Liberal  Democratic Party  may get a plurality at the election,
with 23 percent of respondents planning to vote for the LDP, 10
percentage points higher than the support for Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s Democratic Party of Japan.  The Nikkei survey was carried out by telephone between Nov.
26-28 and gained 865 valid responses. The paper didn’t give a
margin of error.  Calls from politicians for action by the Bank of Japan
reflect the grim economic situation, central bank policy board
member Sayuri Shirai said to reporters today after a speech in
southwestern Japan. Japan’s economic problems will be the same
whoever wins the election, she said.  Inflation Target  The LDP’s election policy platform called for an inflation
target of 2 percent. In an interview this week, Yoichi Takahashi, an economic adviser to Abe, said the government
should set a price goal and hold the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s governor
accountable if the target is missed.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, signs of recovery are
mixed. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to the lowest
level in more than three years as gains in the won threaten to
slow a rebound in exports, a report showed today.  Hong Kong ’s
October retail sales growth probably slowed, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Australian sales of newly built homes rose for the first
time in four months in October while business investment slowed
less than economists forecast last quarter as stronger mining
spending outweighed a manufacturing decline, reports released
today showed.  U.S. Growth  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at an annual pace of 2.8
percent in the third quarter, more than an initial reading of 2
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
before a government release today. Initial jobless claims
probably fell to 390,000 in the week ended Nov. 24, a separate
survey showed.  In  Europe , a final reading of November  consumer confidence 
in the region will probably remain unchanged from an initial
estimate which showed it declining to the lowest in 3 1/2 years,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. U.K. mortgage approvals
rose more than economists forecast in October.  In Japan, sales of motor vehicles  fell 3.5 percent  in
October from a year earlier, the biggest decline since August
2011, according to the retail report. A government program
subsidizing purchases of fuel-efficient vehicles ended in late
September.  Cars, TVs  Retail sales by machinery and equipment businesses dropped
5.8 percent in October from a year ago as purchases of flat-
panel televisions fell.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  the
Japanese electronics makers reeling from record losses, had
their credit ratings cut to junk by  Fitch Ratings  last week amid
slumping demand for their televisions.  Japan’s economy may fall into a recession in the three
months ending December, based on the definition of a recession
as two consecutive quarters of contraction. Gross domestic
product will decline 0.4 percent in the period, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists, after shrinking 3.5 percent in
the previous three months.  Japanese recessions are officially defined by a government-
charged panel that considers data beyond figures for GDP.  Japanese wages  dropped for seven of the 12 months through
September. Large companies cut winter bonuses by 2.7 percent
from last year to 781,396 yen, a business lobby group said
earlier this month.  “A slump in exports has been hurting jobs and wages,
reducing overtime work and winter bonuses,” said BNP’s Kato.
“These factors will discourage  consumer spending  in coming
months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  