-- Japan Oil Imports From Iran Fall in October on U.S. Sanctions
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-11-29T03:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/japan-oil-imports-from-iran-fall-in-october-on-u-s-sanctions.html
Japan ’s crude imports from Iran
slumped 63 percent in October to the second-lowest level since
the U.S. exempted the Asian nation from sanctions targeting the
Middle East country’s nuclear program.  Oil purchases fell to 469,024 kiloliters, or about 95,000
barrels a day, compared with 1.28 million kiloliters in October
2011, according to data today from the Ministry of Finance.
Imports fell 48 percent from September. Japan’s total crude
 purchases  shrank 25 percent from a year ago to 12.7 million
kiloliters, the  finance ministry  said Nov. 21.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in March exempted Japan
from sanctions on banks doing business with Iran because of the
Asian country’s steps to reduce imports from the Persian Gulf
nation. Since then, the only month during which imports were
below October levels was in August, when they were 418,203
kiloliters, a 67 percent decline from the previous year.  Japanese buyers are continuing to reduce imports of Iranian
crude so they don’t lose the exemption, which was renewed in
September for a second six-month term,  Victor Shum , a Singapore-
based managing director at  IHS Inc. (IHS) , said by phone.  “Japan, like other North Asian consumers that have
received waivers from the U.S. government, needs to continue
efforts to reduce consumption of Iranian oil,” Shum said.
“Japan is not a growing consumer of petroleum so it’s probably
a lot easier for Japan as opposed to, for example, China, which
is a growing market.”  U.S. and European Union officials say Iran’s nuclear
development is aimed at producing atomic weapons, while the
government in Tehran says the project is for civilian purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  