-- Japan’s Ill-Fated Experiment With Money Doctoring
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S c h i l t z
-- 2012-11-29T15:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/japan-s-ill-fated-experiment-with-money-doctoring.html
The business of giving advice
to other nations on how to manage their finances has
always been a contentious undertaking.  In the 1910s, U.S. economists such as  Edwin Kemmerer 
preached the virtues of a stable currency to Mexico and
 Guatemala ; more recently,  Greece  has received plenty of
advice from the  International Monetary Fund .  Much of this counsel has been dispensed with the
ostensible goal of promoting international stability.
But there have been other, less well-known instances of
money doctoring that have served an overtly nationalist
agenda. This was the case with  Japan  from 1895 to 1937,
when the emerging power used money doctoring to check
U.S. influence in the Pacific.  When Japan was forced to open the country to “free
trade” with the militarily far superior Western powers in
the 1850s, its leaders soon understood that the forced
introduction of foreign advisers in the fields of
finance, the military, medicine and policy making
entailed a long-term risk for its sovereignty.  Meiji Elite  When chances for removal of foreign influence
occurred, members of the newly formed Meiji elite were
quick to embark on policies that cemented autonomy and
sovereignty. In the 1880s, Finance Minister Matsukata
Masayoshi put an end to foreign borrowing and
simultaneously curbed the influence of British advisers
in monetary affairs.  After 1890, military victories became a lever for
projecting Japanese monetary and economic influence
abroad. The defeat of  China  in 1895 resulted in the
annexation of  Taiwan  and with it, an overhaul of the
island’s monetary and economic infrastructure. Taiwan
became a laboratory for the currency imperialism that
Japan was to implement elsewhere.  Although reforms were not immediately successful,
advisers learned to reckon with different degrees of
economic integration with the Japanese mainland. Then,
when Japan moved to the gold standard in 1897, it imposed
a gold-exchange standard on Taiwan, which was brought
into a position of monetary dependence similar to the one
Japan had found itself in only decades earlier.  This first example of total subjugation of one Asian
country by another was a harbinger of things to come.
After the Russo-Japanese War,  Korea  was also incorporated
in the empire. The draconian monetary plan known as the
Megata reform effectively relegated Korea to a Japanese
satellite.  Even nowadays, it isn’t easy to account for the
military rigor with which Japanese reformers sought to
control Korea’s currency and national finances. There,
money doctors wanted total control over their patient,
and this aspiration wasn’t only against the latter’s
will. At times, it was simply greater than their concern
with the patient’s health: “Japanese policy was above all
devoted to uplifting Korea, but unfortunately not its
people,” as one observer concluded long ago.  Subsequently, Japan’s heavy-handed interventionism
was increasingly governed by its interests in China.
There, a growing conflict of interest with the U.S. over
control of the region led to the adoption of a policy
known as Pan-Asianism. This led Japanese policy makers to
begin a lending spree using so-called Nishihara loans.  Humiliating Defeat  It was a high-risk gamble to gain primacy in  Asia  by
means of a decisive economic blow (it combined, among
other things, large-scale lending for industrial projects
with a monetary-reform effort). Its architects made a
strategic mistake. Japan suffered a humiliating defeat.
Apart from a token repayment of 5 million yen, it was
forced to write off the whole loans series, amounting to
140 million yen.  The impact of the Nishihara loans was enormous. Only
after the Great Depression did Japanese leaders dare to
return to an audacious plan for currency imperialism. The
time seemed ripe. Having left the gold standard and
adopted a countercyclical economic policy, Japan had
escaped the worst effects of the Great Depression; the
U.S. was still struggling with a lagging economy. Even
then, the geopolitical momentum was deeply anti-Japanese.
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s silver-buying policy
was in no small part inspired by a desire to “spite the
Japanese imperialists in China.”  Japanese policies at the time -- withdrawal from the
League of Nations, the Amau doctrine and full-scale war
with China in 1937 -- only fueled Western suspicion of
Japanese intentions. In 1940, U.S. officials discovered a
large war chest of dollars, fraudulently hidden in the
books of the  New York  branch of the Yokohama Specie Bank.
U.S. reaction was swift and decisive, freezing Japanese
dollars and gold held in the U.S. This financial
blockade, recently documented by  Edward Miller , destroyed
Japan’s ambitions to force the countries within the
Pacific Rim onto a yen standard.  Japan’s fate in the Pacific War is well-known.
Ironically, the end of the war also brought back the
figure of the money doctor, though he would travel in a
different direction. In 1948, the American banker  Joseph
Dodge  laid out the framework of an economic-stabilization
program that did more than underscore Japan’s
subordination to the U.S. It was, at the same time, the
end of blocism as a doctrine, and the consolidation of a
world order under the dollar.  ( Michael Schiltz  is associate professor at the
Institute for Advanced studies on Asia,  University of
Tokyo . He is the author of “The Money Doctors from Japan:
Finance, Imperialism, and the Building of the Yen Bloc,
1895-1937.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Michael Schiltz at  michael.schiltz@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  