-- Zucker Vows Program Shakeup at CNN Stressing News Roots
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/jeff-zucker-says-cnn-needs-new-shows.html
Jeff Zucker , the former  NBC
Universal  chief who was named to lead  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  CNN 
yesterday, said the network needs to broaden its news coverage
and keep viewers longer to compete with Fox News and  MSNBC .  “We need new and fresh programs,” Zucker, 47, said in an
interview. “We need to improve the already good stuff we’ve
got, and we need to find new programs that will make everything
better.”  CNN, the network that invented 24-hour news, has struggled
in recent years to find a formula to compete with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox News and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s MSNBC, rivals that have risen in
the ratings by relying on partisan commentary. Once the leader
in cable news, CNN now has just a third of the viewers who tune
in nightly to  Fox News .  Outgoing CNN President Jim Walton said in July that he
would step down, acknowledging the network needs “new
thinking.” Walton, 54, started at CNN one year after it was
founded by billionaire Ted Turner and helped build the channel
into a dominant news organization.  CNN should re-emphasize breaking news and investigative
reporting to counter its rivals’ focus on opinion and
commentary, said  Tom Johnson , who led the network in its heyday
from 1990 to 2001. Zucker, he said, has a passion for news and
will identify ways to hold onto audiences when current events
aren’t so compelling.  “There is a real kick-ass mentality to Jeff that is a good
quality to have for CNN at this point,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Primary Sources’  CNN misjudged the audience’s interest in lighter fare, said
Porter Bibb, author of the 1993 book: “It Ain’t As Easy As It
Looks:  Ted Turner ’s Amazing Story.”  The network, part of Time Warner Inc.’s Turner
Broadcasting, “steered toward info-tainment and lost sight of
what’s essential to its viewers, and that’s what’s happening
now,” Bibb, managing partner at Mediatech Capital Partners LLC
in  New York , said in an interview.  “CNN needs intelligent investigative stories, thoughtful
commentary and educational insights from primary sources who are
at the center of what’s happening,” Bibb said.  Both executives agree CNN has the talent and resources to
carry off a transformation with news at its core. Bibb would
send program hosts Wolf Blitzer and  Anderson Cooper  back out
into the field, covering stories. Johnson would make greater use
of the network’s 36 national and international bureaus and 900
worldwide affiliates to reassert CNN’s breadth of coverage.  “I would like to see the CNN as the New York Times of
television news,” Johnson said.  New Beginning  For Zucker, becoming president of CNN represents a fresh
start after his stormy tenure at NBC Universal, now controlled
by Comcast. Under his management, NBC fell from first to last
place in prime-time ratings. In hiring him, Time Warner Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  cited his success running the
“Today” show in the 1990s. It was the most-watched morning
news program and the most profitable show on TV, CNN said.  It’s important to avoid the political strains of
competitors, Zucker said. He said news coverage should include
more than war and politics.  “We’ve got to remain true to the journalistic values that
have always been the hallmark of CNN,” Zucker said.  Zucker, who will be based in New York, starts in January
and will report to Phil Kent, CEO of Turner Broadcasting. The
network operates 23 news and information businesses, including
4,000 employees, six websites, 14 channels, and two radio
networks, according to its  website .  ‘Best Candidate’  From the start, Zucker was seen as the best person to chart
that new course, Kent said in an interview.  “Jeff was the clear, best candidate, but I wanted to meet
with a lot of people,” Kent said. “Still, I always knew Jeff
was the right person to get. What impressed me from almost the
first time we met is how passionate he was about journalism.”  In 1992, at age 26, Zucker became the youngest-ever
executive producer of the “Today” show, a job he held for
almost eight years.  Before taking over NBC’s entertainment business in 2000,
Zucker served as executive producer for coverage of events,
including the 2000 election night telecast, the 1993 and 1997
presidential inaugurations and the Persian  Gulf War .  As head of entertainment, and later overseeing NBC
Universal’s broadcast network, film studio, theme parks and
cable channels, he struggled to develop prime-time programs that
could recapture the success of “Friends” and “Seinfeld” in
the 1990s. NBC last led the audience ratings in 2002, according
to Nielsen data.  Leno Move  His decision in 2009 to put comedian  Jay Leno  in prime time
backfired and led to protests from NBC’s affiliate TV stations.
Zucker was replaced as CEO when Comcast took over in 2011.  Since 2011, Zucker has been executive producer of
“Katie,” the daytime talk show of  Katie Couric , the former
anchor of “CBS Evening News” and “Today.”  Despite ratings gains at Fox News and MSNBC, CNN is still a
profitable business and stands to make more than $600 million
this year, Bewkes said at Time Warner’s annual meeting.  Time Warner shares  rose 0.1 percent to $47.04 yesterday in
New York. The stock has gained 30 percent this year.  Advertisers still see CNN as a leading broadcaster in cable
news, according to Todd Gordon, managing director at Magna
Global, the media investment arm of advertising holding company
 Interpublic Group Inc. (IPG)  The network needs to demonstrate it can
keep up with the changing attitudes and appetites of viewers
today.  “It’s an incredibly competitive and quickly changing news
environment,” Gordon said in an interview. “He’s the one who
has to figure that out, of course, but it’s not going to be
easy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  