-- JSW Unit Gets $1.2 Billion to Heal Biggest Loss: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-11-29T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/jsw-ispat-wins-india-approval-for-65-billion-rupees-of-projects.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  India ’s third-
largest producer of the alloy, will start a 65 billion-rupee
($1.2 billion) expansion to turn around a unit that reported the
biggest annual loss among the nation’s steelmakers.  The environment ministry’s first approval to a steelmaker
this year will allow  JSW Ispat Steel Ltd. (JSWI)  to raise capacity at
its factory near Mumbai by 67 percent to 5 million metric tons
and build an adjacent pellet facility and a power plant, Group
Chief Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao said yesterday in an
interview. JSW Ispat will be able to convert low-grade iron ore
into usable raw material, he said.  The expansion may help Chairman Sajjan Jindal’s biggest
 acquisition  cut costs and  turn  to profit in about two years,
according to Niraj Shah, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
India Ltd. The addition will aid JSW, which has been grappling
with scant supplies of ore at its largest plant in Karnataka, to
feed demand in the western part of  Asia ’s third-largest economy
where  power plants , roads and ports are being built.  “The cost cutting measures can now be accelerated and JSW
Ispat will be able contribute positively to JSW Steel,” said
Mumbai-based Shah. “JSW Ispat has been facing tough times and
reporting losses due to high interest rates and high raw
material and power costs.”  JSW Ispat fell 0.5 percent to 9.85 rupees in Mumbai trading
yesterday. The stock has risen 5.4 percent this year, compared
with a 24 percent gain in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive
Index. JSW, which declined 0.9 percent to 729.95 rupees, has
climbed 44 percent this year.  Moving Steel  The increase in capacity will help JSW, which agreed to buy
the unit for 21.6 billion rupees in December 2010, lower its
dependence on moving steel from its Karnataka factory to meet
demand in the western market. The 4 million ton pellet plant
will process low-grade  iron ore , reducing JSW’s reliance on
high-cost ore sourced from external suppliers, Shah said. The
power plant will produce 300 megawatts of electricity,
exclusively for JSW’s needs at the factory in Dolvi, he said.  JSW plans to raise $1 billion in overseas loans to pay the
rupee  debt  of JSW Ispat after absorbing the unit, Rao had said
in October. JSW Ispat, which has a debt of 70 billion rupees,
pays about 11 percent interest, while JSW Steel pays 7 percent,
he said at the time.  The unit had a  net loss , for a third consecutive year, of
2.6 billion rupees in the 12 months ended June 30 due to high
raw material, power and interest costs. The loss was the biggest
among 126 steelmakers in India, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Merger Plans  JSW said in September it plans to absorb JSW Ispat to share
freight, energy and input costs. Curbs on iron ore mining in
Karnataka because of environmental concerns and high  interest
rates  have hindered JSW’s effort to turn around the unit.  A tax writeback helped JSW Ispat return to profit in the
three months ended June 30, after posting losses for four
straight quarters.  Investors will get one JSW Steel share for every 72 shares
of JSW Ispat that they own. JSW Steel’s founders will own 35.12
percent of the merged company.  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  of  Japan , which
owns a 15 percent stake in JSW Steel, will own 14.92 percent of
the combined entity.  JSW Ispat refinanced its debt in August last year, lowering
its interest cost. The net debt of the combined entity will jump
40 percent to 232 billion rupees, Bijal Shah and Jaykumar Doshi,
analysts at  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL)  in Mumbai, wrote in a report on
Aug. 30. JSW Ispat has carried forward tax losses of about 75
billion rupees, equivalent to a tax shield of approximately 25
billion rupees, which JSW Steel may use to cut its expenses,
they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  