-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for November (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-11-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-november-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity eased further in November,
while producers’ expectations were unchanged from last month at
modestly positive levels. Several contacts noted uncertainties
about the upcoming fiscal cliff, and a few producers cited
delayed deliveries and reduced orders from the East Coast as a
result of the  Hurricane Sandy . Price indexes moderated slightly.  The month-over-month composite index was -6 in November, down
from -4 in October and 2 in September (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The
composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes. This marked the first time the composite index has been
negative for two straight months since mid-2009. Manufacturing
slowed at durable goods-producing plants, while nondurable
factories reported a slight uptick in activity, particularly for
food and plastics products. Other month-over-month indexes were
mixed in November. The production index was unchanged at -6,
while the new orders and order backlog indexes declined for the
third straight month to their lowest levels in three years. In
contrast, the employment index increased from -6 to 0, and the
shipments and new orders for exports indexes were less negative.
The raw materials inventory index decreased further from 2 to -
7, while the finished goods inventory index rose from 3 to 9.  Most year-over-year factory indexes decreased slightly from last
month but remained positive. The composite year-over-year index
eased from 11 to 9, and the production, shipments, new orders,
and order backlog indexes also fell. On the other hand, the
employment index rose from 12 to 22, and the capital
expenditures index edged slightly higher. Both inventory indexes
increased somewhat.  Most future factory indexes were unchanged in November, and
remained modestly positive. The future composite index was
stable at 3, and the future production, shipments, and new
orders indexes also recorded little or no change. On the other
hand, the employment index dropped somewhat, the future capital
expenditures index fell after increasing last month, and the
future new orders for exports index eased slightly. The future
raw materials inventory index rose from -5 to 2, and the future
finished goods inventory index also increased.  Price indexes moderated, after minimal change last month. The
month-over-month finished goods price index eased from 8 to 3,
and the raw materials price index also decreased modestly. The
year-over-year raw materials index inched lower, and the
finished goods index also edged down. The future raw materials
price index dropped from 53 to 41, and the future finished goods
price index decreased, indicating fewer firms plan to pass
recent cost increases through to customers. 