-- Kingfisher Misses Estimates as Sales Drop in France, Britain
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-11-29T09:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/kingfisher-third-quarter-profit-drops-on-france-and-britain.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said third-quarter profit slid as
sales declined more than analysts expected in France and
Britain, its two biggest markets.  So-called retail profit fell 5.9 percent to 257 million
pounds ($412 million) in the 13 weeks ended Oct. 27, missing the
259 million-pound average estimate of 12  analysts  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales at U.K. and Ireland stores open at least a year
retreated 3.8 percent, the London-based company said today in a
statement, while revenue in France declined 2.8 percent. Both
results were below analysts’ estimates.  Kingfisher’s markets “remain challenging, with consumer
confidence still weak,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire
said. The CEO is seeking to protect profit by directly sourcing
more products from suppliers and adding common product ranges
across all outlets, cutting the cost of buying merchandise.  “Concerns about the impact of the macro environment are
likely to persist,” Warwick Okines, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG with a hold recommendation on the stock, said in a note.  The shares  fell  as much as 2.2 percent in London trading
and were down 1.3 percent at 276.9 pence at 9:18 a.m., trimming
this year’s gain to 10 percent. That’s less than the 29 percent
increase for the FTSE All-Share General Retailers  Index. (FARETG)   Improved Margins  In the U.K. and Ireland, where Kingfisher’s B&Q is the
nation’s largest home-improvement chain, retail profit rose 5.7
percent to 59 million pounds.  Gross margins  at B&Q widened by
0.5 percentage point due to cost cutting amid what the company
called a “generally weak” selling climate. British consumers
are under pressure as inflation accelerates while the economic
recovery struggles to gain momentum.  Earnings in France, the company’s largest source of profit
where it operates Castorama and Brico Depot stores, fell 9.2
percent to 140 million pounds, or 1 percent at constant currency
rates, as house building slowed. French housing starts have
declined 5.7 percent over the past year, according to government
data, and jobless claims soared to a 14-year high in October.  “The backdrop in  France  remains very uncertain,” Cheshire
said on a conference call, as consumers delay spending amid
uncertainty about how much they will pay in taxes next year
while the government mulls increased levies to jump start the
stalled economy. “It’s a temporary period of uncertainty.”  1,000th Store  Kingfisher, which opened its 1,000th store in the quarter,
also cited adverse currency movements from translating profit
made in euros and Polish zloty into sterling, which it said
reduced profit by 16 million pounds.  “We continue to be concerned that the decline in fiscal
2013 earnings is not just down to the one-offs of the extreme
summer wet weather and the decline in the euro, but is also
structural,” Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce, said
in a note published today.  Profit in Kingfisher’s international business, which
includes a 21 percent stake in  Germany ’s  Hornbach Holding AG (HBH3) 
plus stores in Spain,  Russia ,  Poland  and  China , fell 8.2
percent, or 2.4 percent at constant currency rates. “Tremendous
growth” and new stores in Russia were offset by “very weak”
sales and lower profit in Poland, Cheshire said. Earlier this
week, Hornbach cut its annual sales and earnings forecasts
because of weakening  consumer confidence  across Europe.  Chinese profits declined because of higher marketing costs,
the company said. The first of Kingfisher’s so-called “do it
for me” format stores should open in  Shanghai  in February next
year, Cheshire said on the call.  Sales at stores open at least a year dropped 2.8 percent
across the entire Kingfisher group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  