-- BOE Says U.K. Recovery Depends on Bank Action to Boost Capital
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-04T09:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/king-signals-u-k-banks-need-more-capital-held-against-losses.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee said the U.K.’s economic recovery depends on
banks doing more to improve capital buffers and rebuild
confidence in their balance sheets.  “Where necessary, taking decisive action to tackle
problems in banks’ legacy portfolios and remove uncertainty
about capital adequacy could help to rebuild confidence and so
enable banks to expand their balance sheets more quickly to
support new lending and the wider economic recovery,” the FPC
said in the record of its Nov. 21 meeting, published in  London 
today.  The record follows the publication of the BOE’s Financial
Stability Report last week, which said banks may not have enough
provisions to cover potential loans losses or costs related to
misconduct. The FPC said while stresses related to the euro area
had “reduced significantly,” economic headwinds remain.  The record of the committee’s meeting also showed that some
FPC members disagreed on the reason for low market valuations on
U.K. banks.  “Some members argued that capital overstatement could
account for much of the apparently low market valuation of some
banks in the current environment,” the FPC said. “Other
members placed more weight on market participants’ low
expectations of, and uncertainty about, the profitability of
future bank activity as an explanation.”  FLS Impact  The FPC said the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending
Scheme, which began Aug. 1, had contributed to a “significant
reduction in banks’ marginal funding costs, which had been
partially passed through to some lending rates.” The BOE said
yesterday that banks drew down 4.36 billion pounds from the FLS
in the first two months of its operation.  The panel said that while the degree of capital
overstatement may vary from one lender to another, overall it
was likely to be “material” in the context of the resilience
of the U.K. financial system and the capacity of banks to drive
the economic recovery.  “The estimated empirical relationship between funding
costs and capital buffers suggested that banks would be able to
access funding markets at a more sustainable costs, without
support from schemes such as the FLS, if capital buffers were
expanded significantly,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  