-- Knight Board Said Meeting Today Following Getco, Virtu Bids
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-29T22:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/knight-board-said-meeting-today-following-getco-virtu-proposals.html
Knight Capital Group Inc.’s (KCG)  board is
scheduled to meet today after receiving takeover proposals from
Getco LLC and Virtu Financial LLC., according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Directors of the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company are
mapping their response to the offers, which came yesterday and
helped push the  stock  to its biggest rally in nine years,
according to the person, who requested anonymity because the
negotiations are private.  The offers from closely held Getco and Virtu represent
differing  structures  and will force Knight’s board to choose
between cash and a value ascribed in part by the stock market’s
view of Getco. Kara Fitzsimmons, a Knight spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  “This isn’t a done deal,” Adam Honore, research director
at Boston-based Aite Group LLC, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The odds are pretty good it’s going to be a like
firm from a business model perspective, and there will be cost
savings to be achieved and that would include employees.”  Getco’s cash and stock bid values Knight at $3.50 a share
and retains its public listing, according to a filing yesterday
from the Chicago-based high-frequency trading firm. Virtu is
pursuing a deal to buy Knight for about $3 a share in cash, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said. Knight was
bailed out by six financial companies in August after losing
more than $450 million in a trading malfunction.  Market Makers  Shares of Knight closed at $3.36 in  New York , down 1.8
percent. They rose 15 percent to $3.42 yesterday, bringing the
three-day rally to 37 percent, the most since 2003.  Virtu, Getco and Knight are automated market makers. While
Getco and Virtu operate across asset classes mainly on exchanges
and similar platforms around the world, Knight focuses on U.S.
equities. It’s also a wholesale market maker that services
hundreds of retail brokers including  Fidelity Investments  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  by executing buy and sell orders for
individuals. Getco and Virtu aren’t in that business.  Knight has declined to comment on Getco’s proposal, citing
a policy to not discuss shareholder activities, according to a
statement from the company. Doug Cifu, president and chief
operating officer of New York-based Virtu, declined to comment
yesterday.  Reverse Merger  Getco is proposing a two-step reverse merger in which
Knight would be reorganized as a holding company with Getco
receiving 242 million newly issued shares and warrants to buy 69
million more. The company would make a tender offer for as many
as 154 million Knight shares -- about half those outstanding,
excluding Getco’s current stake -- at $3.50, or about $539
million. Getco’s existing stake in Knight, about 57 million
shares, would be retired.  Automated market-maker Virtu plans to assert in talks with
Knight that the offer is more attractive than the bid announced
yesterday by Getco because it is for all of Knight’s shares and
is more likely to be completed, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  The proposal would be financed by capital contributed by
Silver Lake Management LLC, which owns a stake in Virtu, other
private equity firms and individuals, and a loan commitment of
at least $1 billion led by Credit Suisse Group AG, another
person said. All three spoke on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private.  Knight shares were above $10 prior to the trading
malfunction and bailout, which diluted existing owners by more
than 70 percent. The company dodged bankruptcy almost four
months ago when six financial firms, including Getco, provided
$400 million to restore the company’s capital after the trading
malfunction, when incorrectly installed software caused it to
bombard U.S. exchanges with unintended orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  