-- Won Gains, Bonds Decline on U.S. Budget Deal Optimism
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-11-29T06:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/korean-won-gains-bonds-decline-on-u-s-budget-deal-optimism.html
South Korea ’s won gained as comments
by a U.S. lawmaker and President  Barack Obama  heightened
speculation the world’s largest economy will avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff.  Government bonds  were little changed.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he is optimistic lawmakers
can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later,” referring to
the $607 billion combination of tax increases and spending cuts
due to take effect in January. Obama said more Republicans are
agreeing on a “balanced approach” to cut the deficit, and a
deal could be reached before Christmas. Government reports due
in the next two days may show South Korea’s industrial
production increased the most in four months in October, while
exports rose this month at the fastest pace since February.  “Obama’s comments brightened the outlook for a solution to
the fiscal cliff issue,” said Choi Sung Hyun, a Seoul-based
currency trader at Woori Bank. The won’s gains weren’t
significant as investors remained cautious due to potential
government intervention, he said.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,084.13 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, after weakening 0.2 percent yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, declined eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 5.25 percent. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares rose 1.2 percent.  Tighter Limits  On Nov. 27, South Korea tightened limits on the amount of
currency forward positions banks are allowed to hold in an
effort to curb gains in the won,  Asia ’s best performer since
June 30. The U.S. Treasury Department said it will “continue to
press” South Korea to limit foreign-exchange interventions to
“the exceptional circumstances of disorderly market
conditions,” according to a statement accompanying its semi-
annual currency report to Congress this week.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last month the
government performs “smoothing operations” in the event of
volatile currency fluctuations.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to 67, the
lowest level in more than three years, central bank figures
showed today.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent notes due
September 2017 was steady at 2.90 percent in  Seoul , Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. The one-year interest-rate swap
slipped one basis point to 2.83 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  