-- Kuwait Opposition Rallies Urging Boycott of Tomorrow’s Election
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-11-30T13:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/kuwait-election-set-to-deepen-divide-as-opposition-urges-boycott.html
Kuwait ’s opposition staged one of
the biggest rallies in the Gulf nation’s history today, urging a
boycott of tomorrow’s election and calling on the hereditary
rulers to share power with elected politicians.  Banners at the rally, attended by tens of thousands, read
“Sovereignty resides in the people,” and “Absolute power
corrupts.” The opposition, which won an election only for
parliament to be disbanded, says changes to voting rules are
gerrymandering aimed at creating a docile parliament. The
government said they are intended to ensure stability.  Islamists, liberals and youth groups inspired by the Arab
Spring are among the groups who have been mobilizing street
protests since last year. They escalated this year after
parliament was dissolved in June and the ruling emir changed
election laws.  The government is urging Kuwaitis to treat this election
like earlier ones, and turn out to vote. “If we can’t hear your
voice, how can we understand you?” says an ad on state
television. Without opposition participation, though, the vote
is likely to deepen the political standoff that has stalled
growth and investment projects in OPEC’s third-biggest producer.  “It’s very sad because the government is going against the
wind, the wind of change,” said Saad al-Ajmi, a professor at
Kuwait University and a former information minister, in a phone
interview. “The boycott will be in the area of 70 percent, if
not more. The elections will turn out to be a joke.”  Last time, turnout was approaching 60 percent with an hour
left before polls closed, the state news agency KUNA reported at
the time. No final figure was given.  Economy Trailing  Kuwait’s economy, which relies on oil for more than 90
percent of its revenue, has trailed Gulf peers as political
disputes brought repeated dissolutions of parliament and Cabinet
resignations, and held up a $110 billion development plan.
Projects such as a new refinery and power plant have been
delayed amid opposition from lawmakers.  The country’s benchmark  stock index  is up less than 1
percent in dollar terms in the past year, lagging behind the 4.4
percent increase in a  Bloomberg index  of the biggest Gulf
companies. Private-sector borrowing grew at the slowest pace in
at least 17 years in 2011. The  Central Bank  of Kuwait last month
cut the key  interest rate  by 50 basis points to 2 percent to
spur  growth .  The amendment to the ballot system requires voters to
choose only one candidate, instead of four previously. The
opposition says it will make it easier for corrupt candidates to
buy votes. Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah said last month
he asked the government to change the system to “bolster the
democratic practice” and safeguard national unity.  ‘Reset Button’  The move to amend election rules sparked Kuwait’s most
violent street protests, with several demonstrators including
former lawmakers arrested. The opposition has said it will use
“all constitutional tools” to bring down the new parliament.  Many voters say they will stay away from the balloting.  “I’m boycotting the elections,” said Amer Al-Hilal, a 45-
year-old former diplomat. “I’m weary and suspicious of a system
that offers no reform, no development and no transparency yet
insists on pushing the reset button every year or so until they
like the election results.”  Others are heeding the government’s call. Adel Al-Haddad, a
businessman, said he sees the standoff as a “choice between two
evils” and has decided to vote because of his concern about
what could happen if it escalates.  “The  Muslim Brotherhood  is behind the curtain and could
come and take over like they did in  Egypt ,” he said. “I don’t
want to see any amendments to the constitution or an elected
prime minister. I want stability and continuity.”  ‘More Instability’  Kuwait’s economy will remain stable in the short term,
thanks to more than $300 billion in foreign assets and high  oil
prices , said Jassim Al-Saadoun, head of Kuwait-based Al-Shall
Economic Consultants. Development projects, though, will
continue to lag, he said.  The Al-Zour refinery, proposed in 2007, is still at the
consulting stage after opposition lawmakers challenged the
procedure for awarding contracts. Kuwait last month hired Amec
Plc and Foster Wheeler AG to work on the plan, and said the
refinery won’t open until 2018.  While the next parliament may be more cooperative, there
will be problems when it comes to forming a Cabinet, al-Saadoun
said. Among about 300 candidates, many are little known to the
public, or politicians with a track record of toeing the
government line.  “No one who is any good will accept a part in the new
government,” he said. “There is much more instability to
come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  