-- N.J. Lawmakers Pass Minimum-Wage Boost as Showdown Looms
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-29T21:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/n-j-lawmakers-pass-minimum-wage-boost-as-showdown-looms.html
New Jersey’s Democratic-controlled
Senate approved a bill to raise the minimum wage as a showdown
with Republican Governor Chris Christie looms over a provision
that would allow annual increases pegged to inflation.  The  measure  would raise the wage to $8.50 an hour in March
from $7.25 and tie future increases to changes in the U.S.
Consumer Price Index. It heads back to the Assembly, which
passed the measure along party lines in May and must approve a
new effective date before sending it to Christie’s desk.  Christie has said he’s willing to negotiate a one-time
increase, and that an automatic trigger would be difficult to
change if the economy contracts. He said yesterday that he has
concerns about raising labor costs for employers dealing with
the aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy .  “Let’s be clear on this now: we’ve got thousands of
businesses wiped out,” said Christie, 50. “Is this really now
the moment to say to those folks we’re going to hit you with a
$1.25 increase on March 1, and a C.P.I. beyond that?”  Christie can veto the entire bill or strike out parts of it
and send it back to lawmakers. Democrats control the Assembly,
48-32, and the Senate, 24-16, short of the two-thirds majority
needed to reverse a veto. Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for
Christie, declined to say today in an e-mail whether the
governor would reject the bill.  Plan B  If Christie vetoes the measure, Senate President Stephen Sweeney has said he will push an alternative bill that would
sidestep the governor and ask voters to amend the state’s
constitution to allow the increases. The Senate also approved
that measure today; it now goes to the Assembly.  Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford who is a sponsor of
both bills, has said he would seek to get that question on the
November 2013 ballot, when Christie faces re-election. He and
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from East Orange, say
a minimum-wage increase is needed to help working-class
residents recover from the economic slump.  “It’s about a class of people that we’re forcing to remain
in poverty,” Sweeney said during almost two hours of debate in
Trenton. “This should be the last time we ever have to vote on
this.”  The governor, speaking to reporters yesterday in Trenton,
said Sweeney and Oliver haven’t accepted his offer to negotiate
an increase. He said lawmakers didn’t raise the issue in talks
they’ve held since Sandy hit the New Jersey coast on Oct. 29,
causing 38 deaths and $29.4 billion in damage.  New Jersey last increased its minimum wage in 2009, from
$7.15, to match the $7.25 federal threshold. An $8.50 rate would
put it ahead of neighboring New York,  Pennsylvania  and  Delaware ,
which all match the $7.25 federal standard, and would equal
 Connecticut ’s, according to the U.S. Labor Department.  Democratic lawmakers in New York also have proposed raising
the minimum wage to $8.50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  