-- Nakayama Steel Said to be Seeking Debt Relief From Banks
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-11-29T07:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/nakayama-steel-said-to-be-seeking-debt-relief-from-banks.html
Nakayama Steel Works Ltd. (5408)  is in
talks with at least five banks led by  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306)  to waive loan repayments after three years of  losses ,
five bank officials with knowledge of the talks said.  The lenders include state-owned  Development Bank  of Japan
Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , the officials said,
asking not to be named because the talks are private. The
 company  has asked about 40 lenders to forgive repayment of about
60 billion yen ($731 million) and plans to submit a
restructuring plan in December, one of the officials said.  The Osaka-based steelmaker, part-owned by Nippon Steel &
Sumitomo Metal Corp., Japan’s top producer of the metal, has
struggled to boost sales amid slowing domestic demand and a
stronger yen that helps Chinese and South Korean rivals.
Nakayama Steel, coping with negative cash flows in four of the
last five years, faces higher power costs as utilities raise
rates.  Kansai Electric Power Co., the utility covering the area
that includes Nakayama Steel’s Osaka plant, plans to raise rates
19.23 percent for corporate customers from April to cover higher
fuel costs after  Japan  shuttered most of its nuclear stations
over the last 18 months. Kansai Electric can raise the corporate
power rate without government approval.  Nakayama Steel plans to seek aid from Japan’s Enterprise
Turnaround Initiative Corp. and ask Nippon Steel, its largest
shareholder, to double its stake in the company to 20 percent in
return for debt forgiveness, the Nikkei newspaper reported
earlier today, without citing anyone. Mitsubishi UFJ is the No.
3 shareholder in Nakayama with 3.8 percent, according to the
steelmaker’s website.  Cost Cuts  Yumi Sugimoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nakayama Steel,
declined to comment on whether the company is in talks with its
lenders on debt repayment.  Nakayama Steel  shares  jumped 55 percent, the largest
increase since May 12, 1976, to 62 yen at the close in  Tokyo .
The shares have plunged 11 percent this year, compared with the
benchmark Topix Index’s 7 percent gain.  A rise in power prices by Japan’s utilities may mean a 3
yen increase in the cost of a kilowatt hour and translate into a
100 billion-yen jump in costs for steel producers, Hiroshi Tomono, president and chief operating officer of Nippon Steel,
said on Nov. 21 in Tokyo.  Nakayama has begun a cost-cutting program that includes
reducing its workforce. The number of employees shrunk by 200 by
October, Nakayama said in a Nov. 9 financial report on its
website. The company is also seeking voluntary retirement and
forecasts that will help retire a further 240 staff, the report
says.  Nakayama had 1,554 staff as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuji Okumura, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ,
which is Nakayama Steel’s largest lender, declined to comment.
Yasushi Kojima, a spokesman for Sumitomo Mitsui Trust, and
Daisuke Inaba, a spokesman for Development  Bank of Japan (8301) , also
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyl at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  