-- Nazi-Loot Panel Hopes Fade in U.S., Forcing Court Action
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/nazi-loot-panel-hopes-fade-in-u-s-forcing-court-action.html
The U.S. government has abandoned
plans to create an independent panel to assess claims for Nazi-
looted art in museums, a State Department official said, leaving
claimants with few options besides costly lawsuits.  Douglas Davidson, U.S. Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues,
told a conference in The Hague that a panel proposed by  Stuart Eizenstat , the former Special Adviser to the Secretary of State
for Holocaust Issues, proved “easier to describe than to
realize.” The small proportion of state-owned museums and the
lack of a “culture ministry” to which the panel could report
were among “far too many impediments,” Davidson said.  In what has become known as the biggest art heist in
history, the Nazis seized hundreds of thousands of works from
Jewish private collections between 1933 and 1945 as part of
their policy of racial persecution. Thousands were returned to
national governments and landed in public museums. Others
entered the art market to be acquired by museums around the
world without the consent or knowledge of the rightful owners.  The conference in  the Hague  brought together the
restitution advisory panels of the U.K.,  Austria ,  Netherlands ,
 Germany  and France, established to handle a wave of art claims
brought by the heirs of Nazi plunder victims and in response to
an international agreement called the  Washington  Principles
endorsed by 44 countries, including the U.S. in 1998.  “To see how far ahead of us the Europeans have come is
really embarrassing,” said Thomas Kline, an attorney who
specializes in art at Andrews Kurth LLP in Washington.  Plunder Victims  The  Washington Principles  called for a “just and fair
solution” for victims of Nazi art plunder and their heirs and
urged nations to develop “alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms for resolving ownership issues.”  Delegates agreed that lawsuits are rarely the best way to
decide claims of Nazi-looted art because of the complexity of
the issues and the length of time since the crime. Statutes of
limitations and other technical defenses are regularly applied,
giving claimants little chance of success.  Nazi-loot claims can be a “lawyers’ amusement arcade,”
and end up being far more expensive than the items at stake,
said Norman Palmer, visiting professor of Law at  King’s College
London  and an advisor to the  U.K. Spoliation Advisory Panel .  The European panels, with the exception of the U.K., said
the number of claims submitted to them shows no signs of
abating. The Dutch Restitutions Committee had handled 130 cases
by the end of 2011. Another 18 cases are in the pipeline.  Growth Expectation  “We expect this number to grow considerably in the
future,” Dutch Culture Minister Jet Bussemaker told delegates
in The Hague.  The Austrian panel had issued 274 decisions by the end of
2011, with only 29 rejecting claims.  “I don’t see an end to it,” said Eva Blimlinger, the
deputy director of the Austrian restitution council. “We have
12 or 13 more cases in the pipeline.”  “There is a lot to be done,” said Michel Jeannoutot,
Chair of the Commission for Compensation of Spoliation Victims
in  France . The commission has so far received 877 claims.  Wolf Tegethoff, a member of the German  advisory panel ,
reported a steady increase in the number of claims in the past
years and said he expects it to continue for “the next couple
of decades.”  The U.K. panel has a “sunset clause” providing for it to
close in 2020. Donnell Deeny, Chair of the U.K. Spoliation
Advisory Panel, said the number of cases is dwindling.  “I will be surprised if there are any claims after 2020,”
Deeny said.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in The Hague at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 