-- Netflix Faces Fresh Competition in Mexico
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-30T21:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/netflix-faces-fresh-competition-in-mexico.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s biggest
video-streaming service, faces fresh competition from  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , the largest mobile-phone company in the Americas,
which is introducing a rival service in  Mexico  today.  The new offering, called Clarovideo, will be available at a
cost of 69 pesos ($5.30) a month, America Movil said in a
statement. The company already offers a similar service in
Colombia, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, letting viewers watch
television shows and movies over an Internet connection.  The move puts more pressure on Netflix in a region that the
U.S. company sees as one of its biggest avenues for growth.
Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, began selling streaming
subscriptions in Mexico last year for 99 pesos a month. Joris Evers, a spokesman for Netflix, said the market is large enough
for more than one service.  “There will be many players,” he said. “We want to be
the best at it and be a great option for consumers. People will
likely subscribe to multiple services, though.”  America Movil ’s Uno TV unit already provides free online
programming, including news, sports and special events such as
an annual arts festival in Guanajuato, Mexico. The television
industry in  Latin America  has voiced concerns about America
Movil’s push into the market, given the company’s dominance in
phone and Internet service.  Regulatory Questions  Emilio Azcarraga, the billionaire chief executive officer
of Mexico’s biggest broadcaster, Grupo Televisa SAB, called for
regulatory scrutiny of online broadcasts last year, and TV
Azteca SAB filed a complaint against America Movil with the
Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission. The agency hasn’t
yet addressed the complaint.  America Movil fell 1.2 percent to 15.28 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, where it is based. Netflix gained 0.4 percent to
$81.71.  Netflix faces a different kind of challenge at home, where
activist investor  Carl Icahn  has lobbied for the company to put
itself up for sale. Netflix adopted a so-called poison pill on
Nov. 5 to defend against a hostile bid. The following week, CNBC
reported that Icahn was reaching out to potential buyers.  Netflix remains the dominant provider of streaming video.
It captured 33 percent of prime-time Web viewing based on
 Internet traffic  in September, eclipsing Amazon.com Inc., Hulu
LLC and Time Warner Inc.’s HBO Go by a multiple of at least 18,
according to a report this month from Sandvine Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  