-- New York Grades Insurers on Sandy Claims After Complaints
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-30T01:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/new-york-to-grade-sandy-payouts-of-insurers-led-by-aig-allstate.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  are among insurers being evaluated by New
York regulators for their response to superstorm Sandy, Governor
Andrew M. Cuomo said.  Regulators led by Benjamin Lawksy, head of the New York
Department of Financial Services, are  publishing  the number and
size of claims that more than 20 insurers pay as well as the
frequency of customer complaints, Cuomo said today in a
statement. Cuomo reduced to six business days from 15 the amount
of time insurers have to send adjusters to homes and businesses
and permitted expedited licensing for out-of-state adjusters.  Policyholders “just can’t get the insurance companies to
respond, they can’t get the adjusters to the house, and
therefore, they can’t get the construction started,” Cuomo said
today at a press conference in  Manhattan , without naming the
insurers. “If an insurance company is not providing adequate
service or fair service, then the state could decide that they
shouldn’t be performing that service in the state of New York.”  Homeowners and businesses are seeking payouts on policies
to help cover losses from Sandy, which lashed the U.S. Northeast
last month, killing more than 100 people and cutting off power
to 8 million customers. Allstate, the largest publicly traded
U.S. auto and home insurer, said yesterday that catastrophes led
by Sandy cost $1.08 billion in October.  Vast Majority  The “vast majority” of claims from Sandy have already
been filed and are being evaluated, Ellen Melchionni, president
of the  New York  Insurance Association, said by phone. That makes
Cuomo’s decision to cut the time frame for companies to send out
adjusters unnecessary, she said.  During “many other crises like this, regulators actually
relax regulations knowing that it may be difficult and
challenging to respond,” she said “This administration has
gone the opposite road.”  Jaclyn Darrohn, an Allstate spokeswoman, said the insurer
has thousand of employees helping with Sandy-related efforts,
and put 24 mobile claim centers and catastrophe-response
vehicles in the affected regions.  “Allstate was typically the first company present in the
most devastated areas following the storm,” Darrohn said in an
e-mailed statement.  Historic Volume  Cuomo said he’s met with insurers and understands that
their response has been slowed by the “historic volume” of
claims. Still, dealing with insurers is “the largest single
hurdle people are facing,” he said. Insurers in the U.S. are
overseen by state regulators, and Lawsky’s department monitors
the industry in New York state.  Allstate has received 72,504 claims and 183 complaints, for
a ratio of 0.25 percent, the New York regulator said on its
 website . Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., the largest U.S. auto and home insurer, has
received 48,109 claims and 84 complaints, a ratio of 0.17
percent. The AIG ratio was 0.08 percent.  “We have been engaged with Governor Cuomo and
Superintendent Lawsky and fully support their new time frame for
responding to homeowners claims,” said Jim Ankner, a spokesman
for AIG. State Farm’s Rachael Risinger said the company is
committed to serving clients.  “It is vital that  New Yorkers  receive their claim
settlements as soon as possible, so that they can rebuild,”
Cuomo said in a statement. “We must do everything possible to
make sure we hold insurance companies accountable to their
customers.”  Allstate Claims  About 66 percent of Allstate’s catastrophe claims in
October came from New York, and  New Jersey  accounted for 20
percent, the Northbrook, Illinois-based company said.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said
this week that it may pay $900 million in claims related to
Sandy. Total market losses could be as much as $25 billion, the
Zurich-based company said. AIG, based in New York, hasn’t
disclosed claims from Sandy.  Chubb Corp. (CB) ,  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG)  are among other insurers evaluated on the New York
website.  “Our companies have committed significant resources to
help their customers during these difficult times,” the
 Property Casualty Insurers Association of America  said in an e-
mailed statement. “Adjusters for all of our members are working
extraordinary hours to help every one of their customers in
need.”  To see the New York ratings, see:
 http://www.nyinsure.ny.gov/nys-insurer-report-cards.html   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  