-- New Oriental Jumps to July High on Muddy Waters’ Backdown
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-29T20:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/new-oriental-jumps-to-july-high-on-muddy-waters-backdown.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  surged to a four-month high in New York on
speculation short seller  Carson Block ’s retreat from Chinese
equities is bolstering confidence in the stock.  Shares of New Oriental jumped 8.3 percent to $20.96 by 2:51
p.m. in New York, poised for the highest close since July 16.
The Beijing-based education services provider was the second-
biggest gainer on the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the
most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S., which rose 0.3
percent to 92.23.  Block, who has alleged Chinese companies listed in  North
America  have misstated earnings and assets and bet on their
declines, said in a Bloomberg TV interview Nov. 27 that he had
lost interest in short-selling the stocks, claiming the
government works with companies to conceal fraud. The founder
and research director of  Muddy Waters  LLC, Block said in July
that New Oriental inflated its cash balances to gain approval
from its auditor, spurring the stock’s slide to a five-year low.  “It would be a very big relief for New Oriental investors
to see Muddy Waters getting out of China,” Ella Ji, an analyst
at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who rates New Oriental the
equivalent of buy, said by phone today. “A big overhang just
removed itself. This shows that very likely Muddy Waters doesn’t
really have any more evidence.”  New Oriental said at the end of September that a probe
found no evidence to support accounting fraud allegations made
by the short seller. Block countered the results by saying he
was “more convinced than ever” that the company was misleading
investors.  Phone calls to New Oriental by  Bloomberg News  seeking
comment on Block’s shorting decision weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  