-- News Corp. Evidence Points to Cover-Up, Leveson Reports
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-29T17:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/news-corp-evidence-points-to-cover-up-leveson-reports.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s testimony about how a
phone-hacking scandal was handled points to a possible cover-up
at multiple levels within the organization, according to the
findings of an inquiry into media ethics.  Judge Brian Leveson collected evidence from newspaper
owners, reporters and people who counted themselves victims of
bad behavior by U.K. media. His report today called for the
formation of an independent media regulator, backed by
legislation, that would have the power to impose fines of as
much as 1 million pounds ($1.6 million).  News Corp.’s managers showed a lack of curiosity and
urgency in sharing information about claims that reporters had
been hacking into voice mails for stories, Leveson said. Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch and son  James Murdoch , who ran
the U.K. publishing business, said that they weren’t aware that
phone hacking and bribery were used frequently by reporters and
said that they had relied on police investigations and an
internal probe to assure them that the activity was limited.  “Questions were there to be asked and simple denials
should not have been considered sufficient,” Leveson said in
his nearly 2,000-page  report . “This suggests a cover-up by
somebody and at more than one level.”  A News Corp. spokeswoman declined to comment.  Governance Failure  James Murdoch said in a letter to the U.K. Parliament this
year that he regretted not digging deeper into hacking
allegations and that he had relied on  Colin Myler  and Tom Crone,
the editor of the News of the World and the tabloid’s lawyer, to
keep him abreast of developments at the publication. Myler and
Crone said they warned him about the potential that hacking was
more widespread when they asked him to approve a settlement with
a phone-hacking victim that ultimately cost 700,000 pounds.  James Murdoch said that while he had received an e-mail in
2008 that may have tipped him off to wider allegations, he
didn’t read it because it came on a Saturday. Leveson said that
while Murdoch may have been ignorant of the facts “as a result
of chance,” there is no evidence that Myler and Crone tried to
conceal information. There was also no indication that upper
management pushed to find out what was going on.  “If News Corporation management, and in particular  Rupert
Murdoch , were aware of the allegations, it is obvious that
action should have been taken to investigate them,” Leveson
said. “If News Corporation were not aware of the allegations
which, as Rupert Murdoch has said, have cost the corporation
many hundreds of millions of pounds, then there would appear to
have been a significant failure in corporate governance and in
particular in the effective identification and management of
risks.”  Civil Settlements  News Corp. has spent more than $315 million on civil
settlements, legal fees and costs of closing the News of the
World.  More than 1,000 submissions were made to the inquiry from
interested parties as diverse as the actor  Hugh Grant , Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and the family of Madeleine McCann, a
missing child, while its website had more than 1.8 million hits
and 652,000 unique visitors from more than 200 countries,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  