-- News Corp. Lobbying Endangered BSkyB Bid, Leveson Inquiry Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-29T13:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/news-corp-lobbying-endangered-bskyb-bid-leveson-inquiry-finds.html
The “intimacy, charm, volume and
persistence” of a  News Corp. (NWSA)  lobbyist’s contacts with the U.K.
government could have put the company’s bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  into danger, a judge concluded.  In his four-volume report on media ethics published today,
judge Brian Leveson said that had the extent of the
communication between News Corp.’s Fred Michel and  Adam Smith ,
an aide to then-Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , in the first half
of 2011 become known, it would have left any government decision
to allow the bid open to legal challenge. Smith resigned this
year when  text messages  between himself and Michel were
published.  Leveson, who made little criticism of individual
politicians in his report, said Hunt had been unwise to ask
Smith to liaise with Michel, a situation made worse by “a lack
of supervision.” He said Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond 
had made “wholly inappropriate” arguments in support of the
takeover. New York-based News Corp. abandoned its 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.5 billion) bid for full control of BSkyB in July 2011
to help contain the phone-hacking scandal at its News of the
World tabloid.  “All the effort and good work which was done on the bid
was put in jeopardy by a serious hidden problem,” Leveson wrote
of the Michel-Smith contacts. He said they would have created
“a powerful argument that there was at least the appearance of
bias.”  Cameron’s Contacts  The judge said Hunt should have told Cameron about the
extent of private contacts he’d had with News Corp. when he was
given responsibility for overseeing the takeover at the end of
2010. While Hunt then cut back his contacts, Leveson said he
should have told Michel not to communicate with him at all.
Hunt was also advised by an official in his department to cancel
a meeting for a drink with  Andy Coulson , Cameron’s director of
communications and the former editor of the News of the World.  “He’s so closely linked to them that if you were seen it
wouldn’t look great” while the decision on BSkyB was pending,
Hunt’s special adviser Sue Beeby wrote in an e-mail submitted to
the inquiry.  Leveson also criticized the culture and governance at News
Corp.’s News Of The World, which was closed after the extent of
phone-hacking there became clear. He said that far from
assisting police during a 2006 investigation, “cooperation, if
provided, was minimal.” On one occasion, “when police had
sought to execute a warrant, they were confronted and driven off
by the staff” at the paper.  “Very serious concerns arise about the governance at the
News of the World, the attitude of management and staff to the
right to privacy, the attitude of management and staff to the
law and the attitude of management to public scrutiny,” Leveson
wrote. “The persistent failure of the company properly to
investigate allegations that methods of unlawful interception
were both widely in use and approved by management within the
organization was a significant failure of governance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  