-- NextGen Air System Jeopardized by Lawmaker Interference
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/nextgen-air-system-jeopardized-by-lawmaker-interference.html
Benefits from the planned $42
billion investment in a new U.S. air-traffic control system
depend on being able to combine and move hundreds of radar rooms
that are obsolete or can’t accommodate new equipment.  That modernization effort is at risk because U.S. lawmakers
have blocked several attempts to merge such Federal Aviation
Administration facilities, according to agency data compiled by
Bloomberg and interviews with former FAA officials.  “You tell a congressman that you’re pulling a center out
of his or her district, you’re going to have a gigantic
scream,” said George Donohue, a former FAA associate
administrator. “When you talk about consolidating big,
expensive, redundant facilities, Congress just won’t let it get
done.”  The program known as  NextGen  involves using global-
positioning satellite technology to replace radar to track
aircraft and giving controllers better communication tools
including an e-mail-like link to pilots. The FAA projects
NextGen will save airlines $24 billion in fuel, delays and other
expenses by 2020 by letting planes fly more direct routes and
closer to each other.  The agency has come under  congressional criticism  for
delays and cost overruns on some early parts of NextGen,
including a new computer system to monitor traffic and serve as
a backbone for much of the new technology. The bricks-and-mortar
network of more than 500 radar rooms and towers form the low-
tech side of the system.  Patchwork System  The radar rooms -- which range from small facilities at
rural airports to centers overseeing thousands of miles of
airspace -- were located based on 1950s technology, Donohue
said.  That created a system in which jets flying into congested
airspace near  Chicago  or  New York  might have to follow
serpentine routes dictated by facility boundaries. Air-traffic
centers must be merged for those routes to become more
efficient, said  Donohue , who is an emeritus engineering
professor at  George Mason University  in Virginia.  More than half of those facilities were more than 30 years
old, which is beyond their useful lifetime, according to a 2008
 study  by the Transportation Department’s inspector general. An
unspecified number are so old they can’t accommodate the new
NextGen equipment, it said.  Political Pressure  “The FAA’s ability to meet the future needs of the
aviation system, including the implementation of NextGen,
fundamentally relies on the agency’s ability to optimize our
facilities and workforce,” David Grizzle, the FAA’s air-traffic
chief, said in  testimony  at a May 31 congressional hearing.  Logs of contacts between members of Congress and the FAA
obtained under public records requests by Bloomberg show at
least 26 cases of lawmakers from both parties lobbying the
agency on controller staffing levels or the location of air-
traffic facilities from 2010 through May 2012.  The pressure included a 2010 letter from 16 of  Ohio ’s 18
members of Congress opposing an FAA plan to merge local Terminal
Radar Approach Control rooms, or TRACONs, into a newer,
centralized facility. The FAA put the effort on hold, according
to an inspector general report.  Representative Alcee Hastings, a Florida Democrat, fought
off the FAA’s attempt to close a TRACON at Palm Beach
International airport in his district and move it to Miami.
TRACONs oversee traffic in a radius of about 40 miles (64
kilometers) around an airport and as high as 17,000 feet (5,182
meters).  Safety Concerns  The move would have created a safety hazard and wasn’t
adequately planned, Hastings said in an interview.  The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union
representing more than 15,000 members, has also opposed some FAA
consolidations. The union, which hasn’t objected to all such
plans, wants to be consulted in merger proposals and believes
they often prove costlier than first thought, NATCA President
Paul Rinaldi said in an e-mail.  The FAA could do a better job of selling consolidations if
it had more reliable data on how many controllers were needed at
each facility and by involving union members in decisions, said
James Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who headed the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee until his defeat in
2010.  “These are big-hit, very visible issues,” Oberstar said.
“You have to make the case for that and they haven’t.”  ‘Flawed’ Estimates  Former FAA officials have acknowledged the agency has
underestimated costs of merging facilities. A 2010 inspector
general  review  of a proposal to move a radar room from Boise,
 Idaho , to  Salt Lake City  found cost estimates were “flawed and
lacked transparency.”  Another example of a consolidation marred by surprise costs
occurred in 2001, when the FAA merged several Georgia facilities
into a TRACON around Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International,
the world’s busiest airport.  Ninety-four percent of the controllers transferring from
smaller locations couldn’t qualify to work the more complex
traffic at their new facility. Under an agreement between the
FAA and the union, those workers kept raises they’d received to
transfer even after moving back to smaller TRACONs, according to
the inspector general. Costs of the move were 53 percent above
estimates, most of which was due to the pay raises, the report
said.  Cost Increases  Though the FAA hasn’t completed plans for relocating or
merging facilities, the process could involve most of the U.S.’s
more than 15,000 controllers, according to a July 17 inspector
general’s  report . Preliminary plans to merge 51 TRACONs and en-
route centers, which oversee traffic outside TRACON boundaries,
from  Illinois  to  Maine  into four facilities would effect almost
3,000 controllers and more than 1,000 managers and technicians,
according to the report.  Merging that many facilities presents many hurdles,
according to the inspector general. The agency must persuade the
controllers, some of whom are eligible to retire, to move and
must negotiate with the union over retraining, moving-related
bonuses and moving expenses.  Congress in a  law  passed Feb. 14 ordered the FAA to come up
with a list of air-traffic facilities to merge. If lawmakers
don’t vote down the plan, the FAA must move forward.  “The FAA continues its work to develop a comprehensive
plan for the consolidation and realignment of some of the
agency’s 500 existing air traffic facilities,” the agency said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  