-- Nigeria May Levy Fines on Phone Companies Including MTN
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-30T13:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/nigeria-may-levy-more-fines-on-phone-companies-for-bad-service.html
Nigeria may levy more fines against
telecommunications companies if their service hasn’t improved by
the time quality checks are made in December, Communications
Technology Minister Omobola Johnson said.  The telecommunications regulator fined companies including
 MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  a combined
1.17 billion naira ($7.4 million) in May for failing to meet
minimum service standards. Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous
country with more than 160 million people, is targeting voice
penetration of close to 100 percent by 2014-2015.  “Fining isn’t something we want to do every six months, so
we’re working very closely with them,” Johnson said in a Nov.
26 interview in the southern city of Warri. “If they do not
meet those quality of service indicators, they will get fined,”
the minister said, adding that most customers say the service
hasn’t improved.  The  Nigerian Communications Commission  fined South Africa-
based MTN and Abu Dhabi-based Emirates, or Etisalat, 360 million
naira each for failing to meet the service standards. New Delhi-
based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  was fined 270 million naira and
domestic operator Globacom Ltd. 180 million naira.  The regulator threatened last year to stop operators from
signing new customers unless they reduced the number of dropped
calls and improved connections. MTN and Etisalat cited lack of
power and sabotage as reasons for the poor service.  Funmi Omogbenigun, general manager for corporate affairs
for MTN Nigeria, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment. Officials at Etisalat Nigeria, Airtel Bharti and
Globacom couldn’t be reached for comment.  Power Cuts  While the companies need to increase their spending on
infrastructure, the ministry is trying to “remove a lot of
delays and bureaucratic bottlenecks that are in their way,”
Johnson said. Power cuts are a daily occurrence in  Nigeria ,
where demand for electricity is almost double the supply of
about 4,000 megawatts.  MTN is investing $1.4 billion in Nigeria this year to
improve infrastructure and capacity. Etisalat said after it was
fined in May that it will spend more than $500 million on its
network.  The ministry has banned some sales promotions, including
lotteries for free minutes, because they added pressure to the
system, Johnson said.  Disruptions to the service have also been caused by attacks
from the Islamist militant group Boko Haram, which said it’s
targeting telecommunications companies because they’re helping
the authorities to track them.  The group, which says it wants to impose Shariah law in the
country, torched transmission towers belonging to MTN,  Airtel
Nigeria , Visafone Communications Ltd and Starcomms Plc in
September, according to the police.  Such incidents are becoming less frequent as the
authorities tackle the situation, Johnson said. “The telecoms
companies are doing their bit in terms of intelligence and
analysis of the information that they get,” she said.  If the necessary infrastructure is put in place, voice
penetration should reach almost 100 percent by 2014 or 2015,
compared with about 70 percent now, she said. Data penetration
should reach 30 percent by 2017 from 6 percent now.  Stock Exchange  Nigeria wants international companies operating in the
country to list on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  “to democratize
the wealth and the revenue that they’ve generated in Nigeria,”
Johnson said. While none of the main four telecommunications
operators are listed on the exchange, the authorities have
stopped short of compulsory listing “because that will be seen
as targeting telecommunications companies, and really and truly,
it wasn’t a requirement or a condition for when they were
investing, particularly the international ones,” she said.  The government should encourage companies to list by
standardizing regulatory requirements with global exchanges and
removing barriers, the minister said.  “We’re looking at a lot of things that detract or
discourage investors including some of the shareholder activism
that we’ve seen in the recent past, again managing that much
better than we’ve done,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  