-- Noonan Examines Greek Package as Ireland Eyes Bailout Exit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-11-29T13:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/noonan-examines-greek-package-as-ireland-eyes-bailout-exit-2-.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the nation is assessing the aid package given to
 Greece  earlier this week and will push for anything that helps
Ireland exit its bailout program.  Noonan told reporters in Dublin today he is examining
concessions given to Greece in the context of papers being drawn
up by Ireland’s bailout partners ahead of the country’s planned
exit from its aid program at the end of next year.  European finance ministers agreed on Nov. 27 to cut
Greece’s rates on bailout loans, suspend interest payments for a
decade and to give the nation more time to repay. The debt-
burdened country was also cleared to receive a 34.4 billion
euros ($44.7 billion) loan installment in December.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said yesterday he opposed
granting concessions to Ireland and  Portugal , which followed
Greece into bailout programs in the past two years.  “I absolutely believe that investors understand that
Greece is a particularly difficult case,” Rutte, said in an
interview in  The Hague , the Netherlands. “I understand Ireland
and Portugal are looking with keen interest at the Greek package
and what that might mean for their countries.”  Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said earlier this
week that Portugal and Ireland can benefit from the eased terms
on the emergency aid for Greece.  Credit Line  Ireland’s bailout creditors may propose a precautionary
 credit line  to ease the country’s exit from its 67.5 billion-
euro rescue program at the end of 2013, Noonan and  John Corrigan , the head of the nation’s debt agency, said Nov. 22.  The economy is struggling to emerge from the worst
recession in its modern history, which has seen home prices
plunge and unemployment triple since 2007. Noonan said earlier
this month that while the government may raise its 2012 economic
growth forecast from 0.7 percent, it expects to cut its 2013
projection.  Irish payrolls fell 0.2 percent to 1.84 million people in
the third quarter from the same period a year ago, the country’s
 central statistics office  said today. The drop compares with an
annual decline of 1.3 percent in the three months through June.  “The bottom line is that the labor market remains very
weak,”  Alan McQuaid , an economist with Merrion stockbrokers in
Dublin, said in a note today. “Anecdotal evidence suggests that
emigration is playing a big part in keeping down the numbers.
There is no easy fix.”  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark security due in October
2020 fell 4 basis points to 4.45 percent today, down from 14
percent in July 2011.  Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded Ireland to non-
investment grade last year, said on Nov. 14 that the country may
need an official funding backstop as it seeks to return to bond
markets. Noonan said bailout partners are considering “a
variety of other backstop measures” and “they have promised to
provide me with the policy paper before Christmas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Brussels at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  