-- Norway Economic Recovery to Slow in 2013 as Export Growth Stalls
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-29T15:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/norway-economic-recovery-to-slow-in-2013-as-export-growth-stalls.html
Norway ’s economy will slow next year
as exporters struggle to remain competitive amid falling demand
from the debt-ridden euro area and currency gains, the country’s
largest business group said.   Growth in Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and
gas revenue, will slow to 2.5 percent next year from 3.25
percent this year, the Oslo-based Confederation of Norwegian
Enterprise, known locally as NHO, said in a report today. Total
exports will remain unchanged in 2013 after growing 2 percent
this year, NHO estimates.  Norwegian exporters, which sell more than 60 percent of
their goods to the European Union, are fighting to stay
competitive as demand in the euro area sags and the krone hovers
close to a nine-year high, making exports more expensive. A boom
in the country’s petroleum industry has boosted wages,
increasing production costs.  Dag Aarnes, a director at the NHO, said there’s concern
that an estimated record spending on the petroleum area is
having “crowding out effects” on Norway’s traditional
industry. Investments by non-petroleum related businesses have
almost fallen by 50 percent to 5 billion kroner ($880 million)
from more than 10 billion kroner in 2008, he said at a press
conference today.  “In the last three recoveries, business investments have
been characterized by annual growth rates of 10 to 20 percent,”
NHO wrote in its report. “This isn’t happening this time.”  The krone has appreciated 5.2 percent against the euro so
far this year and 5.5 percent against the dollar.  Norges Bank last month kept the  main interest rate 
unchanged at 1.5 percent for a fourth meeting, following two
cuts since December as it tries to limit krone gains. The bank
has signaled it will keep its benchmark rate on hold at least
until March, citing low inflation and falling  interest rate 
expectations abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  