-- Norway Curbing Mortgage Debt Is Bondholder Boon: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-29T10:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/norway-curbing-mortgage-debt-is-bondholder-boon-nordic-credit.html
Norway’s plan to curb the supply of
covered bonds is pushing yields lower as investors benefit from
regulatory efforts to cap growth in the nation’s housing debt.  The mortgage units of banks including DNB ASA and  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  should limit the use of bonds backed by the safest
collateral, according to a recommendation by Norway’s Financial
Supervisory Authority last month. Banks risk cutting off their
access to cheaper financing if they focus too narrowly on the
bonds, the regulator warned.  “If a cap is put in place it will restrict supply, which
should support even higher prices for covered bonds,” said
Jonas Shum, a credit analyst at SEB AB in Oslo. “It adds to the
appeal, because it makes them more secure for the investors.”  Norway’s covered-bond market reached about 780 billion
kroner ($137 billion) this year, and the securities now make up
about 20 percent of bank funding, the FSA estimates. Over-use of
the bonds, which are backed by mortgages and therefore cheaper
for banks to sell than loans passed on to businesses, may also
be adding to imbalances in Norway’s housing market, the
regulator warned in an Oct. 16 report.  Nordea’s benchmark floating rate note maturing in 2016 has
gone from trading at a spread against the three-month swap rate
of 70 basis points in January to just above 30 basis points on
Nov. 27, according to a report by Nordea analyst Lars Erichsen.  Safety Trap  Oslo-based  DNB (DNB)  Boligkreditt AS, a unit of Norway’s biggest
lender DNB, raised the issuance of AAA rated covered bonds to
370.3 billion kroner at the end of September from 363.3 billion
kroner at year-end 2011, according to its third-quarter report.
The lender is Norway’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed bonds.  The debt’s safety is part of the problem, according to both
the FSA and Norway’s central bank. Banks have been tempted to
issue more of the securities in response to investor demand for
top-rated assets. Yet by stacking all their financing in covered
bonds, banks are eroding the appeal of their other debt classes,
they argue.  “When you take something out of the balance of the bank,
you put more risk on what remains,” Norway’s central bank
Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in an interview in Oslo on
Nov. 27.  Norwegian debt securities have been coveted by investors
fleeing Europe’s crisis. Covered bonds, which carry the same
rating as Norway’s sovereign debt, have emerged as a popular
asset class because they offer a yield premium relative to
 government bonds .  Bond Spread  The yield on Norway’s benchmark 2 percent bond due May 2023
rose 1 basis point to 2.12 percent. That’s about 74 basis points
more than yields on similar-maturity German bunds and compares
with a spread of 83 basis points at the end of May.  The central bank left its  main rate  at 1.5 percent in
October, though Governor Oeystein Olsen has warned continued low
borrowing costs risk spurring housing market imbalances. The
bank has signaled rates may rise in the first half of next year.  The central bank has also called for higher risk weights on
mortgages as a means to damp the country’s credit-driven housing
boom. While the bank hasn’t proposed specific numbers, risk
weights on mortgages of 35 percent to 40 percent “are closer to
our thinking” than the 15 percent proposed by  Sweden , Deputy
Governor Qvigstad said this week.  Lending Shift  Norway’s banks have shifted lending to households from
companies, Morten Baltzersen, the FSA’s director general, said
on Oct. 16. That’s made it easier for consumers in the world’s
fourth-richest nation per capita to take on record debt.  House prices  have doubled since 2002, according to the
Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents, or NEF, and have
risen an annual 7.4 percent so far this year. Household debt
will rise to above 200 percent of disposable incomes next year,
according to  central bank estimates .  Banks are still trying to gauge the potential impact of the
FSA’s recommendations on their funding costs.  “It’s hard to assess the consequences as long as we don’t
have any more details” of the restrictions, said Paal Ringholm,
head of credit research at Swedbank First Securities in Oslo.
“It might limit the supply and as such it is a positive driver
for the credit spread of covered bonds.”  Prussian Origin  Covered bonds were created in 1769, when Prussia’s King
Frederick let aristocrats, churches and monasteries raise money
by pledging their estates as security to investors. Denmark
followed suit after the 1795 fire that destroyed Copenhagen.
Last year,  Europe ’s market for the bonds was worth 2.7 trillion
euros ($3.5 trillion), according to the European Covered Bond
Council.  Mortgage-backed bonds typically have higher credit ratings
than unsecured debt because they require borrowers to set aside
assets that can be sold to pay investors if the issuer defaults.
It pushes unsecured creditors lower down in the repayment queue.  Limiting covered-bond issuance would be “credit positive”
for unsecured creditors because it would reduce the level of
high-quality loans pledged as collateral, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report last month.  If banks can’t sell as many covered bonds, it would
potentially increase their dependence on “more volatile”
markets, Thomas Midteide, a spokesman at DNB, said in an e-
mailed reply to questions.  ‘Cheapest Funding’  “It means that their cheapest funding source is capped and
that they will have to rely more heavily on the more expensive
funding,” SEB’s Shum said.  DNB Boligkreditt raised 2 billion kroner with the sale of
two covered bonds on Nov. 15, a day after selling 1 billion
euros of 1.875 percent 10-year benchmark mortgage-backed
securities at a spread of 33 basis points above the mid-swap
rate.  “We are skeptical,” Jan Digranes, head of the banking and
capital markets department at Finance  Norway , which represents
about 180 financial institutions in the country, said of the
FSA’s recommendation.  “Norwegian authorities are worried about the housing
market,” Digranes said in a telephone interview. Still,“it’s
our view that the situation in the housing market is rather
caused by the lack of supply of houses and flats than covered
bond issuance by the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  