-- Mo’Nique, Macy’s CEO, Ray Chew for Alvin Ailey: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-29T15:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/mo-nique-macy-s-ceo-ray-chew-for-alvin-ailey-scene.html
After meeting with President  Barack Obama  and other chief executives yesterday in  Washington , Terry Lundgren, CEO of  Macy’s Inc. (M) , made it to opening night gala of
the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater at New York City Center
just in time to accept an award for his company’s support.  Tina Lundgren, his wife, filled him in on what he’d missed:
her star turn in the dance piece “Minus 16,” in which she and
a dozen others including ABC’s Deborah Roberts had been plucked
from the audience to rhumba and twirl on stage.  “Something special happens when Alvin Ailey takes the
stage,” Tina Lundgen said. “Your toes start tapping, you’re
mesmerized by the bodies, before you know it you’re experiencing
dance -- some of us more than others.”  Comedian and Oscar-winning actress Mo’Nique spoke a few
minutes later, praising those amateur dancers, in particular
Marva Smalls, a Viacom executive who had some slinky moves with
her Ailey partner.  “For the sister with the beautiful rhinestones, girl, I
got his number! Yes indeed, his name is Charles. And he’s a
Sagittarius.”  Mo’Nique, who served as the evening’s honorary chairwoman,
praised the company’s founder, Alvin Ailey, “for having a drive
so strong you said nothing will stop my vision.” And she
reminded the audience of their good fortune.  “These babies are giving you everything, they’re giving
you every piece of them,” she said before introducing
“Revelations” performed to live music, including singing from
Brian Stokes Mitchell, Jessye Norman and Anika Noni Rose.  Dance Band  Afterward guests headed to the ballroom of the  New York 
Hilton, where the best dance band ever entertained until
midnight (Ray Chew, the music director of “American Idol,”
made sure to get their number.) The band was actually three
groups brought together by Elan Artists: Djore, Rhythm
Collective and New York City Urban Gospel. Among those on their
feet: Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner Valentino Carlotti and
Rohatyn Group CEO Nicolas Rohatyn.  The dinner was roasted poussin with chestnut stuffing,
served in a winter wonderland setting created by David Monn.
Tiger Management’s Julian Robertson sat with Elaine Wynn,
Kenneth Chenault of  American Express Co. (AXP)  sat with designer B
Michael.  The event raised $2.4 million, Alvin Ailey’s chairman, Joan Weill, said, before teasing her husband of 57 years, Sandy
Weill.  “As of tonight, he’s changing his name,” she said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 