-- Obama Dines With Romney Behind Closed Doors Amid Cliff Talks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-11-29T20:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/obama-lunches-with-romney-behind-closed-doors-amid-cliff-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  and the
Republican he defeated to win a second term,  Mitt Romney , met
privately for a lunch at the White House that ended with pledges
“to stay in touch.”  It was the first meeting for the two men since the Nov. 6
election, which Obama won with 332 electoral votes to Romney’s
206. The president’s spokesman said there was no agenda for
their discussion over a lunch menu of white turkey chili and
southwestern grilled chicken salad.  “It’s a private lunch and we’re going to leave it at
that,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  A statement released afterward by the White House said
Obama and Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , discussed
“America’s leadership in the world and the importance of
maintaining that leadership position in the future.”  “They pledged to stay in touch, particularly if
opportunities to work together on shared interests arise in the
future,” according to the statement.  Obama is interested in “Governor Romney’s ideas” about
how to make the government more efficient, Carney said.  “Somebody with Governor Romney’s experience clearly would
have insight,” Carney said, citing the Republican’s experience
as a businessman, head of the U.S. 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt
Lake City and as a governor.  Obama is negotiating with congressional Republicans over
how to avoid more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts
and tax increases set to go into effect Jan. 1 unless a deal to
cut the deficit can be reached.  While in Washington, Romney also met with his running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin.  In his victory speech in  Chicago  on election night, Obama
said he would “look forward to sitting down with Governor
Romney to talk about where we can work together to move this
country forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  