-- Odyssey Earns 23% on Troubled Debt as GTL Revamps: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-11-29T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/odyssey-earns-23-on-troubled-debt-as-gtl-revamps-india-credit.html
Odyssey Investment Management LLC is
beating peers by buying distressed bonds in  India  as the slowest
economic growth since 2009 forces companies from  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL)  and  GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI)  to revamp borrowings.  The hedge fund based in New York focuses on Indian
convertible bonds and bought debt of GTL this month as the
mobile-phone tower operator recast $319 million of equity-linked
notes, Managing Partner Mikhail Filimonov said. The Odyssey
Convertible Bond Opportunities Fund’s biggest holdings include
software developer  Geodesic Ltd. (GEOD) ,  Prime Focus Ltd. (PRIF) , a company
that created some visual effects for the science-fiction movie
‘Avatar,’ and drugmaker  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)   “While the bonds are trading at distressed levels, the
companies in many cases are not, and this is as true this year
as it was in 2011,” Filimonov, 55, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We had lots of winners from debt
repayments, and today we see value and excess-return potential
from our friendly creditor-activism approach in restructuring.”  Signs of an economic rebound in  Asia  and Europe’s
commitment to plugging Greece’s budget deficit are boosting
returns on riskier emerging-market bonds. India’s dollar
denominated convertibles gained 13.3 percent in 2012 after
losing 11.3 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Barclays Plc. Junk notes in the U.S. returned 13 percent while
Chinese notes within a distressed debt index rallied 40 percent,
according to Bank of America Corp.  ‘Potential Upside’  “Investors are looking at buying convertible bonds at a
deep discount on the potential upside in the stock price, plus
the regular coupon,” Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit
research at SJS Markets in Bangalore, said by telephone
yesterday. “The restructured debt presents an opportunity if
they have faith in the company’s repayment ability.”  Odyssey’s  fund  has gained 23.3 percent this year, beating
its peer average by the widest margin since its inception in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Filimonov said
the  money manager  has an average holding-period of six to 18
months and it profited from a bet when Suzlon redeemed its July
2012 bonds in August.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised Indian stocks to overweight
yesterday, citing an economic recovery, continued pro-growth
policy reforms and declining inflation. The benchmark BSE
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, has surged 24 percent this year and
closed yesterday at the highest level since April 2011.  Sovereign Bonds  Asia’s third-largest economy may have expanded 5.5 percent
in the three months through September, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said Nov. 24, matching the growth rate
in the preceding quarter. Economists forecast a 5.3 percent
increase in gross domestic product, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey before data due today.  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds has climbed
17 basis points from a 14-month low of 8.04 percent in June,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the central bank refrained
from cutting  interest rates  amid the highest inflation rate
among  emerging markets . The rupee rose 1.2 percent to 54.8250
per dollar yesterday, paring this year’s drop to 3.2 percent.  Bond defaults may  increase  this year as Indian companies
are expected to either reorganize or miss payments on 67 percent
of $1.65 billion worth of convertible bonds coming due by March
31, India Ratings & Research Pvt. said in a Nov. 8 report.
Nineteen companies that reneged on about $1.3 billion of notes
between March 31 and Oct. 15 this year have yet to redeem them,
according to the local unit of  Fitch Ratings .  GTL Infrastucture  Bondholders of Mumbai-based GTL approved plans to exchange
35 percent of the company’s $319 million of convertible debt due
this month for shares at 10 rupees each, the company said Nov.
8. The remaining 65 percent can be swapped for new five-year
debt, or into new stock within 60 days at 12.64 rupees.  “We like GTL post-restructuring because they have very
good assets that we believe are potential takeover targets,”
Filimonov said.  The company’s shares rose 0.6 percent to 7.9 rupees
yesterday and reached as low as 6.10 rupee this year in August.  “If somebody is betting on the fact that GTL will be able
to monetize the tower business, then probably it makes sense to
buy their bonds,”  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist
with New Delhi-based SMC Global Securities Ltd. said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “In the case of some companies,
it’s not a question of solvency, but one of cash flow issues.”  State Bank, Reliance  Some investors prefer to invest in larger companies. Bonds
of government-owned  State Bank of India (SBIN)  and  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s largest company by market value, make better
investments than equity-linked debt of troubled issuers, said
Rahul Sharma, a  fund manager  at London-based Finisterre Capital
LLP, which oversees $1.6 billion in emerging-market assets,
including $370 million dedicated to corporate credits. He
doesn’t own Indian convertible bonds.  “If I can’t buy and sell my position reasonably quickly, I
want none of it,” he said. “For hedge funds, liquidity-
adjusted returns are becoming an overarching feature of their
trading decisions.”  The cost of insuring  State Bank  of India’s debt, considered
a proxy for the sovereign by some investors, for five years
against non-payment using credit-default swaps fell to a 15-
month low of 240 basis points on Nov. 7 and was at 244
yesterday, according to data provider CMA. A similar measure for
Mumbai-based Reliance was 246.  ‘First in Line’  Software developer Geodesic’s zero-coupon bonds held by
Odyssey mature Jan. 18. They traded around 112 cents on the
dollar compared with the redemption price of 138.38 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company announced a
share buyback of as much as a 25 percent stake on Nov. 27.  Prime Focus may redeem its zero-coupon bonds upon maturity
on Dec. 13, Filimonov said. The notes traded near 140 cents on
the dollar and are redeemable at 143.63 cents, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Odyssey also owns debt of business outsourcing
group  Firstsource Solutions Ltd. (FSOL)  and cargo transporter  Sical
Logistics Ltd. (SICL)   “We see India’s market as having very interesting
opportunities,” Filimonov said. “We want to be first in the
line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  