-- OECD Urges EU to Say Bazooka Is Ready for Spain If Needed
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-29T15:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/oecd-urges-eu-to-say-bazooka-is-ready-for-spain-if-needed-1-.html
OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria
urged Europe to send a clear message that any bailout request
from Spain would be accepted, to show investors that the
“bazooka” is ready for use.  “We are calling on Spain’s European partners and the
international community to send this unequivocal message,” the
head of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development told reporters in  Madrid  today, flanked by Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos. “To have the bazooka ready, loaded,
and with the finger on the trigger. That doesn’t mean it has to
be used.”  Spanish officials including Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria have said that one reason the government is
hesitating over whether to seek a bailout is that it doesn’t
know if a request would be met by support elsewhere in Europe.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy also wants to know how much a
bailout, which could trigger bond-buying by the European Central
Bank, would bring down the nation’s borrowing costs.  De Guindos told reporters that Spain is doing everything it
should to ease the crisis and urged  Europe  to continue making
efforts to disperse doubts about the future of the euro. Spain’s
10-year bond yields fell to 5.289 percent today, the lowest
since March and more than 2 percentage points below the euro-era
high of 7.75 percent on July 25.  Gurria said Spain is “doing its homework,” even as he
called for additional measures to make the economy more
competitive and reduce the unemployment rate, which at 26
percent is the highest in the European Union.  If the labor overhaul approved this year doesn’t prove
effective, more steps could be taken to reduce the gap between
conditions on temporary and open-ended employment contracts by
“moving toward a single contract,” the Paris-based OECD said
in a report on Spain released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  