-- Oil Heads for First Monthly Gain Since August on Economy
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-30T13:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/oil-trims-first-monthly-gain-since-august-as-rise-seen-excessive.html
Oil headed for its first monthly
gain since August in  New York  amid signs of economic growth in
the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest crude consumers.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed after
climbing 1.8 percent yesterday, the most since Nov. 19. Prices
will probably be stable next week amid talks in  Washington  aimed
at avoiding more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases known as the fiscal cliff that are due to kick in next
year, according to a Bloomberg survey. The  U.S. economy  expanded
more than previously estimated last quarter, the Commerce
Department said in Washington.  “What could initiate a rally is a resolution to the fiscal
cliff,” said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in
Oslo. “There will be a compromise reached and that could
unleash a rally. I expect there’ll be a strong start to the year
in the oil market.”  Crude for January delivery was at $87.85 a barrel, down 22
5 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 1:21 p.m. London time. The contract gained $1.58
yesterday to $88.07. Prices are up 1.8 percent this month. WTI
has lost 11 percent this year, the worst annual performance
since 2008.  Brent for January settlement was 12 cents lower at $110.64
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $22.80 to WTI,
from $22.69 yesterday.  Economic Growth  WTI crude in New York rose yesterday after the revised
figures from the Commerce Department showed U.S. gross domestic
product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate last quarter, up from
a 2 percent prior estimate.  The proportion of respondents in a Bloomberg quarterly
survey who see the Chinese economy improving or remaining stable
surged to 72 percent from September’s 38 percent, according to
the poll of investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Government data this month from retail sales to
industrial production have shown China’s growth picking up after
a seven-quarter slowdown.  Japan, the world’s third-biggest crude consumer, approved a
second round of fiscal stimulus worth 880 billion yen ($10.7
billion) using budget reserves as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
attempts to boost the economy before elections on Dec. 16.
Combined with a first round announced last month, the latest
measures will increase Japan’s gross domestic product by about
0.4 percentage point, the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo  today.  Middle East Tension  Oil surged earlier this month amid eight days of fighting
between Israel and Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip , before
the two sides signed a Nov. 21 cease-fire agreement. Protests
erupted in  Egypt  after President Mohamed Mursi issued a Nov. 22
decree that prevents his actions from being challenged by the
courts.  The  Middle East  and North Africa accounted for about 40
percent of the world’s petroleum output last year, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Crude’s gains may falter after WTI failed to trade higher
than the 50-day moving average, a sign of technical resistance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator, at
about $88.61 today, is where sell orders may be clustered.  Seven of 15 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg said
prices would be little changed next week. Five respondents
estimated futures will rise and three projected a decline, the
survey showed.  OPEC will keep its 30 million barrel-a-day group quota
unchanged at its Dec. 12 meeting in Vienna, according to all 14
analysts in a separate survey conducted by Bloomberg today and
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  