-- Oil Rises First Time in Four Days as U.S. GDP Grows
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-11-29T20:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/oil-rises-first-time-in-four-days-as-u-s-gdp-grows.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days as the U.S. economy expanded more than previously estimated
last quarter and on optimism that President  Barack Obama  will
reach an agreement with Congress over a new budget.  Prices advanced 1.8 percent. Gross domestic product grew at
a 2.7 percent annual rate in the third quarter, up from a prior
estimate of 2 percent, figures from the Commerce Department
showed. House Speaker John Boehner said he remains “hopeful”
about talks to avert more than $600 billion in spending cuts and
tax increases, known collectively as the fiscal cliff.  “You have the optimism over the fiscal cliff and you have
the GDP revision,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-
based analyst at Summit Energy Inc., which manages more than $20
billion in companies’ annual energy spending. “It looks like
there is light at the end of the tunnel. The enthusiasm itself
can lift the prospect for oil.”  Crude for January delivery climbed $1.58 to settle at
$88.07 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
up 2.1 percent this month.  Brent for January settlement rose $1.25, or 1.1 percent, to
end the session at $110.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  The U.S. economy expanded as a narrower trade deficit and
gains in inventory investments overshadowed a smaller increase
in consumer spending. The median forecast of 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 2.8 percent growth in third-
quarter GDP, the value of all goods and services produced. The
economy grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter.  GDP Growth  “The revised GDP number is better than the earlier
estimate and it’s helpful for the market,” said Bill Baruch, a
senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “There is
optimism that the budget issues can be resolved, and it’s giving
oil a boost.”  Oil also rose after reports showed fewer Americans filed
first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments last week
and Americans signed more contracts in October to purchase
previously owned homes.  “There is at least a short-term sense of optimism for the
economy,” said James Williams, an economist at WTRG Economics,
an energy-research firm in  London ,  Arkansas . “Stronger economic
growth typically drives oil prices up.”  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by 23,000 to
393,000 in the week ended Nov. 24, according to the Labor
Department.  Economic Indicators  The index of pending home resales climbed 5.2 percent in
October, exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, the National Association of Realtors said.  “Some of the positive economic sentiments are boosting the
market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The GDP revision is
positive. The market is still headline-driven.”  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer, used 18.8
million barrels a day in 2011, or 21 percent of the global
total, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Obama and Boehner said yesterday that they were eager to
reach a compromise before the end of the year, without publicly
offering concessions. Republicans and Democrats disagree about
how to reduce future deficits and how quickly to do so, and
those divides have stalled negotiations.  Budget Talks  Prices pared early gains after Boehner said at a press
conference in  Washington  that there has been no substantial
progress in the discussions in the past few weeks. His remarks
followed a meeting today with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and a telephone conversation with Obama last night.  Obama, a Democrat, wants to lean more heavily on tax
increases for top earners and less on structural changes to
Medicare and Medicaid benefits. Boehner, a Republican, has
expressed openness to higher revenue if accompanied by an
overhaul of the tax code and significant reductions in future
spending on entitlement programs.  “These guys will come to an agreement by Dec. 31 and the
fiscal cliff will be avoided,” Williams said. “It’s just the
nature of politics.”  Three out of four global investors expect a short-term
agreement to avert the budget crisis. Only 6 percent of them
anticipate a political impasse that would send the U.S. economy
over the fiscal cliff and into a recession, according to the
Bloomberg Global Poll conducted on Nov. 27. The automatic
spending cuts and tax increases are set to start Jan. 1.  The Bloomberg poll also showed two-thirds of the investors
described the global economy as either stable or improving.
That’s the most since May 2011 and up from just over half in
September.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 493,221
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. Volume totaled 451,008 contracts
yesterday, 14 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.53 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  