-- Olam Says Studying All Legal Options as Temasek Keeps Stake
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-11-29T11:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/olam-says-studying-all-legal-options-as-temasek-keeps-stake.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that sued Muddy Waters LLC for defamation, said
it’s reviewing all legal options, as its second-largest
shareholder maintained its stake and two directors bought shares
in the company.  “We’re not saying we’ll only sue them in Singapore,”
Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” program.
“Our legal team is looking at our full set of options” to get
redress for its shareholders, he said.  Singapore state-owned investment company Temasek Holdings
Pte said today it had maintained its stake in Olam. And two Olam
board directors, Michael Lim and Robert Tomlin, each bought
200,000 shares in the company, according to separate statements
to the  Singapore  stock exchange. Neither owned shares before the
purchase, the statement said.  Olam, one of the world’s top three coffee traders, has
dropped 10 percent since Muddy Waters founder Carson Block first
questioned the company’s finances and accounting practices at a
London conference on Nov. 19. Olam sued the research firm and
Block on Nov. 21 in the Singapore High Court, calling the
comments malicious falsehoods.  “Temasek is a responsible shareholder,” Verghese said.
The company, which holds 16 percent of Olam according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, “did come and have several discussions
with us, trying to ascertain and get to the truth of what is
happening,” he said.  Shares advance  Shares of Olam advanced 4 percent to S$1.56 at the close in
Singapore. They’ve dropped 27 percent this year, making the
stock the second-worst performing member on the benchmark
Straits Times index.  Olam’s 5.75 percent  bonds  due September 2017 were quoted at
84.7 cents on the dollar as of 5:53 p.m. in Singapore, according
to Bloomberg prices. The notes, which priced at par in
September, were quoted at 97 cents on Nov. 19, Bloomberg prices
show.  Muddy Waters rated Olam a strong sell in a 133-page report
released on its website two days ago, in which it likened the
company to failed energy trader Enron Corp. Houston-based Enron
lost $68 billion in market value from its 2000 peak to filing
for bankruptcy in 2001.  Block said in a Nov. 28 interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program that he stands by Muddy Waters’ report
and is ready to defend himself in court.  “This whole bogey of trying to say that we have some kind
of liquidity crisis cannot be corroborated,” Verghese said
yesterday at a briefing in Singapore. “I just can’t
understand” how Muddy Waters could say the company may fail.  Olam has more than S$10 billion ($8.2 billion) of liquidity
and its balance sheet is the “strongest it’s ever been,”
Verghese said today. “We have ample liquidity with significant
margin of safety given the likely reaction of debt capital
markets.”  Getting Support  Olam is getting support from  shareholders , as well as
customers, Verghese said.  “I am grateful that they have stood by us,” he said of
Temasek. “The fact they have stayed invested and kept the faith
is the biggest support I can ask for.”  Temasek’s spokesman  Stephen Forshaw  said in an e-mailed
statement earlier today that the state-owned investment company
had maintained its stake in Olam. Forshaw wasn’t immediately
available to comment further after Verghese’s interview with
Bloomberg Television.  The two Olam  board members , Lim and Tomlin, bought their
shares at S$1.545 and S$1.55 a share, respectively. A call to
Olam seeking comment from them wasn’t answered.  Muddy Waters values Olam on a “liquidation basis, because
our opinion is that it is likely to fail,” the research firm
said in its report. Olam uses non-cash accounting gains to boost
earnings, has been “burning cash” and will need to raise or
refinance as much as S$4.6 billion of debt over the next year to
remain solvent.  Debt Obligations  Olam has the capacity to meet its debt obligations of S$1.5
billion in the next 12 months, in addition to its planned
spending, the Singapore-based company said yesterday in a
statement. It supplies 21 products from cocoa to rubber, from 65
countries to 12,300 customers. It’s one of the world’s top six
cotton traders.  Block said he had “shorted” Olam, seeking to profit by
selling borrowed shares now and buying them back later at a
lower price. “It is instructive to view Olam through the lens
of failed U.S. trader Enron,” Muddy Waters said in its report.
“There are a number of material similarities in the way their
businesses developed, and their actions.”  Enron Bankruptcy  Enron, once the world’s largest energy trader, plunged into
bankruptcy in December 2001 following revelations it was using
off-balance-sheet vehicles to hide billions of dollars in losses
and inflate its share price. More than 5,000 Enron employees
were fired and about $1 billion in retirement money was lost.  Its creditors had received $21.8 billion in cash and stock
as of January this year, equivalent to 53 percent of its
obligations, according to a report by Enron Creditors Recovery
Corp., set up to liquidate the company’s remaining operations
and assets.  While Muddy Waters has in the past targeted New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc., Fushi Copperweld Inc. and
Focus Media Holding Ltd., Block said this week he’d lost
interest in betting against Chinese stocks.  Sino-Forest  Block, 36, research director of Los Angeles-based Muddy
Waters, had successfully bet against Chinese companies that
trade in North America after raising doubts about their
accounts. One target, tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest
Corp., slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for
bankruptcy protection in March.  “In my view, Muddy Waters and  Carson Block  are just small
parts of this whole thing,” Verghese said yesterday. “He’s
probably the front but behind him there are probably some very
strong hedge funds involved.”  Olam is seeking to establish a connection between Muddy
Waters and possible backers, he said.  Muddy Waters has yet to make direct contact with Olam,
according to Verghese, who said the research firm has had
representatives visit its Singapore office in disguise. Offices
in Nigeria, Gabon,  Ghana  and other locations have also been
visited, he said.  “Every time taking on a different persona and hiding
behind some facade or the other,” he said. “They’ve never had
the courage or the decency or the integrity to talk to us, ask
us questions.”  Muddy Waters was “following a strategy of shouting fire in
a crowded room and hoping it will devastate us,” Verghese said.
“But we will stand up to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  