-- Honda Speeds Retooled Civic to Hasten U.S. Sales Rally
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-29T19:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/honda-speeds-retooled-civic-to-hasten-u-s-sales-rally.html
In the quickest turnaround in the
39-year history of the Civic,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  introduced a
modified U.S. model, just 19 months after the current car
appeared.  The rapid redo is central to the company’s bid to keep the
top-selling U.S. small car ahead of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  compacts. It’s also seen as giving Honda a chance to
address flaws cited in withering reviews and extend a sales
rally in the company’s biggest market.  “I can’t think of an example where a refresh was done this
quickly and this dramatically with a mass-produced vehicle,”
said  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst for TrueCar.com, a vehicle
pricing and data website in  Santa Monica ,  California . The 2012
version was “safe, dull and rather disappointing,” he said.  The car was seen as such a disappointment that  Consumer
Reports , which frequently praises Honda models, declined to
award the 2012 Civic the magazine’s coveted recommended status,
citing shortcomings in the car’s agility, interior materials and
cabin noise.  Honda executives are looking to the new Civic as the
quickest way to put such moments in the company’s past. The 2013
Civic that debuted today at the Los Angeles Auto Show as it also
arrives at dealerships has a new front hood and grille, altered
trunk, new rear taillights, standard alloy wheels, redesigned
interior and strengthened front end to boost crash safety.  Improving Fortunes  The car’s cabin has new sound-dampening materials, ride and
handling have been upgraded and technology features, including a
backup camera, Bluetooth phone and audio capability, are now
standard, Art St. Cyr, Honda’s U.S. vice president of planning
and logistics, said today at the show.  “We’ve made a very good car great,” he said. Base prices
for the Civic line rise $160 to cover the changes, he said. The
price of the base model sedan had been $18,005.  If the revamped Civic proves successful, it will help
propel Honda’s fortunes, which are already improving. The
company has set record sales this year for its compact CR-V
sport-utility vehicle, and introduced a new version of its
popular Accord, putting the Tokyo-based automaker on track to
boost U.S. deliveries about 25 percent this year.  That would compare to a 6.8 percent drop in 2011, a year
marred by  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami and disappointing
reviews for the Civic, including one critique in which reviewer
Tony Swan of Car & Driver magazine suggested the company had
lost its  “mojo.”   Honda and other automakers typically redesign models once
every five to six years, with a “mid-cycle” refresh happening
after three years.  No Conquests  “The loyal Civic buyers still bought it, but it didn’t
attract conquest buyers,” Toprak said. “Conquesting buyers
from other brands, that’s where making a change like this has an
impact.”  Civic deliveries still surged 39 percent this year through
October to 254,716 units, as the small car recovered from a
dismal 2011. That’s putting it ahead of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Corolla, as well as Ford’s Focus and Hyundai’s Elantra.  Honda moved to revamp Civic faster than normal because
customers expected more from the car, said U.S. Executive Vice
President  John Mendel .  “There was a bit of a mismatch between expectations for us
and where the market had moved,” Mendel said this month in an
interview at the company’s U.S. headquarters in Torrance,
California. “Customers had a higher expectation for us.”  ‘Skate By’  Civic, Accord and CR-V accounted for 73 percent of Honda-
brand U.S. sales and 65 percent of total company U.S. deliveries
this year through October. Accord is second only to Toyota’s
Camry this year among passenger cars and CR-V is the best-
selling U.S. SUV.  Honda erred with the Civic last year by not understanding
how the market was changing, said  Jim Hall , principal of auto
consulting firm 2953 Analytics in Birmingham,  Michigan .  “It’s as if the company almost thought they were going to
skate by on this one, that they could phone it in,” he said.  Competing small cars, including Elantra and Focus, provided
more electronics and higher-quality interior materials than the
Civic and better styling, Hall said.  Planning for the 2013 Civic began even before the current
version came out, according to Mendel and St. Cyr.  While Elantra was among the competing cars Honda studied,
“it’s hard to single out a single vehicle, because everybody
has raised their game,” St. Cyr said in an interview in
Torrance this month. “We benchmark everything.”  Cost Control  To hold down costs, Honda worked more closely with
suppliers to find less-expensive ways to make planned
improvements, he said. “Engineering smarter parts” was
critical to counter Hyundai’s cost advantage, the result of a
cheaper South Korean won compared with the Japanese yen and
lower wage and materials costs, St. Cyr said.  “You take your part and say, ‘How can we engineer this --
working with our suppliers -- to make something that’s better
and cheaper?’” he said. “Then we bring their suggestions into
our fundamental design, which say 20 years ago, we didn’t
necessarily do.”  He declined to elaborate on costs for the modifications.  Separately, Honda said today in  Los Angeles  a plug-in
hybrid version of the Accord goes on sale next month, initially
in California and  New York , priced at $39,780. The car allows
drivers to go the equivalent of 115 miles (185 kilometers) per
gallon, the highest efficiency rating of any plug-in hybrid,
Mendel said.  A conventional hybrid Accord that goes on sale in mid-2013
and should achieve fuel-efficiency of 49 mpg in city driving, 45
mpg on the highway and 47 mpg combined, Mendel said. That would
be higher than Toyota’s Camry hybrid and match Ford’s new Fusion
hybrid. Honda didn’t provide pricing for the car.  2012 Comeback  Honda, like Toyota, saw expectations for large U.S. sales
gains undercut last year by the earthquake and tsunami in March
2011 that slowed global production at their plants for months
owing to parts shortages. Honda’s production delays were
exacerbated later in the year by floods in  Thailand  that also
limited supplies of some components.  This year Honda raised production at North American plants
57 percent through October to 1.44 million Honda and Acura
vehicles, keeping it on track to build a record 1.7 million cars
and trucks in the region.  Sales Target  The carmaker’s goal is to boost U.S. deliveries this year
to about 1.46 million Honda and Acura brand vehicles, up from
1.15 million a year ago, Mendel said in the Nov. 16 interview.  The refreshed Civic also arrives after Hyundai’s Nov. 2
admission that it and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  overstated U.S.
fuel-economy estimates for many models, including the Elantra,
for the past two years.  As a result, Civic edged back ahead of Elantra, averaging
28 miles per gallon in city driving and 39 mpg highway, compared
with 28 city and 38 highway mpg for the Hyundai model.  Analysts, including Edmunds.com’s Jessica Caldwell, have
said Honda will be the main beneficiary of potential Hyundai
buyers disgruntled by its fuel-economy revisions.  “The real impact probably won’t be known for a year,”
Hall said. “Hyundai still has an image of a company on the way
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  