-- Hong Kong Bourse in $1 Billion Share Sale for LME Deal
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-11-30T05:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/hong-kong-bourse-wins-approval-for-2-2-billion-lme-takeover.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s No. 2 bourse company by value, is selling $1 billion
in new  shares (388)  to fund its  London  Metal Exchange takeover.  The company plans to raise HK$7.75 billion ($1 billion) in
its first sale of new shares since  listing  by introduction in
2000. Hong Kong’s government said it will buy 3.81 million, or
5.8 percent, of the securities, which are being offered at
HK$118 each, a 5.4 percent discount to yesterday’s closing price
of HK$124.80. The stock fell 1.2 percent to HK$123.30.  Hong Kong Exchanges, which lost its place as the world’s
 biggest  exchange operator by market value to CME Group, is
seeking to broaden its business as the pipeline of large initial
public offerings from  China  slows and equity volumes fall. The
Financial Services Agency yesterday approved Hong Kong’s
takeover of the LME, the venue for more than 80 percent of
metals trading.  “If they financed the acquisition completely by debt then
they would run a risk if  interest rate  picks up,” said Jonas Kan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital
Markets. Financing the acquisition with the combination of debt,
convertible bonds and shares is “more financially sound. It
cleared uncertainties for Hong Kong Exchanges.”  Biggest Holders  Hong Kong’s government, the largest single  shareholder  in
the exchange operator, will buy 3,810,800 shares for HK$450
million, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in an e-mailed
statement. The purchase will maintain the city’s 5.8 percent
stake. The stock gained 3,128 percent from its June 2000 offer
price of HK$3.99 through yesterday.  Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG will manage
the share sales, according to a statement from the bourse today.
It is the first time the bourse has sold new shares since its
listing in 2000, Henry Law, the company’s head of corporate
communications, said.  The exchange sold $500 million in convertible bonds in
September for the deal. They have an initial conversion price of
HK$160 a share. Hong Kong Exchange signed a 543 million pound
($871 million) loan agreement with Deutsche Bank, HSBC and UBS
in June.  “With the equity issue done, we’ll probably draw down on
some of the debt facilities that we’ve got and we’ll look in the
new year to see if we want to do anything further,” James Fok,
Hong Kong Exchanges’ chief of staff, said by telephone. “In
terms of equity capital we’re now done.”  China Access  The LME backed Hong Kong Exchanges’ offer on June 15 over
bids from CME Group Inc., Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and
NYSE Euronext. LME shareholders approved the takeover a month
later. Hong Kong Exchanges may help the exchange gain access to
China, the biggest metals buyer.  The offer was priced at 181 times LME’s 2011 net income,
making it the most expensive bourse merger over $1 billion. The
deal doesn’t need approval from Hong Kong Exchanges’
shareholders. It is the first overseas acquisition for the Asian
bourse and will add its first contracts in commodities.  Shareholders of the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges on Nov.
20 approved the merger of  Japan ’s two largest bourses. Japan’s
government wants to create a national exchange handling
equities, commodities and other securities to help balance the
rise of the Chinese markets.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.3
billion bid for Sydney-based ASX Ltd. was blocked in April 2011
by  Australia ’s government on the grounds of national interest.  Goodwill Risk  Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges dropped 14 percent through
yesterday since its offer for the LME was reported in February.
The benchmark Bloomberg World Exchanges Index of global bourse
operators has fallen about 9 percent in the same period. The
stock hit this year’s low of HK$100 on July 26 after LME
shareholders approved the merger.  Citic Securities International reiterated a sell rating on
the stock with a target price of HK$116.20 in a note today. The
brokerage cited a “substantial goodwill impairment risk” form
the deal, declining investment returns, high costs and
increasing volatility in average daily trading volumes.  Metals  prices  more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from  emerging markets  overwhelmed supplies from mines.
The LME handled a record $15.4 trillion of contracts last year.
The 135-years old exchange sets global prices for metals from
copper to aluminum to nickel.  The bourse agreed to maintain the LME’s contract structure
and open-outcry trading, conducted at the bourse on Leadenhall
Street in London’s financial district.  Warehouse Network  The Asian exchange also will keep the existing warehousing
network, help the LME develop its own clearinghouse and hold
trading fees until at least the start of 2015. It will seek to
bring “a lot more volume” to the LME and may help the LME to
set up warehouses in China, reduce trading restrictions in
China, or even expand operations to Asian hours and clearing
contracts in  yuan , Charles Li, Hong Kong Exchanges chief
executive officer, said Oct. 15.  “In the short term the aim is to attract more Chinese
members on to LME,” Hong Kong Exchanges’ Fok, who has been one
of the architects of the deal, said. Bank of China Ltd. is the
only member from the world’s second largest economy. “Anything
further than that is going to require support from the various
regulatory agencies.”  Hong Kong Exchanges may expand the LME into trading  iron
ore , freight, coking coal and even agricultural products
including rubber, as part of the next stage of growth after the
acquisition, Li said.  The acquisition still needs approval of the  High Court  of
 England  and  Wales , with a hearing set Dec. 5, The transaction
will take effect on or around Dec. 6, the LME said in a separate
statement.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, confirmed the FSA
has approved change in control of the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  