-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Dutch Pension Fund Over Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-29T18:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/morgan-stanley-sued-by-dutch-pension-fund-over-securities-1-.html
Morgan Stanley was sued in New York
by Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, the  Netherlands ’ biggest pension
fund, which claimed fraud over residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Stichting, based in Heerlen, Netherlands, sued yesterday in
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , saying it relied on
“false and misleading” statements made by Morgan Stanley when
it bought the securities. The pension fund said it suffered
unspecified “substantial” damages.  “Based on these material misrepresentations and omissions,
ABP purchased securities that were far riskier than had been
represented, backed by  mortgage loans  worth significantly less
than had been represented, and that had been made to borrowers
who were much less creditworthy than had been represented, and
at prices far in excess of the true value of the certificates,”
Stichting said in its 125-page complaint.  Mark Lake, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  spokesman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  The pension fund has sued other banks in the same court
over similar allegations, including Deutsche Bank AG, Credit
Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The Netherlands has the euro area’s biggest pension
industry, with 950 billion euros ($1.25 trillion) in assets at
the end of the second quarter, data from the Dutch and European
central banks show.  The assets are held in collective plans run by industry,
company and occupational pension funds. APG Groep manages
314 billion euros for pension funds including Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP, which said in today’s complaint that it has
about 250 billion euros in assets under management.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Morgan Stanley,
654130/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 