-- Hostess Says 2011 Liquidation Value Was $450 Million
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-29T19:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/hostess-says-2011-liquidation-value-was-450-million.html
Hostess Brands Inc. was valued at
$450 million in 2011, a company official told a bankruptcy
judge, about half what a financial adviser estimated last week
the maker of Twinkies and Wonder Bread was worth now.  The interim treasurer of the defunct baker, David Rush,
provided the lower figure today to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain at a hearing in  White Plains ,  New York . Last week,
financial adviser Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg Partners LP
said the sale of Hostess’s assets may generate about $1 billion.  Rush said the 2011 estimate needs reevaluation in part
because of the interest shown by potential buyers of the
bankrupt company’s intellectual property and brands. Scherer
told the judge today that buyer interest is “fast and
furious.”  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , sought court protection in
January, its second time in bankruptcy, listing assets of
$982 million and debt of $1.43 billion. The 82-year-old maker of
Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and Ho Hos endured years of
declining sales as consumers switched to other brands of snacks
and breads and the costs of labor and ingredients increased.  Hostess is in active talks on asset sales with 110 parties,
Scherer said at today’s hearing. It’s “like drinking from a
fire hose,” he said. Some of the would-be buyers are “large
companies” with recognizable names, and some have hired
investment bankers and are performing due diligence, evaluating
company data, he said.  Retiree Cuts  Also at today’s hearing, a company lawyer told the judge
that Hostess won’t be able to provide retiree benefits to some
former employees.  The lawyer, Heather Lennox, said the company would cut
$1.1 million a month slated for the pensioners. Drain approved
formation of a Committee of Retired Employees to help protect
their rights under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code .  Drain is being asked to approve Hostess’s request to close
down, sell its assets and pay as much as $1.75 million in
incentive bonuses to 19 senior managers. About 18,000 jobs would
be eliminated in the wind-down.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  