-- House Republicans Ask Volcker Rule Implementation Delay
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-29T22:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/house-republicans-ask-volcker-rule-implementation-delay.html
Two top Republican Congressmen have
asked regulators to further delay the so-called Volcker rule
that would ban U.S. banks from proprietary trading.  Representatives  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama  and  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas  sent a letter to regulators today requesting
a delay of the rule’s effective date for two years after the
final version is issued. They cited concerns about disagreements
among regulators and a lack of transparency in the rule writing.
Bachus is the House Financial Services Committee chairman;
Hensarling will succeed him in the next Congress.  “Given the time that it will take for you to agree on one
version of the Volcker Rule as well as the tremendous
uncertainty that market participants face in trying to
anticipate what the final rule will look like, we respectfully
suggest that the  Federal Reserve  Board delay the Volcker Rule’s
effective date,” the lawmakers wrote.  Regulators expect to finish writing the rule in the first
quarter of 2013, according to a person familiar with the process
who requested anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Mary Miller , the  U.S. Treasury ’s undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in a speech on Nov. 16 that “the process
is not as easy or simple as any of us would like.”  The process my be further delayed by the departure of the
 Mary Schapiro  as chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission next month. Until President  Barack Obama  can confirm
a fifth member of the commission, the remaining members face a
partisan split that will make controversial rulemaking
difficult.  Risk Prevention  The Volcker rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010,
was the subject of complaints from banking industry groups that
it was confusing and potentially harmful. Named for former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , an early proponent, the
rule is intended to prevent banks, which hold federally insured
deposits and can borrow from the Fed at reduced rates, from
putting depositors’ money at risk.  The Federal Reserve in April said banks have until July
2014 to fully conform their activities and investments to the
Volcker restrictions. The Fed has the authority to further
extend the period of compliance beyond July 2014.  The current proposal would ban banks from proprietary
trading, with exemptions for trades tied to market-making
activities or hedging risk. It also limits banks’ investments in
private equity and hedge funds.  Reduced Profits  Standard & Poor estimated on Oct. 22 that the Volcker rule
could cut profit at the largest U.S. banks twice as much as
earlier estimates if regulators take a strict stance on limiting
proprietary trading. S&P estimated that the proposal could
reduce combined pretax earnings for the eight largest U.S. banks
by as much as $10 billion annually, up from our initial $4
billion estimate two years ago.  The House Financial Services Committee announced today a
Dec. 13 hearing on the rule’s implementation status. In their
letter, Bachus and Hensarling said regulators have been “less
than transparent” about how they plan to implement the rule.
The lawmakers said the lack of transparency has compounded the
“regulatory uncertainty that continues to plague our economy.”  Five Regulators  Dodd-Frank charges five agencies -- the Office of
Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Reserve
Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission -- to write
regulations that implement the rule. The Treasury Department
must coordinate the agencies’ rulemaking. Hensarling and Bachus
said regulators should “speak with one voice” on Volcker and
issue one rule.  “While the Volcker Rule promises little if any benefit,
what little benefit it does promise will not be realized if
regulators further fragment financial markets and ratchet up the
costs of compliance for market participants by issuing multiple
versions of the Volcker Rule,” the lawmakers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  