-- How to Save Money by Playing Powerball
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-11-29T20:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/how-to-save-money-by-playing-powerball.html
So someone won the record-breaking Powerball jackpot. Well,  two people
actually  -- one in  Missouri , one in  Arizona . You really thought it was going to
be you this time, didn't you? Yesterday, you were envisioning what you would wear as you waved at the TV
cameras with your giant check. Today, you're reminding yourself that you were
probably more likely to have been  killed by a fallen vending machine  than to
have won. You shake vending machines when they eat a dollar or two of yours and don't
provide anything in return. And yet lotteries eat  billions of dollars in
Americans' money  every year -- money a lot of the people playing  cannot afford 
to lose -- without giving most of us anything. It might be worth trying to shake up the system a bit, with a concept called
 "prize-linked savings."  Part financial planning, part behavioral economics, PLS
products attempt to make saving money fun. One way to do so is through
lotteries, where the more you save (up to a certain limit), the more chances you
have to win big. And if, heaven forbid, you don't win big, the money you paid
into the system remains yours. In January 2009, the  Doorways to Dreams Fund  helped launch "Save to Win," the
first scaled PLS program in the U.S., in eight Michigan  credit unions . Members
of the credit unions were given the chance to save in a 1-year, balance-building
share certificate that earned interest; the accounts required only $25 to open,
and each $25 added gave the account-holder a raffle entry (up to 10 per month)
for monthly prizes and a $100,000 annual grand prize. By 2011, STW Michigan had
over 25,000 unique accounts, with over $40 million saved at dozens of
participating credit unions. This year, the prize design was altered to offer
more chances to win at lower levels and a STW program was launched in Nebraska
credit unions. ( North Carolina  and  Washington  state will launch STW programs in
2013.) The problem is that these programs are hard to scale up; states have
monopolies on their lotteries, and STW is thus only permissible because of legal
loopholes allowing credit unions in some states   to offer "saving promotions
raffles,"  in which only those who put money away can win.  (Another PLS-inspired
product, the  website SaveUp , which operates  under sweepstakes law , rewards users
for good financial behaviors like saving and paying off debt. Prizes range from
gift cards to a $2 million jackpot.) Perhaps the best solution is to get the federal government involved.
Government-sponsored PLS products exist  around the world , from  Sweden  to Kenya
and  Pakistan . The best model for the U.S. may be the U.K., which has offered 
"Premium Bonds"  since  1956 . These bonds  can be  purchased by phone, at the post
office, online or by mail by any citizen over 16 and by adult family members for
their children. They require a minimum investment of 100 pounds ($160) or 50
pounds with a monthly standing order. They offer no interest. Instead, the
interest on all the bonds is pooled and distributed through various tax-exempt
prizes, including monthly 1 million pound jackpots. For every pound invested (up
to 30,000), bond-holders receive a chance to win big.  More than a third  of
British citizens participate. With  interest rates  on standard savings accounts extremely low, now seems
like as good a time as any for Washington to adopt a hybrid savings-lottery
program. States might not be so happy to see the federal government dipping into
their base of devoted lottery addicts. But the U.K. has a National Lottery in
addition to its Premium Bonds, leaving citizens to weigh the odds of investing
 in a lottery ticket versus a bond . Making such calculations might be a good way to pass the time now that you
don’t have to stress about whether to take  the lump sum or annuity payment  on
your big win. (Zara Kessler is an assistant editor and producer for Bloomberg View.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .