-- Palestinians Press Statehood Aspirations at UN: Q&A
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-11-29T02:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/palestinians-press-statehood-aspirations-at-un-q-a.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  returns to the United Nations today to seek an
upgrade in status in the 193-member General Assembly to
“observer state,” a move opposed by the U.S. and Israel
because of the implied recognition of a Palestinian state.  Abbas is scheduled to speak at 3 p.m. in New York and a
vote will take place soon after on a resolution that will give
the Palestinians the same rank as the Holy See.  Q: What status do the Palestinians now have at the UN?  A: The  Palestine Liberation Organization  has been a
permanent observer since 1974, giving it the right to speak in
the General Assembly. It doesn’t have voting rights. The
European Union is another entity with observer status, yet
unlike the PLO, it has been given almost all the rights of a
member state. The  Holy See , the diplomatic name for the Vatican,
is alone in being a sovereign state with observer status.  Q: What are the benefits for Abbas in a status upgrade?  A: The resolution “decides to accord to  Palestine  non-
member observer state status,” an implicit form of statehood
that puts the Palestinians on par with the Holy See. It means
the Palestinians can join UN agencies and sign treaties, such as
the Rome Statute that established the  International Criminal
Court .  With its new status, the PLO may pursue ICC membership and
seek legal action against Israel for alleged human-rights abuses
in the  West Bank  and Gaza Strip. In April, after the  Palestinian
Authority  sought to grant the court jurisdiction, the ICC said
that could only be done by a recognized state, a requirement
that the PA didn’t meet. The office said in a document that the
criteria are “reflected in General Assembly resolutions, which
provide indications of whether an applicant is a ‘state.’”  Passage of the “observer state” resolution doesn’t
require other nations to recognize Palestinian statehood
bilaterally since General Assembly actions are considered only
advisory statements.  Q: What will this move cost the Palestinians?  A: At stake is continuation of a U.S. aid package that has
averaged $600 million a year since 2008, according to a Nov. 21
2012 report by the non-partisan  Congressional Research Service ,
the research arm of Congress. Of that total, about $200 million
has been for direct budgetary assistance and approximately $100
million for non-lethal security assistance. The rest, roughly
$300 million, goes to project assistance.  Also, U.S. law requires cutting off U.S. funding to any UN
agency that recognizes a Palestinian state. A day after Unesco
granted Palestinians membership last year, the U.S. halted
funding for the UN cultural agency best known for its
designation of “world heritage” sites.  Israel plans to withhold 800 million shekels ($210 million)
of  tax revenue  it would normally transfer to the Palestinians,
and use the funds to pay their debt to Israel Electric Corp.  Q: Will the resolution pass?  A: Yes. At least 120 nations have already recognized a
state of Palestine, so they exceed the simple majority needed
for passage. The Palestinians are seeking a two-thirds majority
to highlight the level of support for their cause. The U.S.,
Israel and  Canada  are among the countries that will vote against
it. No country has a veto in the General Assembly.  Q: Can the Palestinians obtain full statehood membership?  A: Yes, but only by going through the UN  Security Council ,
the 15-member executive body where the U.S. has veto power and
has indicated it will use it.  Abbas attempted to go down this route last year but was
forced to abandon it due to U.S. opposition. To become the 194th
UN member state would have required approval by the Security
Council, followed by a two-thirds majority (129  member states )
vote in the General Assembly.  Only sovereign states can recognize other states. According
to Chapter II of its 1945 Charter, the UN may only admit
countries as members. Still, membership at the UN is widely
recognized as confirmation of statehood.  Q: Is there no way around the Security Council?  A: Yes, but it’s a long shot. Resolution 377, known as
 Uniting for Peace , was passed in 1950 during the  Korean War  to
break a deadlock. It was a U.S. initiative to circumvent the
Soviet Union’s actions against UN measures to defend South
Korea.  The rarely used mechanism enables a two-thirds majority in
the General Assembly to override the Security Council and its
veto-wielding members when the 15-member decision-making body
“fails to exercise its primary responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security in any case
where there appears to be a threat to the peace, breach of the
peace, or act of aggression.”  An  International Court of Justice  advisory opinion has said
the Palestinians cannot invoke the measure to override U.S.
opposition in the Security Council to its membership
application. The Palestinian leadership has stopped discussing
this alternative.  Q: How does Hamas, the Islamist movement that runs the  Gaza
Strip , fit into this?  A: Hamas is not part of the PLO, which is taking the action
at the UN, so this won’t directly affect its standing. Abbas’s
action is supported by Hamas, which the U.S., European Union and
Israel regard as a terrorist organization.  Q: What were the most recent countries admitted as states?  A:  South Sudan  was admitted in July 2011. Since 2000, six
nations have been admitted as members, including  Switzerland  and
East Timor in 2002 and Montenegro in 2006.  Q: How did Israel’s bid for statehood go?  A: Israel was recognized by the UN in 1949. In its first
attempt in 1948, Israel failed to win the necessary majority in
the Security Council. A year later -- following armistice
agreements with  Egypt , Jordan and Lebanon -- Israel’s membership
was cleared by the Security Council and the country was admitted
by 37 votes in favor, 12 against, and nine abstentions in the
General Assembly.  -- With assistance from Nicole Gaouette in  Washington . Editors:
Terry Atlas, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  