-- Partner Sale to Power Rangers Mogul Saban Due Within Hours
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-11-29T15:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/partner-sale-to-power-rangers-mogul-saban-due-within-hours-2-.html
Scailex Corp. (SCIX)  said it may conclude
an agreement to sell most of its stake in  Partner Communications
Co. (PTNR) , Israel’s second-largest phone company, to Saban Capital
Group Inc. “in hours.”  Saban will pay cash for the stake and will assume a $300
million debt Scailex owes to  Hong Kong ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
Scailex said in a regulatory filing today, without saying how
much cash Saban will pay. Partner shares headed to the highest
level in more than six months.  “The talks are very advanced and the company estimates
that an accord between parties for the deal will be signed in
coming hours,” Herzliya Pituach-based Scailex said.  The agreement would bring billionaire entertainment mogul
 Haim Saban , who made his fortune with the Mighty Morphin Power
Rangers, back to the Israeli telecommunication scene. Saban’s
FSBR Group, together with Moshe Arkin and Apax Partners LLP,
agreed to sell their stake in  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ)  to 012 Smile Communications Ltd. for $1.8 billion in
October 2009.  Partner shares rose 4.1 percent to 24.65 shekels, the
highest close since May 14, in  Tel Aviv . Scailex  shares  jumped
27 percent to 7.826 shekels and have gained 73 percent since the
company said Nov. 21 they were in “advanced talks” with Saban.  Strong Owner  The agreement will give Saban a 33 percent stake in the
mobile-phone operator after paying about 250 million shekels
($65 million) in cash, Calcalist reported today without saying
how it obtained the information.  “You are bringing into Partner a strong owner with a
proven track record at Bezeq and the deal will remove the shadow
of Hutchison debt from Scailex and inject much needed cash,”
Richard Gussow, a senior analyst at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities
& Investments Ltd., said today by phone.  Scailex, controlled by Israeli entrepreneur Ilan Ben Dov
via  Suny Electronics Ltd. (SUNY) , has been trying to sell a stake in
Partner to help service  1.5 billion shekels of debt , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Scailex’s 5.1
percent bonds maturing in October 2015 dropped 313 basis points,
or 3.13 percentage points, to 15.55 percent.  Standard & Poor’s Maalot said in October “there is a
risk” that Scailex won’t meet its near-term debt commitments,
reiterating its ilCC rating on the company, the second-worst
junk rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  