-- Pending Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Rose 5.2% in October
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-29T15:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/pending-sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-increased-5-2-in-october.html
Americans signed more contracts in
October to purchase previously owned homes, another sign the
recovery in the housing market is being sustained.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 5.2 percent,
exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, to 104.8 after a revised 0.4 percent gain in
September, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in Washington. The median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey called for a 1 percent gain.  The lowest  mortgage rates  on record, stable prices and
waning  foreclosures  are helping underpin sales three years after
the last recession ended. Federal Reserve policy makers have
targeted the industry with purchases of mortgage-backed
securities as they seek to bolster the labor market and the
expansion.  “As folks start to feel a little more comfortable about
their home price, they’re going to put it on the market and
you’re going to start to see this trend continue” of higher
sales,  Anika Khan , a  Charlotte , North Carolina-based senior
economist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said before the report. “We
still see the overall residential market continuing to add to
growth in the coming quarters.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a 1 percent
drop to a 4 percent gain. The prior month’s figure was
originally reported as a 0.3 percent advance. Compared with a
year earlier, the index increased an unadjusted 18 percent after
an 8.7 percent gain in the 12 months ended in September. After
seasonal adjustment, pending purchases climbed 13.2 percent from
a year ago.  Stocks held gains after the figures and amid optimism
lawmakers will reach a budget deal. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.5 percent to 1,416.47 at 10:08 a.m. in  New York .  Consumer Confidence  “We’ve had very good housing affordability conditions for
quite some time, but we’re seeing more impact now from steady
 job creation , and rising  consumer confidence  about home buying
now that home prices have clearly turned positive,”  Lawrence
Yun , chief economist at the Realtors’ group, said in a
statement.  A report from the Commerce Department showed the economy in
the third quarter expanded more than previously estimated as a
narrower trade deficit and gains in inventory overshadowed a
smaller increase in  consumer spending . Gross domestic product
rose at a 2.7 percent annual rate, up from a 2 percent previous
estimate, the agency said. Household purchases climbed at a 1.4
percent rate, the slowest in more than a year.  Jobless Claims  Labor Department figures showed today that fewer Americans
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week as the
job-market disruptions wrought by superstorm Sandy faded.
 Jobless claims  dropped by 23,000 to 393,000 during the period.  Two of four regions showed a gain in October pending home
sales, according to today’s report from the real-estate agents’
group. That included a 15.6 percent jump in the Midwest and a
5.5 percent gain in the South. They dropped 0.1 percent in the
Northeast and 1.1 percent in the West.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up more than 90 percent of the housing
market last year.  New-home sales , logged when contracts are signed, dropped
0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace last month following a
revised 369,000 rate in September that was weaker than initially
reported, the Commerce Department said yesterday.  Home Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes increased 2.1 percent
to a 4.79 million annual rate in October, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, according to data
from the Realtors’ group on Nov. 19.  Property values also are picking up. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of home prices in 20 cities showed home prices rose in the
year ended in September by the most since July 2010, according
to a Nov. 27 report.  Record-low borrowing costs have fueled demand for those
able to get financing. The average rate on a 30-year, fixed
mortgage declined to 3.31 percent last week, the lowest on
record, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank will
take action to speed growth and spur a rebound in a housing
market facing obstacles such as too-tight lending rules.  “We will continue to use the policy tools that we have to
help support economic recovery,” Bernanke said in a Nov. 15
speech in Atlanta.  Bernanke said while tighter credit standards after a
collapse in the subprime mortgage market were appropriate, “it
seems likely at this point that the pendulum has swung too far
the other way, and that overly tight lending standards may now
be preventing creditworthy borrowers from buying homes, thereby
slowing the revival in housing and impeding the economic
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  