-- Persimmon Upgraded as HSBC Sees Homebuilder Rally: London Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-29T16:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/persimmon-upgraded-as-hsbc-sees-homebuilder-rally-london-mover.html
Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the U.K.’s largest
homebuilder by market value, rose the most in five months after
HSBC Holdings Plc predicted a surge in the market for new homes
and raised its price prediction on the shares by 27 percent.  Persimmon was upgraded to overweight from neutral and the
target price for the York, England-based company was increased
to 957 pence from 755 pence, HSBC Global Research said in a note
today. All of the U.K.’s seven publicly traded homebuilders had
their target price raised by more than 20 percent.  “We think sales rates, pricing, margins and return on
capital will all beat market expectations in 2013” across the
industry, analysts including  Jeff Davis  said in the note.
Homebuilders’ shares are still too cheap in a recovering market,
the bank said.  The  Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders Index (BEUHBLD)  has climbed 58
percent this year as companies benefit from government efforts
to stimulate growth and increase mortgage lending.  Barratt
Developments Plc (BDEV) , the biggest U.K. homebuilder by volume, is
leading the index with a 110 percent increase this year.
Persimmon’s advance put it in second place at 70 percent and
 Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , builder of the second-most homes, has risen
about 55 percent.  U.K. mortgage approvals rose more than economists forecast
in October in a sign the Bank of England’s credit-boosting plan,
the Funding for Lending Scheme, may be starting to buoy the
market for home loans. Lenders granted the most mortgages since
January, the central bank said late yesterday in  London .  Lending Scheme  “We expect a 7 percent rise in mortgage advances for house
purchases and a commensurate rise in mortgage approvals and
housing transactions in 2013,” HSBC’s Davis said in the note.
“The Funding for Lending Scheme will underpin 10 billion pounds
($16 billion) to 15 billion pounds additional gross mortgage
advances next year.”  British  house prices  were little changed this month and
values may decline “modestly” over the next year because of
subdued wage growth,  Nationwide Building Society  said in a
statement today.  Persimmon climbed as much as 6.7 percent in London trading,
the most since June 29. The stock was up 3.2 percent at 796.5
pence as of 4:30 p.m. close of trading. Barratt was up 2.5
percent at 194.9 pence at the London close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 