-- Pharmacies Warned for Faults Tied to Meningitis Outbreak
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-29T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/pharmacies-warned-for-faults-tied-to-meningitis-outbreak.html
At least 16 specialty pharmacies
that mix their own medicines were warned by U.S. regulators for
major violations since 2003, some similar to those found at the 
compounding pharmacy linked to this year’s deadly meningitis 
outbreak, a government watchdog group found.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  cited the pharmacies
operating in 15 states for making drugs on a large scale instead
of responding to individual prescriptions, copying commercially
available drugs and making drugs out of ingredients that aren’t
agency approved, according to  Public Citizen , a Washington-based
consumer group. Compounding pharmacies are supposed to produce
prescriptions in response to specific doctor’s orders to fulfill
requests for tailored drugs such as those without preservatives
or in different doses.  The FDA doesn’t appear to have followed up its warnings to
the facilities issued as far back as 2003, the group said,
citing  agency documents . Public Citizen urged the agency to
reinspect the pharmacies, many of which are still in business.  “On a smaller scale, patients have been harmed or killed
from compounding pharmacies,” Michael Carome, deputy director
of the Health Research Group at  Public Citizen , said in a
telephone interview. “They have done a number of inspections
and consistently noted violations. Why haven’t they consistently
followed up when they’ve noted serious problems?”  In 2006, the FDA warned New England Compounding Center
about large-scale production and inadequate safety measures. The
agency failed to reinspect the company, The pharmacy made
tainted steroid injections linked to an outbreak of  fungal
meningitis  blamed for 510 infections and 36 deaths this year.  Injuries Reported  A death tied to contaminated sugar water injections and
another associated with an overdose of a topical anesthetic gel
that wasn’t labeled properly and at least 70 reports of adverse
events related to incorrect amounts of preservatives added to a
steroid shot were noted in a sampling of the FDA’s warning
letters to the other pharmacies, Public Citizen said.  Excluding the latest incidents stemming from the New
England Compounding Center, FDA records documented 23 deaths and
86 serious injuries since 2001 associated with compounding
pharmacies, according to an Oct. 29 report from U.S.
Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from  Massachusetts . The
deaths ranged from more meningitis illnesses to overdoses of
numbing cream for laser hair removal that was made much more
potent than was allowed.  Pharmacies are largely regulated by the states. The FDA
plans to have a meeting Dec. 19 with state officials to
determine how to better oversee compounding companies.  Greater Powers  Federal officials asked for additional authority over
compounding pharmacies earlier this month during congressional
hearings. Lawmakers were skeptical that the agency has used to
the fullest extent its current power over pharmacies that act
like drug manufacturers.  “The FDA’s warning letters show that the agency doesn’t
need any additional actions by Congress to enforce the Food,
Drug, and Cosmetics Act against pharmacies that engage in
illegal drug manufacturing,” Carome said in a statement. “By
not fully investigating what could potentially be deadly
violations of the law, the FDA is disregarding its primary
purpose, which is to protect the lives of citizens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  