-- PICC’s IPO Raises Specter of Cornerstone Deals Gone Sour
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-29T02:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/picc-leans-on-cornerstones-for-biggest-2012-hong-kong-ipo.html
People’s Insurance Company (Group)
of China (1339)  is relying on $1.82 billion of pre-negotiated
investments to seal Hong Kong’s biggest initial public offering
in two years. History advises caution.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Zijin Mining Co. and 15
other so-called cornerstone investors have agreed to purchase
shares in the first national insurer under Communist rule, 
receiving a guaranteed amount of stock in exchange for
the promise that they won’t sell PICC shares within six months,
according to the Beijing-based company’s IPO prospectus. PICC
plans to set a final price by tomorrow for the $3.6 billion
offering and begin trading in Hong Kong on Dec. 7.  While the presence of investors such as AIG and China’s
burgeoning insurance market may help ensure the deal succeeds,
cornerstone support doesn't always lead to post-IPO gains. 
Among 21  Hong Kong  deals worth at least $500 million in the 
past two years, those with the highest proportion of such 
investors underperformed other IPOs, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “PICC can probably get this deal done with a reasonable
valuation and good names such as AIG among its long-term
investors,” said Nelson Yan, a  fund manager  at Sinocap
Management (Hong Kong) Ltd. Still, “cornerstones are no
guarantee of success in IPOs.” Yan said he isn’t planning to
subscribe for PICC Group shares.  Founded in October 1949, PICC offers property, casualty,
life and health insurance products. It had about 130 million
individual customers and 2.4 million institutional clients at
the end of June, according to its  prospectus .  The IPO would be the largest in Hong Kong since October
2010, when  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  sold $20.5 billion of shares, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cornerstone Losses  Cornerstone investors purchase IPO shares at the same price
as other buyers. The practice of large investors committing
early for an IPO is common in Hong Kong and Southeast Asian
bourses though rarely seen in the U.S.  PICC’s bankers are marketing the shares at HK$3.42 to
HK$4.03 apiece. Cornerstone buyers will account for more than 59
percent of the deal’s value at the low end of the pricing range,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the eight offerings worth at
least $1 billion over the past two years, cornerstones accounted
for an average 26 percent of the deal size, according to the
data.  Among the 21 IPOs of $500 million or more in Hong Kong in
the past two years, the five with the highest proportion of
cornerstone investors have fallen an average 23 percent from
their offer prices. The seven deals with no such buyers have
awarded their investors with an average 0.5 percent gain, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong’s  benchmark  stock index fell 6.3 percent during
the period.  Prada Outperforms  IPOs by New  China  Life Insurance Co. and Prada SpA
illustrate the divergence of performance. New China Life sold 59
percent of the $1.3 billion Hong Kong portion of its IPO to
cornerstone investors last December. Assuming they held their
stock, the buyers would have lost about a combined $140 million
as the shares slumped 18.3 percent from the offer price,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By contrast, Prada, the Italian fashion house that enlisted
no cornerstones for a $2.5 billion IPO in June last year, has
rallied 61 percent from its offer price. Prada has benefited
from rising spending on  luxury goods  by China’s swelling ranks
of affluent people.  PICC has a few advantages that could allow it to defy the
cornerstone jinx in the long term, according to some analysts.  The IPO price range values it at 21.8 to 25.7 times 2011
earnings, which is “reasonable” compared with China  Life
Insurance  Co.’s ratio of 28.3 and Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co.’s 19.4 multiple, said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd.  Growth Potential  The company has also barely made inroads into the Chinese
market for life and health insurance. Those units “remain small
and not very profitable at present, but will see strong growth
over the next three to five years,” Xia said.  The potential for continued growth in life insurance is
illustrated by low penetration rates in China, according to
Stephan Binder, a Shanghai-based director at consulting firm
McKinsey & Co. A gauge measuring the size of premiums compared
with the local economy shows China has a 2.6 percent life-
insurance penetration rate, compared to 10 percent in Hong Kong
and 40 percent in  Taiwan , according to McKinsey.  “It’s inevitably going to grow,” Binder said.  PICC’s Backers  PICC Group is the biggest property insurer in China with
147 billion  yuan  in premium income for the first nine months of
this year, according to the website of  China Insurance
Regulatory Commission . It has a 69 percent stake in  PICC
Property & Casualty Co. (2328) , a Hong Kong-traded unit with a market
value of $15.5 billion, the prospectus shows.  China’s insurance market expanded at an average 19 percent
annual pace in the past decade to become the world’s sixth
biggest, while insurers’ assets jumped 10 times, according to
the industry regulator.  Other than AIG, which has agreed to buy $500 million of
PICC Group’s shares, and Zijin Mining, with a $50 million
commitment, backers of the deal include a unit of China State
Grid Corp., with a $300 million commitment; and China Export &
Credit Insurance Corp., with $100 million.  China International Capital Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and HSBC Holdings Plc are leading the
share sale as joint sponsors, the prospectus shows.  Cornerstone investors can be critical for shoring up IPOs
in volatile markets, said Philippe Espinasse, a former equity
capital markets banker at UBS AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. and
author of “IPO: A Global Guide.”  Quality of Investors  IPOs in Hong Kong are on pace for their worst year since
2003. Companies have so far raised $3.5 billion through IPOs, 78
percent less than the same period in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “What really matters is who these cornerstone investors
are,” Espinasse said. Some Chinese companies going public in
Hong Kong have relied on state-owned enterprises and other
mainland institutions to buy shares in their IPOs, rather than
sovereign wealth funds and billionaires, he said.  “It raises questions about the attractiveness of these
transactions to the wider universe of institutional investors,”
said Espinasse.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  