-- Progress Energy Takeover Will Benefit Canada, Petronas Says
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-11-30T00:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/progress-energy-takeover-will-benefit-canada-petronas-says-1-.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state energy company, said its proposed $5.2 billion takeover of
 Progress Energy  Resources Corp. will help Canada develop gas
resources and find an alternative market.  “It’s quite a huge investment,” Shamsul Azhar Abbas,
chief executive officer of Petroliam Nasional, also known as
Petronas, told reporters yesterday in Kuala Lumpur. “We’re
basically helping the country to find an alternative outlet.
They are counting on one market, which is the U.S.”  Acquiring Progress Energy would give Petronas ownership of
the largest holder in the Montney shale-gas area of British
Columbia and full control of the three Progress Energy fields in
which Petronas bought a stake last year. Canada’s Industry
Minister Christian Paradis rejected the takeover last month on
grounds it didn’t represent a “net benefit” to the country.  Petronas expects a response from  Canada  around Dec. 10,
Shamsul said. The company was allowed to appeal and is awaiting
a decision after providing more undertakings, according to a
statement from both companies on Nov. 20. A Malaysian minister
flew to Canada for talks to allay concerns, a person familiar
with the matter said yesterday.  “We’ll see whether they’ll request for further submission,
or tell us we are not giving them any net benefit to discuss the
bid,” Shamsul said. “We’ll leave it to the government to
decide because we’ve done our part.”  Canada Visit  Idris Jala, a minister in Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
office, assured Canadian officials including Deputy Industry
Minister John Knubley that Malaysia doesn’t interfere in the
day-to-day management of state-owned Petronas, said the person,
who declined to be named as the meetings were private. The
minister without portfolio, now back in Malaysia, didn’t
participate in corporate negotiations, the person said.  A spokesman for Prime Minister Najib wasn’t immediately
available to comment when telephoned and e-mailed yesterday.  “Malaysia needs to increase its effort to get energy
assets around the world and Canada is known to have large
reserves,” Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, Kuala Lumpur-based chief
economist at Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd., said by phone. “Petronas
needs all the help it can get from the government as it attempts
to buy assets.”  Canada will decide on foreign-investment guidelines and on
whether to approve “a couple” of proposals, including  Cnooc
Ltd.’s (883)  $15.1 billion bid for Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in “the near
future,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper told reporters on Nov.
28 in Ottawa.  Caught by Surprise  Progress Energy fell 2.4 percent to C$19.53 yesterday, its
biggest drop since Nov. 13. Its shares have risen 48 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petronas was caught by surprise by Canada’s plan of a new
regulatory framework, which came after Petronas’ offer for
Progress Energy, Shamsul said.  “We wish we knew what the new framework will be,” he said.
“At this point, the whole industry has no clue.”  Petronas, which reported a 22 percent drop in quarterly
earnings yesterday, and Progress Energy have extended a deadline
to complete the acquisition to Dec. 30 in light of the appeal,
according to the joint statement.  Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas wants to convince Canadian
authorities of its operational independence from the Malaysian
government, the Financial Times reported Nov. 12, citing Shamsul.
It has offered to appoint independent directors to Progress
Energy’s board, according to the report.  ‘Cross the Bridge’  Petronas has also proposed a public offering of shares in
Progress Energy within five years as a concession to Canada, a
person with knowledge of the deal told  Bloomberg News  on Nov. 21,
declining to be named as the negotiations are private. A listing
would address shareholder concerns over the gas producer’s
future while giving the regulator oversight.  “We are just like any other company,” Shamsul told
reporters yesterday. Asked whether Petronas would relist
Progress Energy, he said: “We will cross the bridge when we
come to it. We have a lot of other listed subsidiaries.”  The rejection has raised questions about the openness of
Harper’s government to foreign investment and cast doubt on
whether Beijing-based Cnooc’s offer for Nexen will be approved.  Cnooc,  China ’s biggest offshore oil and gas producer, has
accepted management and employment conditions set by the
Canadian government as it seeks approval for its Nexen takeover,
two people familiar with the matter said Nov. 20, declining to
be named because negotiations are confidential.  Lower Earnings  Petronas reported a drop in third-quarter earnings on lower
crude oil sales and margins as the global economy slowed. Net
income dropped to 12.4 billion ringgit ($4.1 billion) in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from 15.9 billion ringgit a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. Revenue declined 4.9
percent to 68.3 billion ringgit.  “The third quarter was challenging,” said Shamsul.
“Profitability going forward isn’t looking good.”  Quarterly average prices of Dated Brent decreased 3.4
percent from the previous quarter, while average prices of the
Tapis grade dropped 4 percent, Petronas said in the statement.  Petronas, which manages all of the Southeast Asian nation’s
energy reserves, plans to spend a record 300 billion ringgit
over five years to replenish the country’s maturing reserves. It
has boosted offshore drilling with local and overseas partners,
including  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  