-- PTT Exploration Seeks as Much as $3.1 Billion in Share Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-29T06:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/ptt-exploration-seeks-as-much-as-3-1-billion-in-rights-offering.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,
Thailand’s biggest publicly traded oil and gas explorer, will
sell shares in a range of 135 baht to 145 baht each to raise
about $3.1 billion in the nation’s biggest equity offering.  The range represents a discount of 6.1 percent to 12.6
percent to the closing price of PTTEP’s  shares  on Nov. 28,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News. The final
price will be announced tomorrow, the terms show.  The share sale comes as state-owned oil and gas companies
in Asia try to secure more reserves. PTTEP is seeking funds to
help finance its 1.2 billion pound ($1.9 billion) acquisition of
Cove Energy Pcl after beating  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in the
contest for control of the East Africa-focused explorer.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
agreed in July to buy Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in a deal that’s
awaiting Canadian approval. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the
Malaysian producer known as Petronas, offered in June to acquire
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  While that agreement was
rejected by Canada, Petronas was allowed to appeal.  PTTEP will sell 650 million shares to parent  PTT Pcl (PTT)  and
other existing investors, it said when announcing the rights
offer in July. PTT will subscribe to the shares at the top end
of the range, according to the terms.  Shares Decline  Shares of PTTEP  fell for the fourth day in Bangkok,
dropping 0.7 percent to 153.5 baht at the midday break and
heading for the lowest close since Sept. 13.  The stock sale will also help PTTEP meet a target to
increase daily production of oil and natural gas to 900,000
barrels of oil equivalent by 2020, Chief Executive Officer Tevin Vongvanich said in July. PTTEP plans to spend about $20 billion
by 2016 to raise output.  The sale would be Thailand’s biggest ever equity offering,
topping  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) ’s 65 billion baht ($2.1
billion) share sale in 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  PTTEP has oil and gas projects in countries including
Canada, Australia, Myanmar, Indonesia, Vietnam and Oman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  