-- RBC Expects ‘No Impact’ on Proposed U.S. Rules for Foreign Banks
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-29T16:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/rbc-expects-no-impact-on-proposed-u-s-rules-for-foreign-banks.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender, expects “no impact” on its U.S. businesses if
the  Federal Reserve  imposes tougher capital rules for foreign
banks, Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  said.  “If it’s something that we have to manage around, the
impact will be more just in terms of how we’re structured and it
may impact things like compliance and so forth,” Nixon said
today on a conference call with analysts. “In terms of
businesses, it will have no impact whatsoever.”  Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said yesterday the central bank
is planning stricter capital and leverage rules for U.S. units
of foreign banks. The Fed will force non-U.S. firms to house all
of their U.S. businesses, including securities trading, within
regulated holding companies, he said.  Those holding companies also must abide by capital and
liquidity rules that already apply to U.S. counterparts, Tarullo
said. That means foreign banks’ local units would have to
bolster capital in the U.S. to guard against losses of their
parents’ resources.  “In the U.S. we’re very well capitalized,” Janice Fukakusa, Royal Bank’s chief financial officer, said on the
call. “We believe under any outcome with respect to this talked
about new legislation, we’re very well positioned to continue to
operate.”  Royal Bank’s main U.S. businesses include its RBC Capital
Markets investment-banking business, based in  New York , and a
wealth-management unit.  Entering ‘Homestretch’  Tarullo, who leads the Fed’s committee on bank supervision,
said the regulator is entering the “homestretch” of completing
the proposal that would include the new requirements.  While Tarullo didn’t indicate which banks would be covered
by the new rules, he said 23 foreign lenders have at least $50
billion in assets in the U.S., the threshold established by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act for treating U.S. firms with “special
prudential measures.”  Foreign lenders currently can choose whether to create U.S.
bank holding companies. Those units were exempt from capital
standards as long as their parent firms were well capitalized.
Dodd-Frank removed that exemption. Some non-U.S. lenders then
altered their legal structures to remain outside local capital
rules.  “This is not great news for any Canadian bank as it will
likely push up the amount of capital required to run their U.S.
businesses,”  Brad Smith , an analyst with Stonecap Securities
Inc. in Toronto, said yesterday in a note. “All Canadian banks
that are running capital markets businesses in the U.S. will
need to take a very close look at their business lines.”  Toronto-Dominion Bank  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , which has more retail branches in
the U.S. than in  Canada , already has a holding company in the
U.S. that will have to add about $5 billion in capital to comply
with Dodd-Frank, Smith said. Requiring all U.S. businesses be
consolidated into a holding structure would boost the capital
need by billions of dollars, he said.  “Media reports around potential holding company regulation
in the U.S. are speculative given that no regulations have been
announced, and we are not in a position to comment on what may
or may not be required,”  Stephen Knight , a Toronto-Dominion
spokesman, said yesterday in a statement. “We would always seek
to be compliant with the rules that apply to us.”  Spokesmen for  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  