-- Treasury Wine Leasing Napa Vineyards to Meet Premium Demand Jump
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/treasury-wine-leasing-napa-vineyards-to-meet-premium-demand-jump.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) , the
world’s second-biggest listed wine producer, is renting
vineyards in  California ’s Napa and  Australia ’s Barossa valleys
to get hold of grapes amid surging demand for high-end vintages.  Where owners weren’t prepared to sell up, the company was
happy to lease wine country to meet market demand, David Dearie,
chief executive officer of the Melbourne-based company, said in
an interview in Sydney yesterday. Treasury’s brands include the
Penfolds and Beringer labels.  “The big challenge right now is we’ve got more demand than
we have supply for luxury wines,” he said. “A lot of people
who own these fantastic properties don’t want to sell but they
actually don’t want to farm it either, so we offer to lease
it.”  Global wine output will slump to the lowest levels in 37
years after weather damage to grapes from  France  to  Argentina 
destroyed harvests, the International Organization of Vine and
Wine said last month. Rising sales of premium wine amid surging
demand in  China  meant that Treasury was struggling to source
enough grapes for its high-end vintages, Dearie said.  “As long as we can get our hands on that high quality
fruit we know we’ve got the brands and the consumer demand for
them,” he said.  With about a million wine producers in the world, the
industry is ripe for consolidation, he said at a lunch event
earlier. The top five wine-makers have 7.8 percent of the global
market, compared with 48 percent for the leading brewers and 20
percent for spirits companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Consolidation Opportunity  “There’s a real opportunity for consolidation,” he said.
“We’ve a A$3.2 billion ($3.3 billion) market cap with about
A$3.5 billion dollars worth of assets and zero debt, so
expansion has to be a part of our future.”  Treasury Wine has bought 630 hectares (1,556 acres) of
vineyards in South Australia state’s Barossa and Eden Valleys
and Wrattonbully region as part of plans to improve its
production of higher-end wines, the company said in a
presentation this week.  It was also interested in running joint ventures in Chinese
vineyards, he said in the interview.  “In the short term, it’s not a priority,” with the
company focused on its existing operations in Australia,
California and New Zealand, he said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  is planting a 66-acre
vineyard in the country’s Ningxia province as part of a venture
with a state-owned company to produce sparkling wine under its
Chandon brand, the company said last year.  Treasury Wine shares fell 0.4 percent to A$5.06 in Sydney
yesterday, while the broader S&P/ASX 200 index climbed 0.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  