-- Treasuries Gain as Deficit-Cut Doubt Spurs Record Auction Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-11-29T22:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/treasuries-remain-higher-gains-after-seven-year-note-auction.html
Treasuries advanced, pushing 10-year
note yields close to one-week lows, as concern U.S. lawmakers
will fail to avert the so-called fiscal cliff spurred record
demand at a $35 billion seven-year note auction.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased a record 19.7
percent of the notes, compared with an average of 14.4 percent
at the past 10 auctions. The benchmark yield dropped as Federal
Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley indicated
the possibility of additional asset purchases. Treasuries erased
losses earlier after Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  said
“no substantive progress” has been made in budget talks.  “It’s somewhat toxic because you’ve got two ends of the
spectrum and it doesn’t look like we’re getting a middle
ground,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who
helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in
Salem,  Massachusetts . “It’s a definite wait-and-see mode.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.62 percent at 4:59 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent note due in November 2022 gained 1/8, or $1.25 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  The yield on the current  seven-year note  fell two basis
points to 1.02 percent.  ‘Clearly Interested’  The seven-year securities drew a  yield  of 1.045 percent,
compared with a forecast of 1.046 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of six of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The record
auction low yield for the securities, 0.954 percent, was set at
the July offering.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.81, the
most since April and compared with the average of 2.74 for the
previous 10 sales.  “The buy side is still clearly interested and we can
easily take down supply, even at these levels,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist at Jefferies Group Inc. In
 New York , a primary dealer obligated to bid at government debt
auctions. “There’s been some chatter from New York Fed
President Dudley talking about how if labor market conditions do
not improve he would favor buying more Treasuries after
Operation Twist expires.”  Auction Outcome  At today’s auction,  indirect bidders , an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 39.1 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 39.7 percent for the past
10 sales.  Seven-year notes have returned 4.4 percent this year,
compared with a 2.7 percent gain by the broader Treasuries
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
seven-year securities returned 13.7 percent in 2011, while
Treasuries overall gained 9.8 percent.  The government sold $35 billion in five-year securities
yesterday with direct bidders winning 15.9 percent of the
offering, the most since 2004. The bid-to-cover ratio at the
Nov. 27 auction of $35 billion in two-year debt of 4.07 matched
the record for all Treasury coupon securities set a year ago at
a two-year note offering.  Volatility in Treasuries rose yesterday from five year
lows. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings based on options, increased to 52.3 basis points
from 51.7 basis points the previous day, the lowest level since
May 2007. It hit a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15.
Volatility climbed to 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the
financial crisis intensified.  Trading Activity  Treasury trading volume dropped today to $247.4 billion as
of 5:01 p.m. in New York, from $281.5 billion yesterday, the
most in three weeks, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . The 2012 daily average is
$240 billion  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  met the top four
leaders in Congress today, after chief executives from more than
a dozen U.S. corporations shuttled from the Capitol to the White
House yesterday and pressed both sides for an agreement to
prevent triggering automatic spending cuts and tax increases on
Jan. 1.  The U.S. Treasury Department is estimated to have enough
authority to continue borrowing through “at least mid-
February” 2013, the  Congressional Budget Office  said in a
 report today .  The U.S. is approaching the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling and
Congress must act to raise it. CBO’s estimate assumes that
Treasury will use a series of “extraordinary” steps, as it has
done in the past.  Fed View  The Fed is acquiring as much as $17.2 billion in six
Treasury purchases this week, including $4.74 billion today. The
central bank is selling shorter-term Treasuries from its
holdings and buying those due in six to 30 years under a program
known as Operation Twist, which is scheduled to end next month.  The Fed’s Dudley said he is weighing “unacceptably high”
joblessness as he considers whether the central bank should
increase its asset purchases.  “I will be assessing the employment and inflation outlook
in order to determine whether we should continue Treasury
purchases into 2013,” Dudley said today in the text of remarks
for a speech in New York. “The Fed will promote maximum
employment and price stability to the greatest extent our tools
permit, and we will stay the course.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets
on Dec. 11-12 to assess the impact of record accommodation,
including a plan to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds per month
to reduce unemployment. The central bank said last month it will
buy bonds until the job market improves “substantially.”  GDP Rises  Gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate,
up from a 2 percent prior estimate, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 2.8
percent gain. Household purchases climbed at a 1.4 percent rate,
the least in more than a year and down from a previously
reported 2 percent rate, and income gains were also cut.  Ten-year yields will end the year at 1.74 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys. They will climb to 1.85 percent
in the first quarter of next year, the predictions show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  