-- Romanian Leu Gains to Highest in Two Months on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-29T15:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/romanian-leu-gains-to-highest-in-two-months-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
The leu headed for the strongest
level in more than two months on optimism U.S. lawmakers can
reach an agreement on budget talks to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff, boosting investors’ appetite for riskier assets.  The Romanian currency appreciated as much as 0.4 percent
today to 4.4980 per euro, the highest since Sept. 19, and was
trading at 4.5085 per euro at 4:57 p.m. in Bucharest today. The
gain extends this month’s advance to 0.8 percent. Yields on 2019
Eurobonds fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
4.658 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The world economy is in its best shape in 18 months as the
U.S. looks likely to avoid the tax increases and spending cuts
known as the fiscal cliff, according to the latest Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
meets congressional leaders today after Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner  said he is optimistic officials can “avert this
crisis sooner rather than later.”  “The local currency was lifted today, presumably on
improving tone in the international financial markets,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank  Romania  SA,
wrote in note. “The scope for a firming significantly beyond
the 4.50 per euro threshold looks limited as leu’s current
levels seem to have already priced in a probable advance in core
markets today.”  Romania’s central bank capped lending at 4 billion lei
($1.2 billion) in a repurchase agreements auction on Nov. 26,
extending its limit on weekly funding introduced on Oct. 8. The
bank offered 12 billion lei at the sale on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  