-- Royal Bank of Canada Profit Rises as Fixed-Income Surges
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-29T21:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/royal-bank-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-22-on-investment-banking.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the first
Canadian lender to report fourth-quarter results, said profit
rose 22 percent on higher trading and investment-banking fees,
beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income for the period ended Oct. 31 was C$1.91 billion
($1.93 billion), or C$1.25 a share, up from C$1.57 billion, or
C$1.02, a year earlier, the Toronto-based lender said today in a
statement. Revenue rose 12 percent to C$7.52 billion.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender by assets, benefited
from a surge in fixed-income trading and gains in its RBC
Capital Markets investment bank. Analysts and investors expect
Canadian banks to offset slower growth in consumer lending and
mortgages with fees for arranging stock sales, trading and
advising on takeovers.  “The capital markets seem to have been good,” John Kinsey, who helps manage about C$1 billion including bank shares
at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. “That’s a good thing
for the banks and I think it’s made up for some weakness in
other areas.”  The company said it had profit excluding some items of
C$1.27 a share, beating the C$1.26 a share average  estimate  of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Royal Bank  rose  0.5 percent to close at C$58.61 in Toronto.  Capital Markets  “The capital-markets exposure of Royal has been a love-
hate relationship with the market for a while,” John Aiken, an
analyst with Barclays Plc in Toronto, said in an interview.
“But it looks like we’re in an environment now where the market
is happy to see growing earnings, regardless of where it comes
from.”  Royal Bank set C$362 million aside for bad loans, up from
C$276 million in the year-earlier period and C$324 million in
the third quarter. Royal Bank pared its workforce by 762
employees, or 1 percent, to 74,377 employees from the third
quarter, with the biggest decline in  Canada , according to
financial statements.  Personal and commercial banking profit rose 9.2 percent to
C$1.03 billion from C$947 million a year ago as balances from
loans and deposits increased. Net interest margins narrowed to
2.82 percent in the quarter, from 2.97 percent in the third
quarter and 2.84 percent in the year-earlier period.  Earnings from capital markets more than tripled to C$410
million from C$125 million a year ago, largely driven by fixed-
income trading, the bank said. Underwriting and advisory fees
rose 35 percent to C$375 million from a year ago.  Trading Revenue  Trading revenue across the bank more than tripled to C$625
million from C$167 million a year ago, the company said.  Wealth-management earnings rose 16 percent to C$207
million, while insurance fell 3 percent to C$194 million, the
firm said.  Royal Bank had record annual profit of C$7.54 billion, or
C$4.93 a share for the year ended Oct. 31, up 17 percent from
C$6.44 billion, or C$4.19 a share, the lender said.  The bank met its medium-term goals for earnings-per-share
growth, return on equity and dividend payouts. Chief Executive
Officer Gordon Nixon said today in a conference call that Royal
Bank will maintain its goals for 2013 despite “headwinds” for
the industry.  “There’s no question that financial-services companies
will continue to face headwinds,” Nixon, 55, said. “In
addition to regulatory changes, I believe the economic headwinds
will continue until there is more improvement in the global
economy and we see resolutions to both the European sovereign-
debt issues as well as the U.S. issues, particularly the
imminent fiscal cliff situation.”  Pursuing Acquisitions  Nixon reiterated interest in pursuing asset-management
acquisitions, though he said a “less friendly regulatory
environment” and heightened capital requirements make mergers
and acquisitions a challenge.  “When you look at potential M&A activity, it has to be
financed with a lot of core equity to ensure that we continue to
comply with the capital requirements going forward,” Nixon
said.  Royal Bank is also looking to U.S. consumer and retail
businesses for expansion, considering areas such as the payments
system and online banking, even after selling its North
Carolina-based RBC Bank to PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
March.  U.S. Opportunities  “We do think there is an opportunity to sort of look at
the U.S. market from a different perspective,” Nixon said.
“There are still some pretty attractive opportunities, at least
in our view, for us to conservatively continue to take advantage
of our strength” and expand the firm’s international business,
he said.  Canada’s eight-biggest lenders are expected to report
fourth-quarter profit growth of 17 percent, led by  Bank of Nova
Scotia  and Bank of Montreal, Scotia Capital analyst Kevin Choquette said in a Nov. 20 note to clients.  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-biggest lender, reports
results on Dec. 4, followed by Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, Toronto-Dominion Bank and National Bank of Canada on
Dec. 6.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , the third-largest lender, reports
Dec. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  