-- Trulia Partners With Primedia to Expand Into Apartments
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-29T14:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/trulia-partners-with-primedia-to-expand-into-apartments.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , the real estate-
information website, is teaming up with Web publisher Primedia
Inc. as it expands in the online apartment rental listings
market.  Primedia, the parent of  ApartmentGuide.com , will give
Trulia users access to more than 5 million rental listings in
addition to those already available, the companies said today in
a statement. Trulia is also taking over advertising sales for
Primedia’s inventory.  Trulia, which first sold shares to the public in September,
is rushing to enter new businesses as it takes on  Zillow Inc. (Z)  in
the online real estate market. While revenue jumped 76 percent
in the third quarter, Trulia hasn’t yet focused on generating
revenue from listing rentals, according to Chief Executive
Officer Pete Flint. He called the deal the most significant
commercial relationship in Trulia’s seven-year history.  “We’re focused on building scale and an audience on the
listings side,” Flint said in an interview. “In time we’ll be
more focused on monetization.”  By becoming the sales force for Primedia’s advertising, San
Francisco-based Trulia will reach more than 32 million monthly
visitors, an increase of about 28 percent from its current
audience, Flint said. Typically when someone rents an apartment
they also need to furnish it, so there’s a whole set of
advertisers that would want to reach those consumers, he said.
The companies will share the revenue.  Trulia  rose  1.4 percent to $17.25 at 9:45 a.m. in New York.
The stock is little changed from its $17 initial public offering
price.  Primedia, based in Norcross,  Georgia , was purchased last
year by an affiliate of private equity firm TPG Capital in a
deal valued at about $525 million. TPG bought the company from
buyout firm KKR & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  