-- Rushed Constitution May Finish Egyptian Democracy
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-11-29T18:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/rushed-constitution-may-finish-egyptian-democracy.html
Egypt’s constitutional crisis is
getting graver by the hour.  Faced with major protests to President Mohamed Mursi’s
decree placing himself above the law, the Muslim Brotherhood
party is today trying to cram a draft constitution through the
constitutional assembly in a single marathon session. A shotgun
constitution is a terrible way to produce popular legitimacy and
effective democracy.  Mursi’s actions didn’t come out of nowhere. Fearing that
the nation’s pro-army constitutional court would dissolve the
assembly writing the new document, he issued a decree last week
that put his actions above judicial review. This overreach
smacked of dictatorship, and hundreds of thousands of protesters
filled Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to object. A little-noticed feature
of the decree, however, states that Mursi’s special powers would
expire when the new constitution was ratified.  Now, by getting the constitution in place fast, Mursi and
the Brotherhood hope to show the protesters and the world that
they don’t seek to subvert democracy but to sustain it. Once the
draft is approved, they say, it can be submitted to a public
referendum, and Mursi’s new powers will immediately sunset. In
essence, they are telling their opponents that if they don’t
like the presidential decree, they can end it by voting for the
constitution.  At the same time, the fast drafting is also meant to send a
message to the constitutional court, which is expected to rule
this weekend on whether to dissolve the assembly. Mursi and the
Muslim Brotherhood are daring the court to invalidate a body
that has already done its work and produced its draft.  No Deliberation  Although Mursi’s approach has potential strategic benefits
for him, it is terrible for  Egypt . Constitutional drafting must
allow for deliberation if the resulting document is to have
legitimacy with the public. The draft now being pushed through
the assembly, provision by provision, has been created almost
solely by the Muslim Brotherhood. And many of the secular
members of the assembly have walked out in protest of the
Brotherhood’s domination of the group.  Truth be told, the draft is not much more focused on Islam
than was the 1971 constitution that fell victim to the Arab
Spring revolution -- that original constitution already called
Shariah the principal source of law. But there are still valid
objections to provisions that call for indeterminate special
status for women and for a strong security cabinet headed by the
president.  These concerns could probably be resolved, given time for
debate. Discussion would in turn produce buy-in from at least
some skeptics. The public would also have a chance to learn
about salient issues and disagreements on the draft, which would
allow people to cast informed ballots in the ratification
referendum, which is supposed to occur within 15 days of
passage.  Such debate would admittedly be made more difficult by the
withdrawal of the assembly’s secularists. They made a major
mistake by walking away, just as  Iraq ’s Sunnis did when they
boycotted their constitutional process. The secularists haven’t
resigned, and so it’s possible that they could be induced to
engage again -- as secularists have in the comparatively
smoother constitutional process unfolding now in  Tunisia . That,
of course, requires slowing things down immediately.  What’s more, rapid assembly approval makes this proposal
look a lot like the constitution that the army itself pushed
through last year, which was produced largely in private, never
subjected to meaningful deliberation, and ratified by an
uninformed public that presumably thought any change from the
old ways must be good. More should be expected from an assembly
that was democratically chosen.  Brotherhood Bullying  In practical terms, speeding up the constitution is
unlikely to calm the anti-Mursi protests. Many angry Egyptians
are skeptical of the Muslim Brotherhood’s commitment to
democracy. It seems unlikely that their concerns will be
assuaged by a constitutional process conducted under Brotherhood
bullying.  Mursi should take a deep breath and ask the constitutional
assembly to pause. If he doesn’t, and the assembly finishes its
drafting work, then tighten your seat belts. Secularists plan an
enormous protest tomorrow in Tahrir Square. The Brotherhood is
calling for its own million-man protest the next day in the same
place. And the court may well rule on dissolving the
constitutional assembly the day after that. Democracy in the
Arab world’s most influential nation hangs in the balance.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 