-- Russia IT Company IBS Weighs Spinoff Via U.S. Share Sale
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-29T13:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/russia-it-company-ibs-weighs-spinoff-via-u-s-share-sale.html
IBS Group Holding Ltd. (IBSG) , a Russian
provider of information-technology services, is considering a
spinoff of its software development unit  Luxoft  via an initial
public offering in the U.S.  IBS Group weighed plans for a Luxoft IPO earlier this year
to unlock value for investors and decided to delay an offer
because of market conditions, President Anatoly Karachinsky said
in an interview in his Moscow office. He co-founded Frankfurt-
traded IBS and is also a shareholder.  “We are strongly undervalued by the market as our company
combines two investment cases, which are interesting for
different investors,” Karachinsky said. “One is IT business in
 Russia , and the other one is the so-called offshore software
development for large Western companies, under the Luxoft
brand.”  The idea of a Luxoft IPO was inspired by the example of
 Epam Systems Inc. (EPAM) , a company with roots in the Commonwealth of
Independent States that sold shares in New York in February and
whose shares have since gained 68 percent to value the company
at $875 million. “It became easier for us to target the U.S.
stock market once we’ve got a distinct peer from central  Europe 
there,” Karachinsky said.  Russia IPOs  Epam trades at about twice its forecast 2012 sales, which
means Luxoft may be worth as much as $600 million in an IPO,
implying this multiple, said Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst
at Otkritie Capital.  “Previously, the U.S. got used to offshore programmers
from  India , with companies such as  Infosys (INFY)  and  China ,”
Karachinsky said. “Now, they’ve come to know programmers from
central Europe, including Russia. With the Epam share sale, it’s
clear what multiples we could hope for in the U.S.”  Russian IPOs have struggled this year. Promsvyazbank
scrapped a share sale of as much as $414 million last month as
the offered price didn’t satisfy current shareholders.  OAO
MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, barely
covered an IPO at the bottom of its price range, raising $1.7
billion this week. Sberbank has dropped about 5 percent since a
September secondary offering.  Russia, which gets about half of its revenue from energy
sales, has the cheapest stocks of the so-called BRIC nations
that also include Brazil, India and China, as crude has fallen
12 percent in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Russia Growth  Luxoft’s offerings include bespoke software designs,
including for entertainment systems in  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s cars and
client-relations management products for Deutsche Bank AG.
Revenue from this business rose 13 percent in the six months
ending Sept. 30 to $145 million, the company said in a report
today.  IBS’s sales from its IT services business in Russia gained
1.8 percent in dollar terms to $201 million. The profitability
of this part of the business is lower as the offerings are more
standardized, based on products from  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
Karachinsky said without disclosing profit margins.  The Russian information-technologies market is set to reach
$34 billion this year including $6.8 billion from IT services,
according to IBS, citing data from IDC. IBS plans to increase
Russia IT services sales 6 percent to 10 percent, in line with
the market, Karachinsky said.  The market in Russia is poised to grow as only 5 percent of
large companies in the country have complete, fully functional
technology systems for enterprise resource planning, Karachinsky
said.  Oracle, which had a “negligible” market share in Russia
five years ago is expanding in the country at the expense of
SAP, Karachinsky said. The Redwood City, California-based
company is growing faster as it shares contracts with local
partners, while SAP carries out some projects in the country on
its own, without Russian partners, he said.  IBS Group shares have risen 7.2 percent in  Frankfurt  to
16.30 euros this year through yesterday, giving the company a
market value of 360 million euros ($466 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  