-- S&P Affirms China Ratings on ‘Exceptional’ Outlook for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/s-p-affirms-china-ratings-on-exceptional-outlook-for-growth.html
Standard & Poor’s  affirmed China’s
sovereign ratings and said the outlook remains stable, citing
the nation’s “exceptional” growth prospects, holdings of
overseas assets and modest government indebtedness.  China’s long-term credit rating is AA- and its short-term
rating is A-1+, the company said in a statement yesterday. S&P
raised the nation’s long-term rating to the fourth-highest level
on Dec. 16, 2010. Yesterday’s release is an annual report on the
Chinese sovereign grade.  S&P is forecasting China will “maintain strong growth” as
the nation funds investment spending, even after expansion
that’s set to slow in 2012 to the  weakest  pace in 13 years. The
country is heading into a decade under new leadership, with Xi Jinping, appointed chief of the ruling Communist Party this
month, set to become president next year and  Li Keqiang , the
party’s No. 2, in line to replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  “We expect no major change in policy directions in China
in the wake of the recent top leadership changes,” S&P said in
a statement. “Efforts toward deepening structural and fiscal
reforms are likely to continue.”  China’s economy  may expand 7.7 percent this year, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey this month.
That would be the lowest growth since 1999.  Yields on China’s 10-year government  bonds  have risen this
year by 11 basis points to 3.55 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is equal to 0.01 percentage
point. That compares with a decline in the U.S. 10-year note
yield to about 1.64 percent from 1.88 percent.  Ratings History  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  S&P said yesterday it may raise China’s credit rating if
structural reforms lead to a “more vibrant” domestic debt
capital market, more reliance on market-based macroeconomic
management tools and a more flexible  exchange rate . The rating
may be cut if reform efforts weaken, the nation’s economic
performance becomes “markedly lower” and conditions in the
banking industry worsen more than expected.  Lack of transparency in  China  “lessens support for the
government’s credit standing,” according to yesterday’s
statement, which reiterated points S&P made last year. That
could also increase the risks of policy mistakes as the Chinese
economy increases in complexity, S&P said.  Credit Weakness  China’s lower average income than similarly-rated
sovereigns is “another key credit weakness that may exacerbate
the impact of errors in economic policies,” according to the
statement.  S&P estimates China’s per capita real growth in gross
domestic product in 2013-2015 at 7.3 percent, down from an
average 10.2 percent over the five years through 2011.  Government debt should continue to fall as a share of GDP,
declining to close to 13.4 percent of economic output by 2014,
it said.  At the same time, China’s fiscal position is “somewhat
weaker” than indicators suggest, with local governments owing
significant off-budget debt, S&P said. The lack of timely and
regularly available data and questions over the legal
responsibilities of local governments make external monitoring
of these debts “extremely difficult,” S&P said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  