-- Sales of Structured Notes Tied to Mexican Peso Triple in 2012
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-11-29T17:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/sales-of-structured-notes-tied-to-mexican-peso-triple-in-2012.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
the Mexican peso have almost tripled as investors bet this
year’s best-performing widely traded currency against the dollar
is poised for further gains.  Banks have issued $245.3 million of the securities in 2012
in 28 offerings, compared with $86.6 million in 10 deals last
year during the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold $61.3 million of one-
year notes tied to the currency on Nov. 19 in two offerings, the
most issuance on any day for the securities since the beginning
of 2010.  Investors are purchasing notes tied to the peso because
 Mexico ’s cost of labor is lower than  China ’s, making it an
attractive destination for U.S. manufacturers, and the currency
is cheap compared with that of peers such as Brazil and
 Colombia , said  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc in  New York . The Mexican economy grew 3.3
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  “Growth has been pretty resilient despite the weakness
that we’ve seen in the U.S. earlier this year,” Moran said in a
telephone interview. The U.S. buys 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports.  The Mexican currency strengthened 7.4 percent this year to
12.9723 pesos per dollar as of the close of trading in New York
on Nov. 28, the biggest gain among the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies against the greenback.  May Sales  Banks sold $85 million of notes tied to the peso in May,
the most monthly sales for the securities since 2010, Bloomberg
data show. Investors were betting the currency could rise
because of weakness in the dollar due to an expected third round
of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve,  Joe Manimbo ,
a Washington-based market analyst for Western Union Business
Solutions, said at the time.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. issued $36.3 million of one-year
securities on Nov. 19, this month’s top-selling offering tied to
the peso. The notes pay 13.06 percent as long as the Mexican
currency doesn’t depreciate against the dollar, with protection
against 15 percent of losses, according to a  prospectus  filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Buyers could
lose all of their investment. JPMorgan Chase & Co. distributed
the notes for a 1.1 percent fee.  The Bank of Mexico will probably not increase its  benchmark
rate  from 4.5 percent tomorrow, according to a median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  That’s partly because of an expected decrease in inflation
and uncertainty surrounding the U.S. tax increases and budget
cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, according to a report by Benito Berber, fixed income research strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  Bloomberg began collecting comprehensive data on U.S. SEC-
registered securities in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  