-- Samsung, Nielsen, Cascadia, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/samsung-nielsen-cascadia-google-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  plans to
argue in a London trial that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  smartphones use its
protected technology without authorization.  Samsung claims Apple infringed patents key to how phones
send and receive information on third-generation mobile
networks. Apple argues the patents aren’t valid and, regardless,
Samsung must license the technology’s use under fair terms if
it’s vital for connecting to modern networks, according to the
iPhone maker’s court filings.  The two companies continue to clash over the  intellectual
property  behind the $219 billion smartphone market, even after
Apple settled all its lawsuits with  HTC Corp. (2498)  earlier this
month. Samsung is trying to hit back after a California court
ruled in August it had to pay $1.05 billion for copying Apple
products.  The Samsung-Apple patent war is “becoming wider and deeper
than ever before,” Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analyst  Mark
Newman  said in a report this month.  The London trial, which started yesterday and deals only
with the validity of Samsung’s patents and whether Apple
infringed them, will last three weeks. Damages or royalties
Apple may owe to Samsung won’t be decided until later.  “We have at all times met our obligations to the fair and
reasonable licensing of our standards patents,” Samsung said in
an e-mailed statement. “However, Apple has refused to negotiate
in good faith, and continues to use our patented technologies
without any license. We will continue to take all appropriate
measures to put an end to Apple’s free-riding.”  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which makes computer chips for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, has been licensed to use the Samsung
patents, Apple said in its court documents. Apple hasn’t shown
any interest in buying a license to use the technology, Samsung
countered in its court filings.  The trial starts the day after Ericsson AB sued Samsung in
Texas, claiming the Suwon, South Korea-based company refused to
pay a fair and reasonable rate for using its essential patents.  Under phone industry standards, companies owning the rights
to essential technology must license it to competitors on fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, known as FRAND.  “Determining whether license fees are FRAND is a thorny
issue,” said Andrew Hockley, a London competition lawyer not
involved in the case. “It’s very much on the radar” of
regulators around the world.  Nokia Sues Research In Motion Over Swedish Arbitration Award  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  sued BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  in
California to enforce an international arbitration award
governing the sale of WLAN-compliant phones.  A Swedish arbitration court ruled Nov. 6 that RIM isn’t
entitled to make or sell products compatible with the WLAN
standard without first agreeing with Nokia on royalties. Mobile
phones with the technology allow users to switch to wireless
local area networks where available.  “Nokia and RIM have not agreed on the royalty to be
paid,” Nokia said in a complaint filed Nov. 26 in federal court
in San Jose. “RIM and its U.S. subsidiary RIM Corp.
nevertheless continue to violate the award and breach the
underlying agreement.”  Crystal Roberts, a RIM spokeswoman, said the company will
respond to Nokia’s petitions “in due course.”  “Research In Motion has worked hard to develop its
leading-edge BlackBerry technology and has built an industry-
leading intellectual property portfolio of its own,” Roberts
said in an e-mailed statement.  Enforcement of the award is governed by the  New York 
Convention signed by the U.S., Finland, Canada and Sweden, Nokia
said. Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, seeks a court order
confirming the award and forcing Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM to
pay its court costs and attorneys’ fees.  RIM filed the arbitration request in March 2011 after Nokia
lodged patent-infringement suits against the company in Germany
and a firm that now owns some Nokia patents sued RIM in federal
court in Texas. RIM sought a decision that its 2008 licensing
agreement covered all Nokia patents.  The arbitration panel ruled earlier this month that the
agreement only covered patents deemed essential to three
industry standards and Nokia acted within its legal rights when
it transferred patents to a third party, knowing that company
would sue RIM, according to the arbitration order.  The case is Nokia Corp. v.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , 12-
5992, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Warner Brothers Turns to Nielsen Results for Trademark Suit  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  has turned to  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) ’s
Nielsen National Research Group as part of its trademark-
infringement lawsuit against the makers of a “mockbuster”
film.  The company’s  Warner Bros . Entertainment unit filed suit in
federal court in Los Angeles against the Global Asylum Inc. of
Burbank, California, objecting to Global Asylum’s “ Age of
Hobbits ” film.  The public was likely to confuse Global Asylum’s film with
“ The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey ,” based on the writings of
 J.R.R. Tolkien  and set for theatrical release Dec. 14, according
to court papers.  Global Asylum’s website describes its film as the story of
a peace-loving tribe enslaved by flesh-eating dragon-riders.  In a Nov. 21 filing, counsel for Warner Bros. said that
Nielsen’s National Research Group conducted a survey Nov. 18-19
of 1,200 moviegoers between the ages of 12 and 64. The survey
respondents were divided into two groups, one of which was shown
a movie DVD cover allegedly promoting “Age of the Hobbits” and
a second one for “Age of the Java Men.” The artwork on both
posters was identical, according to the filing.  Warner Brothers said that of the group that saw the “ Age
of the Hobbits ” DVD cover, 30.1 percent of those who responded
to questions about the source of the film attributed it to the
Tolkien work or the makers of the upcoming “The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey” film.  Of those who were shown the “Age of the Java Men” cover,
only 6.42 percent of those who responded to a question about
source identified the title with Tolkien or the makers of the
“Unexpected Journey” film.  Warner Bros. is arguing that the survey response shows an
overall confusion rate of between 30 and 40 percent with respect
to the makers of “ Unexpected Journey ” and Global Asylum’s
“Age of the Hobbits” film.  The case is Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., v. The Global
Asylum Inc., 2:12-cv-09547-PSG-CW, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  Steamworks ‘Cascadia’ Not Generic for Regional Beer, Experts Say  Steamworks Brew Pub , a pub and brewery in Vancouver,
British Columbia, has registered a trademark that some beer fans
claim is a beer style that shouldn’t be entitled to trademark
protection, the Vancouver Sun  reported .  The pub registered “Cascadia” as a Canadian trademark,
and has contacted other small breweries to warn them against
using the term with their products, according to the newspaper.  Beer fans maintain that “Cascadia” or “Cascadian” is
merely a descriptive term properly used with the region’s dark
ales, the newspaper reported.  Neither the  Great American Beer Festival  nor  the Beer Judge
Certification Program  acknowledges “Cascadian” as a distinct
category, saying beers that are so described are properly
American-style black India Pale Ales, the Sun reported.  Ottawa Charity Sues Workplace Collective for Infringement  A charity that aids Canadians with developmental
disabilities has sued the operators of a so-called workplace
collective for trademark infringement, the Ottawa Citizen
 reported.   The  Ottawa-Carleton Association for Persons with
Developmental Disabilities  has sued  Under One Roof Properties 
for infringing the “Under One Roof” trademark, according to
the newspaper.  The collective, a seven-story office building in Ottawa,
houses a number of progressive organizations under its roof,
including a feminist legal practice, several union locals, and
the Canada Without Poverty and Canadians for Choice
organizations, the newspaper reported.  The charity filed suit in Canadian federal court seeking an
order barring the collective from using the name it uses for a
program that creates employment opportunities for disabled
persons, according to the Citizen.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Says Germany’s Copyright Proposal Restricts User Searches  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said a proposal in Germany’s parliament to
extend copyright law would make finding information online more
difficult and has implications for its business operations in
Europe.  While existing law prevents copying of articles, the new
proposals, sought by German news publishers, “would place
restrictions on even a ‘snippet’ of an article,” such as is
commonly found in search results, said Simon Hampton, Google’s
director of public policy in Europe, in a post.  The company, based in Mountain View, California, is
starting an information campaign “to give the facts about the
proposed law” and invite debate, Hampton said. Germany’s
parliament begins debating the proposal this week, he said.  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, is
stepping up efforts to inform public opinion on policies that
affect Web companies, including rivals  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  The proposed law in Germany would force search engines,
news aggregators and others to contract with publishers in order
to show the snippets of information available, Hampton said.  “We want to build win-win ways to partner with
publishers,” Hampton said in the post. “What we want to avoid
is a system that puts the brakes on the open Internet, limits
choice for people looking for information, and dramatically
raises the cost of online innovation.”  The  bill  by Germany’s Justice Ministry proposes giving
publishers one year during which they have the sole rights to
commercially use their journalistic content. It pits website
operators such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo against German
publishers including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann AG, which
are trying to find ways to monetize content online.  The extended law would be a “complete reversal of the
legal situation today” and a reversal of current Web practices,
Hampton said. It also has implications for Google’s business in
Europe, Hampton said.  Users clicking through to publishers’ websites from
Google’s search and news pages is “significant” for the
company because there is no advertising on the Google News
service in Europe, Hampton said. The company’s “opportunity to
make money is when users click on a link” and go to a media
site, he said.  Google’s Web crawler currently allows publishers to decide
whether their information can be used and “a further set of
highly refined controls is also available,” Hampton said.  U.K. Student Makes Deal to Avoid Extradition in Copyright Case  Richard O’Dwyer, the U.K. student whose TVShack website
allegedly gave others access to pirated films and television
programs, has signed an agreement with U.S. authorities that
would help him avoid extradition to the U.S., the  BBC   reported .  The U.K.’s  High Court  was told that O’Dwyer will travel
voluntarily to the U.S. to complete what is known as a
“deferred prosecution” agreement, will pay a small fine, and
promise not to infringe copyrights in the future, according to
the BBC.  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement had accused
O’Dwyer of earning more than $230,000 in ad revenue through his
TVShack.com website, the BBC reported.  His domain Internet name was seized in June 2010, according
to the BBC.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 