-- SCA Property Plans to Acquire Properties From Woolworths, Coles
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-29T21:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/sca-property-plans-to-acquire-properties-from-woolworths-coles.html
SCA Property Group (SCP) , the shopping
center trust spun off by  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , plans to acquire malls
developed by the retailer and rival  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s
supermarket chain Coles Ltd. to expand its asset base.  SCA Property, which listed on the Australian stock exchange
on Nov. 26., will start its own redevelopments of some existing
malls in the next two years, interim Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Mellowes said. The company also expects to seek a credit
rating next year, he said.  “Woolworths and Coles will develop 50 percent of new
neighborhood shopping centers, and they’re not long-term owners
of them, so they fit really well into this portfolio,” Mellowes
said in an interview yesterday. “Next year sometime, we will
investigate seeking a  credit rating , to access longer-term debt
outside of Australian banks.”  The listing of SCA Property, which rose 2.1 percent since
its debut to A$1.435 as of yesterday, was the largest initial
public offering in  Australia  since  Westfield Group (WDC)  hived off
ownership of some of its Australian and New Zealand malls into
 Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  two years ago. It comes as Australian
retail sales and  consumer confidence  start to recover after 1.5
percentage points of interest rate cuts by the central bank.  SCA Property has about A$150 million ($157 million) of
capacity for acquisitions before the ratio of its net debt to
total assets exceeds 40 percent, the upper end of its target
range, James Besson, an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a report
this week.  Redevelopment Plans  SCA Property -- which owns 56 completed centers and 13
properties under development by Woolworths across Australia and
 New Zealand  -- has no plans to build new malls, Mellowes said.  “SCA’s not going to be a speculative property developer,”
Mellowes said. “We’re not looking for the big development
profit, we’re focused on yield.”  UBS on Nov. 26 began coverage of SCA Property shares with a
“neutral” rating and JPMorgan Chase & Co. rated the company
“underweight.” Both said SCA’s lease structure -- where 61
percent of rents come from Woolworths -- will lead to lower-
than-average income growth.  “Woolworths leases appear to favor the tenant,” Rob
Stanton, an analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a report.  The company is seeking to cut total vacancies from the
current 5 percent to about 2 percent in the next 24 months,
Mellowes said. Woolworths has provided a rental guarantee for
two years for vacant stores in completed properties and for two
years from completion of each mall under development, according
to listing documents.  Mellowes, who was Woolworths’ head of property operations,
is serving in his current role while the group searches for a
permanent chief executive, Philip Clark, chairman of SCA
Property’s board of directors, said in a separate telephone
interview yesterday. Mellowes is also a candidate for the
permanent position, which is expected to be filled in the first
quarter of 2013, Clark said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  