-- SEC Claims Chicago Private Equity Fund Manager Misled Investors
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-11-29T17:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/sec-claims-chicago-private-equity-fund-manager-misled-investors.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued Resources Planning Group, a Chicago-based
 investment adviser , and one of its owners, over claims they
raised money for a failing private-equity fund to pay off
existing clients.  Joseph Hennessy collected more than $1.3 million from 2007
to 2010 on false claims that a fund he helped run was viable,
the SEC said in a  lawsuit  filed today at U.S. District Court in
 Illinois . Hennessy used at least $641,000 to make partial
payments to customers holding promissory notes that he had
personally guaranteed, the SEC said.  James Kopecky, a lawyer for RPG, said in an interview that
the firm will fight the SEC’s claims.  “Resources Planning Group is a clean shop with no
disciplinary history, and they cater to investors who know what
they’re doing,” Kopecky said.  The SEC has stepped up its scrutiny of the private-equity
business following the 2008 financial market turmoil which
forced firms to write down the value of their holdings. After
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act authorized greater oversight of money
managers, the agency initiated a broad review of practices at
private-equity and hedge funds, including how assets are valued
and claims of unusually high performance.  “Private equity fund investors expect their money to be
invested in viable assets that will generate positive returns,”
Marshall Sprung, deputy chief of the SEC’s asset management
enforcement unit, said in a statement. “Hennessy made these
promises, but betrayed his clients and others by using their
money to save himself from financial ruin.”  Kevin Flynn, an attorney for Hennessy, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  