-- Sharp Rises After Report on Talks With Dell for Investment
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-11-29T07:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/sharp-rises-after-wsj-report-on-talks-with-dell-for-investment.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the TV maker that
warned about its ability to survive, rose the most in a week in
Tokyo trading after the Wall Street Journal said the company’s
in talks with Dell Inc. for an investment.  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal-display panels
gained 3.1 percent to 169 yen, trimming the year-to-date decline
to  75 percent  and valuing the company at 188 billion yen ($2.3
billion). The Osaka-based company is the world’s worst-
performing major stock this year.  Sharp is in talks with Round Rock, Texas-based Dell to
arrange capital investment of as much as $240 million, the
Journal said, without citing anyone. The maker of Aquos TVs has
failed to win a planned 67 billion-yen investment from  Taiwan ’s
Foxconn Technology Group and had its credit rating cut to  junk 
after widening its loss forecast for the year.  Earlier this month, Sharp said there was “material doubt”
about its ability to survive after forecasting a record 450
billion-yen, full-year loss on falling demand for its display
panels. Sharp is  cutting jobs , seeking voluntary retirements,
reducing pay and selling assets as part of a turnaround plan.  Atsushi Yoshida, a spokesman for Sharp, said the company
wasn’t the source of the report and that nothing has been
decided.  Dell (DELL)  “doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation,” Kim
Otzman, a spokeswoman for the maker of Latitude computers, said
in an e-mail.  Intel Talks  President Takashi Okuda said Nov. 1 the company is
considering various partnership options.  Kyodo News said Nov. 13 that Sharp was in final talks with
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  to get an investment of as much as 40 billion yen,
which would make the world’s biggest chipmaker the top
shareholder. Sharp wasn’t the source of information for that
report, and nothing has been decided, the Osaka-based company
said in a statement Nov. 14. Chuck Malloy, a spokesman for Santa
Clara, California-based Intel, declined to comment at the time.  The Japanese company may also get an investment from
Qualcomm Inc., Kyodo said Nov. 13, without saying where it got
the information.  The Asahi newspaper said Oct. 26 Sharp was seeking capital
alliances with Hewlett-Packard Co., Intel,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
Google Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , without saying where it got the
information. Sharp denied the report at the time.  Sharp, which hemorrhaged 103 billion yen in cash from
operations in the first half of the year as Japan’s electronics
industry struggles with dwindling demand and competition from
Samsung Electronics Co., may turn to the Japanese government for
a bailout, analysts said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  