-- Single-Family Rental Demand to Remain as Market Recovers
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-11-29T18:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/single-family-rental-demand-to-remain-as-market-recovers.html
Single-family rentals will remain a
long-term opportunity for private-equity funds and institutional
money managers even as the U.S. housing market recovers,
analysts and investors said at a conference today.  “We think this is a multiyear opportunity and there should
be growth,” Jade Rahmani, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Inc., said at conference in Scottsdale,  Arizona , organized
by Information Management Network. “There should be adequate
supply.”  Private-equity firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 Colony Capital LLC  are raising as much as $8 billion to buy as
many as 80,000 single-family homes to manage as rentals, taking
advantage of rising demand for leasing and property prices that
are about 30 percent below their peak, according to Rahmani.
Blackstone is spending about $100 million a week on single-
family homes, Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  said on an Oct. 18
earnings conference call.  Investors can buy rental properties for the long-term  cash
flow  or to resell in a few years as housing prices recover, said
Gary Beasley, a managing director at Waypoint Homes, which has
acquired more than 2,500 properties in  California , Arizona,
 Illinois  and  Georgia .  Waypoint, which received a $245 million line of credit from
Citigroup Inc. in October, expects to increase its portfolio to
10,000 residences worth about $1.5 billion by the end of 2013,
Beasley said. The Oakland, California-based company is
developing a staff to acquire, fix up and manage the properties
it buys, he said.  “We’re long-term greedy,” Beasley said.  Tight Credit  While demand is increasing from buyers who want to occupy
the properties they purchase, strict lending standards are
keeping many would-be homeowners out of the market, Beasley
said.  An  index  of pending home resales climbed 5.2 percent in
October from the previous month, exceeding the highest estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The  median
price  of an existing home sold last month jumped 11 percent from
a year earlier to $178,600, the steepest annual increase since
November 2005, according to the group.  Household formations increased to an annual pace of 1.15
million in the third quarter, driving down the vacancy rate for
rental homes to its lowest level since 2002, while the  rate  for
owner-occupied properties dropped to 1.9 percent, a level last
seen in 2005, according to the Census Bureau.  “It’s a massive asset class,” Beasley said. “One year
ago, there was almost no institutional capital. Today, there’s
$6 billion to $8 billion. Two years from now, we’ll be where
multifamily was in the early ’90s.”  Fewer Foreclosures  The source of rental homes for investors has changed as
banks bring fewer foreclosures to market, said Laurie Hawkes,
president of American Residential Properties Inc., a Scottsdale-
based investor in single-family properties with more than 1,500
homes in five states.  “Short sales are where we obtain a lot of our product
now,” Hawkes said, referring to a transaction in which a bank
allows a home to be sold for less than what’s owed on it.
Hawkes’s firm raised $223.9 million in a private offering
completed in May, bringing its total purchasing capacity to $500
million with debt.  A securitization market for single-family rental capital
probably will develop in the next few years as large pools of
real estate develop a track record, according to Hawkes, Beasley
and Rahmani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  