-- Singh Allows India Retail Vote to End Parliament Impasse
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-11-29T09:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/singh-allows-india-retail-vote-in-bid-to-end-parliament-impasse.html
India’s government conceded to
opposition pressure to allow lawmakers a vote on plans to expand
the presence of foreign retailers, backing down to end deadlock
that had derailed moves to bolster the economy.  While the decision to enable companies like  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to open supermarkets in India doesn’t require
parliamentary approval to become law, rejection of the proposals
in a ballot would expose the weakness of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s minority administration and sap investor enthusiasm for
the centerpiece of his policy drive.  The government gave ground after talks with coalition
allies and regional parties that have signaled they are unlikely
to vote against the ruling bloc. Singh’s chief rival, the
 Bharatiya Janata Party , had vowed to continue protests that
stalled parliament for five days until a vote was announced.  “Sailing through the retail vote will be a challenge for
the government,” with parties extracting a price for their
support, said Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R. Choksey
Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Still, ending the
parliament logjam is a positive development and brings hope that
other economic reforms will get through.”  The 10-party, Congress-led ruling alliance is as many as 24
seats short of a majority in the lower house of parliament, and
will need two key groups outside the coalition -- Mayawati’s
Bahujan Samaj Party and her leading opponent, the Samajwadi
Party -- to at least abstain to win the vote. In the upper
house, the government faces an even stiffer contest.  Singh ‘Confident’  The government is “confident of numbers,” Singh said on
Nov. 27. The debate in the lower house will begin on Dec. 4,
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kamal Nath said today.  Parliament  had been repeatedly adjourned since it resumed
sitting Nov. 22 as opposition groups led by the BJP and
communists accused the government of reneging on its promise to
win the support of the legislature before moving ahead with the
retail policy.  Defeat may harden opposition to proposals to enable foreign
companies to hold bigger stakes in insurance firms and overseas
investment in pension sector, both of which do need
parliamentary approval. Congress’ most-senior leaders united
behind the foreign investment push during a rally this month.  Singh’s initial attempt to woo overseas companies to
modernize  India ’s retail market stalled in December as his
biggest ally, Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, objected.
Banerjee pulled her party from the coalition government in
September as the policy became the cornerstone of India’s
biggest embrace of foreign investment in a decade, a push
unveiled as growth in the economy stumbled to a three-year low
and business leaders demanded action to curb the fall.  Job Claims  Banerjee and other regional leaders say allowing in
multinational chains would force small shopkeepers out of
business and drive down prices paid to farmers for their
produce.  The lower house ran smoothly after the speaker, Meira Kumar, accepted the motion for a debate that entails voting. The
chairman of the upper house, Vice President Hamid Ansari also
admitted the notice on voting, D. Raja, a lawmaker of the
 Communist Party of India , told reporters.  The retail policy, which state assemblies are able to
block, will enable Wal-Mart,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and Tesco to step up
their presence in the world’s second-most populous nation to tap
a market that Technopak Advisors Pvt. estimates will expand to
$725 billion by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  