-- Slovenia's Economy Is in Recession as Consumption Slumps
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-29T16:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/slovenia-s-economy-is-in-recession-as-consumption-slumps.html
Slovenia’s  economy  slid into its
second recession in three years in the third quarter as the
euro-area country edges toward an international bailout because
of a banking crisis, a survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.3 percent from the
previous three months, compared with a 1 percent decline in the
second quarter, according to the  median estimate  of seven
economists in a Bloomberg survey. GDP dropped 2.3 percent from a
year earlier, the survey showed. The statistics office will
publish GDP data at 10:30 a.m. in Ljubljana tomorrow.  Slovenia and other peripheral countries of the 17-member
currency bloc are struggling with an economic slump as austerity
measures depress demand. GDP is set to shrink 2.4 percent this
year, the most in the euro region after Greece and  Portugal ,
according to a Nov. 27 report by the the Paris-based
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development.  “Private consumption will continue to contract and ongoing
fiscal consolidation will deliver a further blow to growth
dynamics,” Abbas Ameli Renani, a London-based emerging-markets
economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , wrote in an e-
mail.  The yield on Slovenia’s $2.25 billion 10-year bond sold
last month surged to a record high on Nov. 13 as news of a
possible referendum on the bank plan emerged. It has dropped
since and was at 5.535 percent at 5:23 p.m. in Ljubljana,
according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banking Crisis  Slovenia’s economic plight is being exacerbated by the
ailing banking industry which has limited access to funding from
outside the country except for loans from the  European Central
Bank .  Legislation to create a so called bad bank, which has been
passed by lawmakers, is being delayed by a referendum motion
from a trade union, which is collecting the required signatures
for a people’s vote on the measure.  The government has asked the  Constitutional Court  to
prevent the referendum on the bank recapitalization plan. Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and
Abanka Vipa, the three biggest banks by assets, are seeking
fresh funding to bolster their capital after it was eroded by a
surge in bad loans.  ‘Negative Impact’  “Delays to the bad bank law are already having a negative
impact,” Abbas Aneli Renani said.  The bank recapitalization plan foresees cleaning up banks’
balance sheets by removing bad loans to a special government
agency in exchange for as much as 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
of government-backed bonds.  Slovenian banks are the main concern of investors as the
euro region nation may be forced to seek an international
bailout to prop up the ailing industry. The former Yugoslav
republic has been working on a recapitalization plan amid a
surge in bad loans and the need for fresh capital.  While exports have been the only positive contribution to
growth, RBS’s Abbas Aneli Renani said that as “domestic demand
in  Germany  and across the euro region wanes, Slovenian export
growth will come under intense pressure.”  Gorenje d.d., Slovenia’s biggest exporter, reported a loss
of 6.4 million euros in the first nine months of the year, its
first since 2009 as demand for home appliances in  Europe  waned
and the company had increased cost as it shifted operations from
 Finland  to the  Czech Republic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  