-- Snow Engulfs Moscow in Harshest Winter Start in 50 Years
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-11-29T10:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/snow-engulfs-moscow-in-harshest-winter-start-in-50-years.html
Moscow officials deployed 12,000
snow-removal vehicles and more than 7,000 people to keep roads
open and sidewalks cleared amid the Russian capital’s biggest
November snowstorm in more than half a century.  “I was speaking with the forecasters, and it’s been more
than 50 years since Moscow’s seen something like this,” Deputy
Mayor Pyotr Biryukov said in comments shown today on state-run
Vesti-24 television. About 55 centimeters (22 inches) of snow
will fall in the city over three days, he said.  Commuters faced traffic jams stretching for kilometers,
with a service operated by Internet portal  Yandex NV (YNDX)  ranking the
congestion on Moscow’s roads at nine out of a possible 10 in the
morning. Weather forecasters said the situation may worsen
tomorrow, when freezing rain is possible,  Vesti  reported.  Eastern Europe was hit by cold Siberian air and above-
normal snowfall at the start of this year, triggering a surge in
demand for natural gas across the region that OAO Gazprom
struggled to meet. Russian electricity consumption jumped to an
all-time record as freezing temperatures engulfed much of the
country, while crops in the southern Rostov region endured the
coldest weather in 60 years.  Seventy-three flights were delayed last night at Domodedovo
International Airport, south of Moscow, RIA Novosti reported.
Not all  delays  were weather-related and the airport has been
operating normally since 5 a.m., Domodedovo’s press service
said. Sheremetyevo International Airport, north of the city, was
working as usual as of 10:40 a.m., according to a statement on
its website.  City police are asking drivers to avoid using their cars
and avoid parking on roads, which has complicated snow removal
efforts, state-run Channel One television reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  