-- Southern, Anglo to Ease Water Shortage to Spur Peru Projects
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-11-29T23:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/southern-anglo-may-solve-water-shortage-to-boost-peru-projects.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO)  may reactivate stalled copper projects in  Peru  next
year by resolving water shortages, the Andean country’s main
mining group said.  Anglo’s $3.3 billion Quellaveco copper project and
Southern’s $900 million Tia Maria deposit, halted by
environmental concerns, aim to use treated seawater instead of
tapping farmers’ water supplies, said  Pedro Martinez , president
of the National Society of Mining, Petroleum & Energy.  Peru’s  mining industry , the world’s third-largest copper
producer and No. 6 in gold, will cut investment by 33 percent to
$4 billion next year as social unrest delays projects, according
to the Society. Protests have postponed projects such as  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s $5 billion Minas Conga gold project and Zijin
Mining Group Co.’s $1.5 billion Rio Blanco copper deposit.  “The Conga experience sent investors and authorities a
clear message,” Martinez said yesterday in an interview in
Lima. “As water is the biggest problem for the population, this
has to be solved first.”  Newmont and  HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM) , which aims to build the
$1.5 billion Constancia copper mine in the southern Andes, plan
to build water reservoirs before commencing mine construction,
Martinez said.  New Study  Phoenix-based Southern planned to submit this month a new
environmental impact study for Tia Maria, which is slated to
start producing 120,000 metric tons of copper annually by 2015,
and then hold public hearings for the project, Chief Executive
Officer Oscar Gonzalez Rocha said in an Oct. 1 interview.  Gonzalez Rocha didn’t immediately return telephone calls
and e-mails seeking comment. Anglo American spokesman James Wyatt-Tilby declined to comment in an e-mail.  President  Ollanta Humala , who was elected last year on
pledges to raise mining royalties and tighten state control over
natural resources, is now counting on private investment to help
finance social spending programs, Martinez said. Monthly
meetings between business leaders and government officials ’’to
exchange ideas’’ have resumed after Humala’s government
initially distanced itself from investors, he said.  “The authorities are absolutely convinced of the
importance of the mining industry,” Martinez said. “The
government has understood that resources are needed to create
jobs and invest in infrastructure, education and nutrition.”  Southern Copper  gained 1.6 percent to $36.74 today in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Anglo American rose 3.3
percent to 1,764 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  