-- Soybeans Rise as South America Planting Delays May Drain Stocks
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-11-29T11:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/soybeans-near-two-week-high-as-storms-may-delay-argentine-sowing.html
Soybeans rose in Chicago on concern
planting delays in  Argentina  and Brazil will push back the
arrival of new-crop supplies from  South America , keeping
consumers dependent on shrinking U.S. stocks for longer.  Argentina is expected to get moderate to heavy storms in
the next two days, delaying soybean and corn planting, Telvent
DTN forecast yesterday. U.S. exporters sold 290,000 metric tons
of soybeans to  China  for delivery in the 2012-13 marketing year,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported yesterday.  “Chinese buyers have stepped up orders from the U.S. after
crushing margins improved,” Arnaud Saulais, a broker at
Starsupply Commodity Brokers in Nyon,  Switzerland , wrote in an
e-mailed report. “The market may remain strong today on high
Chinese demand and we doubt that U.S. supplies will be enough to
cover their needs before the South American crop is available.”  Soybeans for January delivery rose as much as 0.6 percent
to $14.555 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade and were at
$14.545 a bushel by 11:27 a.m. London time. Prices reached
$14.5675 yesterday, the most expensive since Nov. 9.  Futures surged to a record $17.89 in September after the
worst U.S. drought in a half century parched crops, increasing
reliance on South American supplies.  “Brazil’s got to have a pretty much perfect season and the
logistics need to work well enough to get the beans out,” said
Victor Thianpiriya, an analyst at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore . “Stocks in the U.S., which is
currently the global supplier, are going to be extremely tight
come March.”  Dry Weather  Dry weather delayed soybean planting in the north of
 Brazil ’s Mato Grosso state, Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc. reported
last week.  Argentina has sown 37 percent of its soybeans, from 47
percent in 2011, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said Nov. 22.
In Brazil, 74 percent of the soybean crop was planted, against
81 percent a year earlier, researcher Celeres said Nov. 26. The
nation is set to overtake the U.S. as the largest shipper this
season.  China’s soybean imports may be 5 million to 6 million
metric tons this month, Danping Liu, a risk analyst at
Sinograins Oil Corp, said yesterday.  Wheat for March delivery added 0.1 percent to $8.9225 a
bushel in Chicago, after reaching $8.955 yesterday, the most
expensive since Nov. 12. Milling wheat for January delivery
traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris was unchanged at 276 euros
($358.41) a ton.  “Tension remains lively in a context of tight balance
sheets and weather conditions that are not very favorable at the
start of the winter, mainly in the south of the U.S. and
 Russia ,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel wrote in a comment.  Corn for March delivery traded in Chicago added 0.3 percent
to $7.665 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  