-- Spain Cash-Starved States Nudge Rajoy Toward Rescue: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-29T16:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/spain-cash-starved-states-nudge-rajoy-toward-rescue-euro-credit.html
Spain’s regions are adding to
pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to seek a European
bailout as the funding needs of the country’s cash-strapped
states swamp government expectations.  Nine of the 17 states have already requested support worth
93 percent of Spain’s 18 billion-euro ($23 billion) regional
rescue fund, known as  FLA . While the 10-year Spanish bond yield
has fallen 251 basis points from a euro-era record of 7.75
percent on July 25, most of the states remain shut out of
markets, forcing the government to weigh the cost of extending
the rescue facility for another year.  Spanish  10-year bonds  erased an advance, with yield on the
securities little changed at 5.36 percent as of 3 p.m. London
time. The rate dropped as much as 13 basis points earlier today
to 5.2 percent.  Rajoy, who is battling to avoid a European bailout, created
the rescue fund in July to protect the semi-autonomous regions
from default. With the states failing to regain investor
confidence and the  recession  further undermining their budgets,
the mounting funding needs may strain the Treasury’s capacity to
raise enough cash.  “It was a Band-Aid applied to a very deep fiscal gash,”
said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group Ltd. in
London. “It is clear to all that  Spain  must apply for
substantial aid at some point and the longer it takes for them
to do so, the bigger the likely sum involved.”  Further Requests  The central government still needs to raise 6 billion euros
for the fund, a third of the total. It may face further requests
for funds for this year before the Dec. 3 deadline. The Budget
Ministry says 30 percent of the total remains available as the
amounts that regions have asked for don’t correspond to the sums
that have been approved.  The ministry granted  Valencia , Spain’s second most indebted
region, Andalusia, the most populated, and Castilla-La Mancha,
just 56 percent of the amount they requested. Each region’s
share is rationed in line with its bond redemptions and the size
of its economy. The government hasn’t decided what to do with
the funds that were earmarked for regions such as  Madrid  that
aren’t seeking help, a ministry spokesman said.  Catalan Needs  Rajoy’s  People’s Party , which rules in most of the regions,
has proposed at least 23 billion euros for the FLA next year,
even as the government says it’s still calculating how much will
be needed. That would be less than half the total amount the
central government is pumping into the regions this year,
including the FLA and loans to help them pay suppliers.  The government says it’s calculating how much will be
needed next year for the regions. At 23 billion euros, more than
half the fund would be used by Catalonia alone, according to
 Fitch Ratings , which estimates the biggest regional economy has
13.6 billion euros of debt maturing in 2013.  Overspending by the regions is one of the main reasons
Spain has failed to meet its overall deficit-reduction goals.
The shortfall remains more than twice the European Union limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product, second only to Ireland.  “The regions pose the biggest risk to Spain meeting its
targets next year,” said Georg Grodzki, London-based head of
credit research at Legal & General Investment Management Ltd.,
which manages $622 billion of bonds. “Rajoy is challenged to
wrestle back fiscal powers from the regions after a decade of
fiscal devolution and increasingly rebellious donor regions.”  Debt Load  The states’ cumulative debt has doubled in four years to
151 billion euros, almost 20 percent of Spain’s total borrowing,
according to the  Bank of Spain . That’s helped swell the overall
debt burden, which the European Commission forecasts will jump
to 86 percent of GDP this year from 69 percent in 2011.  Only 8.2 percent of regional borrowing this year was done
through public debt sales, according to Madrid-based consultant
firm Analistas Financieros Internacionales. Even with Spain’s
financing costs declining after the  European Central Bank ’s
offer to buy bonds of cash-strapped sovereigns, there are few
signs that investors are willing to reconsider their boycott of
the regions. Catalonia’s credit rating, which was cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service in May, was downgraded another two
steps last month.  Spain sought in June a European bailout for its banks of as
much as 100 billion euros, 37 billion euros of which was
approved by the European Commission yesterday to recapitalize
four banks. The regional financing shortfall is adding to
pressure on Rajoy to sign up to a second rescue package, which
would allow the ECB to buy Spain’s bonds.  Regional Overspending  “The regions, especially the refinancing needs they could
add to the central government’s, are a contributing factor for
Spain to ask for aid,” Norbert Aul, a rates strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in  London , said in a telephone interview.  The regions will fail to shore up their finances this year
and next, according to a report by Madrid-based research
institute Fedea. The group forecasts that regional overspending
will amount to at least 2 percent of GDP this year, compared
with a target of 1.5 percent. The goal of a 0.7 percent
shortfall in 2013 means regions need to halve their combined
deficit for the second year as the economy contracts.  Spain is in its second  recession  since 2009 with the
economy set to contract 1.4 percent this year and next,
according to the EU commission. That is sapping  tax revenue  for
the regions, which control a greater share of spending than the
central government and employ about half of all public workers.  “The problem of the regions is that they have a lot of
difficulties raising revenue and they have to finance health and
education, which are expenditures that are very hard to cut,”
Juan Rubio-Ramirez, an economist at  Duke University  in Durham,
 North Carolina , said in a telephone interview. “The FLA doesn’t
fix anything, it only acknowledges the regions cannot access
credit markets by themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  