-- Spain May Escape European Bailout, Gonzalez-Paramo Says
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-30T08:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/spain-may-escape-european-bailout-former-ecb-board-member-says.html
Former European Central Bank
Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said  Spain 
may escape a bailout, as the country has already confounded
expectations by continuing to raise its own financing this year.  “It is by no means excluded that a bailout will not be
requested, if a sequence of good news is produced in terms of
the deficit and other things,” Gonzalez-Paramo, 54, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  London  yesterday.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  continues to postpone a
decision on whether to seek a bailout that would allow the ECB
to buy Spanish debt. As the country’s bond yields have fallen
more than 2 percentage points from a record 7.75 percent in
July, the Treasury has already sold all the bonds slated for
sale this year and is building a buffer for 2013.  “If you had asked in July whether Spain would be in the
situation it is now in terms of funding, you would never have
bet that this would be the case, but you see what you see,”
Gonzalez-Paramo, a Spaniard who now teaches at IESE business
school in Madrid, said.  Yield Decline  The comments mark a shift from September, when Gonzalez-
Paramo said that if a rescue were necessary the government
should ask for it sooner rather than later. If you need a
bailout “better to do it now than when you are up against the
wall because the  risk premium  has run out of control,” he said
in an interview on Onda Cero on Sept. 18.  The benchmark 10-year bond yield has fallen 55 basis points
since then. The yield, which reached an eight-month low
yesterday, traded at 5.341 percent at 9:47 a.m. in Madrid,
compared with 5.339 percent yesterday.  Rajoy, who first opened the door to a bailout in August
when ECB President  Mario Draghi  set out the bond-buying
proposal, says he needs to know how much borrowing costs would
fall if he did seek help. That’s not possible, said Gonzalez-
Paramo, who served on the ECB’s executive board for eight years
until May.  “What is the right amount at a given point in time is for
the ECB to assess, so they cannot pre-commit,” he said. Still,
it’s “obvious a country with Spain’s fundamentals shouldn’t be
paying 6 percent for 10 years,” he said.  Spanish data on exports are showing positive signs for the
euro region’s fourth-largest economy and foreign sales will be
the nation’s way out of the crisis, he said. Non-resident
investors are also coming back into Spanish markets, he said,
helping push down borrowing costs.  In the case of a bailout, the ECB would not necessarily
have to buy bonds to bring down borrowing costs, Gonzalez-Paramo
said.  “It’s an expectations game, the same game we have seen
since July: the expectation that you could request a bailout and
the ECB could intervene has kept funding costs down,” he said.
“Ideally we should see no intervention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  