-- Standard Chartered Near Accord on Iran Clients, WSJ Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-29T06:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/standard-chartered-near-accord-over-iranian-clients-wsj.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  is nearing a
settlement with the U.S. to pay around $300 million in fines
over transactions with Iranian clients that may have violated
sanctions against the country, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The move would end investigations brought by the U.S.
Justice Department, the U.S. Treasury Department, the  Federal
Reserve  and the Manhattan District Attorney’s office, the
newspaper said, citing unnamed people involved in the
negotiations. Talks to resolve the matter are continuing and all
sides aim to conclude discussions in coming days, it said.  A sweeping accord with the U.S. would follow a consent
order signed by the London-based bank in September that
completed a record $340 million settlement with  New York ’s
Department of Financial Services involving wire transfers on
behalf of Iranian clients. The bank also agreed to install a
monitor for two years, according to the New York regulator.  “The whole Iranian situation has been a tragic chapter for
 Standard Chartered , and probably an exception in what has
otherwise been one of the better managed and fundamentally
strong international banks,” Sandy Mehta, the Hong Kong-based
chief executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd.,
said in an e-mail today.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan District
Attorney, and  Bill Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Washington, declined to comment on the report. Julie
Gibson, a spokeswoman at Standard Chartered, declined to
comment, as did  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman at the Federal
Reserve.  Record Settlement  The New York settlement amount was the largest ever paid to
an individual regulator as part of a money-laundering accord. In
June, ING Bank NV agreed to pay $619 million to settle similar
allegations. That sum was split evenly between the federal
government and the Manhattan district attorney’s office.  Standard Chartered rose 1.7 percent to HK$180 as of 1:31
p.m. in Hong Kong, outpacing the Hang Seng Index’s 1.2 percent
gain. The shares have jumped gaining 5.9 percent this year.  “As the settlement amount is expected to be finalized
shortly and to be within forecasts, this regulatory overhang
should be removed from StanChart’s shares,” Adam Chan, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd., said by
telephone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  