-- Standard Bank’s Angola Unit Profitable October, Kruger Says
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-11-29T15:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/standard-bank-s-angola-unit-profitable-october-kruger-says-1-.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd.’s  Angola 
unit was profitable last month as it expands in  Africa ’s second-
biggest oil producer, said Deputy Chief Executive Officer Ben Kruger.  Africa’s largest lender hadn’t been profitable in the
country because of “the extent of the investment we’re making,
but there is a fairly large opportunity and that’s why we want
to invest reasonably quickly,” Kruger said in an interview in
Accra, Ghana’s capital, today. It got a license to start
operations in Angola in November 2009.  Standard Bank, which operates in 17 African countries, has
been expanding in Nigeria, Kenya and Angola, seeking to boost
profit. It has reversed decisions to look for acquisitions in
the continent. Angola’s economy is forecast to expand by 6.8
percent this year and 5.5 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The Johannesburg-based lender said on Aug. 16 that its
return-on-equity in Africa, excluding  South Africa , in the first
half had risen to 10.6 percent from 6.9 percent a year earlier.
The measure of profitability was still below its cost of equity,
which was 13.7 percent in the period.  In Nigeria and Ghana, Standard Bank has “reached critical
mass,” Kruger said. “We are well entrenched in the markets
where we are now, so we don’t need to buy anything, but we
always remain vigilant.”  Standard Bank’s stock gained for a second day, rising 0.1
percent to 105.44 rand by 4:15 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Kruger said its South African is “very well capitalized.”
Capital for the unit will be beefed-up with proceeds from the
sale of its Argentine unit to Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., worth about $300 million after transaction costs,
Kruger said. Regulatory approval was received 10 days ago, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in  Accra  at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  