-- Staten Island Pet-Supply Store Fights to Survive After Sandy
-- B y   K a r l   T a r o   G r e e n f e l d
-- 2012-11-29T18:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/staten-island-pet-supply-store-fights-to-survive-after-sandy.html
When Robert Freed walked into Pet
Foods Plus, his flooded store on Midland Avenue in Staten
Island, two blocks from the Atlantic Ocean, he knew what he
smelled immediately: the stench of rotten kibble and cat food, a
few tons of it.  During good times, that $250,000 worth of inventory was the
equivalent of Freed’s bank. Now his windows had been broken, the
walls had been pushed in by the storm surge, and his counters
and the platform they rested on were gone, washed way up the
avenue. His racks and shelves were knocked over, dog food was
spread all over the floor, his cat toys and doggie chews soggy
and covered in what looked like seaweed.  It was Oct. 31. Rob, 47, and his younger brother Matt, 37,
had waited out superstorm Sandy in New Jersey, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Dec. 3 issue. Their homes were in
the highest-risk, Zone A sections of Staten Island, as was their
store. The first morning the Outerbridge Crossing, one of the
bridges that connect New Jersey to Staten Island, reopened, they
hopped in their cars to check on their store.  Rob had gotten calls from friends and neighbors telling him
it was on fire, the callers shouting over emergency sirens
wailing in the background. He’d dismissed these as the
hysterical bulletins of those who were still in a state of shock
from the flood. But after crawling across Staten Island --
traffic was backed up because the traffic lights were out -- he
realized that the Metro PCS location next door had indeed gone
up in flames. The old, wooden clapboard house was now a charred
mess spilling blackened shingles into the street.  ‘Went Numb’  Their store, a cinder-block structure built on a concrete
slab, hadn’t burned. Instead, it had been flooded. The
waterline, marked in kelp and mud on the walls, stood at 9 feet
(2.7 meters).  “I went numb,” Rob says, “I’m standing there thinking
this is my store but this isn’t my store. This, this is -- it’s
like being at a wake. You’re standing there, laughing about the
person who died, but then it hits you.”  Matt was by his side, and as they headed inside, he bent to
pick up a flat of Fancy Feast cat food that had broken open,
then stopped and dropped it. What was the point? There was so
much, spread and piled so high, mixed with sewage and sand.  Then they were surrounded. A dozen people had entered the
store with them. They were stepping over the spilled dog food
and scattered cans and were stuffing cat toys and leashes and
dog bones into garbage bags. They were looting.  Encountering Looters  “They didn’t even know we were the owners,” says Matt,
“They were pushing us out of the way to get in the store.”  They had seen a few cops on a boat going down the still-
flooded Colony Avenue, but they were still in a search-and-
rescue phase. They would find at least eight dead within five
blocks of Pet Foods Plus. The police weren’t going to stop the
crowd now making off with the store’s goods.  Rob turned to Matt and told him he was going to get the
Chevy Tahoe, back it into the store through the broken doors,
and then sleep in the car. “We gotta protect our business,” he
said.  “We can’t protect it. They’re gonna kill us,” said his
brother. The sun was going down soon, he pointed out. “They’ll
stab us.”  The brothers agreed to leave. They walked down Midland
Avenue toward the beach. They saw shoeless children using
plastic bags and rubber bands to keep their feet dry, survivors
hosing down the inside of their houses to wash the mud from
their walls.  Both men decided that while there was nothing they could do
to save their store, they could at least help some of their
neighbors -- their customers -- in the area.  Kept Going  Rob and Matt spent the rest of the afternoon, and the next
four days, hauling soggy drywall, waterlogged furniture and
moldy carpet from the bungalows of Midland Beach, helping those
who’d lost much more than a business.  “We were just doing the next thing,” says Rob. “Lift
this mattress. Strip that carpet. Whatever needed to be done, we
just did it. We just kept going.”  Every once in a while, walking around, they would come upon
cans of cat food or a piece of a point-of-sale display that
looked familiar. Much of their inventory had been carried by the
floodwaters and deposited around the neighborhood.  Helping Friends  After a disaster, the immediate focus of government
officials and ordinary citizens is saving lives and providing
food and shelter to those who have lost everything. In the
aftermath of Sandy, that’s what countless small businesspeople
in New York City and New Jersey did -- people like Rob and Matt
Freed.  With their business partner, Bernard Hilzenrath, the Freeds
spent days in hard-hit areas, not just Midland Beach but also
the Rockaways and Breezy Point in Queens, helping friends clear
out flooded basements and first floors. Through it all, concern
about their own livelihood was never far from mind. Lending
their muscle to those less fortunate helped keep the fear at
bay, but only for a little while.  For a community to return to normalcy after a catastrophe,
small businesses also must come back. In New Orleans, the lag in
the reopening of small businesses has made some low-lying
communities into retail ghost towns more than seven years after
Hurricane Katrina.  “It won’t matter if you rebuild your residential areas,”
says Mary Wong of the Office Depot Foundation, part of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce’s Business Civic Leadership Center. “If you
don’t rebuild your downtown, your small businesses, then you
don’t have an engine.”  No Loans  While individuals can get immediate help -- and zero-
interest loans -- from the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
there is no similar agency that’s prepared to work with small
businesses. The Small Business Administration is the only
federal agency set up to provide assistance to small businesses
-- in the case of retailers that means those with annual revenue
below $21 million -- but it doesn’t provide zero-interest
disaster-related loans. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimates
that after a natural disaster such as Hurricane Katrina or
Sandy, 52 percent of small businesses never reopen.  The Freed brothers are luckier than many of their peers.
Their homes survived the storm with little damage, giving them
more cushion than store owners who need to find housing before
even considering whether to restart their business. Up and down
Midland Avenue, numerous businesses have already decided to give
up. Midland Pharmacy, a block from Pet Foods Plus and in
business for 25 years, has shuttered, as has Krypton Comics on
the corner of Midland and Baden.  “I’m done,” says owner Arthur Palomba. “My stock was
destroyed.”  No Savings  The prospects for Pet Foods Plus are only slightly
brighter. “We don’t have retirement plans, 401(k)s, IRAs,
savings. Everything we have is in our inventory,” says Rob. It
will take months, or even years, before businesses in Staten
Island and other New York communities recover fully from Sandy’s
devastation. The Freeds believe theirs will be one of them. But
neither nature nor time is on their side.  Rob Freed, short, stocky, muscular, with graying hair at
the temples, had bought fully into the idea that the supreme
American achievement is to run your own business. The fourth of
six children and the oldest son, he’d been a mediocre student --
“my best subject: lunch” -- at  Brooklyn ’s John Dewey High
School. He never considered college, finding work in a
delicatessen and as a car salesman after graduating. He settled
into a decent-paying job as a wholesale meat salesman, selling
sides of beef to restaurants and butchers, and occasionally
taking home a few scraps for his dogs, a boxer named Hank and a
Lhasa apso named Wally. He usually bought his dog food at a
store on Kings Highway in Brooklyn, where an older man named Ira
Licht sold him 40-pound bags of Eukanuba.  ‘Like Bars’  “Pet food stores are like bars,” Rob says. “People come
in to talk. They like to talk about their animals, so you get to
know your customers.”  In 1997, when Ira, who’d started the store 15 years
earlier, wanted to sell out, he asked Rob, then 32, if he was
interested in taking the place over. The store was about 2,500
square feet, a long and skinny one-story retail building in
Sheepshead Bay, one block from the F train. It was shabby, the
racks sagging, some of the inventory expired, but Rob thought
there was potential. Matt had just graduated from high school
and Rob talked to him about going into business together. Matt
liked the idea. Rob and Ira negotiated a price: $10,000 for the
inventory, and Rob would take over the lease.  “That’s what you want, isn’t it? Your own place,” Rob
says. “Of course you have your doubts, you’re scared, but
still, it’s a great feeling.”  Low Margins  The pet-food business, like the people-food business, is
low-margin, low-markup. The profit on a bag of dog or cat food
is about 10 percent. Cat and dog toys, leashes, catnip -- those
are the items with the big markups. Carpeted kitty castles are a
relative gold mine.  Most days, though, you’re slinging dog food. Some customers
come in every day to buy one can of cat food because they like
to stop and talk. Rob and Matt are convinced that people who
take care of animals are good people, making for a nicer
clientele than you might have if you ran, say, a liquor store.  “We’re not making money on people’s vices,” says Matt.  “Not usually,” Rob says. “You do get those ladies who
say they own 60 cats. And that’s what they admit to. The reality
is probably 180.” Cat ladies are great for business.  Changing Landscape  Pet Foods Plus averaged about $300,000 to $400,000 a year
in revenue, with the brothers each taking out about $20,000 a
year in salary, putting everything else back into the store: in
inventory, in improvements, in promotions. Managed carefully,
the business, while no great moneymaker, supported their young
families. Rob had married and already had a boy and a girl at
home.  Their neighborhood, however, was changing. Working-class
Italians and Jews -- pet owners --had given way to more recent
Syrian Jewish immigrants, who weren’t in the habit of keeping
dogs or cats in the home.  The other problem, Rob had realized, was that pet stores do
most of their volume in bulk -- those 40- or 50-pound bags of
dog food and cat food or 50-pound bags of kitty litter -- but at
a city store like theirs that lacked parking, customers could
only buy what they could carry, which kept revenue at a trickle.  Diverse Neighborhood  About eight years ago, they began looking for a second
location. Rob knew that pet food salesmen who weren’t willing to
cut much of a deal for one store’s business would be more
inclined to do so if they could double their volume. Also, with
two stores, it might not be necessary to carry as much inventory
in each location if Rob could move product as needed. And if two
stores worked and those savings were realized, then what about
three, four?  Many of their former customers had moved to Staten Island.
Rob and Matt had moved there as well, to a beachfront community
they felt was improving. They found a new 2,500-square-foot
building on a commercial strip, at the corner of Patterson and
Midland, across the street from a deli and a dog groomer, up the
block from a comic book store, a judo dojo, a Chinese restaurant
and a Mexican grocery.  The ethnic makeup of the neighborhood was diverse, with
Chinese families crammed in next to retired widowers, yuppies
tearing down bungalows to put up two-story houses, plus a few
city workers who enjoyed the fresh ocean breezes. They knew the
neighborhood wasn’t great -- there was a welfare hotel nearby
where drug addicts overdosed at an alarming rate -- but it
seemed to be on the way up.  Sampling Wares  The brothers and their friend, Bernard, each put up $50,000
and made a deal on the location, paying about $6,000 a month in
rent, with three months’ rent free that they’d use to build out
the store. They did the work themselves, laying out the retail
aisles with chalk on cardboard, erasing and redrawing until they
were happy with the configuration. They wanted a raised platform
and counter for the cash register, so one person working behind
it could also take in the whole store.  “And because I’m short,” jokes Rob. They put the dog food
in the back and the higher-margin leashes, cat toys, and dog
treats in colorful displays near the register. (Eventually, if
you work in a pet food store, you will try the pet food, usually
to win a bet or answer a dare. Rob recalls there was one brand,
Rewards, that wasn’t bad. “They had turkey with gravy and the
gravy was pretty good.”)  Their red-and-white logo, a cartoon illustration of a dog
and cat, was stenciled on the window. After a few months of 16-
hour days, they had a store that looked as spiffy and
professional as a chain retailer. They could duplicate it in a
third store, or a hundred stores, if they generated the capital
to do so.  Getting Better  Opened in 2005, Pet Foods Plus’s Staten Island location
wasn’t an overnight sensation -- very few retail operations are
-- but the brothers didn’t expect that. What they found was that
they had surveyed the neighborhood correctly. This was a pet-
friendly community, and business was steady. After three years,
Rob had paid off the line of credit he’d taken out for the
store. They were in the black most months.  “Every month was a little better,” says Rob. “You keep
making a little more, you keep putting it back in the store,
buying more inventory because of the volume discounts.”  The salesmen from the pet food companies were cutting them
better deals, taking the brothers out to dinners to write up the
orders. Rob and Matt never took more than $20,000 apiece per
year out of the Staten Island location, but the business grew,
surpassing $400,000 in revenue last year and climbing steadily
as the brothers’ reputation spread in the neighborhood.  Wrong Decision  This year was on track to be their best yet, and the
Christmas season was looking particularly promising. The three
partners decided to put up $15,000 to buy cat and dog toys in
bulk.  “We figured that never goes bad, it’s like money in the
bank,” says Matt. “That turned out to be the wrong decision.”  They were going to go all out this year, with a fancy
Christmas display they finished putting up just days before the
order to evacuate.  One of the strangest after-effects of natural disasters is
the impulse of Americans to collectively empty out their closets
and donate everything that doesn’t fit or that they don’t want
anymore. It’s a well-intentioned gesture, in most cases, but the
result is that neighborhoods like Midland Beach very quickly
resemble a giant, messy closet with abandoned clothes strewn
everywhere.  Five days after the storm, several relief agencies have set
up on the sidewalk and inside Pet Foods Plus, pulling out some
of the retail racks to serve hot food and distribute some of the
tons of used clothing that have poured into Midland Beach.  Donated Bikinis  There is a Salvation Army distribution center in the
parking lot. Inside the store, garbage bags of donated clothes
are now mixed in with the rotting dog food.  “People are donating sandals and bikinis,” Rob says. “In
November? What are they thinking?”  Girls hauling wagons walk by regularly and ask if anyone
wants water or a snack. “Otherwise we gotta carry it all
back,” they say.  Richard Aloi, the owner of a nearby building gutted by the
flood, says he needs to get his place fixed up or he’ll lose his
tenant. He has a generator going and several pumps to dry the
place out.  “This was my achievement in life,” Aloi says of his small
retail building. “If I lose the tenant, I’m gone, I’m shot.”
The Russian martial-arts instructor who runs a judo school in
the building has promised to come back if Aloi can get the place
cleared out.  Zero Percent  He says he got through to the Small Business
Administration, who told him he might qualify for a 3 percent
loan. “How about zero percent?” Aloi says. “Look around this
place. We’re shot. I can’t afford 3 percent.”  Rob shakes his head. “Even at zero percent, I’m not sure I
could reopen. One hundred thousand dollars over eight years,
paying back $1,000 a month on top of my overhead. I don’t know
if I could do it.”  His brother Matt adds, “And if we reopen, where will our
business be? Twenty percent, 40 percent of before the storm?”  The most common complaint among Staten Island business
owners is they can’t reach their insurance companies on the
phone, or if they can get through, they’re told there’s a
backlog of claims and the company can’t schedule an adjuster to
come out.  Claims Logjam  “Our company said they usually get about 7,000 claims a
year,” says Rob. “They told us they have 30,000 pending right
now.” (They were also told by their insurance company, Tower
Insurance, that they don’t have flood insurance.)  The Freeds’ landlord lost his home in Brooklyn and hasn’t
even been able to make it out to Midland Beach to survey the
damage. His insurance company is similarly backed up.  “We don’t know anything,” says Rob. “How can we make a
plan when we don’t have any numbers?”  The Office Depot Foundation’s Wong points out that it
usually takes about eight weeks for the disaster response to
transition from rescue to recovery. That’s when the business and
political leadership of the community has to come together to
make the long-term recovery plan that will presumably also
include some support for local businesses.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has already asked for about
$42 billion in federal disaster relief, some of which will
probably be distributed by local politicians or through local
agencies. The Manhattan Chamber of Commerce has implemented a
microloan program to help businesses reopen their doors after
Sandy. But along Midland Avenue in Staten Island, Rob and Matt
wonder if this flooded area should even be rebuilt.  Iowa Model  The response of Cedar Rapids,  Iowa , to the devastating
floods of 2008 provides a possible model for a post-Sandy
recovery. The state initiated a comprehensive plan to rebuild
outside the flood basin and help businesses recover. It set up a
$3 million small business grant fund and earmarked an additional
$7 million to clear debris. A similar program in New York and
New Jersey, with many more zeros at the end of it, may jump-
start small businesses and encourage them to stick it out.  “Where am I going to get the capital to start over?” Rob
wonders. “I’m not borrowing the money. I’m not going into debt
again.”  Rob, Matt, and Bernard are walking down Midland Avenue to
Father Capodanno Boulevard, which runs alongside the Atlantic,
now blocked from view by an eight-story-high pile of toxic
rubbish on the beach. Garbage and dump trucks are idling on the
highway, waiting to unload more of what used to be the interior
walls, floors, and fixtures of people’s homes and now labeled
hazardous waste.  Digging Out  In better times, the men had strolled along this beach with
their children, and each shared the same dream: that they could
pass on the business to their kids. Now, with the beach closed,
the three head up the boulevard, turn inland along Hunter
Avenue, and then back to the store. On every block, in every
other house, families are digging out, piling their ruined
possessions in heaps along the sidewalk, waiting for sanitation
trucks to take them to the beach.  “See, here’s the thing,” says Matt. “The people who own
their own houses, they might stay. But if you were renting?
Would you wait two months till the landlord made your house
habitable?”  Bernard says, “Our customers may be gone.”  “If we were a big company,” says Matt, “if we had real
money, we’d hire a team to go out and survey the neighborhood to
see who’s staying and who’s going, who has pets.”  Canine Condolences  Rob recalls all the talk during the presidential campaign
about small businesses being the backbone of America.
“Sometimes,” he says, “I think what they mean by small
business is actually big business.”  A woman with red hair comes out of her house and asks how
Rob and the guys are doing. “I saw what happened to the
store,” she says. “Terrible.”  “You got power?” Rob asks.  She shakes her head. “No power. We got water.”  “How’s your dog?” Rob asks.  “He died.”  Rob says he’s sorry.  As he’s walking away, he smiles and says, “I hope she gets
another dog.”  Workers Gone  Back at the store, the relief workers are long gone, and
they’ve taken all the remaining undamaged retail racks with
them, without asking. Steadily, Rob’s customers and neighbors
come up and give him a hug. One customer who stuck it out
through the storm, the water in his house rising up to his neck,
somehow saved three of his five cats. “Thank God, thank God,”
he says. Rob looks around the store for some unopened cat food.
Another neighbor comes by and recommends drinking plenty of
Irish whiskey.  Matt is inside the store, kicking at the ruins. “My son
Gavin, he’s 3, he heard about the damage and he said, ‘Daddy,
I’ll fix it. I’ll bring my paint brush and fix it all up.’”  Rob nods. “In my heart, I want to reopen. But my head is
telling me it may not happen.”  As he speaks, an attractive blonde wearing gold-rimmed
sunglasses parks her convertible  Lexus  and walks up to the store
before noticing it’s not exactly open for business. She looks
around, confused. “When did this happen?” she asks.  She gets back into her car and drives away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Taro Greenfeld, through Romesh Ratnesar at   rratnesar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  