-- Stephen Fry, Jools Jams, Nude Madonna: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-11-30T11:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/stephen-fry-jools-jams-nude-madonna-london-weekend.html
Mark Rylance  has changed gender.  Face caked with pale white powder, lips painted dark red,
the actor is Olivia in Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” at the
Apollo Theatre. Sharing the stage with him is Malvolio, played
by Stephen Fry, who runs around in a beard and yellow tights.  Rylance last wowed audiences as the limping lout in
“ Jerusalem .” This time around, he draws giggles aplenty as the
grieving Olivia, who spurns the nobleman Orsino, then develops a
huge crush on a handsome messenger. Lust gets the better of the
timid geisha. Trouble is, the object of her affections is a
woman in disguise.  As Olivia’s manservant, Fry is entertainingly pompous. At
the Apollo Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue, W1D 7EZ. Information:
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com .  Bob Bob Ricard is near Shaftesbury Avenue, and far from the
bustle of Soho on a Friday night. This eclectic restaurant is
one of  London ’s most lavishly decorated, yet it keeps reasonable
prices. Every table is equipped with a buzzer -- for that
emergency Champagne refill. Bobby’s Bar, hidden in the basement,
is a fine retreat for cocktails.  Information:  http://www.bobbobricard.com/  or +44-20-3145-
1000.  Saturday  A curly-haired blonde sits alone in a room, talking on the
phone. She’s stark naked.  This is “An Annunciation” (2005) by  Richard Hamilton , who
died last year and has a small show at the National Gallery.
It’s his iconoclastic take on the  Virgin Mary  receiving the news
that she’s expecting. The computer-generated, painted-over image
is a witty wink at the Florentine Renaissance.  Hamilton seems to have looked back a lot. The show’s climax
is an unfinished triptych titled “Le Chef d’Oeuvre Inconnu”
(“The Unknown Masterpiece”), which shows a nude surrounded by
Balzac, Courbet and Titian. The idea came from a Balzac short
story, where an artist boasts he’s making a masterpiece, then
produces a dud where only a woman’s foot is recognizable.  “Richard Hamilton: The Late Works” is at the National
Gallery until Jan. 13. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  or +44-20-7747-2423.  Saturday  Jools Holland is hitting the road to bash out good-time
boogie-woogie on his piano.  The television host and former Squeeze member will be at
the  Royal Albert Hall  for his annual two-night residency with
the Rhythm & Blues Orchestra.  Scottish singer-songwriter KT Tunstall is supporting.  Royal Albert Hall,  Kensington Gore , SW7 2AP, Friday and
Saturday night. Information: +44-845-401-5045;
 http://www.royalalberthall.com  or  http://www.joolsholland.com .  Launceston Place, a short walk away, is a charming
neighborhood restaurant with exceptionally good food. It has won
a Michelin star under chef  Tim Allen , who joined in February.
The early evening menu is 30 pounds ($48).  Information:  http://www.launcestonplace-restaurant.co.uk/ 
or +44-20-7937-6912.  Alternatively, you can follow the adventures of a group of
African migrants headed for  Spain  in “Quimeras,” by guitarist
Paco Pena, in a staging by the  Southbank Centre ’s artistic
director Jude Kelly. Pena shares the stage with the talented
dancer Angel Munoz and with a troupe of performers from Senegal
and  Guinea .  Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.com  or +44-844-412-
4300.  Sunday  Stock up on gingerbread, cards and a little Bratwurst at
the traditional German-style Christmas fair in the wooden
chalets along the South Bank.  There’s singing while you shop -- and for recession-hit
pockets, a special stall with cheap and cheerful options. The
fair ends the day before Christmas.  Information:  http://www.christmasmarkets.com  or
 http://bit.ly/TlVEhb   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 