-- California Ports Strike Disrupts Holiday-Shopping Cargos
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-11-30T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/strikers-close-much-of-los-angeles-port-complex-for-a-thi.html
California  ports handling about a
third of U.S. container shipments were largely closed because of
a strike, stranding vessels carrying last-minute cargos for the
holiday-shopping season.  Seven of eight terminals at the Port of Los Angeles are
shut, Phillip Sanfield, a spokesman for the city-owned facility,
said yesterday. At the adjacent Port of Long Beach, three of six
are closed, according to its website. Clerical workers walked
out Nov. 27 amid an impasse in contract talks, and longshoremen
represented by the same union refused to cross the picket lines.  The strike will disrupt shipments of clothes, furniture,
electronics and other Asia-made goods during the year’s busiest
shopping period. The National Retail Federation trade group
asked President  Barack Obama  to  intervene , saying a 10-day West
Coast ports lockout in 2002 cost the economy about $1 billion a
day and disrupted supply chains for as long as six months.  “It’s a logistics nightmare,” said John C. Martin, an
economist at Martin Associates in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . “The
problems mount exponentially the longer this goes on.”  If the strike lasts, ships will start diverting to Oakland,
California, or  Seattle , causing backups there as railroads,
truckers and warehouse operators handle a surge in volume,
Martin said. Perishables such as fruits and vegetables may begin
to rot, and shipping lines will have to spend as much as $70,000
more a day to operate vessels, he said in a telephone interview.  Holiday-Shopping  The strike comes after the peak of the holiday-shopping
cargo rush, Sanfield said. Still, some deliveries are yet to be
made, said Stanley Shen, a spokesman for  Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd. (316)  The Hong Kong-based container line’s Long
Beach terminal has been closed by the walkout.  “The Long Beach strike took us by surprise,” he said.
“It will have tremendous disruption for all the Christmas
shipments that are yet to arrive and be unloaded.”  Hanjin Shipping Co., whose Long Beach terminal closed
yesterday, is still assessing the impact on operations, said
Sonya Cho, a spokeswoman for the Seoul-based shipping line.  Los Angeles has 10 vessels at berth waiting to be serviced
and more anchored nearby, according to Sanfield.  “We rarely have ships waiting, and more are due every
day,” he said by phone.  Trucking companies and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe, the two biggest western U.S. railroads, haul
cargos from the California ports to destinations across the
country.  ‘Bargaining Table’  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa sent a letter to the
International Longshore & Warehouse Union, which represents the
clerical workers, and the Los Angeles/Long Beach Harbor
Employers Association, which negotiates for shippers, urging
them to reach an agreement.  “The City of Los Angeles needs both of you to get back to
the bargaining table this week, to work with a mediator, and to
hammer out a settlement before further harm is done to our local
economy,” Villaraigosa said. “There is no time to waste.”  Port Executive Director Geraldine Knatz echoed that call
yesterday in a statement urging both sides to return to
negotiations.  “We are starting to see ships divert to other ports,
including to  Mexico ,” she said. “This dispute has impacted not
only our port workforce but all stakeholders who ship goods
through our complex.”  No Contract  The employers said in an  update  on the strike that clerical
workers rejected a proposed increase in compensation to more
than $190,000 in wages and benefits.  The 800 office and clerical employees have been working
without a contract for 30 months, according to a statement on
the union website.  Salaries aren’t the issue, the union said. More than 51
positions have been lost in recent years because of outsourcing
to other locations including Costa Rica and  Dallas , according to
the statement.  The shippers say no clerical jobs have been sent overseas
or elsewhere. The employers say they have offered protection
against such actions.  “The real purpose behind this claim is to promote
‘featherbedding’ -- requiring employers to call in temporary
employees and hire new permanent employees even when there is no
work to perform,” the employers said in their statement.  Craig Merrilees, a spokesman for the longshoremen, said two
of the 14 terminal operators working at the ports had signed
agreements with the union and their facilities were operational.
The two are Stevedoring Services of America and Pasha
Stevedoring & Terminals.  Asked how long the strike would proceed, he said: “It will
go on until the companies honestly face the issue of outsourcing
and keep good jobs at home.”  Fourteen ports on the U.S. East Coast and Gulf Coast,
including New York and New Jersey, may also face a strike in
January if a new contract with the International Longshoremen’s
Association isn’t reached by year-end. The Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service is involved in those discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  