-- Swedish Economic Growth Slows as Euro Crisis Hurts Sales
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-11-29T09:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/swedish-economic-growth-slows-as-euro-crisis-hurts-sales.html
Sweden ’s economic growth slowed less
than estimated in the third quarter as consumers continued to
spend even as the crisis in the euro area prompted exporters to
cut jobs.  Gross domestic product  expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent, compared with growth of 0.7 percent the prior quarter,
Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said today.  Annual growth 
slowed to 0.7 percent from 1.3 percent, the agency said. The
expansion was estimated at 0.2 percent for the quarter and at
0.5 percent for the year in a  Bloomberg survey  of 11 economists.  Sweden’s central bank has signaled it may cut  interest
rates  again next month, after three reductions since last year,
as a recession in the euro area hurts exporters in the largest
Nordic economy. Companies such as Ericsson AB, the world’s
biggest maker of wireless networks, and truckmaker Volvo AB are
cutting jobs to cope with the reduced demand. About 70 percent
of Swedish exports go to  Europe .  While growth was faster than forecast last quarter, “the
composition of GDP was worse than expected,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB, in  Stockholm , in a
note. “Household consumption rose less than we had forecast and
investments showed negative growth over the year.”  The krona climbed less than 0.1 percent to 8.608 per euro
as of 9:54 a.m. in Stockholm. Sweden’s two-year note yield was
little changed at 0.72 percent.  Exports Decline  Exports fell an annual 2.3 percent in the period, while
 consumer spending  rose 1.3 percent. Investments slid 0.4 percent
from a year earlier. A separate report from the agency today
showed that retail sales declined 1.7 percent in October,
falling for the second month out of the past three.  “The European economy is hitting primarily our exports and
investments” which will result in “a clear slowdown,” Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said on Nov. 26. “We will have to
track the development closely,” he said after ruling out any
immediate additional government funds to boost demand.  Borg in September said the government will spend 23 billion
kronor ($3.4 billion), or about 0.7 percent of GDP, next year on
infrastructure, research and to cut the corporate  tax rate  to 22
percent from 26.3 percent.  Manufacturing confidence  in the $500 billion economy fell
to its lowest level in more than three years this month, while
consumer sentiment slid to the lowest in a year. Unemployment
will rise to an average 7.9 percent in 2013 from 7.7 percent
this year the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development predicted this week.  “Industry forecasts further staff cuts and unchanged
output volume for the next few months,” Sweden’s National
Institute of Economic Research said on Nov. 27. “ Consumer
confidence  in the Swedish economy and labor market developments
are considerably more negative than normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  