-- U.S. Redady to Blast River Rocks to Aid Barges: Harkin
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-29T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/u-s-may-blast-mississippi-rocks-to-aid-shipping-harkin-says.html
The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers is
open to expedited dynamiting of Mississippi River rock
formations and increasing the flow from a tributary to prevent
curtailing barge traffic on the nation’s busiest waterway,
Senator  Tom Harkin  said.  “They’re hopeful they can start on this in December,”
Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, told reporters today after a meeting
in Washington with Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Army’s assistant
secretary for civil works. Harkin was among lawmakers from his
state, Illinois,  Missouri  and Minnesota urging the Corps to act.  Mississippi River barge traffic is slowing as the worst
drought in five decades and a seasonal dry period are pushing
water levels to a near-record low, prompting shippers, including
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , to seek alternatives. Harkin said
lawmakers today will ask the Corps to assess the impact of water
released from the Missouri River, which may be completed within
the next week.  The Corps has agreed to respond to the lawmakers request
“fairly quickly” and hasn’t committed to a December start for
the water release or blasting the rocks as Harkin suggested,
Gene Pawlik, an agency spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Lawmakers and shippers have urged President  Barack Obama  to
declare an emergency, which would allow the blasting to begin at
the same time the Corps releases water from the Missouri, Harkin
said after the meeting.  Asked about the requests, White House spokesman Jay Carney
today said the administration is exploring “all possible
options” to maintain traffic on the river.  Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat who
participated in the meeting, also said the Corps of Engineers is
open to expedited work.  “They seemed to understand the gravity of the problem, and
we talked about speeding up the work that needs to be done to
blow the rock formations so that we can get more water
flowing,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  