-- U.S. Third Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-11-29T13:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/u-s-third-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  THIRD QUARTER 2012 (SECOND ESTIMATE)  CORPORATE PROFITS:  THIRD QUARTER 2012 (PRELIMINARY)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 2.7 percent in the
third quarter of 2012 (that is, from the second quarter to the
third quarter), according to the “second” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the second quarter, real
GDP increased 1.3 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “advance” estimate
issued last month.  In the advance estimate, the increase in
real GDP was 2.0 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, federal
government spending, residential fixed investment, and exports
that were partly offset by negative contributions from
nonresidential fixed investment and state and local government
spending.  Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation
of GDP, increased slightly.  The acceleration in real GDP in the third quarter
primarily reflected upturns in private inventory investment and
in federal  government spending , a deceleration in imports, an
acceleration in residential fixed investment, and a smaller
decrease in state and local government spending that were partly
offset by a downturn in nonresidential fixed investment and
decelerations in exports and in PCE.  Final sales of computers added 0.12 percentage point to
the third-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 0.10
percentage point from the second-quarter change.  Motor vehicle
output subtracted 0.24 percentage point from the third-quarter
change in real GDP after adding 0.20 percentage point to the
second-quarter change.  The price index for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 1.4 percent in
the third quarter, 0.1 percentage point less than in the advance
estimate; this index increased 0.7 percent in the second quarter.
Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross
domestic purchases increased 1.1 percent in the third quarter,
compared with an increase of 1.4 percent in the second.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.4
percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 1.5
percent in the second.  Durable goods increased 8.7 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 0.2 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 1.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent.
Services increased 0.3 percent, compared with an increase of 2.1
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment decreased 2.2 percent,
in contrast to an increase of 3.6 percent.  Nonresidential
structures decreased 1.1 percent, in contrast to an increase of
0.6 percent. Equipment and software decreased 2.7 percent, in
contrast to an increase of 4.8 percent.  Real residential fixed
investment increased 14.2 percent, compared with an increase of
8.5 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 1.1 percent
in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 5.3 percent
in the second.  Real imports of goods and services increased 0.1
percent, compared with an increase of 2.8 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment increased 9.5 percent in the third quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of 0.2 percent in the second.  National
defense increased 12.9 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 0.2
percent.  Nondefense increased 3.0 percent, in contrast to a
decrease of 0.4 percent.  Real state and local government
consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 0.4
percent, compared with a decrease of 1.0 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.77
percentage point to the third-quarter change in real GDP, after
subtracting 0.46 percentage point from the second-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $61.3 billion in the
third quarter, following increases of $41.4 billion in the
second quarter and $56.9 billion in the first.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.9 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.7 percent in the second.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.4 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
1.0 percent in the second.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 2.7 percent in the third quarter, compared with an
increase of 2.1 percent in the second.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $1.3 billion in the third quarter after
increasing $27.4 billion in the second; in the third quarter,
receipts decreased $1.6 billion, and payments decreased $2.8
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 5.5 percent, or $211.8
billion, in the third quarter to a level of $15,797.4 billion.
In the second quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 2.8 percent,
or $107.3 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 1.7 percent in the third
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 0.7 (revised) percent in
the second.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI
may differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation
of largely independent source data.  However, over longer time
spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar
patterns of change.  Revisions  The “second” estimate of the third-quarter percent change
in GDP is 0.7 percentage point, or $21.9 billion, more than the
advance estimate issued last month, primarily reflecting upward
revisions to private inventory investment and to exports that
were partly offset by downward revisions to personal consumption
expenditures (PCE) and to nonresidential fixed investment.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
increased $67.3 billion in the third quarter, compared with an
increase of $21.8 billion in the second quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- increased $45.0 billion in the third quarter,
compared with an increase of $6.0 billion in the second.  Taxes on corporate income increased $19.3 billion in the
third quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $10.3 billion in the
second.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments increased $48.1 billion in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of $31.9 billion in the
second.  Dividends increased $11.3 billion compared with an
increase of $20.4 billion; current-production undistributed
profits increased $36.8 billion, compared with an increase of
$11.6 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $71.3
billion in the third quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $39.7
billion in the second.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations decreased $1.0 billion in the third quarter, in
contrast to an increase of $27.8 billion in the second.  In the
third quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations decreased, and profits per unit of real value added
increased.  The increase in unit profits reflected an increase
in unit prices that was partly offset by increases in both the
unit labor and nonlabor costs corporations incurred.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $2.8
billion in the third quarter, in contrast to an increase of
$33.6 billion in the second.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The third-quarter decrease was accounted for by a larger
increase in payments than in receipts.  Profits before tax increased $106.6 billion in the third
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $16.3 billion in the
second.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment increased $2.9 billion in the
third quarter (from -$202.4 billion to -$199.5 billion), in
contrast to a decrease of $1.7 billion in the second.  The
inventory valuation adjustment decreased $42.1 billion (from
$16.0 billion to -$26.1 billion), in contrast to an increase of
$39.7 billion.  Effective with this release, chained-dollar gross value
added of nonfinancial corporate business was revised beginning
with 2009.  Chained-dollar gross value added is derived by
deflating current-dollar gross value added by a revised chain-
type price index for nonfinancial industries from BEA痴 annual
industry accounts released earlier this month.  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-
mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  ________
  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted
annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-quarter
dollar changes are differences between these published estimates.
Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data and are
annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005) dollars.
Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site along
with the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.
For information on revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and
Their Major Components.”
_________  *          *          *  Next release -- December 20, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EST for:
  Gross Domestic Product:  Third Quarter 2012 (Third Estimate)  Corporate Profits: Third Quarter (Revised Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  