-- U.S. Seeks to Reassure Poor Nations on Climate Aid
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2012-11-29T11:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/u-s-seeks-to-reassure-poor-nations-on-climate-aid.html
Climate finance officials from the
U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K. said their governments will continue
to pay out aid aimed at helping the world’s most vulnerable
countries cope with global warming.  “I don’t think any of us see a climate finance cliff on
the horizon,” Beth Urbanas, director of U.S. Treasury
Department’s Office of Environment and Energy, said today at a
discussion on the matter in Doha. The capital of Qatar is
hosting envoys from more than 190 countries gathered for United
Nations global warming treaty negotiations.  Vulnerable nations say they are facing a possible funding
crisis because about $30 billion in short-term funding is set to
end this year. Developed countries haven’t yet offered details
on how they plan to boost the funds available to meet their
promise of $100 billion by 2020.  “We have a strong commitment to reaching the $100 billion
target,” Urbanas said.  She declined to comment when asked about a demand from
China and  Brazil  for a roadmap sketching out how post-2012
finance will be distributed.  U.K. has already budgeted for climate aid through 2015,
said Daisy Streatfeild, head of international climate finance
negotiations for the nation. She said there should be more focus
on how to use the funds most effectively as opposed to “just
chasing money.”  German View  Germany’s Ina von Frantzius said she was “puzzled” about
talk of a climate “fiscal cliff” and said her country is
committed to continuing aid.  Climate finance is one of the linchpins of the United
Nations-led talks, which are due to end Dec. 7. Developing
nations argue that global warming is caused by the historical
emissions of industrialized nations, which now have the
responsibility of helping others defend against rising seas and
more violent weather.  Emmanuel Dlamini, chairman of the African Group of
Negotiators, said while he appreciates the assurances from the
U.S., the U.K. and Germany that the money will materialize, it’s
not enough.  “We don’t have a decision now on the financial cliff,” he
said. “All that we are saying is that if the developed
countries are ready to continue with fast-start finance let’s
have a decision that is open to every party rather than to just
say an assurance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  