-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Shell Sells Two-Part Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-29T22:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/u-s-company-credit-swaps-pare-fall-shell-plans-bond-offering.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for a second day as lawmakers continued
negotiations in an attempt to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 99.4 basis points at 4:18 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
pared some of its decline after House Speaker John Boehner said
no substantive progress had been made in budget talks.  A compromise by politicians to avert $607 billion of
spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect next year
would allay investor concern that an economic slowdown will
hinder companies’ ability to repay debt. Boehner told reporters
in  Washington  that he remains “hopeful” about negotiations.
Senator Charles Schumer said progress has been made.  “There’s no consistency” in lawmakers’ remarks on budget
talks, Stephen Antczak, Citigroup Inc.’s New York-based head of
U.S. credit strategy, said in a telephone interview. “One
person says we’re making progress and the next one says we’re
not close,” he said. “To the extent that uncertainty becomes
clarified a little bit, that would help the market
tremendously.”  A Bloomberg Global Poll today showed that three out of four
investors expect President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders to reach a short-term agreement. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner arrived at the Capitol today to face demands
from Republican leaders to spell out spending cuts.  Royal Dutch  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil producer, sold
$1.75 billion of bonds in its first debt offering since August.
The company issued $750 million of three-year notes to yield 30
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $1
billion of 10-year securities with 75 basis points of extra
yield, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
narrowed 1 basis point to 1.31 percentage points, led by spreads
on the subordinated bonds of financial companies, which dropped
2 basis points to 2.38 percentage points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Corporate Defaults  The number of defaults among global corporate issuers in
2012 increased to 74, Standard & Poor’s analysts wrote in a
report today. Allen Systems Group Inc. was downgraded to D on
Nov. 19 after missing an interest payment, and a confidential
rated Brazil-based utility company defaulted yesterday,
according to S&P.  Defaults among issuers of speculative-grade debt this year
will increase to 30 in November and December, compared with 25
through October, according to a report today from Fitch Ratings.
The high-yield default rate, which fell to 1.9 percent in
October, will likely end 2012 at close to 2 percent, according
to Fitch.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on the debt
of  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  surged 3.5 percentage points to 20.1 percent
upfront as of 4:25 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $2.01 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of the company’s  debt . A planned sale of the grocery
chain to Cerberus Capital Management LP has stalled because the
private-equity firm has had trouble obtaining funds for a
leveraged buyout, said people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be named because the process is private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  