-- U.S. Vote Against Palestinians in UN Could Hurt Moderates
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-30T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/u-s-vote-against-palestinians-in-un-could-hurt-moderates.html
U.S. opposition to the Palestinians’
successful bid for elevated status at the  United Nations 
threatens to undermine the Arab moderates the U.S. wants to
support.  The 193-member UN General Assembly yesterday granted the
Palestinians the status of “observer state.” The 138-9 vote,
with 41 countries abstaining, came as the rival, Iranian-backed
group Hamas has won praise on the street and financial and
political backing from Qatar, Turkey and  Egypt  for its conflict
this month with  Israel .  The danger is that by voting against the UN resolution
pushed by  Mahmoud Abbas , chairman of the secular  Palestine
Liberation Organization  and president of the Palestinian
Authority, the U.S. risks inadvertently discrediting Abbas’s
diplomatic approach to Israel, according to former U.S.
Ambassador to Israel  Daniel Kurtzer . Voting against Abbas also
could make the violence of Hamas, which the U.S., Israel and the
European Union consider a terrorist group, appear more fruitful.  “The question for the U.S., and more primarily for Israel,
is this,” Kurtzer said in an interview, “Don’t you see what
you’re doing? You are, in fact, empowering the party, Hamas,
which you say is far worse than the party you’ve been dealing
with all these years.”  While Hamas refuses to recognize Israel’s right to exist,
Abbas emphasized his approach in his UN appeal yesterday,
saying, “Our hand remains extended in peace.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. opposed
the “unfortunate and counterproductive resolution” because
“it places further obstacles in the path to peace.” Only
direct negotiations will lead to a two-state solution, she said.  Stalled Talks  As Abbas and other secular Arab leaders lose credibility
with their own people, the U.S. loses some of its ability to
play a mediating role in talks between Israel and the
Palestinians.  Mideast peace talks have been stalled since September 2010,
when Palestinians insisted that Israel extend a freeze on the
construction of homes for Jewish settlers in the West Bank,
which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War.  On  Capitol Hill , U.S. lawmakers have threatened to cut off
$600 million in annual aid to the Palestinian Authority if the
UN vote passed. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, filed an
amendment yesterday to the Defense Authorization Act that also
would eliminate U.S. funding to the United Nations.  “Any movement to strengthen” one of Israel’s “fiercest
enemies must not be tolerated,” Hatch said in a statement.  ‘Dialing Down’  In contrast, there was a “real dialing down” of Israeli
opposition leading up to the vote, in large part because of
concern about Hamas, said  David Makovsky , director of the
Project on the Middle East Peace Process at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy.  That can be attributed to the realization that it’s
“politically unharmful,” Makovsky said in an interview. “You
can also attribute it to their understanding that you can’t have
a situation where Hamas feels like it’s on the rise and the
secular leadership is on the decline.”  Abbas’s attempt to recapture some of the momentum at the UN
won’t work, said  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a Washington
policy group.  “This isn’t going to provide any enduring counterweight to
Hamas,” Miller said in an interview. Abbas “is in large part a
desperate man,” he said, and the Palestinian Authority
“doesn’t have a strategy” and “they don’t have any power.”  Islamist Spring  The decline of Palestinian secular leaders has been
accelerated by events, including the Arab Spring rebellions
against secular leaders in Tunisia, Libya and Egypt. Events have
also seemed to strengthen Hamas and validate its violent
approach at the expense of the Palestinian Authority.  In 2008, Abbas negotiated with then-Israeli Prime Minister
 Ehud Olmert  for the release of as many as 2,000 Palestinian
prisoners, though the deal fell through. In 2011, after Hamas
kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, Israel released more
than 1,000 prisoners in a trade that led to celebrations in
Palestinian streets.  Abbas said this month there would be no third “intifada,”
or violent uprising, in the West Bank, which is controlled by
the  Palestinian Authority . While the announcement got some
coverage in the Israeli press, Kurtzer said that, in contrast,
Hamas’s rocket barrages into southern Israel drew the attention
of the region and the world.  Kurtzer, author of a book about the conflict called
“Pathways to Peace,” also pointed out that the Israeli
blockade of the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  has deprived the
cash-strapped Palestinian Authority of revenue. Hamas taxes the
tunnels it uses to smuggle goods and weapons from Egypt’s Sinai.  ‘Getting Weaker’  “The leaders that the  United States  wants to empower in
 Palestine  aren’t going to last much longer,” said Diana Buttu,
a former legal adviser to the Palestinian negotiating team.
Abbas “is getting weaker and weaker, and Hamas is getting
stronger.”  While Abbas “undermines himself,” Buttu said, the U.S. is
“undermining him by objecting” to the UN vote and in what she
says is its failure to support Abbas. The result, she said, is
that the Palestinian leader and his approach look impotent.  “That’s the sad part,” Buttu said from Ramallah, in the
 West Bank , in a telephone interview. “He’s lost credibility
among his people, and the Americans haven’t done everything
they’ve said they would. And people are saying, OK, we’ll
support Hamas, or whoever else helps us keep our heads up
high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  