-- Tucker Dodges Questions on Future at BOE as Carney Wins Top Job
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-11-29T12:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/tucker-dodges-questions-on-future-at-boe-as-carney-wins-top-job.html
Bank of  England  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker declined to say if he will serve the remaining 15 months
of his term after he was passed over for the top job at the
central bank this week.  Questioned by reporters in  London  today about his future
after Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney was named on Nov. 26
as Mervyn King’s successor, Tucker responded: “I’m the deputy
governor for financial stability. There’s a job of work to be
done. I’m doing it.”  Tucker, a three-decade veteran of the Bank of England, had
been the favorite at bookmakers to become governor when King
retires in June. He was the only known internal candidate. King
said on Nov. 26 that Tucker has “much more to contribute,”
while Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said he hoped
he would stay on in the job.  Tucker became deputy governor in 2009 and his five-year
term ends in February 2014. Asked later at the press conference
if he would serve his full term, he said: “I’m the deputy
governor for financial stability, I’m doing that job.” When the
question was repeated, Tucker didn’t respond.  “All the people around me here can stay at the bank as
long as they like, except for me,” King said, when a similar
question was put to  Andrew Haldane , the central bank’s executive
director for financial stability. “First of July next year, I
will have left and you’ll be left with this fantastic team of
people here.”  Tucker congratulated Carney on his appointment in a
statement on Nov. 26. Today’s press conference for the
publication of the BOE’s Financial Stability Review marked the
first opportunity to question him on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  