-- Luiz Felipe Scolari Returns as Brazil National Soccer Team Coach
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-29T17:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/luiz-felipe-scolari-returns-as-brazil-national-soccer-team-coach.html
Luiz Felipe Scolari, who led  Brazil 
to the 2002  World Cup  title, has returned as coach of the
national soccer team.  Scolari replaces Mano Menezes, who was fired Nov. 23. The
64-year-old will lead the team into the next World Cup in 2014,
which Brazil will host.  “I couldn’t let the opportunity to be part of history and
a sixth World Cup win playing in Brazil pass me by,” Scolari
said on the Brazil Soccer Federation’s website, adding he
thanked the governing body’s president Jose Maria Marin “a
thousand times” when offered the job.  Former national team coach  Carlos Alberto Parreira  was also
named as an assistant. Parreira led Brazil to the 1994 World Cup
title in the U.S. and also at the 2006 championship in Germany.  Scolari was in charge as Brazil won its record fifth world
title in Japan ten years ago. The change in management comes as
Brazil, usually among the world’s top teams, has fallen behind
regional rivals Argentina, Uruguay and Colombia to stand 13th in
world soccer ruling body FIFA’s rankings.  Speculation about Menezes’s future grew after Brazil failed
to win a gold medal at the London  Summer Olympics  and was
eliminated in the quarterfinals of the  Copa America  a year
earlier.  Scolari coached the Portuguese national team before taking
lucrative assignments with Chelsea of England’s Premier League
and Uzbekistan’s Bunyodkor. The man popularly known as “Big
Phil” was fired Sept. 13 by Palmeiras following poor results.  Scolari won 18 out of 24 games he oversaw during his one-
year spell in charge of the national team between 2001 and 2002.
Menezes, in his almost 2 1/2 years, recorded 21 wins in 33
games. His last game was a 2-1 loss to Argentina Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 