-- UN Green Climate Fund Needs Another Year to Start
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-11-29T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/un-green-climate-fund-needs-another-year-to-start.html
The European Commission’s lead
climate negotiator at United Nations treaty talks in Doha said
it’s likely to take at least a year for the Green Climate Fund
to become operational.  The governing body of the fund set up last year still must
set out rules for receiving and paying out money, decide what
sort of projects will be eligible, and how developing nations
can apply for money, said the diplomat, Artur Runge-Metzger.  “There are a zillion things that need to be decided,”
Runge-Metzger said in an interview in Doha where two weeks of  UN
climate talks  are under way. “Negotiations will go on for I
think another year before we will see the GCF firmly
established. Realistically that is the case. The end of 2013 or
beginning of 2014. That still puts it on a very tight
timetable.”  Finance is a cornerstone of the UN treaty talks, with the
Green Climate Fund intended to channel an undisclosed portion of
$100 billion in annual aid that developed nations have pledged
to provide by 2020. The funds are for projects that cut
emissions and protect against the effects of climate change in
developing nations.  “Finance is critical because it incentivises action in
 developing countries ,” Selwin Hart, an envoy from Barbados who
negotiates for the 43-nation  Alliance of Small Island States ,
said in an interview today in Doha. “It also assists the
poorest and most vulnerable developing countries to cope with
increasing impacts associated with  climate change .”  Doubling Aid  Hart said the G77 group of about 130 developing nations and
 China  is working on a proposal that will call on industrialized
nations to double climate aid. They want $60 billion for the
three years through 2015, up from $30 billion in the three years
ending in 2012. Environmental groups such as Conservation
International and Greenpeace echoed that demand.  “It’s not an unreasonable request,” said Hart. “All that
we’re calling for is how developed countries intend to scale up
from fast start levels to the $100 billion they pledged.”  Runge-Metzger said the European Commission is working on
300-million euros ($390 million) to 500 million euros of
financing for projects next year, and that  member states  such as
 Germany ,  France , the U.K., the Netherlands and Nordic countries
may make pledges in Doha.  “We are going to give significant reassurances to
developing coutries that we are not going into some kind of
climate finance cliff,” Runge-Metzger said. Still, “some
member states are in very difficult situations with their public
finances and it will be very difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  