-- Unaffordable Cost Seen for Some Under Affordable Care Act
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-11-29T19:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/unaffordable-cost-seen-for-some-under-affordable-care-act.html
To Megan Hildebrandt, President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act means she can no longer be
denied health insurance because of her lymphatic cancer.  There’s a big catch: Coverage for the 28-year-old artist
and many other Americans without  insurance  will come at a
potentially unaffordable cost.  Hildebrandt, who relies on hospital charity, will face more
than $1,000 in annual premiums, by one estimate, and probably
more in out-of-pocket expenses even with new federal subsidies.
She and her husband have a combined income of $25,000.  “It’s great that I’m not going to have to pay some hugely
impossible amount,” said Hildebrandt, who lives in Austin,
 Texas . “Though now I’m in the health-care system and still have
to pay money that we can’t really afford.”  The landmark health-care law, which survived the threats of
repeal and a  Supreme Court  review, now confronts another hurdle:
living up to expectations. As the administration spells out the
details, many uninsured will be surprised at how much they will
have to pay. It may involve “very substantial amounts,” and
“there still will be a significant number of people who can’t
afford health coverage,” said  Ron Pollack , head of Families
USA, a consumer group that backs the law.  A family of four earning $75,000 will pay $7,125 in annual
premiums and as much as $8,333 in co-pays and deductibles,
according to a  preliminary estimate  by the  Kaiser Family
Foundation . A single 40-year-old earning $30,000 will pay $2,509
in premiums and as much as $3,125 in cost sharing. For a 60-
year-old making $40,000, the amount will be $3,800 in premiums
and up to $4,167 in out-of-pocket costs, according to Kaiser.  New Rules  Those costs will come even as the government spends about
$1.16 trillion over the next decade to expand coverage to 30
million uninsured people.  “People are often surprised at how expensive health
insurance is once they have to pay for their own,” said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at Kaiser Family Foundation.  “The
subsidies will make that better, but they won’t make the cost
disappear.”  The administration last week unveiled regulations to
implement the ban on discriminating against those with
preexisting conditions. Insurers would be limited to varying
premiums by age, family size, geography and tobacco use.  ‘We All Pay’  To be sure, the costs will be far less than what many with
preexisting conditions would pay in the absence of the overhaul.
The law is also designed to reduce expenses for those who
already have insurance because hospitals providing charitable
care make up those costs by charging others more.  “While we’re only dimly aware of it, we all pay,” said
former  Congressional Budget Office  Director  Robert Reischauer .
“There shouldn’t be free-riders.”  What’s more, there are provisions in the law capping the
financial burden the requirements will impose on the uninsured.
If costs exceed 8 percent of their income, they are exempt from
the individual mandate to buy insurance. And people can choose
to pay a penalty instead of buying insurance. The fine would be
$695, or 2.5 percent of a person’s income, whichever is greater.  Offering Subsidies  The law, enacted in March 2010, requires virtually all
Americans to have insurance by 2014. It will expand coverage to
the uninsured by offering them subsidies to buy policies on
newly established health-insurance exchanges and making it
easier for lower-income people to qualify for Medicaid, the
federal- and state-funded insurance system for the poor.  Consumers’ expenses may climb because of a cost-cutting
provision inserted in the law that will reduce federal aid to
the uninsured if the subsidies exceed a certain threshold --
defined as 0.504 percent of the gross domestic product. The
Congressional Budget Office  says it expects  that will happen.  In 2019, some families could see their premiums climb four
times as quickly as the help they receive from the government,
according to CBO. That means they will have to bear a larger
share of the burden of purchasing coverage.  “That will be a major challenge,” said  John McDonough , a
 public-health  professor at the  Harvard School of Public Health .
“It makes the affordability picture far worse.”  The subsidies will be offered on a sliding scale, with
those earning the least getting the most help. Those at the
bottom of the income ladder, earning less than 138 percent of
the poverty line -- about $33,000 for a family of four -- will
get care through Medicaid. They will face minimal costs because
the program has strict limits on co-pays -- if their states
decide to opt in to the Medicaid expansion. The Supreme Court
ruled in June that the government can’t compel states to do so,
even as the justices upheld the law.  Sliding Scale  Those earning up to 400 percent of the poverty line --
 about $92,000  for a family of four -- will receive tax subsidies
to buy private insurance on a sliding scale.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat who was instrumental in pushing through the
law, said there’s “legitimate concern” that care will remain
unaffordable for some.  Lawmakers sought to “protect the poorest” yet weren’t
able to offer as much help to others as they would have liked
because of budgetary constraints, said Durbin. “We did all that
we could do,” he said.  ‘Work With It’  “If we find out that it doesn’t reach our goal then we’re
going to have to sit down and work with it,” he said.  He said Republicans have “no response” to the question of
how to expand coverage to the uninsured.  A  November 2009 analysis  by CBO of a draft of the program
provides a rough indication of how quickly the subsidies will
ramp down. It shows the government covering 77 percent of the
premium costs for single persons earning about $20,600, 42
percent for those earning around $32,400 and 13 percent of the
premium costs for those making about $44,200.  That means many with modest incomes will be responsible for
covering the bulk of their premium costs. About 5 million people
required to buy coverage won’t receive any help from the
government because they earn too much, CBO projects.  “There may not be sufficient management of expectations,”
said Lynn Quincy, a health-policy analyst at  Consumers Union , a
Yonkers, New York-based advocacy group. Lawmakers should have
been telling the public the law promises “lower-cost” -- not
“affordable” -- coverage, she said. “Everybody interprets
‘affordable’ differently -- it’s in the eye of the beholder.”  ‘Substantial Steps’  The Obama administration defended the law.  “Independent, nonpartisan experts have said the health-
care law will help cover 30 million people who don’t have
insurance today,” White House spokesman Nick Papas said in a
statement. “The law takes substantial steps to control costs
and will save money for millions of Americans.”  Still, the federal subsidies face another danger. While
Republicans have given up trying to rescind the law, they’re
targeting it in budget negotiations over the so-called  fiscal
cliff , the combination of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to begin taking effect in January.  Cutting the overhaul’s cost could yield savings that most
people wouldn’t notice because the overhaul doesn’t begin in
earnest until 2014. Yet it would force the uninsured to shoulder
an even greater share of health-care costs.  Republicans are willing to consider tax increases in the
form of closing individual breaks, yet House Speaker  John Boehner  signaled they aren’t yielding on cuts to so-called
Obamacare.  “The tactics of our repeal efforts will have to change,”
Boehner wrote last week in the Cincinnati Enquirer. “The law
has to stay on the table as both parties discuss ways to solve
our nation’s massive debt challenge” because “we can’t afford
to leave it intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  