-- Uniform Renters Seen Showing U.S. Jobs Extend Rebound
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/uniform-renters-seen-showing-u-s-jobs-extend-rebound.html
Cintas Corp. (CTAS)  and  UniFirst Corp. (UNF)  may
show the U.S. labor market is extending its two-year rebound
when they release quarterly results in the next five weeks.  Investors such as  Lawrence Creatura  at Federated Investors
Inc. watch uniform-rental companies to gauge hiring trends for
employees in manufacturing, automotive, hospitality and similar
work. Even though these jobs account for only about 10 percent
of employment, optimism in this industry can be “really
symptomatic of the health of a wide swath of American
businesses” they serve, said Creatura, who helps to oversee
$370 billion as a  fund manager  in Rochester, New York.  Hiring among workers who wear uniforms grew 64,000 in
October, the most since January’s 88,000, according to an index
created by Robert W. Baird & Co. Job gains at these businesses
rose 2.2 percent from a year earlier to 31 million, outpacing
the 1.5 percent increase for all nonfarm payrolls, Baird and
Labor Department data show. November jobs numbers will be
released Dec. 7.  Cincinnati-based Cintas is scheduled to announce fiscal
second-quarter earnings Dec. 20, followed by UniFirst, in
Wilmington,  Massachusetts , with fiscal first-quarter results on
Jan. 4. Revenue for  G&K Services Inc. (GKSR)  -- the third publicly
traded player in the industry -- rose 6.1 percent to $222.4
million in the three months ended Sept. 29, driven by growth in
rental operations and direct sales, the company said Oct. 30.  ‘Growing Healthily’  The uniform-rental companies are “growing healthily,”
largely because of new customers and selling additional services
to existing ones, though they still await a significant pick-up
in client payrolls, according to Andrew Steinerman, an analyst
in New York at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “These companies have done a great job,” Steinerman said.
“You have to respect that these guys are growing about 5
percent, mostly because of new sales.”  Still, Cintas, UniFirst and G&K Services are showing only a
“modest expansion” in their current customer base, which is
reflected by the “slightly under 2 percent” annual growth in
JPMorgan’s uniform-services labor index, he said.  UniFirst and Cintas have outperformed the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index since Dec. 30, 2011, with UniFirst rising  24 percent 
and Cintas up  17 percent  compared with the S&P 500’s  12 percent 
increase.  Their shares are trading “pretty close” to historical
average valuations on a price-to-earnings basis, said Andrew Wittmann, an analyst at Baird in  Milwaukee . “These stocks have
all done pretty well so far this year, maybe better than
expected.”  ‘Neutral’ Recommendations  While these uniform suppliers are comfortable that current
trends are enough to grow their businesses, Wittmann maintains
“neutral” recommendations on these stocks. Hiring has been
“good but not great” this year, he said. Still, “it’s not
changing fast enough to improve the operating environment.”  None of the three companies is predicting a material change
during 2013 in the so-called add-stop metric: a ratio that
measures net change in customer payrolls, he said.  An improvement probably would provide a “big boost” to
revenue and margins, Steinerman said, adding that merchandise
amortization -- the related costs when new uniforms are put into
service -- gradually is waning, though it’s still a drag on
profitability.  The presidential election removed a primary source of
uncertainty for business owners, and the labor market is posting
modest growth even with the looming fiscal cliff, Wittmann said.
The U.S. faces more than $600 billion in higher taxes and
spending cuts that take effect in January 2013 unless Congress
acts.  ‘Substantial Threat’  Reaching an agreement with President  Barack Obama  could
remove an impediment to growth, while failure to do so “would
pose a substantial threat to the recovery,” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Nov. 20 at the  Economic Club of
New York .  These and other concerns, including  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, make U.S. business leaders feel “very unsettled,”
Creatura said. Nonfarm employers added 100,000 workers in
November and the jobless rate was  7.9 percent  for a second
consecutive month, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That follows four months
of hiring gains that averaged 173,000, according to figures from
the Labor Department.  The “coin’s still in the air” regarding the durability of
the U.S. expansion, so investors need tools to get a sense of
the “trajectory of employer psychology,” Creatura said. Data
from uniform companies, along with other job-related figures,
help to “create a mosaic that is more reliable than any single
data point.”  Little Benefit  G&K Services is getting “very little benefit from gains in
its base,” as its add-stop metric has fluctuated marginally
between positive and negative in the past year, said Jeff Huebschen, director of  investor relations . More than 1 million
employees working in a “fairly broad swath of the economy”
wear uniforms supplied by the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
company, he said.  More of G&K Services’ customers reduced headcount than
added to their payrolls in the three months ended Sept. 29,
resulting in a “slightly negative” add-stop ratio for the
period, Huebschen said. Anecdotally, some employers said the
Nov. 6 election and fiscal cliff made them cautious, though
“it’s hard to say” whether this affected the quarter.  While G&K Services still is awaiting “robust growth in the
labor market,” Huebschen said the company has been able to
expand by adding new customers, selling more services to current
ones and initiating “a bit” of price increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  