-- Verizon Retiress Sue to Block Sale of Pension Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-11-29T21:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/verizon-retiress-sue-to-block-sale-of-pension-plan.html
Two  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
retirees asked a U.S. judge to prevent the company from selling
a pension plan covering them and about 41,000 others to the
Prudential Insurance Co. of America for $7.5 billion.  The transaction, which would convert the plan into an
annuity, will deprive the retirees of federal pension
protections, the plaintiffs said yesterday in filings in federal
court in  Dallas . The  retirees , both of whom worked for a Verizon
predecessor, are seeking a temporary restraining order on behalf
of themselves and their fellow management retirees.  Without an order blocking the deal, the retirees will
“suffer irreparable harm,” in the form of immediate loss of
protections under the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act, they said.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, said on
Oct. 17 that it planned to sell its pension obligations to
remove risk from its  balance sheet .  The company today said the lawsuit is without merit.  “Verizon’s actions regarding its pensions protect the
interests of our retired management employees,” the New York-
based company said in a statement. “The monthly pension
benefits of the retirees receiving an annuity from Prudential
will remain unchanged.”  Verizon asked the court not to grant the restraining order
and said it may be harmed if the transaction doesn’t close by
Dec. 10.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurance company,
is also named as a defendant in the suit. Dawn Kelly, a
spokeswoman for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential, declined to
comment on the case.  The case is Lee v. Verizon Communications Inc., 12-cv-4834,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  