-- Veterans Agency Can Ignore Vets Status in Contract Awards
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-29T20:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/veterans-agency-can-ignore-vets-status-in-contract-awards.html
The U.S. Department of  Veterans
Affairs  doesn’t have to give former service members’ small
businesses preference for all contracts, a federal judge said,
rejecting the position of a government watchdog agency.  U.S. Federal Claims Judge Nancy Firestone in Washington,
ruling against a bid protest filed by a Maryland business, said
the department didn’t violate a 2006 law by awarding an
emergency notification service contract without first
considering bids from veterans. The award was one of at least 18
that the Government Accountability Office said were unlawful.  “The court respectfully disagrees with the GAO’s
interpretation of the 2006 act in the case at hand, and finds
that the VA’s decision not to set aside the ENS contract at
issue was not arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law,”
Firestone said in a 35-page decision.  The Nov. 27 ruling was the first time the claims court
considered the contracting provisions of the so-called Veterans
First law, which directed the agency to give preference to
veterans when awarding contracts. If the agency changed its
position, it might steer as much as $3 billion in federal
contracts a year toward small companies owned by veterans,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government last year.  Jo Schuda , a VA spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
decision.  ‘Legislative Gap’  Firestone in her ruling said the law didn’t mandate that
veteran-owned firms trump preexisting agreements with vendors
that typically offer bulk discounts. She said Congress left a
“legislative gap” for the veterans’ agency to fill.  The GAO, a federal agency that arbitrates contracting
disputes, at least 18 times directed the VA to determine whether
there were at least two qualified veteran-owned small businesses
that could perform the work at a reasonable price before turning
to other vendors, according to a letter the agency sent to
Congress this month. The VA refused each time.  The lawsuit was brought by Waldorf, Maryland-based
 Kingdomware Technologies Inc. , which alleged the VA failed to
research whether veteran-owned businesses could provide an IT
product and services at a San Francisco VA facility. Earlier,
the GAO had sided with the technology vendor.  Tim Power, an attorney from Sonoma,  California , who
represents Kingdomware, said his client hasn’t decided yet
whether to appeal the ruling.  “If this is followed by other courts, it is kind of
devastating to veterans,” Power said. “They had counted on
this statute as establishing that a good slice of work from the
VA would be for them.”  Federal Discounts  It’s not surprising the VA would favor spending with the
so-called supply schedule vendors, said Devon Hewitt, an
attorney with Protorae Law PLLC in McLean,  Virginia , who helped
Power on the case. Those pre-selected vendors typically provide
discounts to federal agencies for buying in bulk.  “It’s simpler, quicker, and cheaper,” Hewitt said in a
phone interview. “When you’re looking for pencils, when you’re
looking for desks, when you’re looking for plates, why go
through a procurement process that’s time-consuming and
expensive for the agency? My view is, can you really blame
them?”  Nonetheless, many veterans feel the VA is one agency that
should prioritize spending with veterans, she said.  “This decision means the VA can continue to make a lot of
purchases from large businesses instead of going to small
veteran-owned companies,” she said. “Those purchases would
make a big difference to small veteran businesses.”  The case is Kingdomware Technologies Inc. v. U.S., 12-cv-
00173, U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  