-- Wall Street’s Reputation Remains in Doghouse, Gorman Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-29T16:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/wall-street-s-reputation-remains-in-doghouse-gorman-says.html
Wall Street’s reputation will remain
“in the doghouse” as long as trading scandals continue to
plague the industry, Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer
 James Gorman  said.  “Say you want to be out ahead of it and give a lot of
speeches and talk about all the good we’re doing,” Gorman said
today at an industry conference in  New York . “And then some
trader does some stupid thing like this guy at UBS did and he’s
in jail and all bets are off,” Gorman said. He was referring to
Kweku Adoboli, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader convicted of fraud this month
in the largest unauthorized trading loss in British history.  Americans’ confidence in U.S. banks fell to a record low of
21 percent in June, with the percentage saying they have “a
great deal” or “quite a lot” of faith in financial
institutions about half that in 2007, according to a  Gallup
poll . Financial services and banking were the least-trusted
industries in an annual  survey  released in January by Edelman
Public Relations.  Traders at New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had too much
latitude in the past, “what I call having an outsized
sandbox,” Gorman, 54, said at the conference, which was
sponsored by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association. “Until we can be really confident we’ve got
discipline around the sandboxes, I think you have to be really
careful not to be holier than thou,” Gorman said. “We’re going
to be in the doghouse for a while.”  Morgan Stanley took a $9.4 billion writedown in 2007 on
losses from mortgage investments, and Gorman said “I should be
kicked out” if the firm ever has another loss like that one.  Lower Pay  Wall Street bankers should likewise resist the temptation
to feel sorry for themselves because many are getting lower pay,
Gorman said.  “There’s not a lot of sympathy,” he said. “The rest of
society is going through at least as difficult a time from a
much lower starting base.”  Banks haven’t cut compensation enough when faced with
falling profits, and “the industry is still overpaid,” Gorman
said in an interview with the Financial Times published last
month. Morgan Stanley will consider a new round of cost-cutting
next year, and that could include lower pay, he told the FT.  The firm lowered 2011 pay of senior bankers and traders
about 20 percent to 30 percent, and capped cash bonuses at
$125,000. Gorman said in January that employees who were very
unhappy with their pay should leave the firm.  Gorman is set to lose 2009 stock awards once valued at
almost $2.9 million as the bank misses profitability and share-
performance goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  