-- Now It’s Democrats’ Turn to Compromise
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-29T23:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/wimping-out-on-entitlements-threatens-fiscal-cliff-deal.html
One by one, congressional
Republicans are revoking their no-tax-increase pledges, opening
the door to a fiscal-cliff compromise. Sadly, Democrats are just
as quickly closing the door by calling for tax increases now and
entitlement cuts later, if at all.  Democrats have good reasons (or so they think), beginning
with their interpretation of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s Nov.
6 victory as a mandate to raise tax rates on the wealthy while
protecting the social contract. Also, liberal groups are making
political trouble for Democrats by inciting seniors to oppose
any and all cuts to Medicare and Social Security.  But if Democrats refuse to control entitlements, there will
be no fiscal-cliff deal. Obama can put a quick end to this
bickering. Instead of staging campaign-style events around the
country to build public support for the hands-off-entitlements
strategy, the president should tell voters the truth: The only
way to avoid the more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled for January is for both sides to make
political sacrifices in equal measure -- tax increases from
Republicans and entitlement cuts from Democrats.  Baby Boomers  The president should say that, unless changes are adopted
soon, providing health care to an aging baby-boom generation
will erode  national finances  for decades. These simple  facts 
explain it well: Today, 47 cents of every dollar the government
spends (excluding interest on the debt) goes to entitlements. By
2030, that number will jump to 61 cents. In 1962, it was a mere
14 cents. And Obama should explain that most of us take out far
more from Medicare than we put in. The average two-income
couple, for example, pays $119,000 into the program and gets
back $357,000 in benefits.  Obama knows the ropes. In deficit-reduction talks in the
summer of 2011, he tentatively agreed with House Speaker  John Boehner  to reform Medicare and Social Security. He should put
those proposals back on the table.  A good starting point would involve asking those able to
afford it to pay more for  Medicare benefits . Only 5 percent of
seniors -- those with annual incomes of more than $85,000 and
married couples with incomes of more than $170,000 -- now pay
premiums for doctors’ services and  prescription drugs  that
increase with earnings. More aggressive means-testing to include
25 percent of seniors seems fair. And this would discourage
Medicare recipients from overusing the health system. The 10-
year savings would be about $350 billion.  Obama should also renew his tentative agreement to
gradually increase the Medicare eligibility age. Raising it to
67 by 2027 to match  Social Security  would save about $148
billion over 10 years. If eligibility for both programs was
pushed to 69, then pegged to increases in longevity, the savings
would balloon to $249 billion. (Some of that would be offset by
spending increases elsewhere, as low-income seniors would
shift to Medicaid or seek support through new health exchanges.)  Before his 2011 talks with the speaker collapsed, the
president also agreed to change the formula for calculating
Social Security cost-of-living increases. The current formula,
which doesn’t account for the product substitutions most
consumers make to save money on their grocery bills, is overly
generous. Switching the formula to more closely reflect reality
would save $145 billion over a decade.  The president’s own  budget , moreover, contains a grab bag
of ideas for controlling health-care costs. Pharmaceutical
manufacturers could be required to give Medicare the same
rebates that Medicaid prescription-drug purchases receive.
According to the  Congressional Budget Office , this would save
$137 billion.  These adjustments needn’t happen all at once. It would be
wise to phase them in to give people approaching retirement time
to adjust and to avoid withdrawing too much  government spending 
while the economy remains fragile. As  Larry Summers , Obama’s
former chief economic adviser, told Bloomberg TV this week,
“Crash diets aren’t the best way to lose weight.”  When fully in place, these changes could save close to $1
trillion over 10 years. And there are many other ways to trim
payments to doctors, hospitals, home-health companies and other
providers. The only question is this: If Obama was willing to
adopt these reforms last year, why not now?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 