-- Two Ex-Brokers Charged with Trading Scheme Tied to IBM
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-29T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/two-arrested-sued-in-alleged-ibm-deal-inside-trading-scheme-2-.html
Two ex-brokers accused of running a
$1.2 million insider-trading scheme tied to  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2 billion acquisition of SPSS Inc.
were indicted by U.S. prosecutors.  Thomas Conradt, 34, of Denver, and David Weishaus, 32, of
Baltimore, were arrested today by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on securities fraud charges, said Peter Donald, a
spokesman for the FBI’s New York office. They were scheduled to
make court appearances today in Colorado and  Maryland .  The two longtime friends learned in May 2009 that IBM, the
largest computer-services provider, was planning to acquire
software company SPSS, prosecutors in the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged in the indictment.  “The defendants knew their behavior was illegal, even
messaging before the announcement, ‘I dont want to go to
jail,’” Mary Galligan, acting head of the FBI’s New York
office, said in a statement. “Time and again, FBI agents arrest
those who trade on inside information.”  The information originated from an attorney who was part of
the legal team that was advising IBM in the transaction,
prosecutors said. That lawyer told a broker-analyst details
about the deal, including the names of the parties and the fact
that IBM was going to acquire SPSS for a “significant premium”
over its market price, according to the indictment. Neither the
lawyer nor the broker-analyst were identified by prosecutors.  SEC Lawsuit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
lawsuit against Conradt and Weishaus today in federal court in
 Manhattan . The SEC said its investigation is continuing.  Both regulators and prosecutors said that the men discussed
their insider-trading in instant messages in the weeks before
the acquisition was announced.  “We need spss to run up i need that lexus,” Weishaus
wrote to Conradt in a July 1, 2009, message cited by federal
authorities.  In another exchange that same day, Conradt wrote, “don’t
tell anyone else..we gotta keep this in the family.”  Weishaus replied, “Dude, no way. I don’t want to go to
jail…that Martha Stewart spent 5 months in the slammer.”  ‘Moral Support’  The SEC alleged that the attorney with the inside
information confided in the broker-analyst because he sought
“moral support, reassurance and advice” related to his new
assignment working on the SPSS acquisition, according to the
complaint.  The lawyer “expected the research analyst to maintain this
information in confidence and refrain from trading,” the SEC
said in court papers.  The broker-analyst, described in court papers as “Co-
Conspirator 3,” purchased SPSS stock, then shared the tip about
the acquisition with Conradt, who was his roommate, according to
the indictment.  Conradt then allegedly shared the tip with Weishaus, who
passed the information to two unidentified brokers they worked
with. The two defendants and their friends all purchased SPSS,
eventually earning a total of $1.2 million in illicit profit,
the U.S. said.  Press Release  When the companies issued a press release on July 27, 2009,
on IBM’s plan to buy SPSS for about $1.2 billion, or almost $50
a share, SPSS’s share price rose by 41 percent in one day, the
U.S. said.  “Thomas Conradt, David Weishaus and their co-conspirators
engaged in a chain of illegal tipping simply because they wanted
to get rich quick,” Bharara said in a statement.  Conradt and Weishaus were charged with one count of
conspiracy and three separate counts of securities fraud.
Securities fraud carries a maximum term of 20 years in prison.  Sharon Feldman, a lawyer for Conradt, and Michael Grudberg,
a lawyer for Weishaus, didn’t immediately return phone calls
seeking comment about the charges.  Contradt was arrested at his office in Louisville,
 Colorado , and was scheduled to appear today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Kristin Mix in Denver, Donald said.  Weishaus was arrested at his home in Baltimore, and was
scheduled to appear before a federal judge today in Maryland,
Donald said.  The cases are U.S. v. Conradt, 12-cr-887, and SEC v.
Conradt, 12-cv-8676, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  