-- Wonga Said in Talks to Buy On Deck Capital in U.S. Push
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-29T21:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/wonga-said-in-talks-to-buy-on-deck-capital-in-u-s-push.html
Wonga.com Ltd., the U.K. provider of
online loans, is in discussions to acquire U.S. small business
lender  On Deck Capital Inc.  as it looks to expand into  North
America , according to a person familiar with the situation.  The deal may be valued at just less than $250 million and
discussions are at an advanced stage, said the person, who asked
not to be identified discussing a private matter. The two sides
may still fail to reach an agreement, the person said.  Acquiring On Deck would allow London-based Wonga to widen
its offerings to enterprises and to gain a foothold in the U.S.,
while also improving the accuracy of its algorithms for
determining the creditworthiness of small businesses. The
company is considering an initial public offering in  New York 
next year, the person said, and a U.S. acquisition would help
make the case for a share sale to American investors.  Andrea Gellert, senior vice president of marketing at On
Deck, declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Wonga.  Wonga’s founder, South African-born entrepreneur Errol Damelin, has attracted both praise and criticism for his
innovative site, which lends amounts as much as 400 pounds
($641) to first-time borrowers, deducting the payment directly
from a bank account at a later date.  British politicians have objected to the site’s fees, which
include a “representative” annual interest rate of 4,214
percent. Damelin has said the rate, which the site is obliged to
display to customers by law, is inaccurate because Wonga doesn’t
loan money for long periods and compares favorably to the cost
of a bank overdraft. Wonga in May started a service for small
businesses in the U.K.  $1 Billion  Still, Wonga may be on track to become one of the most
valuable companies to emerge from  London ’s burgeoning Internet
startup landscape. The company is one of the most likely in
 Europe  to achieve a $1 billion valuation next year, along with
“Angry Birds” game developer Rovio Entertainment Oy and Klarna
AB, an electronic payment platform, according to technology
advisory firm  Magister Advisors .  Wonga’s investors include venture-capital firms  Accel
Partners , Balderton Capital and  Greylock Partners . New York-
based On Deck is backed by investors including SAP Ventures, an
arm of SAP AG, and  Khosla Ventures , the investment vehicle of
Sun Microsystems founder  Vinod Khosla .  Both companies promise rapid service to borrowers, with
Wonga’s loans often released within minutes and On Deck offering
loans as much as $150,000 approved in as little as one business
day.  On Deck, started in 2007, provides online loans to small
businesses. The company has four regional offices in addition to
its headquarters, more than 140 employees and has issued more
than $300 million in loans. On Deck uses technology to identify
credit-worthy businesses that may struggle to get capital from
banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  