-- World’s Finest Airport Food in U.S., Spain, Survey Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-29T10:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/world-s-finest-airport-food-in-u-s-spain-survey-says.html
The best airport food in the world
is to be found in  Barcelona , followed by eight venues across the
U.S. and one in the Netherlands, according to a ranking by  The
Daily Meal  website.  The winner is Porta Gaig, owned by the Catalan chef Carles
Gaig, whose  Gaig  restaurant in Barcelona holds a Michelin star.
Second is Salt Lick BBQ, serving central Texas barbecue at
Austin-Bergstrom International. Third is  Tortas Frontera , chef
Rick Bayless’s Mexican restaurant at  Chicago ’s O’Hare.  The U.S. dominance may reflect the fact the website is the
creation of the American food writer Colman Andrews, author of a
biography of El Bulli chef Ferran Adria, who is based near
Barcelona, the first European city in the Top 10.  “Faced with concourses filled with ubiquitous shrink-
wrapped sandwiches, greasy fast-food burgers, and processed
pastries, the thought of eating at an airport is rarely
appetizing,” Daily Meal says.  “But that may soon change, as airports around the world
are revamping aging terminals and the world’s best chefs,
several of them Michelin-starred, are recognizing the value of
serving exemplary meals before liftoff.”  The survey was compiled over six months by Daily Meal’s
editors in consultation with food and travel experts.
Restaurants were judged in two categories: cuisine and
style/decor/service. British chefs Gordon Ramsay and Jamie Oliver both make the list. Wolfgang Puck doesn’t.  “The percentage scores from each category were averaged to
arrive at the final ranking,” the Daily Meal says.  The survey was earlier reported in the  Herald Sun ,
 Melbourne . Here are the winners:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 