-- Worst of the Drought Spreads in 48 Contiguous U.S. States
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-29T17:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/worst-of-the-drought-spreads-in-48-contiguous-u-s-states.html
The worst level of drought in the
contiguous 48 U.S. states reached its highest point in a year as
the dryness that crippled crops, narrowed shipping channels and
thinned livestock herds hangs on.  At least 6.4 percent of the region is now in the grip of
“exceptional” drought, the most since the 8.1 percent recorded
Nov. 22, 2011, according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor .  Some level of drought now covers 62.7 percent of the 48
states, double the extent of a year ago, according to the
monitor in Lincoln, Nebraska.  “Dry weather resulted in increases in drought intensity
and coverage,” Eric Luebehusen of the Agriculture Department
wrote in today’s report, which covers the week ended Nov. 27.  The drought, just about to enter its second year, has
caused major economic damage from shriveled crops to stranded
freight barges on the Mississippi River system to livestock lost
for lack of forage.  Last year, the worst of the drought was centered on
Oklahoma and  Texas . Since spring, it has spread across most of
the Midwest. In the U.S. as a whole, including  Puerto Rico ,
drought now covers 52.4 percent of the land with the worst at
5.3 percent, according to the monitor.  “It’s hard to put it in historical perspective because
we’re just not over it yet,” Mark Svoboda, of the National
Drought Mitigation Center, said earlier this week.  Critical Time  Svoboda said the next few months will be critical in
determining if the U.S. agriculture industry faces a second
harsh growing season. Snow in the  Rocky Mountains  and across the
Midwest would ease conditions going into next spring, he said.  Current drought conditions are already hurting winter wheat
crops, which need soil moisture and snow cover to protect the
roots of the plants.  “We didn’t get the September, October, November rainfall
to get the winter wheat crop established,” said Svoboda, in
Lincoln,  Nebraska . “Winter wheat is definitely getting
hammered.”  Svoboda said this is the time of year for nature “to catch
its breath.” There isn’t a great demand for water by plants and
moisture can be stored both in the ground as well as in snow
pack.  “So far it is not favorable, but there is plenty of time
to make that up,” Svoboda said. “But if we are sitting this
dry at the end of January, we will be a lot more concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  