-- Euro Touches 1-Month High as Germany Approves Greek Deal
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-30T22:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/yen-remains-lower-versus-euro-before-japan-cpi-report.html
The euro rose to a more than one-
month high against the dollar after German lawmakers approved
 Greece ’s latest rescue package.  The yen slid to the weakest in seven months versus the
shared currency after data showed Japan’s consumer prices
stagnated in October, adding to speculation the central bank
will increase stimulus to spur inflation. The euro held gains
after House Speaker  John Boehner  criticized President Obama’s
budget proposal and said “right now, we’re almost nowhere” on
fiscal-cliff talks. Norway’s krone rose the most on speculation
of a boost in  interest rates .  “What we’ve seen at least over the course of this week is
an ongoing improvement in European sentiment,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Today’s news that
 Germany ’s parliament approved a Greek deal is a positive
development.”  The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.2986 at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching $1.3028, the strongest since Oct. 23. It
extended its monthly gain to 0.2 percent. The yen depreciated
0.5 percent to 107.11 per euro after sliding to 107.67, the
weakest level since April 23. It is down 3.6 percent this month.
 Japan ’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 82.48 per dollar to
increase its November drop to 3.3 percent.  Krone, Kiwi  Norway’s krone rose versus all of its major peers after the
central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said policy makers are
concerned about rising housing prices in the medium term amid
signs the country’s property market is overheating, creating
speculation of an interest-rate increase.  The krone gained 0.2 percent to 7.3675 per euro after
earlier falling 0.2 percent to 7.3933, the weakest since Nov. 1.
The Norwegian currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 5.6733 per
dollar.  New Zealand ’s dollar declined as building approvals dropped
1.5 percent in October from the previous month, the statistics
bureau said in Wellington today. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for no change.  The so-called kiwi dropped 0.3 percent to 82.04 U.S. cents.  The  Dollar Index  fluctuated between gains and losses as
lawmakers publicly debated their budget talks, rising and
falling as much as 0.2 percent before ending little changed at
80.232.  Boehner said he’s willing to go forward in “good faith”
and work with the president, adding that “real spending cuts”
were needed in the deal and that he remained opposed to letting
Bush-era tax cuts for the top 2 percent of wage earners.  Fiscal Cliff  Obama said that quick action by lawmakers to extend Bush-
era tax cuts for middle-income Americans would give time for
tougher negotiations on trimming spending to rein a  budget
deficit  that has exceeded $1 trillion during each of the four
years he’s been in office.  The debate has gained more urgency as the clock ticks down
on the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to start taking effect in
January.  The euro gained for a third day against the dollar as
legislators in Germany’s lower house of parliament, or
Bundestag, voted 473-100 to ratify an agreement forged among
euro-area finance ministers on Nov. 27 to cut the rates on
Greece’s bailout loans, suspend interest payments for a decade,
give the country more time to repay and engineer a buyback of
its bonds.  ‘Strengthening Currency’  “ Europe  is looking like more of a comfortable destination
for investors, and that’s playing out in terms of a
strengthening currency,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  Even as Europe moves ahead with its latest fix for Greece’s
debt woes, 53 percent of 862 investors, analysts and traders who
are Bloomberg subscribers said this week they think Germany’s
economy will drop into a recession for the first time in more
than three years. Sixty-four percent expect Europe’s debt
turmoil to deepen again despite recent signs of calming in its
financial markets.  The one-year, 25-delta risk-reversal rate for the euro
reached minus 1.2975 percent today, the highest since October
2010, signaling reduced demand for the right to sell the common
currency against the dollar. It was at minus 3.3425 percent at
the beginning of this year.  The yen fell versus the majority of its 16 most-traded
peers as Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food were
unchanged in October from a year earlier after a 0.1 percent
decline in September, the statistics bureau said in  Tokyo  today.
The BOJ has an annual inflation target of 1 percent.  The yen is the biggest decliner this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, falling 9.4 percent. It was followed by the
dollar’s 2.1 percent drop and the euro’s 1.9 percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  