-- Zimbabwe’s MDC Unveils Economic Plan to Reverse Indigenization
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-11-29T15:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/zimbabwe-s-mdc-unveils-economic-plan-to-reverse-indigenization.html
Zimbabwe ’s Movement for Democratic
Change party unveiled an economic plan it said would reverse the
effect of laws compelling foreign and white-owned businesses to
sell or surrender 51 percent ownership to local black citizens.  The program, known as The Jobs, Upliftment, Investment,
Capital and Environment Plan, or JUICE, aims to create 1 million
new jobs from 2013 to 2018, expand the economy by 8 percent a
year over the period and increase power generation to 6,000
megawatts, according to the policy document.  The Indigenization Ministry, led by  Saviour Kasukuwere , has
forced miners such as   Zimbabwe Platinum Ltd. (ZIM)  and cigarette
makers including  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  to draw up plans
that will hand cede control within five years.  “The problem that indigenization poses is that it kills
investor confidence,” MDC Economic Planning Minister Tapiwa Mashakada told reporters today in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare
today. “Capital is timid, so once you say you are going to take
51 percent, why not go Mozambique, Angola or DRC,” he said,
referring to Democratic Republic of Congo.  The MDC and President Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front party share power under a 2009
agreement brokered by the Southern African Development Community
after violence-marred elections in 2008 were declared void by
the regional body. The country is scheduled to hold a general
election in March.  Speaking at the same event, Prime Minister and MDC leader
Morgan Tsvangirai said the plan would “lift Zimbabwe from
failed-state status” and establish a $100 billion “first-world
economy” by 2040.  “The crisis we face for ourselves and our children is
opportunities for jobs. Our plan is to transform Zimbabwe into a
newly industrialized nation within a generation,” he said.  Zanu-PF spokesman  Rugare Gumbo  said the project was
unworkable because “indigenization is a reality and it is not
reversible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  