-- Zurich Insurance Sees ‘Attractive’ Dividend
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-11-29T13:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-29/zurich-insurance-sees-attractive-dividend-confirms-goals-1-.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, said it is making “good
progress” to achieving targets for 2013 and expects to pay an
“attractive” dividend.  The company, which is holding an investor day in Zurich,
has cut costs by $200 million as it targets expense reductions
in “mature markets” of $500 million by the end of next year,
the insurer said today in an e-mailed statement.  Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said he’s confident
that Zurich Insurance’s cash flows and capital position will
allow an “attractive and sustainable dividend.” The insurer
may raise the dividend for 2012 to 17.50 francs ($18.85),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after leaving the 2011
payout unchanged at an 11-year high of 17 francs a share.  The statement “should provide the market with reassurance
on the high dividend-paying capacity,” said Stefan Schuermann,
a Zurich-based analyst with  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  who has a hold
rating on the stock.  The stock rose 2.3 percent to 236.20 francs at 2:01 p.m. in
Zurich, giving the company a market value of 35 billion francs.
It has increased 11 percent this year, lagging behind the
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index (BEINSUR) ’s 26 percent gain.  German Writedown  Some $4 billion of cash was remitted from the company’s
various units to the group this year, with about $400 million
consumed by the German non-life business after a writedown,
Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier said.  While the insurer is targeting a business operating profit
after  tax return  on equity of 16 percent in the long term, it
reiterated today that in the current environment, a goal of 2
percentage points below that is more realistic.  Zurich Insurance’s combined ratio, a measure of
profitability in general insurance, “is not where we want it to
be,” Senn told analysts and investors, adding that it’s moving
in the right direction. The company plans to improve its
combined ratio in general insurance, it’s biggest unit, by 3 to
4 percentage points relative to global competitors.  Still, Vontobel’s Schuermann said in a note to investors
that this target “appears a real challenge with peers improving
as well.”  Hurricane Sandy  Mike Kerner, Zurich Insurance’s head of general insurance,
said  Hurricane Sandy , which made landfall along  New Jersey ’s
coast on Oct. 29, may rank as the second most-costly Atlantic
storm, after Katrina, which cost $105 billion in 2005. He added
the impact on Zurich Insurance remains unclear.  The insurer may see about $50 million insured losses in the
fourth quarter from the U.S. drought earlier this year, the
worst in U.S. history, following the same underwriting loss in
the previous three months. It has about $600 million in gross
written premiums in U.S. crop insurance, or 2 percent of general
insurance’s total written premiums, Kerner said.  Zurich Insurance reported a 62 percent decline in third-
quarter profit earlier this month following a $550 million
write-off at its German general insurance business. It’s
targeting  emerging markets  such as  Latin America ,  Middle East ,
 Africa  and the Asia-Pacific region to bolster earnings.  The company last year bought 51 percent of  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) ’s Latin America insurance business and Malaysian Assurance
Alliance Bhd. Latin America now represents 24 percent of the
total new business value, said Kevin Hogan, who head’s the
company’s life insurance business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  