-- 
‘Mormon’ Tickets Soar to $487 as Satire Breaks Broadway Records

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/-book-of-mormon-tickets-soar-to-487-as-musical-breaks-broadway-records.html
Hours after “The Book of Mormon”
walked off with nine  Tony Awards  including best musical,
Broadway’s biggest new hit set a record with a top ticket price
of $487.25.  That’s what it will cost for a prime orchestra seat bought
within 48 hours of a performance, including service charges,
according to  Telecharge.com , which handles the show’s ticket
sales. That price tops the $480 premium ticket introduced by
“The Producers” in 2001. (Factoring in inflation, that $480
ticket would cost $612 today.)  The $165.25 regular orchestra seat for “Mormon” is
another Broadway record. If any show can command it, it’s this
one. Since opening to largely rapturous reviews on March 24,
“Mormon” has played to full houses.  In the wake of its Tony juggernaut on Sunday, virtually all
available seats for the rest of the year were sold, according to
a check of Telecharge. That suggests an advance sale of at least
$30 million.  A spokesman for the show declined to comment or to make
available the lead producers, Scott Rudin and Anne Garefino.
Some single tickets and “premium” seats, selling for $312.25
or more, remain for the year. (Each day, people line up for
standing room tickets, at $27, and a few offered through a
lottery, for $32.)  No Stars  Steven Baruch, a producer of “The Producers,” said
“Mormon” should run for years. Given that its lead actors
aren’t household names, he expects sales to be less affected by
cast changes than was “The Producers,” which originally
starred Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick and saw sales drop
when they left the show.  “It hurts a show when a star leaves,” he said. “This
group aren’t stars.”  Yesterday, “Mormon” tickets went on sale to American
Express cardholders for April 2012 to September 2012.  Adding to demand: The show’s home, the  Eugene O’Neill
Theatre , has about 1,100 seats, making it one of Broadway’s
smaller musical theater venues.  “Obviously, these prices exist because they’re getting
them,” Baruch said.  Prices are much higher in the so-called secondary market --
“scalpers” in another era. On  Ebay Inc. (EBAY) ’s StubHub, a pair of
orchestra seats for Saturday night is going for $1,832.75  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 