-- 
H.K. Regulator Discusses Nine Dragons With S&P

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T05:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/h-k-regulator-discusses-nine-dragons-with-s-p.html
Hong Kong ’s corporate regulator is
in talks with Standard & Poor’s after it withdrew its rating on
 Nine Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. (2689) , controlled by  China ’s richest
woman, during trading hours.  “We are in discussion with S&P to get a better
understanding of the circumstances of the release,” Jonathan
Li, a spokesman for the Hong Kong Securities and Futures
Commission, said by phone today. “We have no further comment at
this stage.”  Nine Dragons shares plunged after S&P withdrew its rating
at around 2 p.m. Hong Kong time on June 14 because of
“insufficient access to management”. Regulators and investors
have increased scrutiny of Chinese companies traded overseas
amid accounting allegations against Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd., Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd. and
Sino-Forest Corp.  “The SFC should prohibit the  credit rating agencies  it
regulates from releasing announcements about listed companies
during market hours” because the rating is based on inside
information,  David Webb , publisher of Webb-site.com and an
independent investor based in Hong Kong, said in a note dated
June 14. “It can lead to unfair and disorderly markets.”  Cecilia Ho, a spokeswoman for S&P in Hong Kong, declined to
comment on the talks with SFC. Nine Dragons fell 2.6 percent to
HK$6.26 as of 12:30 p.m. today in Hong Kong. Its shares fell
17.4 percent on June 14 after the ratings were withdrawn.  Credit rating agencies are hired by companies under
contract, the debt issuers, to have “privileged access” to
information in order to produce ratings, Webb said. By
comparison, research analysts work only with published
information, he said.  S&P withdrew its BB long-term corporate  credit rating  on
Nine Dragons and its BB- rating on the outstanding senior
unsecured notes. BB is S&P’s second-highest non-investment grade
while BB- is one level lower. The rating company hasn’t been
able to meet with management in the past six months though it
has regularly requested meetings, analyst Frank Lu said at the
time.  S&P pulled its ratings without notifying Nine Dragons,
Daisy Sun from Wonderful Sky Financial Group Ltd., which handles
Nine Dragons’ media relations, said yesterday. The ratings were
for $300 million worth of bonds sold in 2008, out of which $48
million are outstanding, Nine Dragons said.  The company yesterday said it received a proposal from
Moody’s Investors Service to assess its debt after  Standard &
Poor’s  withdrew ratings. The discussion is still under way, Sun
said today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  