-- 
Abraaj May Hire Morgan Stanley to Advise on Buying Citadel Captial Stake

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-06-16T15:36:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/abraaj-may-hire-morgan-stanley-to-advise-on-buying-citadel-captial-stake.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the Dubai-based
private equity company managing about $6.2 billion, may hire
Morgan Stanley as an adviser on the planned acquisition of a
stake in Egyptian private equity firm Citadel Capital SAE, two
people familiar with the situation said.  Citadel Capital Partners, the main shareholder in Citadel
Capital, may hire  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on the possible sale,
the two people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private. One person said Abraaj is seeking a
controlling stake in Citadel Capital.  One of the hurdles to the sale is that Citadel Capital
Partners needs to provide legal representations and warranties
before the sale, one of the people familiar said.  “Abraaj Capital is always looking for opportunities to
invest in  Egypt  and expand our reach in the region,” Abraaj
Capital said in an e-mailed statement in response to questions
from Bloomberg. “We strongly believe that the region continues
to have strong economic fundamentals and opportunities to
invest. However, Abraaj does not comment on potential
transactions that have not been signed.”  Morgan Stanley officials weren’t immediately available to
comment. Officials from Citigroup and  Citadel Capital  declined
to comment. None of the officials would be identified, citing
internal policy.  Shares of Citadel Capital dropped 1.3 percent to 6.08
Egyptian pounds at the close in Cairo today, valuing the company
at 4.02 billion pounds ($676.2 million). Citadel Capital shares
have gained 23 percent since May 29 amid speculation the company
had received an offer for its shares at 8 Egyptian pounds.  Citadel Capital  Citadel Capital “has not received a direct offer of
acquisition from any party, nor has it received information from
its shareholders suggesting that a formal offer has been
presented to any of them,” Citadel said in a statement on June
8. “We further note in this context that as is the nature of
private equity firms, Citadel Capital SAE is frequently in
negotiations to divest or acquire investments.”  The company said on May 31 it had a consolidated loss of
$241.7 million in 2010 because two oil exploration investments
were “underperforming.”  A stake in Citadel would help Abraaj expand into sub-
Saharan  Africa . The Egyptian firm’s investments in 15 industries
include a stake in Rift Valley Railways Ltd., the operator of
the Kenya-Uganda rail line. It also has investments in  Sudan ,
according to its website.  Abraaj’s investments in Egypt, according to its 2010 annual
report, include Al Borg Laboratories and AgroCorp, an
agriculture company focused on the farming and processing of
artichokes.  Abraaj and investors such as Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  have said a wave of popular uprisings that has swept the
 Middle East  this year will help create investment opportunities
and stronger economic growth prospects in the long term. The
revolts have toppled the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia  and
spread to countries including Yemen, Syria, Libya and Bahrain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  