-- 
Accused Criminals Get Mixed Results in U.S. High Court Rulings

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-16T16:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/accused-criminals-get-mixed-results-in-u-s-high-court-rulings.html
Accused criminals had a mixed day at
the U.S. Supreme Court as the justices sided with a 13-year-old
questioned by police at school about recent break-ins while
ruling against a man who said police illegally searched his car.  The high court today also ruled in favor of a woman who was
charged under a federal anti-terrorism law after spreading
caustic substances on the home and car of her husband’s pregnant
lover. The court unanimously  said  the accused woman, Carol Anne
Bond, could challenge the law’s constitutionality.  Now in the final weeks of their nine-month term, the
justices deferred action on their highest-profile cases,
including fights over violent video games,  climate change  and a
bid to press a nationwide gender-bias suit against  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  The court will issue more opinions June 20.  The police-questioning case divided the court along
familiar lines, with Justice  Anthony Kennedy  joining the court’s
four Democratic appointees in a 5-4  ruling . Writing for the
majority, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said police officers
questioning a juvenile must consider the child’s age in
determining whether the person should be told of the right to
remain silent and to get the help of a lawyer.  That obligation, which stems from the landmark 1966 Miranda
v. Arizona ruling, kicks in only when people being questioned
have reason to consider themselves to be in custody.  “It is beyond dispute that children will often feel bound
to submit to police questioning when an adult in the same
circumstances would feel free to leave,” Sotomayor wrote. The
ruling was a victory for a North Carolina student identified
only as J.D.B. in court papers.  Gun Discovered  In dissent, Justice  Samuel Alito  said the rights of
juveniles were adequately protected through other constitutional
rules, including the ban on use of coerced confessions. Alito
said the majority had stripped the Miranda rule of some of its
clarity.  The car-search case centered on the impact of a 2009 ruling
that limited the power of police to search a car when the
occupants are no longer inside or nearby.  In the latest case, an Alabama man sought to overturn his
conviction for being a felon in possession of a firearm, arguing
that the 2009 ruling precluded prosecutors from using a revolver
police found in his car. The discovery took place after police
had arrested and handcuffed the man, Willie Davis, for giving a
false name during a traffic stop.  Writing for the court, Alito  said  prosecutors could use the
evidence because the search took place two years before the 2009
ruling. The search was legal under the court precedents that
applied to  Alabama  at the time, Alito said.  “Excluding evidence in such cases deters no police
misconduct and imposes substantial social costs,” Alito wrote.  President Barack Obama’s two appointees, Sotomayor and
Elena Kagan, joined the court’s five Republican appointees in
the majority. Justice  Stephen Breyer  and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
dissented.  The cases are J.D.B. v. North Carolina, 09-11121; Davis v.
United States, 09-11328; and Bond v. United States, 09-1227.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 