-- 
Accused Arms Dealer Viktor Bout’s Lawyers Challenge U.S. Jurisdiction

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-16T23:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/accused-arms-dealer-bout-s-lawyers-say-u-s-lacks-jurisdiction.html
Lawyers for  Viktor Bout , an alleged
international arms dealer, argued that the U.S. doesn’t have
jurisdiction to prosecute him for meeting outside the country to
arrange a weapons sale to rebels in  Colombia .  In a hearing in  Manhattan  federal court today, Bout’s
lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin to dismiss
the charges against their client, claiming they don’t adequately
allege he knew the arms were to be used against U.S. citizens
and interests.  Bout was arrested in 2008 in Bangkok by U.S.  Drug
Enforcement Administration  agents in a sting operation. The
government claims undercover agents told Bout they were buying
weapons for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or  FARC, 
including surface-to-air missiles, armor-piercing rocket
launchers and machine guns.  According to prosecutors, the agents told Bout the weapons
were to be used to kill Americans.  Scheindlin said the case for trying Bout in the U.S.
“looks thin” compared with others in which judges ruled that
U.S. laws applied to foreign terrorists. She didn’t rule on the
issue today.  Bout, a Russian citizen, was brought to  New York  in
November after his extradition from  Thailand . He attended the
hearing wearing jail fatigues and listening to a Russian
translation of the arguments.  FARC, classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S.
and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a rural, peasant
Marxist insurgency. The group traffics in cocaine to fund its
activities and stages kidnappings for ransom, according to the
U.S. government.  Prosecutors in the case agreed to stop calling Bout the
“Merchant of Death” in the indictment against him after
defense attorneys objected.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  