-- 
Afghan Role for Taliban, if They Play by Rules: Amrullah Saleh

-- B y   A m r u l l a h   S a l e h
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/afghan-role-for-taliban-if-they-play-by-rules-amrullah-saleh.html
As the U.S. prepares to reduce its
troop presence in  Afghanistan  next month, Afghans are seriously
considering what will come next for our country. As Hamid Karzai’s government steers reconciliation talks with the Taliban
aimed at creating enough quiet for the Americans and the rest of
NATO to justify departing, Afghans like me increasingly worry
that we will wind up in a situation worse than the civil war of
past years.  This is avoidable. The opposition to Karzai isn’t just a
rejection of the current government, as the media have
emphasized. We provide an alternative vision to Karzai’s way out
of the status quo. It entails a complete disarming of the
Taliban, an end to Pakistan’s practice of giving sanctuary to
Taliban militants and a truth-and-reconciliation process for
Afghanistan.  As things are going, the future looks grim.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization expects that a
negotiated settlement, eventually, will end the fighting between
Afghan government forces, on one side, and the Taliban and its
allies on the other. Before extending an olive branch to the
Taliban leadership, however, NATO is pursuing a military
strategy to weaken the enemy. This involves brilliant special
operations inside Afghanistan that have killed perhaps many
hundreds of Taliban mid-level commanders. The idea is to break
the leadership of the Taliban in order to get the group’s second
and third tier to come in from the cold. Whether this plan works
will depend on whether NATO succeeds in pressuring  Pakistan ,
which supports the Taliban, to go along.  Insurgencies don’t end
when they are given sanctuary in a neighboring country.  Taliban Wants Arms  But the Pakistan-Taliban-al-Qaeda alliance wants a deal
that would allow the Taliban to remain armed and mobilized so
that it could again have the capacity to dominate Afghanistan,
as both a political and military force.  In such a scenario, real political competition in southern
Afghanistan, where the Taliban is strongest, would be either
difficult or impossible. The Taliban would gain access to major
funds through illegal taxation, narcotics trafficking,
extortion, the sale of natural resources and the black market.
These funds would enable them to sustain their organization and
provide some services to their constituents. Pakistan would feel
safe having its proxy control the border areas, limiting or
blocking  India ’s access, and would use its influence with the
Taliban to gain maximum concessions from the government in
Kabul.  Abuse of Power  That government, today, is a conglomerate of small and big
interest groups surviving through manipulation, abuse of power
and criminal commerce. Its overt outreach wing for the
reconciliation talks is the so-called  High Peace Council . The
council is largely a platform to keep the big names within the
Karzai government under one tent and to give the outreach an
artificial multi-ethnic face.  The council’s chief spokesman is Karzai, who has caused
deep division within Afghan society by his constant,
 unconditional offer  of alliance to the Taliban. For those who
have fought for a vision of a pluralistic Afghanistan, a Karzai-
Taliban alliance is a recipe for disaster. The Taliban’s return
to positions of authority would raise the horrific specter of
their previous time in power.  It is for fear of that outcome that voices for justice and
permanent peace have been raised in Afghanistan. Many Afghans
believe that to get to a negotiated settlement, the Taliban
leaders involved in talks should be relocated to Afghanistan
from their current locations in Pakistan, where they are
protected by Pakistan’s intelligence service.  Monopoly of Force  In any agreement, the Taliban must be disarmed, demobilized
and reintegrated into society. The Taliban should be allowed to
become a political force and be given every chance to play
according to the script of democracy.  But the Afghan state
alone must have a monopoly on force. It isn’t permissible to
allow the Taliban to become a  Hezbollah -type entity within
Afghanistan -- an armed state within a state. If they agree to
just a cease-fire with Karzai or his replacement, it will only
bring a deceptive stability that will prove short-lived.  Many years of war have wounded the psyche of the Afghan
nation. Burying the facts will not help us heal those wounds. An
internationally funded truth-finding commission should
investigate human-rights violations, massacres and major crimes
of the past 20 years. Knowing the facts would help the Afghan
people reconcile with themselves. A full report may take years
to compile, but the process would create hope.  In this scenario, Pakistan must stop its support of the
Taliban.  The U.S., which supplied Pakistan with  $4.5 billion  in
economic and security aid last fiscal year, would need to offer
carrots and sticks to ensure that country’s compliance. Pakistan
and Afghanistan would sign an agreement guaranteeing the
cessation of interference in each other’s affairs, both directly
and indirectly.  This is the way out for Afghanistan, the Taliban, Pakistan,
as well as U.S. and other NATO forces. A settlement that falls
short of these minimums will only prolong Afghanistan’s agony.  (Amrullah Saleh was the head of the National Directorate of
Security in Afghanistan from 2004 to 2010. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds . 