-- 
Pentagon Starts Withdrawing Troops From Afghan War as Drawdown Looms

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/afghan-cuts-begin-troops-diverted-to-iraq.html
The Pentagon has started paring U.S.
forces in  Afghanistan , even before President  Barack Obama 
decides on the full size of the promised reduction, by re-
routing 800 soldiers that were in training for the conflict.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Admiral Mike Mullen,
Obama’s top military adviser, said yesterday that they approved
a recommendation from Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S.
and coalition commander in Afghanistan, to go without two
battalions that were due to arrive in the war zone after July 1.  The forces are being diverted as the U.S. considers how
much to cut troop strength in Afghanistan to meet the
president’s December 2009 pledge of starting to reduce the U.S.
presence there next month. Obama is under pressure from his own
Democrats and some Republicans for a sizable cut in the almost
100,000 U.S. forces in Afghanistan, fighting alongside 47,000
from other countries in the NATO-led coalition.  The rerouted soldiers will head to  Kuwait  to help with the
remaining 48,000-strong U.S. training and support mission in
neighboring Iraq.  “As General Petraeus was looking across Afghanistan and
beginning to identify different options, it was pretty clear
that these two units were units that would probably be on that
list,” Gates told reporters at the Pentagon. “The decision was
made here, aware clearly of the president’s direction of what
would begin in July, quite frankly to look out for the interests
of those troops.”  It was the last scheduled media briefing for Gates, who
leaves office at the end of the month and has pressed for
keeping as many forces as possible in Afghanistan to solidify
the gains achieved by a 30,000-troop increase last year.  ‘Successful’ Implementation  “I believe we are being successful in implementing the
president’s strategy,” Gates said.  Military operations are denying the Taliban control of
populated areas, degrading their capabilities and reversing
their momentum, he said. The Taliban harbored al-Qaeda in
Afghanistan before the U.S. ousted them from power in the
aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on  New York 
and  Washington .  The coalition also is increasing the size and strength of
the Afghan security forces so they can take the lead in
providing security by the target of 2014, Gates said.  Obama’s support of two troop increases since he came to
office and a military campaign plan that suggests a gradual
drawdown indicate that the force cut “won’t be that big,” said
Michael O’Hanlon, a military strategy and defense analyst at the
Brookings Institution policy group in  Washington . He said that
during his seventh visit to Afghanistan, in May, he saw
improvement for the first time.  ‘Fundamentally Safer’  “On the ground, the plan is really starting to work pretty
well,” O’Hanlon told a forum in Washington yesterday. One sign
was that Afghan officials in the south, considered the Taliban’s
heartland, are able to travel by car rather than requiring
helicopters for security, as in the past, he said.  “Throughout the entire Helmand River valley, the place is
fundamentally safer and more open for business than it had been
before,” he said, cautioning that it’s “still hugely
problematic.”  U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican, had raised
concerns about the diversion of the two battalions when he
visited the National Guard’s 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team
earlier this month. The brigade was in the process of deploying
from Camp Shelby in  Mississippi , according to a June 13
 statement  on Inhofe’s website.  Conditions on Ground  The re-routing was “troubling to me, because any drawdown
must be based on conditions on the ground,” Inhofe said in the
statement. “Last minute re-taskings unnecessarily increase
risk.”  Inhofe said he feared that major changes in the U.S.
mission in Afghanistan could turn around the “fragile and
reversible” progress made against Taliban forces in the past
year. Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
yesterday that the military had considered the situation in
concluding that the move could be made.  “They were in a good position for us to make a decision
about whether they should be diverted or not, based on the
conditions on the ground,” Mullen said. “More than anything
else, it was to try to take care of them, not get them headed in
one direction and then have to” pull them back out immediately.  Obama met with Petraeus and other national security
advisers June 15 at the White House to review the issues
involved in any withdrawal, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  Range of Options  “They discussed a range of options,” Carney said at a
briefing. “The general has said in the past publicly that this
was a question of options, plural, and not option, and that
conversation will continue.” Obama has nominated Petraeus to be
the next director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  Al-Qaeda’s announcement yesterday of its new leader
demonstrates that the group hasn’t been eliminated as a threat,
Gates and Mullen said. Ayman Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden’s top
lieutenant before the leader was killed in a U.S. raid last
month in  Pakistan , will take over, the terrorist group said in a
statement posted on a website it frequently uses.  Mullen said he wasn’t surprised at Zawahiri’s appointment.  “He and his organization still threaten us,” Mullen said.  Gates said that while war fatigue and concerns over the
costs of the conflict weigh “heavily on all of us,” the U.S.
should aim for success.  The cost of the wars in  Iraq  and Afghanistan will drop by
$40 billion in the year starting Oct. 1, to less than $120
billion from $160 billion this year, Gates said.  “There’s every reason to believe” that the following year
bodes “another significant reduction,” he said.  “I understand the concern, and especially in hard economic
times,” Gates said. “We also have to think about the long-term
interests, security interests, of our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  