-- 
Agricultural Futures Markets Need Global Regulation, France’s Sarkozy Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-16T18:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/agriculture-markets-require-global-governance-and-regulation-sarkozy-says.html
Agricultural  futures markets  need
global regulation because price swings are damaging producers
and consumers, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said, a week
before G-20 ministers meet to discuss global  food supply .  France , which heads the Group of 20 nations this year, will
propose a market-information system similar to what already
exists in oil, Sarkozy told a conference of farm groups in Paris
today. The G-20 members account for 70 percent of agricultural
land and 80 percent of world food trade, he said. Their farm
ministers meet in Paris on June 22.  Global food prices monitored by the  United Nations  rose to
a record in February and the  World Bank  estimates the increase
contributed to 44 million people falling into poverty in the
past year. Rising costs are stoking inflation worldwide,
spurring central banks from  China  to the euro region to increase
 interest rates , potentially curbing economic expansion.  “We have to regulate the financial futures markets for
agricultural commodities,” Sarkozy told the conference. “If we
wait, we’ll do nothing. And we can’t permit ourselves the luxury
of not doing anything.”  The Standard & Poor’s Agriculture Index of eight raw
materials rose 60 percent in the past 12 months, led by corn,
cotton, wheat and coffee. The compares with a 32 percent advance
in the S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities and a 15 percent gain in
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities.  ‘Volatility Insupportable’  “This price volatility has become insupportable,” Sarkozy
told representatives from about 120 farm groups at today’s
meeting. “Name me one other profession where every year, one
can lose more than 30 percent of their revenue.”  The last time food prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more
than 60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S.
State Department. Corn gained 75 percent in the past 12 months,
wheat 54 percent and rice 28 percent.  “Price volatility is also insupportable for consumers,”
the French president said. “The food crisis of 2007-08, the
cause of food riots, is the dramatic illustration of the
consequences of the fluctuations.”  Farming needs more investment, particularly in research,
and global governance is needed because “the world agricultural
markets are the least transparent of all,” the president said.
Growth in farm output slowed to less than 1.5 percent a year
from 3 percent between 1960 and 1990, he said.  Global Population  The world population is forecast to climb to 9.2 billion in
2050 from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, requiring a 70
percent jump in agricultural production, according to the Rome-
based  Food and Agriculture Organization .  “Agronomy has to again become the driving force to ensure
the necessary growth of world  food production ,” Sarkozy said.
“Obviously, public aid isn’t sufficient. We have to encourage
private investment in agriculture.”  The so-called  Green Revolution  that started in the 1950s
and spread in the 1960s introduced more productive wheat, corn
and rice varieties. That raised cereal yields and food
production, saving an estimated 1 billion people from famine and
jump-starting Asian economies, according to the FAO.  “We want to launch a new system of market information for
agriculture, as it was done about 10 years ago for oil,”
Sarkozy said. “This new system should allow us to increase
international cooperation on the subject of  food security .”  ‘Damaging Decisions’  The FAO could host the database and there needs to be an
international forum to discuss responses to crises, which “will
help avoid unilateral and damaging decisions,” Sarkozy said.  Russia , once the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter,
banned grain exports last year after its worst drought in a half
century and Ukraine imposed quotas on overseas sales.  Financial regulation to improve the working of the futures
markets must be extended to agricultural commodities, according
to the president.  “What we have done for the oil futures markets, is there
one reason, one argument, to refuse to do it for the
agricultural commodity futures markets?” Sarkozy asked at the
conference.  In  Chicago , trading volumes are equal to 46 times annual
U.S. wheat production and 24 times the country’s corn harvest,
according to the French president.  “And people tell me there is no speculation,” Sarkozy
said. “On the commodity markets in Chicago, 85 percent of buy
positions are held by purely financial players, whose business
has no link with the traded goods.”  “Our world has lost the notion of value, the notion of
reality,” Sarkozy said. “This sort of capitalism has nothing
to do with our values. The capitalism we want is a capitalism of
production, not a purely financial capitalism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 