-- 
Thai Stocks May Rally 19% After Polls on Increased Spending, Kasikorn Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-16T05:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/thai-stocks-may-rally-19-after-polls-on-increased-spending-kasikorn-says.html
Thailand’s benchmark index, the
second-worst performer among  Asia ’s major markets this month,
may rise about 19 percent in the second half as the government
accelerates spending to meet policy pledges made in the run-up
to elections on July 3, according to  Kasikorn Securities Co.   The SET Index may climb to 1,250 in the fourth quarter,
Kavee Chukitkasem, an analyst at Kasikorn Securities, said in a
phone interview. Investors should start “accumulating” shares
in banks and developers on the prospect of slower inflation and
interest-rate increases in the second half, he said.  “Cash will probably flood the domestic economy following
the general election as the new government will speed up the
implementation of the populist policies to please its
supporters,” said Kavee. “All political parties have similar
campaigns with more spending to spur economic growth.”  The SET has lost 4.1 percent in June through yesterday as
overseas investors withdrew $648 million from Thai shares amid
concerns the election will revive political tension. The drop
was the most after  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index among Asia’s 12
largest markets. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG advised investors this month to reduce holdings.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party faces
opposition from the Pheu Thai party, led by the sister of
Thailand’s former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Thaksin was ousted
in a 2006 coup and has lived abroad since fleeing a jail
sentence for abuse of power three years ago. Demonstrations
against Abhisit’s government last year left more than 90 dead.  Extending Losses  The benchmark  stock index  dropped 1 percent to 1,019.69 as
of 11:51 a.m. local time, extending its loss this quarter to 2.7
percent. The gauge is set to snap eight straight quarterly
gains, the longest winning streak since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1987.  Abhisit’s party has pledged to guarantee farmers’ incomes,
raise the minimum wage 25 percent and offer two-year interest-
free mortgages for first-time home buyers. The Democrat party
also vowed to spend 170 billion baht ($5.6 billion) over the
next five years to improve the country’s irrigation system,
Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said yesterday.  Pheu Thai plans to give credit cards to farmers, mandate
starting salaries for new graduates and increase tax allowance
for new home purchases.  Political Turmoil  Kavee joined  Mark Mobius  in favoring Thai equities even as
Goldman and Credit Suisse advised cutting holdings. Mobius, who
oversees about $50 billion as the Singapore-based executive
chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in e-mailed
comments on June 9 the periods of political turmoil haven’t
caused “long-term” selling of Thai stocks because investors
have become accustomed to the conflict.  “Politics will remain the biggest concern among investors,
especially foreigners,” said Kavee. “Still, it’s unlikely
there would be any worse political turmoil than what the nation
suffered last year.”  The outperformance of Thai stocks is probably ending as the
economy slows, inflation accelerates and political risk deters
investors, according to Timothy Moe, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at New York-based Goldman Sachs. Moe recommended
boosting holdings in Malaysia and  Indonesia  in a June 7 research
report.  Thailand ’s banks, property companies and tourism-related
stocks are most vulnerable to revived concerns over politics,
Dan Fineman, an analyst at Zurich-based Credit Suisse, wrote in
a research note. Political instability has cost the country
between 1 and 2 percentage points of annual gross domestic
product growth, according to Credit Suisse estimates.  Top-Ranked Strategists  Fineman and Kavee were jointly ranked first for Thai
strategy in the latest survey by the  Securities Analysts
Association , a Bangkok-based equity analysts group.  Kavee recommended in February investors trim holdings in
property developers and banks, citing slowing economic growth
and rising interest rates. He had advised investors to buy
hospital, media and tourism companies.  The SET Banking Index has lost 3.3 percent this year, while
a gauge of property developers has declined 2.4 percent. The SET
Health Care Service Index, a measure of hospital operators, has
gained 14 percent in 2011, the third-best performing industry
group on the benchmark index. Gauges tracking median companies
and hotel operators also gained.  For the second half, easing inflation and a slower increase
in borrowing costs will encourage consumers to spend, raising
demand for new loans and residential properties, Kavee said
yesterday. Kasikorn Securities is a unit of  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) ,
the nation’s third-biggest lender.  His top picks include  Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Pcl (BGH) ,
the nation’s biggest private hospital operator, and Minor
International Pcl, which runs the largest hotel and fast-food
chains. He also favors  Pruksa Real Estate Pcl (PS) , the No. 1
residential property developer by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  