-- 
Air Canada Says Strike May End Tomorrow After Reaching Labor Agreement

-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 
2011-06-16T19:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/air-canada-has-tentative-agreement-union-says-strike-could-end-tomorrow.html
Striking employees at  Air Canada (AC/A) 
have reached a tentative labor agreement and are expected to be
back at work tomorrow, the country’s largest airline said.  The accord still needs to be ratified by members of the
Canadian Auto Workers union in a process that will begin next
week and may take as many two weeks, Shannon Devine, a union
spokeswoman, said today by telephone. The agreement covers all
elements except pensions for new employees, the Dorval, Quebec-
based airline said in a statement.  Air Canada service workers went on strike June 14 after
contract negotiations between the union that represents 3,800
call-center, check-in and gate staff and management failed. The
federal government had introduced legislation that would have
forced an end to the strike minutes before today’s deal was
announced.  “The agreement will help ensure the long-term
sustainability of Air Canada while maintaining industry-leading
compensation and benefits,” Chief Operating Officer Duncan Dee
said in the statement. “It is business as usual at Air
Canada.”  Labor Minister Lisa Raitt told reporters in Ottawa that
introducing the legislation “was a tool that was needed in
order to focus the parties and narrow the issues.” She said she
was pleased the two sides negotiated their own settlement,
adding “the best deal you can have is the one they did
themselves.”  Union Satisfied  CAW President Ken Lewenza told reporters in a televised
news conference in Toronto that while he was satisfied with the
agreement, the government shouldn’t have gotten involved.  Regarding Canada’s other major labor dispute, involving
48,000 urban letter carriers at government-owned Canada Post,
Raitt said she would introduce legislation aimed at ending that
job action next week.  The Canadian Union of Postal Workers began rotating 24-hour
strikes in different cities June 3, and the company locked out
all workers June 14, saying the job action had cost the company
C$100 million ($101 million).  Raitt said how fast the legislation passes “depends upon
the cooperation of the parties.”  The House of Commons is scheduled to break for the summer
on June 23, although the session can be extended by the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Badertscher in Ottawa at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 