-- 
Air Force Lifts Suspension on Buys From L-3’s Coleman Aerospace

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-16T19:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/air-force-lifts-suspension-on-buys-from-l-3-s-coleman-aerospace.html
The  Air Force  last month lifted a
yearlong suspension of purchases from an  L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. (LLL)  unit after it corrected quality problems on its
missile defense programs.  The suspension was imposed because Orlando, Florida-based
Coleman Aerospace supplied a faulty target that aborted a $41.2
million missile defense test in December 2009.  The Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center suspended
target purchases until Coleman fixed the flaws.  The suspension was lifted May 9 after the center and the
and Missile Defense Agency “concluded Coleman has cured the
failures and satisfactorily completed corrective action steps,”
said MDA spokesman  Richard Lehner  in an e-mailed statement. The
Air Force center had no immediate comment.  Lifting the suspension is good news for the company and the
missile agency, which has been focused on improving quality
among its contractors, said Cristina Chaplain, a missile defense
director with the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  “Our work shows MDA and other agencies are making
concerted efforts to address quality problems,” Chaplain said.
“But the issue is pervasive and a challenge to fix, given
broader issues such as diffuse leadership, workforce gaps, and
trends within the  aerospace industry ,” she said.  The Coleman target missile failed to launch during the test
because of an incorrectly rigged connector. The target missile
was dropped from the rear of a C-17 transport and was supposed
to launch under its own power for potential intercept by a
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Thaad missile.  Electrical Short  Instead, the poorly rigged connector caused an electrical
short. The short caused a voltage drop that reset the missile’s
computer, preventing proper engine ignition, the service said
last year.  “As the episode shows, though parts quality problems are
relatively small in comparison to the numbers of parts being
dealt with on major missile defense and space programs, they can
have detrimental and costly effects,” Chaplain said  Coleman looks forward “to continuing our productive
relationship with SMC to ensure delivery of high quality targets
and products for use by MDA,” said spokesman Jennifer Barton.  “L-3 took immediate action last spring, by submitting and
executing a detailed plan, while also assigning a new on-site
corporate executive to aid in the process,” she said in an e-
mail. “L-3 also transferred operational responsibility for
Coleman to our Electronic Systems Group,” she said.  Recounting the target missile failure, the then- Missile
Defense Agency  Executive Director, the late David Altwegg, said
during a Feb. 2, 2010,  briefing  that “we all sat there and
watched the target fall into the water.”  The target had a “big-time quality problem,” Altwegg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  