-- 
Airbus Seeks to Defuse German Angst Over Jet Work Distribution

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-16T14:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/airbus-seeks-to-defuse-german-angst-over-jet-work-distribution.html
Airbus SAS is seeking to defuse a
threat by  Germany ’s government to withhold development aid
unless the planemaker agrees to fairer work-sharing between
Germany and France, two people familiar with the plan said.  Christian Scherer, the Airbus head of strategy and future
programs, will visit German Deputy Economy Minister Peter Hintze
tomorrow in Berlin, and possibly new Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. The government has complained that
Airbus’s German factories were given less work than France on
the long-range A350 jet, slated for service in 2013, they said.  With the A350 heading for initial assembly by yearend, the
government is shifting attention to programs that aren’t likely
to start until the next decade. Germany has already pledged 1.1
billion euros ($1.56 billion) toward the A350, or one third of
the contribution made together with  France  and the U.K. Should
Germany fail to gain a proportionally bigger role in future
planes, some contributions could be withheld, the people said.  Airbus’s next all-new aircraft program probably won’t come
until the middle of the next decade, when the airframe maker
starts work on a replacement for its existing A320 series. Late
last year, Airbus decided to offer A320s with a choice of new
engines that promise to boost  fuel efficiency  and extend the
life of the aircraft by a decade or more.  Scherer’s visit tomorrow coincides with one by French
President Nicolas Sarkozy to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
discuss a rescue package for  Greece . The press office of
Germany’s Economy Ministry didn’t return calls today. Airbus
spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  declined to comment.  Airbus needs the loans to help pay for jigs and machine
tools as it begins production ahead of the A350’s maiden flight
in 2012. The world’s largest maker of commercial aircraft is
developing the 300-seat A350 to compete with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
smaller 787 Dreamliner model and the bigger 777.  A350 development costs amount to about 11 billion euros,
and of the 3.3 billion-euro loan, France’s portion is 1.4
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  