-- 
Laird Soars After Cooper Industries Says Offer Rejected

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r   a n d   D e b o r a h   H y d e
-- 
2011-06-16T16:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/laird-soars-after-cooper-industries-says-cash-offer-was-rejected.html
Laird Plc (LRD)  soared the most in more
than two decades in London trading after  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) 
said its offer valuing the U.K. company at about 493 million
pounds ($794 million) was spurned.  Cooper is seeking to combine Laird, the biggest maker of
mobile-phone electronic shields, with its Bussmann electronics
division, the Houston-based company said in a statement today.
The 185 pence-per-share offer, made June 1, is 35 percent higher
than yesterday’s closing price. Laird, founded in 1824, rose 38
percent to 188.9 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading,
the biggest jump since at least May 1989.  Cooper’s approach is “opportunistic and substantially
undervalues the company and its prospects,” London-based Laird
said in a separate statement. Cooper, which employs 2,100 in the
U.K., said the combination would create a leader in circuit
protection and power-management and would offer “a compelling
suite” of electromagnetic interference, radio frequency and
circuit-protection products.  “Laird has underperformed and that has created interest
from Cooper,” said Dominic Convey, an analyst with Peel Hunt
who has a “hold” recommendation on the stock. He called 185
pence “a very reasonable opening shot.” Investors should
accept a price of more than 200 pence, Convey said.  Laird has advanced 8.9 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 503 million pounds.  Laird is “undervalued” and its dependence on its largest
customer,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , will probably decline, Robert Owens, a
JPMorgan Cazenove analyst with an “overweight” recommendation
on the stock, said in a report yesterday.  Cooper Industries was little changed at $60.15 in New York
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net ;
Deborah Hyde at 
 dhyde10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  