-- 
Zawahiri Appointment Shows Al-Qaeda a Threat After Bin Laden, Gates Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-06-17T01:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/al-qaeda-names-egypt-born-ayman-al-zawahiri-to-replace-bin-laden-as-leader.html
     June 17 (Bloomberg) --The appointment of Ayman Zawahiri as
the new leader of al-Qaeda serves as a reminder that the
terrorist group “seeks to perpetuate itself,” U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  Zawahiri was identified as the successor to Osama  bin Laden ,
who was killed in a U.S. commando raid in Pakistan last month,
in a posting yesterday on a website frequently used by the
terrorist group.  “This announcement by al-Qaeda reminds us that despite
having suffered a huge loss with the killing of bin Laden -- and
a number of others -- al-Qaeda seeks to perpetuate itself, seeks
to find replacements for those who have been killed, and remains
committed to the agenda that bin Laden put before them,” Gates
said at a Pentagon news conference yesterday.  The Egyptian surgeon has been al-Qaeda’s public face for
years, sending video and audio messages threatening attacks
against Western targets and attempting to turn Muslim
populations against their governments.  “We ask God for this to be a new era for al-Qaeda under
the leadership of Ayman Zawahiri, an era that will purify Muslim
land of every tyrant and infidel,” al-Qaeda said in its
statement.  Intelligence officials have said that bin Laden, isolated
by U.S. efforts to track him, had ceded operational
responsibilities to Zawahiri. The U.S. government is offering a
$25 million reward for information leading to Zawahiri, who is
believed to be hiding in southwestern Pakistan or Afghanistan,
according to White House intelligence adviser  John Brennan .  Wanted for Years  Zawahiri, 59, was wanted in the U.S. even before the 2001
attacks that targeted New York’s  World Trade Center  and the
 Pentagon , killing more than 3,000 people.  It was Zawahiri who convinced a skeptical bin Laden to
deploy suicide attackers against the West, persuading the al-
Qaeda leader the tactic -- forbidden by the teachings of Islam
on which he was raised -- is “martyrdom,” said Fawaz Gerges,
author of the 2005 book “The Far Enemy: Why Jihad Went
Global.”  That doesn’t mean Zawahiri easily can fill bin Laden’s
leadership role, Gerges, a professor of Middle Eastern politics
and international relations at the  London  School of Economics
and Political Science, said in a telephone interview.  “Unlike  Osama bin Laden , who’s a unifying figure and a
beloved figure, Ayman Zawahiri is a divisive figure to the rank
and file,” he said. “He doesn’t command the same respect or
the same inspiration.”  ‘Peculiar Charisma’  Gates offered a similar assessment yesterday. Bin Laden had
a “peculiar charisma that I think Zawahiri does not have,” he
said at a news conference at the Pentagon. “I’ve read that
there is some suspicion within al-Qaeda of Zawahiri because he’s
Egyptian,” while bin Laden was Saudi.  Alluding to the U.S. drive to capture or kill al-Qaeda
leaders, Gates noted: “I’m not sure it’s a position anybody
should aspire to, under the circumstances.”  Zawahiri was indicted in absentia in 1999 for the August
1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Tanzania and  Kenya  that
killed 224 people, and was considered the mastermind of the
October 2000 bombing of the USS Cole in Yemen, which killed 17
sailors.  He has also been blamed for the February 1993 bombing of
the World Trade Center, which killed six people, and the
December 1997 massacre of 58 tourists in Luxor,  Egypt . He also
took responsibility for the July 7, 2005, bombings on London’s
transport system that killed 52 people, the deadliest attack in
the city since World War II.  ‘Not Charismatic’  Changes sweeping the Arab world, where popular revolts
against autocratic regimes have been largely led by pro-
democracy activists, pose a major challenge to Zawahiri and rob
him of a recruiting tool, said Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi
journalist who knew bin Laden.  “Al-Qaeda is in decline and Zawahiri will try to catch up
with the events and to find a role in the changing Arab world,”
Khashoggi said in a telephone interview yesterday. “I don’t
think he can.” He said Zawahiri is the product of a
“stagnation” in Egypt that has changed with the fall of
President  Hosni Mubarak .  Former CIA analyst Bruce Riedel questioned the optimism of
U.S. officials who said the time it took al-Qaeda to name a
successor indicated serious internal divisions. The group could
have named Zawahiri immediately under its bylaws, said Riedel, a
South Asia specialist at the Brookings Institution policy
research group in  Washington . Instead, al-Qaeda allowed a
discussion to take place over the past month on jihadist
websites and online chat rooms.  ‘Overwhelming Consensus’  “The overwhelming consensus has been  Ayman al-Zawahiri ,”
Riedel, who coordinated Obama’s initial Afghan- Pakistan  policy
review in 2009, told a forum in Washington yesterday. “No
candidate emerged as an alternative, despite the strenuous
efforts of experts in the West, including myself, to suggest
there are some other possibilities.”  Zawahiri, whose aliases include “the Doctor” and “the
Teacher,” was born on June 19, 1951, along with a twin sister
in Giza, Egypt, the eldest children of a couple from prominent
families.  Their father, Rabie, was a pharmacology professor whose
family included well-known religious scholars and medical
professionals, and his maternal grandfather was the president of
Cairo University and had been Egypt’s ambassador to  Saudi Arabia ,
Pakistan and Yemen, according to Lawrence Wright,  author  of the
2006 book “The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11.”  Jihadist Cell  From an early age, Zawahiri disliked Egypt’s secular
government, which he considered apostate. He and a handful of
friends started a jihadist cell while he was still in high
school. Their aim was to overthrow Egyptian leader Gamal Abdel Nasser, whom they considered too Western, and set up a theocracy,
Gerges said.  While he led an underground life of which his parents were
unaware, Zawahiri enrolled in medical school at  Cairo University ,
where he became a top student, specializing in surgery and
graduating in 1974, Wright wrote.  A major influence on Zawahiri was Sayyid Qutb, a militant
Egyptian intellectual educated in the U.S. who was executed by
Nasser in 1966, the same year Zawahiri and his friends started
their cell. Zawahiri’s great-uncle, Mahfouz Azzam, served as
Qutb’s defense lawyer.  “I don’t think Ayman Zawahiri is qualified to lead
military organizations,” Azzam, 83, said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Cairo. “His strength lies in that he
is a man of thought and in the political speeches with which he
addresses the people.”  Disgust Toward U.S.  Qutb’s writings tell Muslims not to be beguiled by Western
prosperity, call for a revival of Islamic law and culture, and
express disgust at American values. Qutb wrote that as a
graduate student at Colorado State Teachers College in Greeley,
now the University of Northern Colorado, in the late 1940s, he
witnessed racism, a “primitive” U.S. obsession with sports and
“seductive” American women.  Qutb’s hanging, rather than stamping out his anti-Western
ideas, increased their popularity and formed “the nucleus of
the modern Islamic jihad movement,” Zawahiri wrote in his own
memoir.  As a surgeon in the Egyptian army -- and later in private
practice -- he recruited officers to the Islamist movement to
overthrow the secular Egyptian government, according to Wright.  Zawahiri was one of hundreds of Islamic militants arrested
and put on trial in Egypt for conspiring in the October 1981
assassination of  Anwar Sadat , who had succeeded Nasser as
Egypt’s leader. The Egyptian government couldn’t prove a link,
and Zawahiri was released after three years in custody.  Soviets in  Afghanistan   Zawahiri left prison in Egypt and made his way to Saudi
Arabia, then settled in  Peshawar , Pakistan, across the Khyber
Pass from Afghanistan, where mujahedeen fighters were at war
with Soviet invaders.  As many as 30,000 Muslim men from 50 countries came to the
region to support the mujahedeen, including bin Laden, who was
recruiting fighters from an office set up with money from his
family’s Saudi construction business.  Around the time the Soviets left Afghanistan, bin Laden and
Zawahiri teamed up in a loose affiliation to bring jihad to the
West.  The group says the American forces now in Afghanistan also
will be ejected, and blames the spy agencies of  Israel  and the
U.S. for the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians.  “We will continue to reveal the treason of those who are
giving away the rights of the nation in  Palestine  and
collaborating with the Mossad and the CIA,” al-Qaeda said in
its statement yesterday.  “We will not forgo any inch of Palestine,” the group said.
“We will not accept or abide by or commit to any agreement or
treaty or to adopt or acknowledge any deal that will rob the
Muslims of any inch of Palestine, whether it comes from the
 United Nations , which is controlled by the biggest of criminals,
or other bodies and organizations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  