-- 
Malaysia Government Websites Disrupted

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 
2011-06-16T10:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/malaysia-government-websites-attacked.html
Dozens of Malaysian websites, mostly
belonging to the government, became inaccessible after hackers
threatened to sabotage portals in protest of the Southeast Asian
nation’s online censorship policies.  A total 91 websites were attacked by unidentified hackers
starting 11:30 p.m. local time yesterday, of which 51 were
state-linked, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia
Commission said in a statement today. Of these, 76 sites have
been recovered, it said.  The regulator “has been making concerted efforts to
mitigate the attacks around the clock and will continue with
other enforcement agencies and security experts as well as
service providers to monitor the situation,” the commission
said in a separate statement.  The incident shows the wave of cyber attacks that have
disrupted computer systems at the  International Monetary Fund ,
 Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Citigroup Inc. in the past
three months are spreading. A group calling itself Anonymous
posted a warning June 14 on Google Inc.’s YouTube it planned to
sabotage Malaysian state portals.  “The messages left by the hackers since last night were
all about their dissatisfaction over the government’s ban on 10
file-sharing sites,” Mohamad Khairi Osman, an information
technology officer at Universiti Sains Malaysia’s engineering
campus, said in a telephone interview. “These hackers didn’t do
it just for the sake of hacking. They want the Malaysian
government to notice their frustration.”  ‘Local’ Hackers  Most of the attacks on government websites were carried out
by unidentified local hackers, said Khairi, who has monitored a
 blog  they created to share updates.  As of 6:15 p.m., the government’s main  portal 
(www.malaysia.gov.my) was among those remaining inaccessible,
along with Sabah tourism’s  website . The police has leads to the
potential culprits, Bernama reported, citing Deputy Inspector-
General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar.  Disrupting network services is a “serious” offense
punishable by law, the commission said. “We do not expect the
overall recovery to these websites to take long as most websites
have already recovered from the attack,” it said.  Anonymous earlier took credit for attacking sites belonging
to the Turkish government and companies including  Mastercard Inc (MA) 
and  Visa Inc. (V)  Another group called Lulz Security yesterday
claimed via Twitter that it took down the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency’s unclassified public website. The CIA’s
portal couldn’t be accessed at about 7 p.m. Washington time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho in  Tokyo  at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 