-- 
Alibaba Group to Split Taobao Online Retail Unit Into Three

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T09:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/alibaba-group-to-split-taobao-online-shopping-mall-into-three-companies.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest online-commerce company, reorganized its Taobao retail
unit into three companies to better meet customer demands, Chief
Executive Jack Ma said.  The unit will be split into Taobao Mall for consumers to
shop from businesses, eTao for shopping-related searches, and
Taobao Marketplace for consumers to buy and sell goods from each
other, Alibaba said in a statement today.  Reorganizing Taobao will create more value for shareholders
and the group “won’t rule out the possibility” of going public
in the future to reward workers and investors, Ma told employees
in a letter today. Still, separating the operations poses the
risk of disrupting the business, said Daiwa Securities Capital
Markets analyst Marvin Lo.  “There is better synergy as one company,” Lo said in a
phone interview today. “From a business point of view, this is
quite strange and it’s not clear this is the best thing to do.
It doesn’t really make sense to me.”  The Taobao reorganization was necessary to meet
competitive threats that emerged in the past two years during
which the Internet and e-commerce landscape has changed
“dramatically,” Alibaba’s Ma said in the letter. Social
networking and e-commerce have witnessed disruptive changes as a
result of open platform and social trends, while “countless”
new companies have started, he said.  ‘Big Company’  “We have developed into a big company so rapidly in a
short period of time, but competitive advantage is not about
size,” Ma said in the letter to employees, a copy of which was
supplied by Alibaba. “A break-up may seem like a disadvantage
on the scale front, as though Taobao has gone from “somewhere”
to “nowhere.” However, through the “Tao” companies, Taobao
will be “nowhere but everywhere. They will be omnipresent.”  Alibaba is already locked in a battle with its two largest
investors, Yahoo! Inc. and Softbank Corp., over compensation for
the divestment of Alipay, which Ma said was needed to expedite
the application for an online payment license in China.  Last month, Yahoo said it wasn’t informed until March 31
about an August 2010 transfer of Alipay equity to a company
outside of Alibaba. Ma previously said Alibaba’s board had
discussed for three years the need to reorganize Alipay to
comply with China’s restrictions on foreign investment in online
payment operators.  Informing Investors  All three companies split from Taobao will remain wholly
owned subsidiaries of the Alibaba Group, Alibaba spokesman John Spelich said by phone today. The group’s board and shareholders
were informed in advance of the Taobao reorganization and
supported the decision, Spelich said.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Alibaba investor Yahoo!
Inc., confirmed the U.S. company was informed of the
reorganization before the announcement.  The Alibaba Group is also the parent of Hong Kong-listed
 Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)   The three “Tao” companies will each be run by a
president: Eddie Wu will run eTao; Leo Jiang will lead Taobao
Marketplace, and Daniel Zhang will lead Taobao Mall.  Jonathan Lu, who previously served as chief executive
officer of both Taobao and the listed Alibaba.com unit, will now
focus on his role at Alibaba.com, and will also serve as a non-
executive chairman of the Taobao Marketplace, the company said
in a statement.  “Change is painful and undergoing change is hardly ever a
smooth process,” Ma said in the letter. “We must change and we
must change before change is imposed on us.”  --Edmond Lococo, Mark Lee, with assistance from Brian Womack in
 San Francisco . Editors: Young-Sam Cho, Anand Krishnamoorthy, 
Alan Soughley.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at +852-2977-6909 or
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  