-- 
Allstate Says Catastrophes Cost Insurer $600 Million in May

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-16T20:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/allstate-says-catastrophes-cost-insurer-600-million-last-month.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, had pretax losses of $600
million last month from natural disasters such as tornadoes and
hailstorms, less than in April.  Seven events contributed to the claims in May, bringing
total losses tied to disasters to $2 billion in the first two
months of the quarter, Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate said
today in a statement. That compares with $636 million in
catastrophe costs in the entire second quarter last year.  An above-average number of tornadoes striking the U.S. led
to higher claims for insurers, including Travelers Cos.,  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  and policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. AIR Worldwide, a modeling firm, projected insured
losses of about $7.7 billion to $12.5 billion industrywide from
two weeks of storms in April and May.  “The good news is, from Allstate’s perspective, the losses
were less than they were in April,” said Paul Newsome, an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill and Partners LP, in an interview.  Allstate advanced 7 cents to $29.55 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer has slipped 7.3
percent this year, matching the decline in the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)   A tornado that tore through Joplin, Missouri, on May 22
killed more than 125 people, making it the single deadliest U.S.
storm in at least 60 years. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  said that  1,482 tornadoes  were reported in the
U.S. this year through June 15, up from 1,282 in all of 2010.  Raising Rates  Allstate said last month that catastrophes, including
tornadoes in  Alabama , cost the company $1.4 billion in April.
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  has been raising rates for
homeowners’ coverage and scaling back the insurer’s risk of
losses from natural disasters by curtailing the sale of policies
in the most vulnerable regions and buying reinsurance.  Travelers reduced share repurchases after saying that about
$1 billion in costs tied to storms will wipe out second-quarter
profit. MetLife, which relies mostly on  life insurance  and
retirement products, said natural disasters in April and May
probably cost $160 million to $180 million after tax at its auto
and home business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  