-- 
America Movil CFO Sees Demand, Opportunity for Debt Issuers

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/america-movil-cfo-sees-demand-opportunity-for-debt-issuers.html
America Movil  SAB Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said Mexican debt issuers are
facing “unprecedented” favorable conditions and demand in the
market.  “We have a really unprecedented situation with
extraordinarily low  interest rates ,” said Garcia-Moreno, 54, at
the Bloomberg CFO Summit in Mexico City yesterday. “The
financial conditions today are viewed as very good. Not just the
rates, but the conditions of access. Today there is appetite.”  America Movil,  Latin America ’s largest wireless provider
and controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , doesn’t need to
follow up its $8.5 billion in bond sales last year with
additional issues in 2011 because its requirements are satisfied,
he said. Last year’s bond sales were the most by a Latin
American issuer, edging out oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The phone company has announced about 14.4 billion pesos
($1.2 billion) in dividend payments this year and plans to split
its stock 2-for-1. That comes after the $23 billion transaction
last year that gave America Movil control of the Telefonos de
Mexico SAB fixed-line carrier, known as Telmex, and phone and
cable-TV networks throughout  South America .  The company spent an additional $2.7 billion between
October and January to buy preferred shares of  Net Servicos de
Comunicacao SA (NETC4) ,  Brazil ’s biggest cable-TV operator.  Slim’s Wealth  This year, America Movil offered to exchange new debt for
Telmex bonds totaling $1.3 billion. The company acquired about
$370 million in Telmex bonds, and Telmex spent $394 million to
pay off those bonds. The company might issue debt in similar
transactions “on the margin” this year to improve its credit
profile, Garcia-Moreno said.  America Movil represents about 61 percent of Slim’s $69.3
billion in publicly disclosed holdings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is contending with a series of legal and
regulatory decisions this year as Mexico’s government seeks to
put a dent in its dominance in the market, where it has 70
percent of wireless subscribers. Garcia-Moreno declined to
comment on how the legal matters would affect America Movil’s
profits this year.  In March, Mexico’s Federal Telecommunications Commission
slashed by more than half the fees America Movil can charge
land-line carriers to connect calls to its network. In April,
Mexico’s antitrust agency fined America Movil $1 billion for
monopolistic practices in the market for connecting wireless
calls. America Movil is appealing both rulings.  In May, Mexico’s  Supreme Court  ruled that the prices set
for network connection fees by the telecommunications commission
can’t be blocked by an injunction during the appeals process,
forcing America Movil to adopt the price cuts even as it
challenges them in court.  Profit Margins  This month, Telmex got a $7.82 million fine from the
antitrust agency, also under appeal, and the telecommunications
agency cut the fees Telmex can charge for calls to rural areas
by 95 percent, a decision the company is also contesting.  America Movil’s profit margins slid last quarter as
subscriber rolls expanded faster than the company expected,
requiring handset discounts and marketing costs. The profit
margin before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization fell
to 39.8 percent from 42.4 percent a year earlier.  The company added 5.87 million subscribers in the quarter
after having forecast as many as 15 million for the year.  The average borrowing cost for Mexican companies in dollars
fell to 6.104 percent on May 17, the lowest since January,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  America Movil reached an agreement for two credit lines for
a total of $4 billion to ensure access to funds for growth,
Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said.  The company closed the agreements “a couple of months ago,”
Garcia-Moreno said. The company had said in early May it was
working on the agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  