-- 
Man Says Hedge-Fund Executives Donenberg, Allen to Help Run U.S. Business

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-16T16:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/man-appoints-hedge-fund-executives-donenberg-allen-to-run-u-s-business.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  named a pair of
executives from its hedge-fund subsidiaries as co-chief
operating officers for the company’s U.S. business.  Lance Donenberg, chief operating officer of GLG Inc., and
Jordan Allen, who holds the same position at Ore Hill Partners
LLC, assume the joint role as the London-based firm expands its
U.S. presence, Man Group said in a statement released today on
PR Newswire. Both executives will report to Emmanuel Roman,
Man’s chief operating officer.  Man bought GLG in October for $1.6 billion to reduce the
parent company’s dependence on Man AHL Diversified Plc, a
computer-driven investment program that accounted for about one-
third of assets as of March. After acquiring half of  New York- 
based Ore Hill in 2008, Man bought the remaining 50 percent
stake of the high-yield loan fund in May.  “Expanding our U.S. business is a core part of our
strategy going forward," Roman said in the statement.  Man is an alternative-asset management company that oversaw
about $69 billion as of March 31. Shares fell 1.8 percent to
228.4 pence at 2:47 p.m. London time.  Donenberg, 42, will focus on sales, business development
and distribution relationships, according to the release. Allen,
48, will oversee U.S. business operations and also work as chief
financial officer.  The company also said it appointed Tim Gullickson as
managing director in the Client Advisory Group. Gullickson, who
formerly was managing director and head of business development
at Stark Investments in St. Francis,  Wisconsin , is based in
Man’s Chicago office, according to the release.  Kelly Smith , a spokesman for Man Group, declined to comment
on the appointments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  