-- 
Andrew Morse Joins Bloomberg As Head of U.S. Television

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-16T16:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/andrew-morse-joins-bloomberg-as-head-of-u-s-television.html

Press Release  Morse will oversee editorial, programming, operations and
development in the U.S for Bloomberg Television.  New York -- Andrew Morse, executive producer of innovation and
integration for ABC News Digital, has been named head of
Bloomberg Television in the U.S., Andy Lack, CEO of the
Bloomberg Media Group, announced today.  Morse will oversee editorial, programming, operations and
development in the U.S. for Bloomberg Television, the global 24-
hour business news channel that reaches over 270 million homes
worldwide.  In addition, he will work across Bloomberg’s print,
radio, mobile and digital media properties to further the
company’s strategy of delivering news, business intelligence,
market information and critical data to the world’s most
influential business news consumers across a variety of real-
time platforms. Morse will report to Andy Lack.  “Andrew brings experience not only as an award-winning broadcast
journalist, but in understanding the needs of today’s media
organizations to deliver creative content to consumers across
multiple platforms,” said Andy Lack, CEO of Bloomberg Media
Group.  “As a producer, he’s created exciting, smart television
for a global audience, making him an ideal fit as Bloomberg
continues to build a world-class multimedia organization.”  Most recently, Morse led ABC News’ coverage on the ground for
the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in  Japan  and the
Egyptian Revolution in 2011, as well as the earthquake in  Haiti 
in 2010.  Morse also oversaw ABC News’ digital portfolio, including
ABCNews.com, ABC News Now, the network’s 24-hour broadband
channel, and its emerging platforms such as the iPad and iPhone
applications.  Prior to joining the ABC News digital team, Morse served as
executive producer of Good Morning America’s weekend edition and
had been senior producer for World News Saturday and Sunday.
From 2002-2005 Morse served as ABC News’ Asia Bureau Chief and
producer, where he coordinated the network’s coverage of the
South Asian Tsunami in 2004 and the Bali terror bombings in
2002.  From 1998-2001 Morse was an assignment editor and producer in
ABC News’  London  Bureau.  He began his career in ABC News’
Washington Bureau as a production coordinator and was an
associate producer for ABC News.com when it launched in 1997,
experimenting with digital reporting in its earliest form.  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television, currently available in  more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of  household income ,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York, London
and  Hong Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage
of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
Programming includes “InsideTrack with Erik Schatzker and
Deirdre Bolton” (6-8 AM/ET), “In the Loop with Betty Liu” (8-10
AM/ET),“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” (10AM-12PM/ET) and
“Surveillance Midday” with host  Tom Keene  (12-1 PM/ET).  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
