-- 
Angie’s List Said to Pick BofA for Planned August IPO Filing

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/angie-s-list-said-to-pick-bofa-to-lead-august-ipo-of-consumer-review-site.html
Angie’s List Inc. , a website that
provides consumer reviews of plumbers, electricians and other
services, is preparing to file in August for an initial public
offering, said two people with direct knowledge of the plans.  The Indianapolis-based company has chosen  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  to lead the IPO, according to the people, who declined to
be identified because the process is private. The size of the
offering hasn’t yet been decided, one person said.  Angie’s List would join the biggest surge in Internet share
sales since the dot-com boom a decade ago. A dozen Internet
companies have gone public this year, the most in any year since
2000, when the first wave of Web IPOs reached its height.
Selling shares would help Angie’s List compete against daily-
deal and consumer-review websites, including Yelp Inc., Facebook
Inc. and Groupon Inc.  Cheryl Reed, a spokeswoman for Angie’s List, declined to
comment. John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, also had no comment.  Angie’s List hired Code Advisors last year to help it
choose bankers, Chief Executive Officer Bill Oesterle said in an
April interview. The company has turned down buyout offers from
public companies, Oesterle said at the time.  Founded in 1995 by Angie Hicks and Oesterle, Angie’s List
provides ratings and reviews to 1.5 million paying members for
more than 500 types of businesses.  In March, Angie’s List said it raised $53.6 million in a
private share offering. Last year, Angie’s List said it raised
$25 million from investors including venture firms Battery
Ventures, Saints Capital and Wasatch Funds.  Online-radio service Pandora Media Inc. and professional-
networking site LinkedIn Corp. have gone public in the past
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  