-- 
Tango Video-Chat Service for Smartphones Said to Be Valued at $160 Million

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/tango-video-chat-service-is-said-to-be-valued-at-160-million.html
Tango , a service that lets users
make video calls from their smartphones, received about $30
million in a round of funding that values the startup at $160
million, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Investors include former Cisco Systems Inc. executive
Daniel Scheinman, investment banker Bill Hambrecht, venture
capitalist Bill Tai and entrepreneur Michael Birch, said one of
the people, who asked not to be named because the funding was
confidential.  Founded in 2009 by video-technology veterans Uri Raz and
Eric Setton, Tango has attracted 15 million users to its free
application, which runs on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and other camera-
equipped smartphones. It competes with Apple’s own app and Skype
Technologies SA in the surging market for free video calls made
over mobile devices.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to buy Skype for
$8.5 billion in May.  Jennifer Nielsen, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-
based Tango, declined to comment on investments in the company.  Tango raised $5 million last October from investors,
including Scheinman, Hambrecht, Tai and Birch.  The company first released its application in Apple’s App
Store in September, signing up more than 1 million people within
10 days. Since then it has introduced versions for handsets
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, including HTC Corp.’s
ThunderBolt. Tango’s users are now split evenly between Apple
and Android, the company said.  Apple helped popularize mobile-video calling with the June
2010 introduction of the iPhone 4, which has a front-facing
camera. Apple offers its own videoconferencing software, called
FaceTime, though it only works over Wi-Fi connections, rather
than mobile-phone networks, and only with Apple products.  In contrast, Tango works over phone networks and lets
people call each other using smartphones running different
operating systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  