-- 
Ashtead to Gain From U.S. Shift to Equipment Rental, CEO Says

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-16T08:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ashtead-to-gain-from-u-s-shift-to-equipment-rental-ceo-says.html
Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , a U.K. equipment-
rental company operating the Sunbelt Rentals brand, expects to
benefit from buying to renting construction-gear in the U.S.,
its biggest market, Chief Executive Officer Geoff Drabble said.  In the U.S., rentals have risen to 40 percent of the
construction equipment market from 25 percent before the bank
crash, Drabble said. Rentals may account for half of that market
in a few years, he said. Full-year profit dropped as results
included one-time costs for the early redemption of senior
secured notes, the London-based company said in a statement.  While U.S. construction markets are still “challenging,”
more companies are renting equipment due to tight financing and
worries about the economy, which means Ashtead can gain business
there, where it generates 85 percent of its sales, Drabble said.  “Yes, we are a cyclical business, but we can outperform
the industry,” he said in a telephone interview.  Ashtead fell 8 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 170 pence at 9:04
a.m. in  London . The shares have fallen 1.6 percent so far this
year, giving the company a market value of 856 million pounds
($1.4 billion).  Drabble thinks the U.S. market is close to the bottom,
citing a fourth-quarter 6 percent gain in equipment rentals. The
U.K. market will probably contract, as government-spending cuts
take effect, he said. Drabble said Ashtead expects a “gentle
improvement in profit.”  Rental represents 75 percent of the U.K. construction-
equipment market, little changed over the past few years, he
said.  Net profit was about 900,000 pounds, or 0.2 pence per share
in the year ended April 30, compared with 2.1 million pounds, or
0.4 pence per share in the previous year, according to the
Ashtead statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  