-- 
Asian Currencies Decline, led by Korea’s Won, as Greek Debt Crisis Worsens

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-16T08:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-korea-s-won-as-greek-debt-crisis-worsens.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis heightened
risk aversion, damping demand for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks fell the
most in three weeks as Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou is
set to reshuffle his Cabinet and seek a confidence vote today,
following the failure of attempts to garner opposition support
for an austerity plan. European Union talks on a new bailout
package for Greece to prevent the first euro-area default
stalled yesterday.  “Investors are concerned about the Greek debt crisis,
which doesn’t seem like it’ll be resolved any time soon,” said
Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in Seoul. “That’s
prompting investors to favor safer assets and dump riskier
assets.”  The won slid 0.6 percent to close at 1,089.73 per dollar in
 Seoul . Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.6 percent to 8,597 and
Singapore’s dollar slipped 0.5 percent to S$1.2407. Thailand’s
baht and Malaysia’s ringgit declined 0.3 percent to 30.61 and
3.0455, respectively.  The impasse over the financial aid package for Greece and
speculation that a government shakeup would disrupt passage of
budget cuts and asset sales sent Greek bonds and the euro
plunging. A report from the Federal Reserve yesterday showed
manufacturing in the New York area unexpectedly contracted for
the first time in seven months.  Global funds sold $835 million more Korean and Taiwanese
equities than they bought in the first three days of this week.
Some $465 million was pulled from  Taiwan ’s shares today,
exchange data show.  Signs of Weakness  “The mounting signs of economic weakness in the U.S. as
well as controversies surrounding the Greek bailout will erode
risk appetite in Asian currencies,” said Choong Yin Pheng,
manager for economic and fixed-income research at Hong Leong
Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Investors are opting for safer
assets.”  The baht dropped to a three-month low on concern the July 3 
elections will spark instability. Army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha,
who commanded troops in the 2006 coup that ousted former premier
Thaksin Shinawatra, urged voters to pick “good people” in
polls and warned criticism of the monarchy wouldn’t be tolerated,
according to a video on the website of the military-controlled
Channel 7 station.  “Some political instability ahead of the election in
 Thailand  is also starting to weigh on the baht,” said
Christopher Gothard , head of foreign exchange at Brown Brothers
Harriman ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  India ’s rupee declined 0.2 percent to 44.8475 per dollar.
The central bank raised  interest rates  for the 10th time since
the start of 2010. The Reserve Bank of India increased the
repurchase rate to 7.50 percent from 7.25 percent, according to
a statement today. Nineteen of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predicted the decision, while one expected no change.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.3 percent to
43.53 per dollar. Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.5 percent to 29.005,
 China ’s yuan rose 0.08 percent to 6.4767 and the Vietnamese dong
fell 0.2 percent to 20,606.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  