-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Jobs as Treasuries Gain Amid Greece Concern

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/asian-stocks-drop-euro-trades-near-three-week-low-on-greece.html
U.S. stocks rallied, rebounding as
financial shares erased losses, after a drop in jobless claims
and growth in housing starts tempered concern about the economy
and higher costs for banks. Treasuries gained, pushing yields on
10-year notes to a 2011 low, on speculation Greece is struggling
to avoid default.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York . It fell 0.6 percent earlier, trimming its year-to-
date gain to less than 0.1 percent, after two people familiar
with the matter said the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
is considering capital surcharges of as much as 3.5 percentage
points. Yields on 10-year Treasuries slipped to 2.88 percent.
The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.4204 after weakening 0.8
percent. Copper and wheat declined.  The S&P 500 rose as much as 0.7 percent this morning after
a drop in jobless claims and growth in housing starts tempered
concern the economy is slowing. Stocks reversed gains as people
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News that the largest
lenders would face higher surcharges if they grow bigger. In
Greece, Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his allies in
parliament to back austerity measures needed to qualify for
international aid and avoid a sovereign debt default.  “The market is looking for good news,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “We’ve got somewhat better economic
data. It’s important to see improvement in jobs and housing
because they are the most troubling parts of the economy. That
sets a more positive tone despite some of the overhangs,
including  Europe ’s debt crisis.”  Jobs, Housing  Americans filing for  unemployment benefits  totaled 414,000
last week, less than the median economist estimate of 420,000 in
a Bloomberg survey, according to the Labor Department. The
Commerce Department said housing starts in the U.S. increased
more than forecast in May, led by a jump in the West as other
parts of the country languished.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell 1 percent and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
slipped 0.8 percent following the report on the Committee on
Banking Supervision discussions. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  lost as much
as 0.6 percent before ending the day with a 0.6 percent rally.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rose 1 percent, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
climbed 0.9 percent.  After U.S. stock exchanges closed,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
forecast second-quarter revenue and profit that missed analysts’
estimates and said it will cut jobs as a lack of new models
prompts consumers to buy rival devices. The maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone sank 16 percent at 5:10 p.m. in New York.  Only Gain  The  S&P 500  posted the only gain among benchmark indexes
for equities in 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. The
Greek index plunged 2.8 percent. Greek  government bonds  slumped,
pushing the yield on the two-year note above 30 percent for the
first time, as Papandreou’s failure to win support for more
austerity fueled speculation of a default.  Portuguese and Irish two-year yields also climbed to the
most since the euro’s 1999 debut, while the 10-year Spanish
yield jumped to the highest since 2000 as the country’s
borrowing costs rose at a debt sale. The cost of insuring
against default on Greek, Irish and Portuguese government debt
surged to records. Papandreou will reshuffle his Cabinet and
seek a confidence vote today. German government bonds gained,
pushing the 10-year yield to a five-month low.  Greek Yields  The yield on  Greece ’s two-year notes jumped 128 basis
points to 29.30 percent, after being as high as 30.32 percent.
Ireland’s two-year yield increased 86 basis points to 12.96
percent. The Portuguese two-year yield surged 58 basis points to
13.02 percent.  Copper fell for the sixth time in seven sessions on concern
that Greece’s debt crisis may damp global economic growth,
curbing demand for industrial metals. Futures dropped 0.1
percent to $4.136 a pound.  Wheat futures fell to a three-month low on speculation that
global supplies will be ample as Russia resumes exports next
month, while rains improve crop prospects in Ukraine. Futures
for September delivery plunged 4.2 percent to $7.0825 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  