-- 
Asian Stocks Slump as Europe Crisis Deepens Amid Greek Rioting

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-16T11:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/asian-equities-headed-for-seventh-weekly-drop-on-greek-debt-u-s-economy.html
Asian stocks tumbled, with the
region’s key benchmark index on course for its longest string of
weekly losses in seven years, as rioting against planned
austerity measures threatened Greece’s government and the global
economic recovery.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier of toys to
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp.,
dropped 3 percent in Hong Kong as concern mounted that Greece
will default on its debt.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1
mining company by sales, sank 2.1 percent in Sydney as oil and
metal prices tumbled yesterday.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the largest
carmaker, declined 1.7 percent in  Tokyo  as reports showed the
 U.S. economy  is cooling. Samsung Electronics Co., which gets
most of its revenue overseas, lost 2 percent in Seoul.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index sank 2.1 percent to 129.82 as
of 7:51 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for its lowest close since March
18, amid concern a recovery from the 2008 financial crisis and
subsequent global recession may be derailed.  “Investors still get nightmares from the events of 2008
and nobody wants to see an encore,” said Prasad Patkar, who
helps manage about $1.7 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “ Europe  has the potential to set off another global
credit crisis, which is the biggest worry.”  Losing Streak  The MSCI Asia Pacific index is headed toward its seventh
straight weekly loss, exceeding a six-week streak of declines in
the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008. About seven times as many stocks retreated as advanced
on the gauge today and all 10 industry groups declined, led by
material and technology shares.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 1.7 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index both
declined 1.9 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1.8 percent and  China ’s
Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 1.5 percent amid
renewed speculation that China is poised to raise  interest rates .  India’s Sensitive Index lost 0.8 percent after the nation’s
central bank raised interest rates for the 10th time since the
start of 2010, extending the longest streak of monetary
tightening in a decade as inflation accelerated.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York , the index slumped 1.7 percent
yesterday on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening while the
U.S. economic recovery slows.  “It’s another riot point in markets with the EU debt
crisis intensifying and growth losing significant momentum,”
said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“It looks like there’s still more downside in markets.”  Tear Gas  European officials have so far failed to agree on a rescue
plan for debt-ridden  Greece . Prime Minister George Papandreou
will name a new Greek government and call a vote of confidence
in parliament as he seeks to pressure opposition lawmakers to
back an austerity plan aimed at securing a new bailout.  Papandreou sought to reassert his authority in a televised
address last night hours after police used tear gas to break up
protests in central Athens and media reported that he was in
talks to step down in favor of a unity government. A crowd of
8,000 protestors remained outside Parliament late into the
evening, according to police.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday the threat of the
Greek debt crisis spilling over into the banking sector is the
biggest risk to the region’s financial stability.  “Greece could have a contagion effect,” ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said at a briefing in Frankfurt
yesterday, when presenting the bank’s semi-annual Financial
Stability Review.  Li & Fung  Li & Fung fell 3 percent to HK$14.76 in Hong Kong. The
stock, which is the worst performer in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this
year, is set for its longest streak of daily losses since at
least 1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg  “Li & Fung is a proxy company for export to the U.S.,” said
Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based fund manager at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees $41 billion, including shares in
Hong Kong-listed companies. “When people are concerned about
its economy, they tend to sell the shares. That might be one of
the factor company is under pressure.”  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the Hong Kong-based operator of
container facilities in Greece, dropped 1.2 percent to HK$13.48.
Mazda Corp., the Japanese carmaker that gets 18 percent of sales
from Europe, slid 2.5 percent to 192 yen in Tokyo.  BHP Billiton sank 2.1 percent to A$42 in Sydney. Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s second-largest mining company by sales, slid
2.1 percent to A$78.40. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1
producer of the metal, dropped 3 percent to HK$24.65 in  Hong
Kong . Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest energy explorer, decreased
3.8 percent to 565,000 yen in Tokyo.  ‘Cannot be Optimistic’  Crude oil for July delivery tumbled 4.6 percent to $94.81 a
barrel in New York yesterday, while the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six industrial metals including copper and
aluminum dropped 0.8 percent.  “The Greek issues are dragging on and we cannot be
optimistic,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $600
million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  In the U.S., a report showed manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly shrank in June, a sign the industry still
faces parts shortages following the March earthquake and tsunami
in Japan. Another report showed confidence among U.S.
homebuilders slumped in June to the lowest level in nine months
as executives turned more pessimistic on the outlook for sales.  ‘Wall Of Worry’  Toyota declined 1.7 percent to 3,195 yen in Tokyo. Samsung
Electronics slid 2 percent to 848,000 won in Seoul.  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-biggest maker of mobile
phones by sales, dropped 2.2 percent to 81,200 won.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone maker that get about
half of sales from America, tumbled 6.8 percent to NT$997 in
Taipei after UBS AG removed it from its list of preferred
technology stocks.  “There’s really a wall of worry out there at the moment,”
said Matt Riordan, who helps manage about $7 billion in Sydney
at Paradice Investment Management Pty. “It’s hard to build an
optimistic story. The one ray of hope may be the extent to which
this is a lull that’s been caused by temporary issues.”  Federal Reserve figures showed industrial production in the
U.S. rose less than forecast in May. The cost of living in the
world’s biggest economy increased more than forecast last month,
reflecting higher prices for everything from autos to hotel
rooms, another report showed.  China Tightening  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.6 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 2.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.4 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.7 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., the biggest developer in the
Southern Chinese city, slumped 3.9 percent to HK$9.65. Belle
International Holdings Ltd., China’s largest retailer of women’s
shoes by market value, dropped 2.1 percent to HK$14.88 in Hong
Kong. Fanuc Corp., an industrial robot maker that gets about 50
percent of its sales in Asia, fell 2.3 percent to 12,250 yen in
Tokyo.  An interest-rate increase in China isn’t “far away”
because not doing so would cause more harm to the economy, the
Economic Information Daily said in a front-page editorial.  An increase in bank reserve-requirements earlier this week
didn’t negate the need for an interest-rate increase, the most
“powerful weapon” to contain inflation, according to the
newspaper, which is run by the government’s Xinhua News Agency.  Lotte Shopping Co., South Korea’s biggest department-store
owner by market value, plunged 7.2 percent to 487,0000 won in
Seoul. The company plans to sell the equivalent of about $401
million in yen convertible bonds due July 2016, after exercising
an option that raised the offer from about $200 million,
according to a term sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 