-- 
Massachusetts Beats Texas as Unemployment Rises Less in Ranking

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   J e n n i f e r   P r i n c e
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/massachusetts-beats-texas-as-unemployment-rises-less-rankings.html
The  Massachusetts  labor market
deteriorated less than in  Texas  from 2008 to 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Massachusetts was the fourth most-friendly state for
employment in the period, the data show. Texas, where Republican
Governor Rick Perry has touted his state’s title as Chief
Executive magazine’s best for business, was sixth.  Governor  Deval Patrick  credited Massachusetts’s commitment
to education for the ranking. “We’ve invested in public
education at the highest level in the history of the
commonwealth, even when the bottom’s been falling out of
everything else,” the Democrat said in an interview. “It’s our
calling card around the world.”  Massachusetts has a greater percentage of residents 25 or
older who hold at least a bachelor’s degree than any other
state,  according  to the Census Bureau; Texas ranks 30th. The
 unemployment rate  among U.S. college graduates was 4.5 percent
in May, compared with 14.7 percent for those who don’t hold a
high school degree,  according  to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Perry, the longest-serving Texas governor, told a $1,000-a-
plate dinner of the New York County Republican Party in
Manhattan June 14 that the U.S. needs low taxes, reduced
spending and less regulation to end its “economic misery.”
Perry, 61, said May 27 he was “thinking about” running for
president.  Bloomberg’s ranking weighed changes in states’ employment,
their jobless rates and annual median wages. Alaska and  North
Dakota , which placed first and second, were the only states
where the number of jobs in 2010 was more than two years
earlier. Both were buoyed by their petroleum industries during
the  longest recession  since World War II, which ended in June
2009, midway through the measurement period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .
Jennifer Prince in  New York  at 
 jprince10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 