-- 
Audi’s Sleek $60,000 A7 Hatchback Gobbles Distance, Lunar Night

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/audi-s-sleek-60-000-a7-hatchback-gobbles-distance-lunar-night.html
Sleek. Few words are as overused in
describing consumer products. A superficial term often applied
to overpriced objects that turn out to be obsolete in six
months.  The new Audi A7 is sleek. Shiny and slick as well, two
other words I don’t particularly like.  Odd, then, that I deeply desire it. That’s despite -- okay,
because of -- its utter slick ‘n’ shiny sleekness. I can’t help
myself. My brain easily rebuffs the “need” for an iPad 2, but
those pleasure receptors get all tingly when presented with this
overly stylized $60,000 car.  I’m driving the A7 down a wide freeway through  New Jersey 
in the dead of night, a sliver of moon overhead. There’s almost
no traffic and the adaptive xenon headlights create a silvery
tunnel through the asphalt darkness.  The Bose stereo, quite good, is pumping. The interior is
gently lit by ambient LED lights tucked inside the door handles.
The sunroof is open and the warm outside air smells of greenery.  I could happily drive all night. I’m two states away from
my destination, but would easily go twice as far. This is what a
car like the A7 is designed for. It gobbles up distance, leaving
the occupants in crisp comfort.  Unlike some highway barges, however, its essence doesn’t
bore or lull, prodding drivers to a nearby motel for a bit of
shut-eye. Rather I constantly drop my gaze to the speedometer,
making sure my speed hasn’t crept beyond an acceptable
threshold. New Jersey’s state police are nice, but I’d prefer
not to meet them tonight.  Night Shift  The 3.0-liter V-6 isn’t loud or rough-sounding. I can’t
hear it over my selection of night-driving songs. But it is
punchy at low speeds and brilliant at a freeway pace. The
gearing is managed by an imperceptible eight-speed transmission
that acts quickly to downshift when you ask for extra power.  I drop off the freeway to an exit ramp, barely reducing my
speed. My test car has 20-inch wheels with summer performance
tires and traction is good. All-wheel-drive is standard.  I roll onto a side street, looking for gas. The A7 gets 28
miles per gallon on the highway: Not bad considering the 310
horsepower. The engine is supercharged and direct injected.  As I maneuver to the pump, I’m cursing the steering. Like
the new A8 sedan, the power-steering is electric and speed
sensitive. It feels about as organic as a block of Velveeta
cheese. Just as rubbery, too.  Loose Steering  It’s designed to turn extra easily at low speeds -- so you
don’t strain yourself with the superhuman effort of maneuvering
in a parking lot, for instance. (Yes, that’s sarcasm.) As you go
faster, the resistance gradually builds, firming by the time
you’re on the highway.  BMW uses a similar system, which doesn’t bother me. Audi
still hasn’t perfected its feel, however. It’s far too loose
when driving around town. My irritation fades as I begin pumping
gas and gaze over the sheet metal.  Audi’s A6 sedan is bigger and plusher than the A4; shorter
and less luxurious than the A8. So the A7’s odd-numbered
nomenclature kind of says it all. It doesn’t fit an elemental
function, but rather fills a quirky niche.  This is for the driver who wants to exhibit her or his
uniqueness while still showing off.  The A7 has four doors and a rear hatch. Most striking when
viewed from the side, it’s defined by a sloping roofline, which
arcs in an uninterrupted line into the trunk to form the
hatchback.  Mercedes Fastback  This “fastback” design became popular again when
Mercedes-Benz introduced its beautiful CLS sedan in 2004. Benz
has just released the second generation of that car.  The A7 has an extremely thick shoulder-line running from
the fenders to taillights, a feature that stands out nearly as
much as the shape of the roof. The extrusion, situated between
the window sill and door handles, is so prominent that I’m able
to rest a nickel on its ledge.  While the large sedan will seat only four, ceiling height
in the rear is acceptable. Folding the rear seats down flat
results in a cavern of space, into which I easily slid a
bicycle. The hatch opens and closes electronically. The downside
of the configuration is thick pillars in the rear, resulting in
a potential blind spot. Optional side sensors are $500.  Neat Navigation  My test car had the $6,330 “Prestige” package, which
includes sportier-looking bumpers, the Bose stereo and a
navigation system. The extremely thin navigation screen does a
neat trick of sliding out of the dashboard horizontally and then
righting itself.  Audi is aiming at technocrats. You can choose to view maps
in Google Earth view, and see related photos or Wikipedia
entries. The car can even function as a traveling Wi-Fi hot
spot. Strictly necessary? Not really, but real-estate agents,
Silicon Valley wunderkinds and teenagers will surely be
impressed.  Me? I’m just ready to get back inside, get up to speed and
blow through the night in my sleek ride.  The 2012 Audi A7 at a Glance  Engine: 3.0-liter supercharged V-6, with 310 horsepower and
325 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 18 city; 28 highway.  Price as tested: $68,630.  Best feature: Hatchback practicality in a fabulous package.  Worst feature: Speed-sensitive steering.  Target buyer: Those who appreciate a niche (and odd-
numbered) player.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or
follow on Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 