-- 
Australian Judge Approves $26 Million Legal Bill in Price-Fixing Case

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-16T01:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/australian-judge-approves-26-million-legal-bill-that-goes-against-norm-.html
An Australian judge approved a A$25
million ($26 million) legal bill for the lawyers who won a
record settlement in the country’s biggest price-fixing case,
saying he did so with “some hesitation,” because the costs
don’t comply with reforms to make litigation more efficient.  “This should not be regarded as the norm,” Federal Court
Judge Peter Jacobson wrote in a ruling released yesterday.
“Amounts such as these represent a barrier to the access to
justice reforms which underlie the recommendations made by the
Australian Law Reform Commission.”  Maurice Blackburn , a Melbourne-based class-action  law firm ,
won a A$95 million cartel settlement in March for customers who
sued Amcor Ltd., Australia’s biggest packaging company, and
closely held packager  Visy , for fixing prices on corrugated
fiberboard packaging. The settlement was three times higher than
the previous record set in Australia, said Bernard Murphy,
chairman of Maurice Blackburn.  Closely held Jarra Creek Central Packing Shed Ltd. led a
group of about 4,500 customers who sought to recoup overpayments
for corrugated fiberboard packaging accrued from July 2000 to
June 2009.  Amcor agreed to pay A$80 million and Visy A$40 million to
settle the case just before a trial was scheduled to start.
Jacobson approved the settlement.  The amount, including the legal fees, was almost four times
higher that the A$30.5 million  Roche Holding AG , BASF SE and
Aventis SA agreed to pay in 2006 to settle allegations they
fixed prices of animal vitamins.  Seven-Year Battle  Amcor and Visy battled the lawyers every step of the way
during the seven years it took to prepare for trial,  Ben Slade ,
a principal at Maurice Blackburn who took the case in 2004, said
in a telephone interview today. The costs incurred are a
deterrent to people seeking compensation and law firms, he said.  “I agree with the judge,” Slade said. “It’s not good for
justice.”  Slade said he spent A$9 million getting the case ready for
trial, including hiring expert economists and preparing 111
witnesses, 60 of whom he planned to call to testify.  “I stuck my neck out,” he said.  Jarra Creek hired Joseph Anthony Mazzeo, an independent
cost consultant, to examine the legal bills in the case. He
concluded  Maurice Blackburn ’s reasonable costs and disbursements
were A$26.3 million, A$1.3 million more than the firm received
under the settlement.  Contingency Basis  The judge noted there was no litigation funder in the case
and Maurice Blackburn took a risk by accepting the case on a
contingency basis, meaning the firm would be paid only if it
won.  The enormity of the costs was also explained by the
complexity of the case and “the hard fought nature,” which
required numerous hearings to be conducted, the judge said.  Jacobson said a A$1.7 million fee paid by the lawyers to
Daniel Rubinfeld, a professor of law and economics at the
 University of California , Berkley School of Law, to prepare a
report was “staggering.”  “I therefore accepted the figure of A$25 million,”
Jacobson  wrote . “I did not do so without some hesitation.”  The case is: Jarra Creek Central Packing Shed Ltd. v. Amcor
Ltd. NSD 702/2006. Federal Court of  Australia  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  