-- 
Austriamicrosystems to Buy Texas Advanced Optoelectronics to Add Sensors

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-06-16T07:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/austriamicrosystems-to-buy-texas-advanced-optoelectronics-to-add-sensors.html
Austriamicrosystems AG (AMS) , an Austrian
chipmaker, agreed to buy Texas Advanced Optoelectronic Solutions
Inc. for about $320 million to profit from demand for sensors
used in smartphones and tablet computers.  Austriamicrosystems will acquire closely held  TAOS  in a
share and cash transaction, the Unterpremstaetten-based
manufacturer said in a statement today. The company said it aims
to close the deal in eight weeks, pending regulatory approval.  “TAOS holds a strong market position as a leading, high-
volume provider to many major makers of mobile consumer
electronics worldwide,” Austriamicrosystems Chief Executive
Officer John Heugle said in the statement. “The strategic
combination of Austriamicrosystems and TAOS creates a
significant provider of advanced sensor technologies for the
attractive smartphone and tablet PC markets.”  The U.S. company, based in a Plano,  Texas , makes light and
proximity sensors for products including mobile devices and
high-definition televisions. TAOS’s sales doubled last year to
$81 million, and operating profit exceeded 30 percent of
revenue, Austriamicrosystems said.  The Austrian manufacturer had sales of 209 million euros
($296 million) and an operating margin of 13 percent last year,
according to Bloomberg data. The new unit will add to earnings
per share in the third quarter, the company said today.  Austriamicrosystems fell as much as 1.4 percent to 42.50
Swiss francs and was down 0.2 percent as of 9:40 a.m. in Zurich
trading. The stock has declined 3.9 percent this year, valuing
the company at 475 million francs ($558 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 