-- 
Australian Stock Futures Advance on U.S. Data, Easing Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-16T23:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/australian-stock-futures-advance-on-u-s-data-easing-europe-debt-concern.html
Australian stock futures rose after
a drop in U.S. jobless claims and growth in housing starts
tempered concern the recovery in the world’s biggest economy is
faltering and amid speculation Greece may avoid a default.
       James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the largest seller of home
siding in the U.S., may rise on optimism that a slowdown in that
nation’s economy is easing. American depositary receipts of
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, climbed 0.3
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Hitachi
Ltd., which makes electronic equipment and machinery, gained 0.4
percent.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent
as of 6:59 a.m. today. Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average were bid in the pre-market at 9,410 at 8:05 a.m. in
Osaka, compared with 9,411.28 at yesterday’s close. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed in Wellington  “The emerging trend to lower weekly unemployment claims in
the U.S. is an important recovery indicator for the U.S.,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at White Funds
Management Pty. in Sydney. “Should this continue to develop
favorably, U.S. demand will support Asian exports. A recovering
U.S. has the potential to drag many economies with it.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent today. In  New York  yesterday, the index rallied 0.2
percent after fewer people than expected filed claims for
 unemployment benefits  and housing starts exceeded forecasts.  Austerity Measures  In Greece, Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his
allies in parliament to back austerity measures needed to
qualify for international aid and avoid a sovereign debt default.  European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said he is “confident”  Greece  will receive the next tranche of
aid in early July, saying he has received assurances from the
 International Monetary Fund .  “We have been in very close contact with the IMF,” Rehn
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels yesterday.
“I’m confident we can conclude the review in the coming days,
by Sunday, and we can thus take the decisions on the
disbursement respectively in the two organizations, so this next
disbursement can take place in early July.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.8 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 3.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the  S&P 500 
and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 