-- 
Ex-BP Chief Tony Hayward’s Vallares Increases IPO Size to $1.9 Billion

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-06-16T14:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hayward-s-vallares-lifts-ipo-size-to-1-9-billion-ahead-of-london-trading.html
Vallares Plc raised the size of its
initial public offering to “at least” 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9
billion) from 1 billion pounds, according to terms of the offer
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Backed by former BP Plc Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , financier Nathaniel Rothschild and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. banker Julian Metherell, the investment vehicle will seek
to buy a company or asset with an enterprise value of 3 billion
to 8 billion pounds within two years, Hayward said last week.
The shares, priced at 10 pounds each, are set to start trading
in  London  tomorrow, the terms say.  “If you believe that the trend is up for commodities,
there are plenty of opportunities and Hayward surely knows about
them,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard
& Poor’s  in London. “They will provide a stepping stone for an
already successful exploration company to get into the market.”  While Vallares is looking to raise more cash than first
estimated, the share sale comes after Glencore International
Plc, the world’s largest listed commodities trader, fell by more
than 12 percent since its May 19 IPO. Vallares will stop taking
orders for shares today, four days earlier than originally
scheduled.  Edward Simpkins, a spokesman for Vallares, declined to
comment.  Modeled on Rothschild’s  Vallar Plc (VAA) , which raised 707.2
million pounds in a July IPO to buy mining and commodity assets,
Vallares will be listed on the London Stock Exchange.  “It’s no surprise there is better-than-expected demand for
this fund,” said  Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based
Brookshire Advisory and Research Inc. “Small-cap energy issuers
will have a viable alternative to spur growth in emerging
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net 
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  