-- 
Balls Urges Sales-Tax Cut to Spur Demand in British Economy

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-16T14:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/balls-urges-sales-tax-cut-to-spur-demand-in-british-economy.html
Ed Balls , the opposition  Labour
Party ’s Treasury affairs spokesman, said the U.K. needs to cut
sales taxes to spur demand and prevent the economy from tipping
back into recession.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should
“radically slow the pace of deficit reduction,” take a
“fairer” approach to spending cuts and introduce a tax on bank
bonuses to pay for a job-creation program, Balls said in a
speech in  London  today.  “By putting more money directly into people’s pockets, it
would be a boost for consumers who are feeling the squeeze from
rising prices and rising taxes,” he said. “It would give the
flatlining economy the jump-start it so urgently needs, boost
jobs and help us get the deficit down in the long term.”  The government raised value-added tax to 20 percent from
17.5 percent in January as part of a drive to eliminate a
structural deficit of almost 5 percent of economic output within
the current parliament. Balls said the push is being driven by a
political desire to begin cutting taxes before the next general
election in 2015.  With growth stagnating since September, there is a danger
Osborne’s budget-cutting plan will be self-defeating, with the
deficit remaining high as a share of the economy, Balls said.  “If the economy isn’t growing, there are fewer jobs and
fewer people in work than there should be, fewer taxes paid and
more benefits claimed which makes it progressively harder to get
the deficit down,” Balls said. He said the U.K. is following in
the path of Portugal, Greece and Ireland by cutting spending
while the economy is weak.  British  government bonds  are at risk of losing their safe-
haven status because the economy is unlikely to grow as quickly
as forecast, Morgan Stanley said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  