-- 
Bancomer Bonds Missing Rally Signals Buy to ING: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-06-16T22:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bancomer-bonds-missing-rally-signals-buy-to-ing-mexico-credit.html
Concern that Grupo Financiero  BBVA
Bancomer  SA may turn over cash to its Spanish parent has sparked
a sell-off in the lender’s bonds that’s making them attractive
to ING Groep NV and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  Yields on the Mexico City-based bank’s $1 billion of bonds
due in 2020 have risen 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage
point, this year to 6.65 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average borrowing costs for Latin
American banks dropped 27 basis points during the same period to
5.58 percent, Credit Suisse Group AG indexes show.  Speculation that  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  will
tap its Mexican unit for cash has mounted as Spanish banks
stepped up borrowing from the  European Central Bank  amid concern
 Greece  will default. Those repatriation concerns are overstated
by traders because Mexico in March cut the amount local banks
can lend to parent companies as part of an effort to safeguard
the economy from the European crisis, said Natalia Corfield, a
corporate bond analyst at ING in New York.  “Every time there is some news related to  Spain , there’s
an impact on the Bancomer notes,” Corfield said in a telephone
interview. “It’s harder for the holding companies to try to get
some sort of liquidity or capital from them. That’s a good thing
for debt investors.”  An official at BBVA Bancomer in Mexico City who asked not
to be identified declined to comment. Two phone messages and an
e-mail sent after normal business hours to  Paul Tobin , a
spokesman for BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, weren’t
returned.  Earnings Growth  While profit at BBVA Bancomer, Mexico’s biggest lender,
rose 26 percent in the first quarter to 436 million euros ($617
million), the parent’s net income fell 7.3 percent during the
same period. BBVA Bancomer’s results are reported in euros as
part of the Bilbao, Spain-based parent’s overall operations.  BBVA Bancomer’s bonds yield 265 basis points more than
similar-maturity Mexican government dollar notes, up from 178 on
Feb. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank’s
securities have returned 1.1 percent this year, compared with an
average 3.6 percent advance in Mexican corporate debt, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Standard & Poor’s rates BBVA Bancomer debt BBB, or six
steps below the parent company’s AA rating. Yields on the
parent’s euro-denominated bonds due in 2020 have fallen 20 basis
points this year to 5.42 percent.  Mexico cut the amount local banks can lend to their parent
to 25 percent from 50 percent in  March .  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
Spain’s largest bank, also owns Mexico’s fourth-biggest
financial institution, Grupo Financiero Santander SAB.  ECB Borrowing  “We’ve decided to take specific measures as to lower the
capacity of Mexican banks to lend to parent companies,” Deputy
Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York on June 3. “We have many
local banks that operate under umbrellas of broader corporation
and they do have a financial relationship.”  Spanish banks’ loans from the European Central Bank jumped
26 percent in May as growing speculation Greece will default
increased lenders’ financing costs. Spanish banks borrowed 53
billion euros from the ECB in May, up from 42 billion euros in
April, the Bank of Spain said on its website on June 14.  Stocks globally plunged yesterday and the euro slumped on
concern Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will be forced
out of office amid escalating protests over budget cuts, which
could jeopardize the austerity measures the country needs to
qualify for international aid. The yield on Greek 10-year bonds
has climbed 523 basis points this year to 17.68 percent.  Spain’s Jobless  “BBVA  Mexico  will not be providing any support for BBVA
Spain,” said Esther Chan, who helps manage $5 billion of
emerging-market assets, including BBVA Bancomer’s bonds, at
Aberdeen Asset Management in  London . “We bought the credit on
its own fundamentals.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds has increased 21 basis
points this year to 5.66 percent. The yield on Mexico’s
benchmark peso bonds due 2024 rose 14 basis points to 7.32
percent in the period.  The European debt crisis will keep hurting BBVA Bancomer’s
bonds, said Lazlo Belgrado, who helps manage 5 billion euros of
emerging-market bonds, including Bancomer notes, at KBC Asset
Management SA in Luxembourg.  “Many people are not comfortable with the Spanish banking
system in general,” Belgrado said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a Spanish credit risk whatever you look at it.”  GDP Growth  Spain, which accounts for 40 percent of BBVA’s income, has
the highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe , above 21 percent. The
country’s economy will expand 0.8 percent this year after
shrinking 0.1 percent in 2010, according to the median estimate
of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Gross domestic product in Mexico will grow as much as 5
percent this year after a 5.4 percent expansion in 2010 that was
the fastest in a decade, according to the central bank.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point to
149 at 5:42 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan. The peso
fell 0.3 percent to 11.9515 per dollar, cutting its gain this
year to 3.3 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years climbed two basis points to 112, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  ‘Very Satisfied’  Aberdeen’s Chan said she bought BBVA Bancomer’s bonds due
2020 after the bank’s management reassured her during investor
meetings in April 2010 that it wouldn’t provide aid to its
parent. Chan said she sold the 2020 notes earlier this year and
bought the bank’s 6.5 percent notes due in 2021.  “When we first met the bank’s management, we were aware
that the fact that BBVA Spain is currently operating in a very
difficult environment could affect BBVA Bancomer as a credit,”
Chan said. “After the meeting we were very satisfied. They
operate separately from the parent company. We are happy holders
of these bonds. We understand that the market probably doesn’t
understand it very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  