-- 
Bangladesh, Micronesia, EU Oppose Relaxing CO2 Project Rules

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-16T12:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bangladesh-micronesia-eu-oppose-relaxing-co2-project-rules.html
Bangladesh , Micronesia and several
nations in the European Union are opposing a relaxation of rules
governing some of the most-lucrative projects in the  United
Nations ’ emissions market, according to the  Environmental
Investigation Agency .  A UN panel known as the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and
Technological Advice met June 14 to discuss the implications of
allowing new projects that cut emissions of hydrofluorocarbon-23
into the UN’s  Clean Development Mechanism . Current CDM rules
block any HCFC-22 plant that had not operated for two years
before 2006 from claiming credits.  HFC-23 destruction projects account for more than 65
percent of the 642 million carbon credits issued to date under
the CDM. The European Union has banned their use in the third
phase, which starts in 2013, of its emissions trading system.  About seven or eight recently built HCFC-22 plants in  China 
currently release HFC-23 into the atmosphere rather than destroy
the gas, Samuel LaBudde, senior atmospheric campaigner at the
EIA, said in an interview in Bonn yesterday. The gas is a by-
product of making HCFC-22, a chemical that is mainly used in
air-conditioning units.  “The EU has made it clear that industrial gas credits
including HFC-23 have no place in the future of international
carbon markets,” LaBudde said. “When the current CDM contracts
expire, HCFC-22 producers need to assume financial
responsibility for capturing and destroying the HFC-23 waste
gases just like producers do in other parts of the world. The
subsidies to super greenhouse gas manufacturers must end.”  Non-Stick Pans  “China offered to restrict new projects to those that were
producing HCFC-22 as a feedstock,” LaBudde said. Some factories
produce the chemical for use in other products, such
polytetrafluoroethylenes, he said. That is used as a protective
coating on materials such as non-stick cooking pans.  Most of the HCFC-22 factories that aren’t already in the CDM
are those that produce the chemical as a feedstock.  So China’s
offer isn’t much of a concession, LaBudde said.  India , which
hosts five HFC-23 destruction projects, didn’t say what it
preferred, LaBudde said.  The UN panel agreed to continue the matter of allowing new
HFC-23 projects to qualify for carbon credits at its next
meeting in Durban,  South Africa  in December, according to a
draft document published yesterday.  Delegates from almost 200 countries are meeting in Bonn
this week to advance negotiations over a global climate treaty
to succeed the  Kyoto Protocol . Nations are trying to set up an
independent way to allow project developers appeal against
decisions made by the Executive Board, for example if a project
is rejected from qualifying for emissions credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in Bonn at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  