-- 
Banks Apply for Less Than Half of Small-Business Lending Fund

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-06-16T21:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/banks-apply-for-less-than-half-of-small-business-lending-fund.html
Small banks applied for less than
half of the $30 billion in capital available from a federal
program to increase small-business lending, according to the
U.S. Treasury Department.  A total of 847 banks sought $11.6 billion from the Small
Business Lending Fund by a June 6 deadline, Colleen Murray, a
Treasury spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday. Of those
applicants, 315 were seeking to use the funds to replace capital
they had received earlier from the Treasury’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program, the bailout for banks.  The SBLF was passed by Congress in September and provides
capital at subsidized  interest rates  as low as 1 percent if the
banks expand lending to small companies. The $30 billion,
available only to lenders with less than  $10 billion in assets ,
may generate as much as $300 billion in new loans, the Treasury
has said.  “This news is a mixed bag,” said Todd McCracken,
president of the National Small Business Association, a
Washington-based trade group. “This amount is not as large as
allowed but it’s a pretty good chunk of change. Small businesses
need credit and capital when they’re poised to grow, but they
don’t want to borrow until they’re in that position, and that’s
where we are.”  Banks sensed weak loan demand and appeared unwilling to try
and aggressively increase their capital until they received more
loan applications from businesses, McCracken said.  “We are very happy with the interest in the Small Business
Lending Fund and look forward to provide funding very soon,”
said Murray. “In many markets access to capital remains limited
and many banks lack the capital necessary to expand their
lending, and this program will help address this challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 