-- 
Basel Said to Weigh 3.5 Percentage-Point Fee Based on Bank Size

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/basel-is-said-to-consider-3-5-percentage-point-fee-to-curb-growth-of-banks.html
The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  is considering extra capital requirements of as much
as 3.5 percentage points that the largest banks may face if they
grow bigger, according to two people familiar with the talks.  The so-called surcharge would take the form of a boost to
capital the banks must hold and would apply to financial
institutions whose collapse would harm the global economy. A
list of such banks hasn’t been disclosed.  Draft plans circulated before a meeting next week would
subject banks to a sliding scale depending on their size and
links to other lenders, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the proposals aren’t public. Banks wouldn’t
initially face the highest surcharge, which is intended as a
deterrent to expansion, one person said. The largest banks may
face a 3 percentage point levy at their current sizes, the
person said.  Governments are split over how far to toughen bank capital
rules following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The  Federal Reserve  has backed a graduated surcharge
with a maximum of 3 percentage points, a person familiar with
the talks said last week. Financial shares fell when traders
interpreted June 3 remarks by Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo as
leaving the door open to surcharges of as much as 7 percentage
points.  U.S. stocks pared gains yesterday amid concern large banks
will need to increase reserves to comply with the proposed
regulations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2
percent to 1,267.64 after rising as much as 0.7 percent earlier
in the day.  Weaker Requirements  The figures will be discussed further at meetings next week
in Basel,  Switzerland , with some countries pushing for weaker
requirements than set out in the draft proposals, the people
said. The  Basel  committee’s press office declined to comment.  The members of the Basel group are unlikely to agree next
week on whether the surcharge should be made up purely of common
equity, which includes mainly ordinary shares and retained
earnings, or if part of it could contain so-called contingent
capital instruments, one of the people said.  Contingent capital includes securities such as CoCo bonds,
which convert to ordinary shares when a bank’s capital falls
below a predetermined level.  The Group of 20 countries has decided that banks need to
hold more capital to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts. The
requirements being discussed next week would go beyond capital
rules for internationally active lenders that were published by
the Basel committee last year. These measures, known as Basel
III, require banks to hold core capital equivalent to 7 percent
of their risk-weighted assets.  ‘Cross-Border Mergers’  The extra surcharge envisaged to limit the growth of
systemically important banks wouldn’t deter lenders from
merging,  Simon Gleeson , a financial services lawyer at Clifford
Chance LLP in  London , said in a telephone interview.  “Nobody can buy a bank without the consent of the
supervisor; for cross-border mergers the consent of both
supervisors is necessary,” said Gleeson. “If you’ve got that,
then the extra half a point on your capital is neither here nor
there.”  The Basel meeting, on June 23-24, will be followed on June
25 by a meeting of the committee’s oversight body, known as the
Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision. The group is
chaired by  Jean-Claude Trichet , the president of the  European
Central Bank .  ‘Big Issue’  The “big issue” around identifying banks that are
systemically important is that “regulators are saying that
there are institutions whose obligations we effectively
guarantee,” Gleeson said.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
finance ministry officials, regulators and central bankers from
the Group of 20 countries, tasked the Basel committee last year
with drafting the extra requirements for too-big-to-fail banks.
 Mario Draghi , the FSB’s chairman, said in April that work on the
rules would be completed in time for approval by G-20 leaders in
November. The FSB is expected to discuss the plans at a meeting
on July 18.  The capital surcharge based on some studies may range as
high as 7 percentage points above the Basel III requirements,
Tarullo said yesterday in testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee in  Washington .  He said the final figure, now under consideration by
regulators, may not be 7 percentage points and that he sees a
need to “calibrate” the number based on risks of the assets
held by the biggest banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 