-- 
Berlusconi Says He Asked ECB’s Bini Smaghi to Step Down

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-16T16:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/berlusconi-says-he-s-trying-to-convince-bini-smaghi-to-resign.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he asked European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  to quit to make way for a French
appointee.  “There is an official request from the government for Bini
Smaghi to resign,” Berlusconi told journalists after a Cabinet
meeting today. He then met with Bini Smaghi, who declined to
comment after the 10-minute meeting when he left Palazzo Chigi,
the government’s headquarters in Rome.  Berlusconi agreed with French President Nicolas Sarkozy in
an April 26 meeting in Rome to seek Bini Smaghi’s resignation in
return for France’s support for Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  to replace  Jean-Claude Trichet  as head of the ECB.
Sarkozy called for Bini Smaghi’s exit to make room for a French
appointee to the six-member ECB board and avoid having two
Italians in senior management positions at the Frankfurt-based
bank.  Bini Smaghi’s eight-year term isn’t due to end until 2013.
Draghi, whose candidacy must be approved by European Union
leaders next week in Brussels, is due to succeed Trichet in
November.  ‘Thomas More’  Bini Smaghi, 54, has resisted calls to step aside. In a
speech this morning at the Vatican in  Rome , he said ECB members
must have “personal independence, which ensures the security of
tenure of the members of the decision-making bodies for the
whole term of office.”  After declining to comment to reporters on the details of
today’s meeting with Berlusconi, Bini Smaghi said, “I have been
to the Vatican this morning and I spoke of Thomas More.”  “It is no coincidence that central bankers have adopted
Saint Thomas More as their patron saint,” he had said in the
speech. More was a scholar and statesman who was sentenced to
death in 1535 for opposing Henry VIII’s break with the Roman
Catholic Church.  Thomas More “followed his conscience, even at the cost of
displeasing the sovereign,” Bini Smaghi cited  Pope Benedict XVI 
as saying in a September speech in  London . “It may seem bold to
compare a central bank to the Church, but that is precisely what
Heinrich Mussinghoff, Bishop of Aachen, did two weeks ago in his
address on the occasion of the awarding of the Charlemagne Prize
to Jean-Claude Trichet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  