-- 
BG, Eni-Led Production Venture Said to Cede Stake to Kazakhs for Cash, Tax

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-06-16T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bg-eni-led-venture-said-to-cede-stake-to-kazakhs-for-cash-tax.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and their
partners in Kazakhstan’s second-largest oil producer are close
to ceding a 10 percent stake to the state after a build-up of
tax claims and fines, said people with knowledge of the talks.  KazMunaiGaz National Corp., the state energy company, will
pay cash for part of the stake in the Karachaganak venture, said
the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are
private. They declined to estimate the cost of the stake.  The partners will also cede an interest to offset
outstanding claims, said one of the people, specifying only that
it would be small. Kazakhstan aims to get 5 percent for cash at
a market price and the other 5 percent without payment, the
other person told reporters in Astana. Karachaganak produced the
equivalent of about 360,000 barrels a day in 2010, according to
the  project’s website .  Karachaganak Petroleum Operating BV, or KPO, is the only
major oil project in  Kazakhstan  without state participation. The
BG- and Eni-led venture has been in talks on ceding a minority
stake since 2009 after the government began piling up demands
for back taxes and fines.  “We are in talks on a range of issues regarding
Karachaganak and KPO, the joint venture, as all the partners
are,”  Neil Burrows , a spokesman at Reading, England-based BG,
said today by phone. He declined to give any further comment.  Boost Revenue  The government has been seeking to boost oil revenue from
projects run under so-called production sharing agreements,
which give investors the right to recoup part of their spending
before the state gets a share of output. In 2008, Eni, Exxon
Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA agreed to cede a
larger share in Kashagan, one of the world’s biggest oil fields,
to KazMunaiGaz and pay higher royalties after government
criticism of cost overruns and delays.  The Karachaganak partners will probably sign a memorandum
of understanding soon and a final accord this fall, one of the
people said. Kazakhstan may cancel some claims against the
venture, the person said, adding that taxes must be paid.  “We believe that the outcome here is achievable in the
course of 2011,” BG Chief Executive Officer  Frank Chapman  said
on May 10.  An Eni spokesman based in Milan didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment. Abzal Nurkasymov, an Astana-based spokesman for
Kazakhstan’s oil and gas ministry declined to comment.  BG and Eni are the largest shareholders in Karachaganak,
each holding 32.5 percent, while  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has 20 percent
and Moscow-based OAO Lukoil holds 15 percent.  Kazakhstan’s government has claimed at least $2.5 billion
from KPO for back taxes, “illegal earnings,” fines and
environmental violations, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in April last year.  Reaffirm Commitment  The partners asked the Kazakh government to start approving
the costs for future expansion and to reaffirm its commitment to
the production sharing agreement, one of the people said. They
proposed starting the approval process for a three-year spending
plan instead of the whole phase-three expansion of the project,
the person said.  Kazakhstan will refuse to approve Karachaganak’s next
expansion phase until the BG and Eni-led partners agree to cede
a stake to the government, Mynbayev said May 18. Kazakhstan
expects the venture to decide on the third-phase expansion at a
cost of $14.5 billion, KazMunaiGaz said in February.  The state and the venture partners agreed on a cost-control
mechanism, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  