-- 
MBIA Hid Potential Losses From New York Insurance Regulator, Banks Allege

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-06-17T14:33:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/mbia-hid-potential-losses-from-new-york-insurance-regulator-banks-allege.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  hid potential losses of as
much as $950 million on commercial real estate debt as it sought
New York regulators’ approval to restructure its insurance
business in 2008, banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  claimed in court papers.  New York insurance regulators were given an internal
presentation that included “manual overrides” of loan data
that dropped potential losses from the debt to zero, the banks
said in a brief that was filed in redacted form in March and
unsealed yesterday in state court in  Manhattan . A manual
override is the review of an individual loan to adjust loss
estimates.  When making its case to the regulators, MBIA, once the
world’s biggest bond insurer, deleted parts of a presentation
originally given in November 2008 to the company board’s credit
risk committee, the banks said. Those deletions showed that in a
“more stressful economic environment” the insurer could have
losses from the debt of as much as $950 million, according to
the banks’ court papers.  The banks’ claim is “absolutely false” and regulators
were told of both the overrides and the impact they had on loss
projections,  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA, said in an
interview yesterday. David Neustadt, a spokesman for the state
insurance department, declined to comment.  “The evidence is clear and unequivocal that all of the
issues with respect to these overrides were clearly and
unequivocally communicated to the insurance department, and the
insurance department acknowledges that,” Kasowitz said. “It
was not just disclosed, but it was discussed.”  Split Approved  Eric Dinallo , then the state’s insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing Armonk, New York-based MBIA
to move its guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the
unit that insured some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.  Bank of America, UBS and other institutions sued MBIA and
the state under  New York ’s Article 78, which allows court review
of administrative decisions. The banks say the restructuring
allowed MBIA to move $5 billion from the company’s MBIA
Insurance Corp. unit into a new insurer in a bid to revive its
business of guaranteeing state and municipal debt, leaving the
old insurer insolvent.  The approval was based on a “rushed, cursory and
inadequate” review of facts and on assumptions that at times
were outdated and inflated, the banks claimed in the March
filing.  MBIA Presentation  The presentation MBIA made to the state in November 2008
did disclose that its analysis included overrides to its loss
model, adjusting loss expectations for loans that were more than
$100 million. Loans of such size historically defaulted less
frequently and with less severity, MBIA said in the
presentation, according to a copy included in the banks’ court
filings.  What wasn’t in the documents presented to the state were
estimates previously made to MBIA’s credit risk committee of
what losses could be without the adjustments in a stressed
economic environment, according to the documents in the banks’
filing. MBIA defined such an environment as including
unemployment of 9 percent and a “severe prolonged recession.”  “If a more stressful economic environment ensues,” MBIA
executives said in the documents presented to the risk
committee, “material erosion to MBIA’s positions will occur and
depending on large loan performance, losses to MBIA could range
from $0-$950 million.” That passage doesn’t appear in the
documents that the banks say were shown to regulators.  Kasowitz said a trial is expected in early 2012.  “We’re completely confident that the proceeding is going
to uphold and approve the determination of the superintendent of
insurance in approving the transformation,” he said.  The Article 78 case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-
2009, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 