-- 
Debt Cutting Talks Focus on Pensions, Agriculture

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/biden-focusing-on-military-pensions-agriculture-in-debt-reduction-talks.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  is focusing
on possible spending cuts for military and federal workers’
pensions and programs including agriculture on the third day of
bipartisan debt-reduction talks this week, said Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , who is part of the discussions.  Such mandatory non-health spending, which Van Hollen said
was on today’s agenda, accounts for about 12 percent of the
federal budget, underscoring the difficulty of cutting trillions
of dollars over the next 10 years. Republicans are insisting on
such savings in exchange for their votes to increase the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Democrats say major changes to Medicare, the long-term
driver of the debt, are off the table, while Republicans have
dug in against tax increases. Steve Bell, a onetime budget aide
to Republican  former Senator Pete Domenici of  New Mexico , said
the federal debt is projected to rise to $23 trillion over the
next 10 years, diluting the effect of even a $2 trillion
spending-cut deal.  “You are taking off the table the single biggest drivers
of our future problems in the fiscal realm,” said Bell, whose
boss was budget committee during part of his Senate tenure. “It
will have made no changes in the underlying structural, fiscal
problems that we face.”  Biden and six House and Senate lawmakers -- including Van
Hollen, a Maryland Democrat -- are picking up the pace of their
talks to try to reach an agreement well in advance of an Aug. 2
deadline when the Treasury Department projects the government
risks defaulting on its debt.  Discretionary Accounts  Bell is senior director of the economic policy project at
the  Bipartisan Policy Center  in  Washington , which seeks to
develop proposals that both parties can support. His group
estimates that the Biden group may find $600 billion over 10
years in domestic discretionary accounts, including spending on
education, highways and foreign aid.  Cutting so-called mandatory spending outside of health
care, the focus of the Biden group today, could save an
additional $100 billion over 10 years, Bell’s group estimates.  Over the next 10 years, spending on federal civilian and
military retirement is projected to be $1.6 trillion and
agriculture is $152.7 billion, according to the group. It said
spending on Social Security will be $9.9 trillion and Medicare
will be $7.7 trillion.  According to an analysis by the nonpartisan  Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget  in Washington, there are areas of
overlap in debt-reduction plans proposed by  House Republicans 
and the White House, meaning they are likely to be included in
any debt deal.  Student Loans   These include: eliminating some interest subsidies on
student loans, which could save $20 billion to $65 billion over
10 years; changing the way the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp.
collects fees, to save $5 billion to $10 billion; selling excess
federal property for $10 billion to $15 billion; and reducing
health-care fraud and overpayments, at $10 billion to $35
billion.  Even with these savings, achieving $2 trillion over 10
years remains elusive, said Ed Lorenzen, senior adviser at the
committee. “If you’re not dealing with the health entitlements
in a significant way or adding in revenues, it’s going to be
hard to come up with a big number,” he said.  That’s where a budget process agreement, intended to commit
lawmakers to future cuts, becomes important, according to
Lorenzen and Bell.  Ethanol Subsidies  While Republicans have said they won’t accept revenue
increases, 33 party members voted with Senate Democrats today in
favor of eliminating a tax credit and a tariff that subsidize
ethanol production.  Van Hollen  called the vote a “good sign” that showed
“people are willing to close special-interest corporate
loopholes for the purpose of deficit reduction. And the same
argument applies to oil and gas subsidies.”  Yesterday, debt talks focused on spending restraint
mechanisms, including spending caps to control the deficit. A
congressional aide close to the negotiations said Republicans
are pushing for a 10-year cap on discretionary spending as well
as an overall deficit cap, most likely based on a percentage of
gross domestic product.  The two sides disagree on how to enforce such a cap.
Republicans support automatic spending cuts and Democrats insist
on a mix of spending cuts and higher revenue, including by
phasing out some corporate tax breaks, Van Hollen said
yesterday. Without new revenue, the government would have to
make deep cuts in social programs, Democrats say.  Medicare, Medicaid  Spending on Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, which
accounted for 40 percent of President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2012
budget, is largely off limits. Democrats made clear from the
beginning of the talks that Social Security is not driving the
deficit and shouldn’t be targeted in a budget-cutting plan.
Democrats say Medicare benefit cuts are also off the table.  “We will continue to look for waste and fraud, for
duplication and inefficiency in the system,” Democratic Senator
Chuck Schumer of  New York  said at a June 14 news conference.
“But we will not go along with any cuts to beneficiaries.”  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said today he is concerned the Biden group
won’t adequately address the entitlements driving the
government’s long-term debt.  Conrad said he is concerned it will devise a plan “that
doesn’t fundamentally change the trajectory of our debt but just
gets by this debt-limit vote.” He said, “That would be a real
missed opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  