-- 
Billionaire-Led Indian Drugmaker’s Vaccine Beats Glaxo in Study

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/billionaire-led-drugmaker-s-50-cent-vaccine-beats-glaxo-s-version-in-study.html
A vaccine developed by  Serum
Institute of India Ltd. , led by billionaire Cyrus Poonawalla,
was better at protecting people from a strain of meningitis in
sub-Saharan  Africa  than older products from companies including
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , researchers said.  About 600 children under two years old were given the
vaccines and their immunity levels tested four weeks and 10
months after the inoculation. More than 96 percent of those who
received Serum’s  MenAfriVac  had high levels of antibodies in
their blood after four weeks, compared with 64 percent in the
group that got Glaxo’s Mencevax Acwy, scientists wrote in a
paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine today.  The vaccine could prevent about 150,000 deaths by 2020,
lead author  Marie-Pierre Preziosi  said in a telephone interview.
Since 1988, more than a million people in Africa have been
infected by the disease, which causes mental retardation and
permanent deafness and can be fatal within hours if untreated,
according to the  World Health Organization .  “For more than a century, these African countries have
been suffering because of this huge and devastating epidemic,”
Preziosi, who heads the  unit  responsible for clinical
development of a meningitis vaccine at the WHO, said from her
Geneva office on June 14. “We now have a tool that has the
potential to eliminate meningitis epidemics from Africa.”  Poonawalla, who founded Serum in 1966, had $2 billion in
assets, making him India’s 31st richest person, Forbes magazine
 said  last year. A Poonawalla company and closely held Serum
respectively own 0.5 percent and 10.1 percent of New Delhi-based
 Panacea Biotec Ltd. (PNCB) , the world’s biggest maker of polio
vaccines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Burkina Faso   In 2010, Burkina Faso became the first nation to offer the
vaccine, which costs 50 cents a dose and was developed with
funding from the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , to all
citizens below 30. There have been four confirmed cases this
year, the lowest-ever incidence in the nation’s history,
Preziosi said. Last year, there were 66 confirmed cases of
meningitis caused by the A strain, which is responsible for
almost 85 percent of cases in Africa, she said.  The first study referred to in the paper took place between
2006 and 2007, and data from toddlers in  Mali  and Gambia was
examined. Most participants received a primary shot and a
booster dose 10 months later. Blood tests taken before and after
inoculations assessed the concentration of antibodies that
protect against disease-causing germs.  The second study was of 900 people from 2 to 29 years of
age and they received a single dose. Antibody levels were tested
four weeks later.  ‘Meningitis Belt’  A region in sub-Saharan Africa comprising 25 countries from
 Senegal  in the west to  Ethiopia  in the east is called the
“ meningitis belt ” because more than 90 percent of all cases
occur there, according to the Geneva-based WHO. Nearly 25,000
people died and 10 times as many were infected in the  worst-ever 
epidemic in 1996 and 1997.  Meningococcal disease is an infection of the membrane
surrounding the brain and spine. It is transmitted when a
passerby inhales germs released when an infected person coughs
or sneezes.  Older vaccines including Mencevax and Sanofi’s Menomune
belong to a category of inoculants called polysaccharide
vaccines, which contain a portion of the outer shell of the
disease-causing bacterium. Immunity is developed when the body
produces antibodies after being exposed to a small chunk of the
pathogen’s external shell, which is made of sugars that are also
known as polysaccharides.  Four Strains  Mencevax and Menomune offer protection from all four
strains of the bacteria, A, C, Y and W-135, and are consequently
more expensive,  Prasad Kulkarni , additional medical director at
Serum, said in a telephone interview from Pune, western  India .  Serum’s product is a so-called  conjugate , in which the
polysaccharide shell is combined with a protein carrier, a
process that confers immunity from the disease for up to 20
years, Kulkarni said. It only protects against the most
prevalent A strain.  About 20 million people in sub-Saharan Africa have received
the Serum vaccine to date. Another 45 million people from Mali,
 Niger  and three other countries will be inoculated by December,
WHO’s Preziosi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  