-- 
Boeing Pitches Patience in Paris as Airbus Pushes A320Neo Jet

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/boeing-pitches-patience-in-paris-as-airbus-pushes-a320neo-jet.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is coming to this year’s
air show in Paris, the home turf of market leader Airbus SAS,
with a pitch that customers may struggle to swallow: be patient.  The U.S. manufacturer is still mulling whether to upgrade
its 737, the most widely flown airliner, or offer a new single-
aisle model for the largest segment of the civil jet industry.
Airbus, by contrast, will use the event to advance the initial
success of its refreshed A320neo, for which it has secured 434
orders or commitments ahead of planned introduction in 2015.  Boeing’s next move will shape the narrow-body market for
decades as rivals in  China ,  Russia ,  Canada  and  Brazil  attack its
duopoly with Airbus. Any decision will ripple to other programs
because resources spent on one aircraft won’t be available for
others. That gives Airbus a shot at using its new A350 to usurp
Boeing’s dominance in wide-body planes.  “Boeing is under some pressure, but it’s not going to
rush,” said  Paul Edwards , managing director for aerospace and
defense at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “They are
losing some orders at the moment but they need to get the
decision right because when they do build a new plane it’s going
to be around for the next 20, 25, even 30 years.”  With a price exceeding the current model by about $6
million, the A320neo will offer a choice of two new engines, and
promises operating savings of as much as 15 percent. That’s
attracting airlines at a time when fuel prices often account for
30 percent of their costs.  Potential Orders  Asian discount carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Air France SA and Lan
of  Chile  are among companies that may place orders at the show,
which starts on June 20 at the Le Bourget airfield outside
Paris. Yesterday, Airbus won 102 A320neo orders from Go Airlines
( India ) Ltd. and Philippine budget carrier Cebu Pacific.  Last year at the Farnborough Air Show, which alternates
with Paris, Airbus picked up 130 firm orders worth $13 billion,
and Boeing secured 103 valued at $10 billion.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s
CSeries, a jet with 110 to 145 seats aimed at single-aisle
customers and slated to enter service in 2013, won none.  The initial success of the aircraft has helped lift the
stock of Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
which has gained 24 percent so far this year. Boeing has
advanced 14 percent in the same period.  Airbus is offering either  Pratt & Whitney ’s geared turbofan
engines or the Leap-X by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s
CFM venture for the A320neo. CFM’s Leap-X incorporates new
materials in the engine’s hot-section, or core, to cut fuel
consumption, while Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan uses a gear
to slow the outer fan, adding efficency and reducing noise.  ‘More Revolutionary’  Making the engine switch may prove harder for Chicago-based
Boeing because its 737 sits closer to the ground, requiring more
modifications to the wing box and landing gear. Airbus has said
it won’t alter the A320neo beyond fixes needed for the engines.  “Boeing is going to be forced to build a new airplane, a
new 737,”  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Chief Financial Officer
Greg Hayes said during a presentation to investors at a Deutsche
Bank AG conference in  New York  yesterday. “The pressure from
customers is going to force Boeing to do something now rather
than later and I think it’s going to be a new aircraft.”  Customers are willing to wait for “something more
revolutionary,” said  Jim Albaugh , Boeing’s head of commercial
aircraft. “We want to make sure we totally understand what a
new small plane would look like” before committing either way.  Delayed Decision  “If they take too long they lose the momentum,” said
German Efromovich, chairman of Colombian carrier Avianca Taca
Holding SA, which is shopping for 50 to 100 single-aisle planes
by yearend. “If there is a manufacturer out there offering
aircraft that are 15 percent more efficient than the
competition, then Boeing should move fast, otherwise they’ll
lose their opportunity.”  The European manufacturer unveiled the decision for the
A32neo at the end of last year. Airbus said the jet will offer
customers a viable alternative for the next decade before engine
technologies advance sufficiently to justify a brand new design.
By the end of the show, Airbus seeks to boost the A320neo’s
order total past 500. The company is also optimistic it can sway
existing Boeing customers to jump ship.  Boeing had also sought to determine its options for the 737
in 2010. The year ended without a decision, and Boeing said in
March that it would provide an update by June. Last month, Chief
Executive Officer Jim McNerney said the choice may not come
until early 2012, because engineers are still validating ideas.  Lessons Learned  Airbus has said technology leaps to justify a new design
won’t arrive until 2025 or even 2030. By then, Boeing predicts
the single-aisle market will comprise 70 percent of the total,
according to the company’s latest forecast unveiled yesterday.  Both companies learned their lessons from stretching
resources too thin. Boeing is more than three years behind
schedule on its 787 wide-body jet, and the latest upgrade of its
747 jumbo is close to two years behind target. Both aircraft
will make an appearance at the show, as will Airbus’s A380 and
A400M military transport. Airbus was three years behind on its
A380 super-jumbo, and the A400M has also been delayed.  Neither Boeing nor Airbus can afford a misstep in the
narrow-body segment, which will make up the bulk of the $4
trillion market over the next 20 years and earns most of profit
that the companies can pour into other programs. Both Airbus and
Boeing are increasing production rates of their single-aisle
jets to keep up with demand in a recovering air-travel industry.  Customer Pressure  The success of single-aisle jets has helped fund
development of larger aircraft. While representing less than a
third of planes shipped, twin-aisle aircraft comprise about half
the value, as such planes are often priced at triple or more the
price of single-aisle aircraft.  Executives at Boeing say they’d prefer to harness the
technology and lessons learned from the development of the
composite-plastic 787 Dreamliner and build a whole new model
that would be 20 percent more efficient than the 737. That may
mean a longer wait for clients, and a short-term upper hand for
Airbus as the A320neo wins followers in Paris and beyond.  “The industry needs innovation, not improvement around the
margins on an existing product,” said Mike Van de Ven, the
chief operating officer for  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  “What we’re
asking Boeing to do is put their card on the table and show us,
how are you going to have a product that’s competitive?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel  at    bkammel@bloomberg.net  