-- 
Bolzan Plans Biodiesel Plant to Meet World’s Highest Blend Rate

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-16T19:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bolzan-plans-biodiesel-plant-to-meet-world-s-highest-blend-rate.html
Grupo Bolzan , an Argentine
agriculture company, is building its second biodiesel refinery
as the country prepares to implement the world’s highest
blending rate for the amount of the renewable fuel mixed into
standard diesel.  The refinery will be able to produce 60 million liters (16
million gallons) a year, the Aldea Maria Luisa-based company’s
Commercial Director Matias Bolzan, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Argentina  requires distributors to sell a diesel blend that
is 7 percent biodiesel, matching Germany and France for the
world’s highest rate. The country said last year it would raise
that to 10 percent, which will drive up demand, though it has
not said when the change will take effect.  “The government is waiting to see the effect the 7 percent
blend has on engines,” Bolzan said. “I don’t see any reason
why they won’t go ahead with” the increase later this year.  Bolzan said his company is already using 100 percent
biodiesel to fuel its heavy vehicles and hasn’t had any
mechanical problems. “The newer the motor, the better it
works,” he said.  Only  Colombia  has called for a 10 percent biodiesel blend,
and distributors aren’t complying with the policy, Carlos St.
James, managing director at the Buenos Aires-based renewable
energy consulting firm Santiago & Sinclair LLC, said today in an
interview.  Post-Election Increase  “I wouldn’t be surprised if” the blend increase “happens
later this year,” after presidential elections in October, he
said. “It will stay at 10 percent for a while before there’s
talk of increasing it further.”  Bolzan will produce biodiesel from  soybean oil  and is
seeking loans to finance the project from Banco de Inversion y
Comercio Exterior SA and Nuevo Banco De Entre Rios SA. The $8
million plant is expected to go into operation in the middle of
next year, he said. The company has a smaller biodiesel refinery
in Aldea Maria Luisa, in Entre Rios province.  Argentina is the world’s fourth-largest producer of
biodiesel after  France , Germany and  Brazil , St. James said. It
consumed 800,000 tons of the fuel last year and exported 1.2
million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  