-- 
Branson’s Red Stiletto Handouts Complicate Virgin Atlantic’s Investor Hunt

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-17T18:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/branson-s-red-stiletto-handouts-complicate-virgin-atlantic-s-investor-hunt.html
Richard Branson  doesn’t like to cut
corners or budgets where his airlines are concerned.  Visiting Chicago on May 25 for Virgin America Inc.’s first
flight there, the billionaire handed travel vouchers to people
riding a train from the airport. At a party later he offered to
write a check to fund a flight attendant’s request for red
stilettos for female members of the carrier’s 500 cabin staff.  Branson’s sense of theater, combined with a love of flying
that suffuses his latest book, ‘Reach for the Skies,’ set Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. apart when it was founded in 1984. That
same yen for doing things differently may thwart a bid to win
allies and investment for a company that’s becoming isolated
among fast-consolidating rivals matching Virgin’s service
standards without endorsing his approach to business.  “Richard has never been a believer in being the biggest in
the sector but in always trying to be among the best,” said
Will Whitehorn, Branson’s right-hand man at a variety of Virgin
Group companies for more than 20 years. “Virgin Atlantic has
always been close to his heart. Other CEOs are interested in the
aviation business, but Richard is interested in aviation.”  Branson’s commitment to flying was put to its sternest test
when he took on British Airways at  London  Heathrow airport, and
it was BA that prompted Virgin’s current search for partners by
coordinating trans-Atlantic services with  American Airlines  and
bulking up through a merger with  Spain ’s Iberia.  Keeping Control  Branson hired Deutsche Bank AG to review alliance options
last year and is still considering what best to do, he said
yesterday in an interview in Miami while celebrating the 25th
anniversary of Virgin Atlantic’s second route.  Branson said he’s had approaches from alliances and would
probably “sell a few shares” from his 51 percent stake in the
carrier to facilitate joining one, though he would prefer a
reduction in the 49 percent held by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   “Virgin Atlantic was very much my baby and now she’s a
very beautiful young lady,” Branson said, adding that he
watched the carrier grow alongside his own daughter. “I will
always remain a major shareholder in this airline.”  Branson’s attachment to Virgin Atlantic means he will
struggle to relinquish enough control to attract partners and
investment, with potential allies seeing at least as much value
in the airline’s operating slots at Heathrow as the brand and
its founder’s “avant-garde” approach, said Laurie Price,
director of aviation strategy at Mott MacDonald Group Ltd. in
Croydon,  England .  Small Beginnings  Branson made his name through  Virgin Records , signing the
Sex Pistols and reaping chart success through acts including
Culture Club and The Human League. But it was into aviation that
he plowed his first fortune, founding Virgin Atlantic with a
single leased Boeing Co. 747 operating between London’s Gatwick
airport and  Newark  in  New Jersey .  As the music business blossomed, Branson’s personal trials
in travelling the world to visit his record labels quickly
convinced him that there was scope for many more such services.  “I didn’t really like the experience of flying,” he said
in Miami. “You were lucky if you got a lump of chicken dumped
in your lap, there were no entertainment systems, the crews
didn’t smile and it just wasn’t much fun.”  Branson went out of his way to put fun at the heart of his
pitch. Virgin Atlantic lured passengers with in-flight massage,
motorcycle pickups at their homes and speedboat trips down the
River Thames to avoid London’s traffic, while premium lounges,
dubbed  Clubhouses  and styled somewhere between a golf resort and
U.S. country club, featured putting greens, hairdressers and
shoe-shine booths, as well as the more usual business amenities.  ‘Cattle’  “If you go back to what it was like before Virgin Atlantic
started, the experience for people flying was dreadful,” the
entrepreneur said. “People were treated like cattle and Virgin
came in and brought some excitement and glamour back to flying.”  The carrier’s inaugural flights became the stuff of
industry legend as Branson breezed through city after city with
high-impact publicity campaigns that saw him take over a casino
in  Las Vegas , star in the Jerry Springer Show in  Chicago  and
dangle from a helicopter above the Sydney Harbor Bridge.  Even yesterday, aged 60, the Englishman arrived at a press
party via a speedboat chase themed after TV show Miami Vice and
featuring Victoria’s Secret supermodel Karolina Kurkova.  The headache for Branson is that such frills don’t come
cheap, and with Heathrow slots tough to come by he’s struggling
to add business-oriented routes that turn the biggest profit.  Second Tier  Virgin Atlantic operates 31 services from London, and while
10 are in the premium U.S. market and account for 50 percent of
revenue, many of the newest have been to vacation destinations
such as Jamaica and -- announced yesterday -- Cancun in  Mexico ,
often served from the less crowded, and less popular, Gatwick.  What’s more, many of Branson’s long-haul rivals have closed
the gap with Virgin in terms of standards, offering a cabin
product that may not feature the same quirky style but which
meets the needs of most business travelers just as well.  Assessed in terms of service quality, Virgin Atlantic ranks
in the second tier in the most recent survey by airline-review
firm SkyTrax, alongside 30 rivals including British Airways, Air
France,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Dubai-based Emirates.  While that places the Branson flagship ahead of operators
such as American Airlines,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United
Airlines , it ranks behind seven “five-star” carriers, six of
which -- including Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific -- are
based in  Asia , with one, Qatar Airways Ltd., from the Mid-East.  BA Suit  Cosying up to the airline establishment might also rankle
because Branson has always viewed himself as an outsider,
identifying more with long-haul discount pioneer Freddie Laker,
whose airline went bust in 1982 after a trans-Atlantic price
war, than other industry leaders, Mott MacDonald’s Price said.  Branson said yesterday that his airline’s standing as a
“challenger brand,” has been emphasized by the tie-up between
British Airways and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American, a move that the
entrepreneur says is effectively a merger of the two airlines.  Virgin Atlantic’s underdog status was enhanced by a
successful lawsuit against BA in 1993 which led the larger
carrier to apologize for “regrettable conduct in relation to
Virgin” spanning a “number of unconnected incidents.”  Whitehorn, most recently chairman of the Virgin Galactic
space-launch venture before stepping down in January, said the
experience was important in hardening Branson’s resolve.  “The fact that a company so powerful in the industry, a
former state-owned carrier, undertook the kind of activities
that it did to try and put Richard out of business made him very
determined,” he said “They’d have been better off ignoring him.”  No More Motorbikes  Still, just as other carriers have reinvented themselves to
match or surpass Virgin’s cabin offering, the U.K. airline has
itself been “normalizing over time” and is no longer so very
different from its peers, said Price, who as a route-planning
manager at British Caledonian, now part of BA, recalls tussling
with Branson in the early 1980s over access to  North America .  Frills such as the motorcycle pick-ups were discontinued,
and there is now “not a cigarette paper” between fares at
British Airways and Virgin,” the analyst said.  Virgin Atlantic had a net loss of 125.2 million pounds
($202 million) in the 12 months ended Feb. 28, 2010, the most
recent period for which figures are available, versus a 36
million-pound year-earlier profit. Sales fell 11 percent to 1.98
billion pounds.  ‘New Dynamic’  With most top airlines signed up to three global groupings,
carriers in the U.S. and  Europe  consolidating and an Open Skies
accord opening Heathrow to new entrants, the pact between BA and
American was the tipping point that forced Branson to review his
long-cherished independence, Yves Dufresne, vice president of
alliances at Air Canada, said in an interview.  Carriers such as Emirates and Qatar Air still stand aloof
from alliances but have the resources of whole countries behind
them. At Heathrow, Delta operates 10 flights a day to the U.S.,
having been excluded from the airport before 2008, while BA and
American are commencing a trans-Atlantic shuttle with flights
from London to  New York  every hour in the afternoon and evening.  “Virgin’s situation is very different from five or six
years ago,” said Dufresne, who spoke in Barcelona on June 2
after a meeting of the Star Alliance’s 27 members. “They have to
face a new dynamic in the U.S., their bread-and-butter market.”  ‘Shopping’  Joining an alliance would provide more customers to help
Virgin fill seats in London while providing better connectivity
at destination cities, Jaan Albrecht, CEO of the Star grouping,
which also includes Lufthansa and United, said in Barcelona.  “We know that Virgin is shopping,” Albrecht said. “We
have been in a dialogue. Not currently, but over a longer period
of time, we have tried to explain our strategy.”  SkyTeam, led by Delta and  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, also
regards Virgin Atlantic as “an interesting option,” given its
position in the U.S.-U.K. market,” Managing Director Michael Wisbrun said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  “Virgin has a major position at Heathrow built up over 20
years, plus a good brand and a good reputation, so it’s a not
unattractive proposition,” Price said. “There is an opportunity
here, but at the end of the day it’s down to Richard Branson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  