-- 
Branson ‘Would Look’ at Buying More Than 600 Lloyds Branches

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-16T16:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/branson-would-look-at-buying-more-than-600-lloyds-branches.html
Richard Branson , founder of Virgin
Group Ltd., said he “would look” at buying extra  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches, though he is now focused on the 600
outlets and Northern Rock Plc.  “Six hundred is what we’re looking at, and we want to get
on and concentrate on that,” Branson said in an interview in
Miami today. “If another 200 came up later, we would have a
look, but I think we can create a good fifth or sixth bank in
the U.K. with those 600 branches. If we can get Northern Rock as
well, we can be a good competitor to the big banks.”  European Union  regulators told Lloyds 18 months ago to sell
at least 600 outlets by November 2013 after the London-based
bank received more than 20 billion pounds ($32.3 billion) of
taxpayer aid following the 2008 financial crisis. Branson is
seeking to expand his Virgin Money operation in the U.K., which
has about 3 million customers.  The British government-appointed Independent Commission on
Banking proposed in April that the bank sell “substantially”
more than the 600 outlets. Lloyds Chairman Win Bischoff said
that the sale of “even one branch more” than 600 wasn’t part
of the U.K.-EU deal.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last night
it was time to sell Northern Rock, nationalized in 2008 after
suffering the first run on a U.K. bank in more than a century.  “We’ve put aside some millions of pounds to look at both
Northern Rock and Lloyds and decide whether the price is
right,” Branson said. “We have people willing to fund it. We
will look at it over the next few weeks. The process is quite
quick, so there’s a lot of hard work going on.”  The branches account for about 5 percent of the U.K.
checking-account market, Lloyds said in March. Lloyds hired
Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to oversee the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch at   gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  