-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise on Central Bank Minutes; Real Drops

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/brazil-rate-futures-rise-on-central-bank-minutes-real-drops.html
Yields on  Brazil ’s interest-rate
futures contracts climbed after policy makers said they needed
to remain “especially vigilant” in controlling inflation.  The yield on the contract due in January 2012, the most
traded today in  Sao Paulo , increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 12.39 percent. Yields on the contracts due
in January 2013 climbed three basis points to 12.47 percent.  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.6029 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time, from 1.6002 yesterday.  Brazil’s central bank said its current strategy of
adjusting monetary conditions over a “sufficiently long
period” continues to be adequate, according to the minutes of
the bank’s June 7-8 meeting released today. While policy makers
said that the inflation outlook is showing “more favorable
signs,” there remains “higher than usual levels of
uncertainty” that requires them to stay “especially
vigilant.” Policy makers last week raised the benchmark lending
rate 25 basis points to 12.25 percent.  “It’s a bit of an adjustment,”  Pedro Tuesta , a
Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc, said by
phone. “The market feels that the central bank hasn’t moved to
any dovish position and therefore they’re adjusting their bets
on the 25 basis points for July.”  Yields on the interest-rate futures indicate that traders
anticipate policy makers will increase the benchmark Selic rate
by an additional 25 basis points during their July meeting,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There had been an expectation that the central bank minutes
wouldn’t include the “sufficiently long period” language, said
Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil
SA. The yields rose because “that didn’t happen,” Folchini
said by phone.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 6.55 percent in the year through May,
exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s target range
for a second straight month. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The real weakened as speculation grew that the Greek debt
crisis is worsening, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his allies
in parliament to back his austerity plans that aim to stave off
the euro region’s first default. Police used tear gas to break
up protests in central  Athens  last night.  Twenty of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg weakened against the dollar.  “ Risk aversion  has increased significantly, so emerging
markets are uniformly falling,” Tuesta said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  