-- 
Brazil Central Bank Signaling More Rate Increases Even as Inflation Slows

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-06-16T16:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/brazil-central-bank-signals-more-rate-increases-even-as-inflation-slows.html
Brazil ’s central bank said it will
continue with its strategy of raising  interest rates  for a
“sufficiently long” period even as the country’s inflation
outlook shows signs of improving. Yields rose.  Policy makers raised the benchmark Selic target rate by a
quarter point to 12.25 percent on June 8, continuing a strategy
they began in April of tightening policy at a slower pace than
earlier in the year.  While policy makers said that the inflation outlook is
showing “more favorable signs” there remains “higher than
usual levels of uncertainty” that requires them to remain
“especially vigilant.”  “The Copom understands that the adjustment of monetary
conditions for a sufficiently long period continues to be the
most-adequate strategy to guarantee convergence of inflation to
the target in 2012,” the bank said.  Yields rose, as traders increased bets that policy makers
will continue to raise borrowing costs, said  Vladimir
Caramaschi , chief economist of  Credit Agricole ’s Brazilian unit.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012, the most-traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.4 percent at 11:39 a.m.
New York time. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.6084 per  U.S.
dollar .  “The consensus is that they will raise rates at least one
more time,” Caramaschi said, speaking by phone from Sao Paulo.
“The tone was tougher than expected.”  More Rate Increases  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has raised the
Selic by 1.5 percentage points in 2011, and traders are betting
on a further 0.50 percentage point of increases this year,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is also
using budget cuts and measures to curb credit as it seeks to
slow the fastest inflation in six years.  “They are trying to stay the course,” said  Tony Volpon ,
Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “They are
still signaling as a base case scenario an increase of 25 basis
points in July. But they recognize that the global economy is
slowing down substantially, and that’s been one of the bigger
reasons why they think the inflation scenario has improved.”  “The door has been opened to a pause if the scenario
worsens,” Volpon added.  Breaching the Limit  Consumer prices rose 6.55 percent in the year through May,
exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s target range
for a second straight month. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Policy makers said the outlook for 2011 inflation has
slowed under both its so-called reference and market scenarios,
while the 2012 outlook remained unchanged. The bank’s forecast
for inflation remains above the 4.5 percent mid-point of its
target range this year and next in both scenarios.  Volatility on international markets has increased since
April, along with uncertainty over the recovery in the global
economy, the central bank said.  The minutes signal policy makers’ increasing concern with
external risks from the debt crisis in  Europe  or a possible
slowdown in the Chinese economy, said Enestor  dos Santos , senior
Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid .  “Interest rates could continue being adjusted upwards
after July if the ‘very important risks’ of wages increasing
more than productivity materialize, or could even be left
unchanged in July if the external environment deteriorates,”
Dos Santos wrote in a note to clients.  Primary Surplus  The government’s budget surplus before interest payments in
the first four months of the year was 57.3 billion reais ($35
billion), equivalent to almost half of the annual target of
117.9 billion reais. The central bank expects a surplus
equivalent to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product this year,
and 3.1 percent in 2012, according to the minutes.  After falling to a series of record lows in 2010, the
jobless rate in April declined to 6.4 percent, the lowest level
on record for the month, keeping pressure on policy makers
trying to cool demand.  Total outstanding credit expanded 21 percent in the year
through April. Tombini told lawmakers on March 22 that consumer
credit growth above 15 percent needs to be monitored closely.  Other indicators suggest the economy is slowing. Industrial
output and retail sales unexpectedly fell in April, and capacity
utilization dropped to its lowest level in more than a year. The
default rate on consumer loans rose for a fourth straight month
in April.  Growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy will slow to 4
percent this year from 7.5 percent in 2010, according to a
central bank survey of economists published June 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  