-- 
Broker Scrutiny, Credit-Rater Oversight, Budget Cuts, JPMorgan: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-16T12:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/broker-scrutiny-credit-rater-oversight-budget-cuts-jpmorgan-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed expanding scrutiny of how brokerages handle
trillions of dollars in client assets in a measure that reflects
the enduring regulatory impact of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to seek comment on a
rule that would increase disclosures required of broker-dealers
who hold investor funds, building on a 2009 rule for investment
advisers. The measure would require enhanced audits of 300
brokers with custody of client assets and quarterly disclosures
from all 5,000 registered firms on how they handle funds.  The rule -- subject to a 60-day comment period -- would
require that a broker-dealer’s internal controls be checked by a
registered public accounting firm and would let regulators
examine audits. Brokerages would have to tell the SEC whether
they have access to client money and how access is controlled.  Existing law requires broker-dealers to be audited each
year by a firm registered with the  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board . The PCAOB, which is required by the Dodd-Frank
Act to start inspecting the audits, established an interim
program for the reviews yesterday. The SEC proposal would expand
what the audit watchdog sees in those examinations.  The SEC’s 2009 effort to look more deeply at investment
advisers’ custodial practices was a response to Madoff, who is
serving a 125-year prison term after pleading guilty to
defrauding clients out of billions of dollars.  Compliance Policy  Consumer-Credit Raters to Open Books to Critics on U.S. Board  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is likely to
place the three major credit-reporting bureaus,  Equifax Inc. (EFX) ,
Experian Plc and TransUnion LLC, under direct supervision by
federal examiners.  The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul requires the
new agency to propose regulations by July 21, 2012, on whether a
company constitutes a “larger participant” in consumer
financial services. That designation would lead to supervision
similar to that of banks for the three firms, which provide
credit reports on borrowers to prospective lenders.  Three credit bureaus are likely to meet that legal test,
Corey Stone, the consumer agency’s assistant director for credit
information markets, told consumer advocates last month,
according to three people present at the meeting. Bureau
officials have also delivered this message directly to two of
the three firms, according to the companies.  Top officials at the consumer bureau have been critical of
credit information bureaus in the past. Consumer advocates have
long charged that the Big Three bureaus -- as Experian,
TransUnion and Equifax are often known -- aren’t transparent
about how credit scores are calculated.  Tim Klein, a spokesman for Equifax, said federal officials
have told the Atlanta-based firm it will face supervision.
Colleen Tunney, a spokeswoman for closely held TransUnion in
Chicago, said her firm hasn’t been explicitly informed but that
“we do expect to be supervised by the CFPB.”  Tony Hadley, senior vice president for government affairs
and public policy at Dublin-based Experian, said the agency’s
creation marks a new relationship between his company and the
U.S. government, including supervision. The full impact
“depends on implementation,” he said.  For more, click here.  Budget Cuts for Consumer Bureau, IRS Proposed by Republicans  U.S. House Republicans proposed limiting the funding for
the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and placing the
agency under the congressional appropriations process by 2013.  The  House Appropriations  Subcommittee on Financial Services
released the measure yesterday, which would limit to $200
million the amount the  Federal Reserve  can transfer to the new
agency in fiscal 2012.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July, created the consumer
bureau and called for it to be funded by a percentage of the
Fed’s budget, as much as $500 million per year, with the
bureau’s director deciding how much is needed. The Republican
bill includes the requirement that, effective Oct. 1, 2012,
appropriations would be made by Congress.  Republicans, who almost unanimously opposed the Dodd-Frank
Act, have sparred with Democrats over the new agency’s funding
and mission. The appropriations measure includes $19.9 billion
in funding for agencies under the panel’s jurisdiction,
including the Treasury Department, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and  General Services Administration . That is 9
percent less than last year and almost $6 billion less than the
request of President Barack Obama.  For more, click here.  Haldane Eyes Shadow Banking as New BOE Panel Targets Bubbles  The  U.K. Financial Policy Committee  may target unregulated
bank transactions as it seeks to prevent bubbles and end the
pattern of rivals taking competitive risks said  Andrew Haldane ,
a  Bank of England  official and member of the new panel.  The FPC must “advise government when we think risks have
migrated outside of the conventional banking system into what is
these days called the shadow banking system,” Haldane said in
an interview in  London  yesterday. Evidence of “banking-type
activities” in “non-regulated parts of the system” could
compel the FPC to ask the government to expand its powers.  The interim FPC meets today for the first time as part of
Prime Minister David Cameron’s shake-up of banking regulation.
The panel will be chaired by Bank of England Governor  Mervyn
King . Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the
bank, said officials are still deciding what tools will be used
to shield the economy from financial risks.  Haldane said lenders will welcome an end to the “Chuck
Prince dynamic,” where the former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief
Executive Officer was quoted in 2007 as saying that so long as
rivals were taking big risks, he would too. Haldane said the FPC
may solve the problem of banks being powerless to act against
the tide when the environment is “a bit on the risky side.”  The central bank will hold a press conference on June 24 to
discuss the results of today’s meeting.  Spain Rejects Proposal to Reform Mortgage Foreclosures  Spain’s  Parliament  rejected a law that would have eased the
effect of mortgage foreclosures for as many as 300,000
homeowners who have lost their properties.  The Galician National Block, known as the BNG in Spain, had
asked legislators to amend the law to allow mortgage holders to
walk away from their debt by handing over the keys to their
properties, as well as permitting homeowners to delay mortgage
payments beyond agreed-upon deadlines. Lawmakers rejected the
proposals, Parliament said on its  website  late last night.  Under Spanish law, if a foreclosed property is sold for
less than the outstanding mortgage on the asset, the bank can
claim the difference from the borrower, pursuing all of a
borrower’s present and future assets and earnings.  The number of foreclosed properties in Spain has climbed
tenfold in three years.     Spain’s Parliament has created a
committee to study possible changes to the country’s mortgage
rules and whether the current law allows for abusive practices,
the assembly said on its  website  on June 8. The commission has
until December to present a report on its findings.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Pays $27 Million to OCC, Clients Over Car-Loan Tactics  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will pay a $2 million fine to the
Comptroller of the Currency and $25 million to reimburse
customers after using “high pressure” tactics to sell credit
insurance on  car loans , the regulator said.  The bank’s customer-service representatives deceived
borrowers about costs and terms of credit protection offered to
cover missed payments in 2008 and 2009, the OCC said in a
settlement document released yesterday.  “Chase Auto used written scripts together with oral high-
pressure sales tactics that included statements which were
materially false, deceptive or otherwise misleading in violation
of the Federal Trade Commission Act,” the regulator said in a
statement.  JPMorgan didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing. In consultation
with the OCC, the firm developed a plan to reimburse customers
and fix deficiencies in credit protection linked to Chase auto,
home and credit-card loans, the OCC said.  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan’s retail unit,
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Tussle Over Indonesian Agency Raises Bank Supervision Risks  A tussle between lawmakers and the government over
Indonesia’s planned financial regulator has raised the risk of
political interference in bank supervision, highlighting the
nation’s struggle to eliminate corruption.  The Financial Services Authority parliamentary working
committee, which is holding meetings this month to debate
whether lawmakers can appoint two members to the nine-person
board of commissioners for the agency, hadn’t reached a
“compromise” as of yesterday, said Andi Rachmat, deputy
chairman of the working group. The government’s proposal for the
board would exclude members of parliament.  The outcome may influence the effectiveness and
independence of an authority set to take over regulation of
capital markets, insurers, pension funds and banks from the
 finance ministry  and central bank.  For more, click here.  SEC Postpones Most Dodd-Frank Swaps Rules Scheduled for July  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission postponed
almost all Dodd-Frank Act rules for the $601 trillion swaps
market that were scheduled to take effect in mid-July.  The agency provided the delay in  an order  released
yesterday.  The delay will give the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission more time to complete rules for the market that are
aimed at increasing transparency and reducing risk after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The CFTC on June 14 proposed a six-month delay of Dodd-
Frank provisions scheduled to take effect July 16. The agency’s
commissioners could decide to push the deadline into 2012 if
they find that more time is needed, according to the CFTC.  UBS ‘Pleased’ With Swiss Upper House Decision on Capital Rules  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said it is “pleased”
with the decision by the upper house of parliament June 15 to
cap  capital requirements  at 19 percent at the group level.  The upper house is debating the government’s proposal to
raise capital requirements for UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
the biggest Swiss banks, to avoid the need for a bailout in a
crisis. The parliamentarians June 15 approved the government’s
clarification that total capital needs would be capped at 19
percent of assets weighted according to the risks at the group
level. The banks had said enforcing the requirement at unit
level may result in higher capital needs for the groups.  A final vote in the upper house on the so-called too-big-
to-fail legislation is expected for today, said parliament
spokesman Mark Stucki. The proposals, which require approval
from the lower house of parliament, will be debated in the next
three-week session starting Sept. 12.  CFPB Bank Supervisor Says Agency Oversight Set to Start July 21  Steven Antonakes, the top bank supervisor at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, said oversight of banks with more
than $10 billion in assets will start as planned on July 21.  He made the remarks at a conference of the  American Bankers
Association  in  Washington .  Antonakes’s unit will supervise 111 banks, thrifts and
credit unions controlling about 80 percent of U.S. banking
assets, about $10 trillion worth, he said. The consumer bureau
will conduct “point-in-time examinations” that will last four
to 12 weeks, depending on the size and complexity of the firm.  He said the supervision will continue for two years, if
“the exam is clean.”  At firms with more than $100 billion in assets, there will
be “continuous supervision in which we will have a presence at
the institution throughout most of the year,” Antonakes said.
That regular presence may include, for example, product reviews
of credit cards or mortgage origination, he said.  The consumer bureau has completed the task of transferring
bank examiners from other federal regulators and is wrapping up
that process so it can recruit more examiners from outside the
government, Antonakes said.  The agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, is scheduled to
begin work on July 21.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches/Testimony  Gibson, Gensler Testify On Capitol Hill About Derivatives  Michael Gibson, senior associate director of the Federal
Reserve, and Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, testified about regulations on derivatives
and swaps.  “The goal of all of these efforts is to develop a
consistent international approach to the regulation and
supervision of derivatives products and market
infrastructures,” Gibson told lawmakers at a  Senate Agriculture
Committee  hearing yesterday in Washington. “Our aim is to
promote both financial stability and fair competitive conditions
to the fullest extent possible.”  Brooksley Born of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission ,
Daniel Roth of the  National Futures Association , Charles Conner
of the  National Council of Farmer Cooperatives  and Adam Cooper
of the  Managed Funds Association  were also scheduled to speak
before the panel yesterday.  For the video, click here.  For more about Gibson’s testimony, click here.  Osborne to Back Vickers Plan for U.K. Retail-Bank Firebreaks  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne will back
proposals to erect firebreaks around the consumer-banking units
of British banks as he seeks to protect taxpayers and depositors
during future financial crises.  Osborne was scheduled to express his support for
recommendations drawn up by the  Independent Commission on
Banking  in April for the first time in public during his annual
Mansion House speech to bankers in London yesterday evening,
according to a Treasury official who declined to be named in
line with government practice.  The head of the panel, John Vickers, a former Bank of
England chief economist, was asked by the government last year
to recommend ways to boost stability and competition in the
British banking industry. The Treasury spent 65.8 billion pounds
($108 billion) rescuing  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  during the financial crisis.  While endorsing the principles of the proposals by
Vickers’s panel, Osborne won’t give details of how much extra
protection he will require for retail banks, the official said.
Instead, the chancellor will wait for Vickers’s final
recommendations on Sept. 12 before deciding how much extra
capital the retail operations of banks should hold above the 7
percent recommended by international regulators.  Fed’s Parkinson Says High Quality Capital Should Back Surcharge  The Federal Reserve’s top banking supervisor said the
largest global banks should retain an additional buffer against
potential losses in the form of “high quality capital.”  The Fed and banking regulators around the world are
currently discussing the size of capital cushions for the
largest financial firms, considering whether that buffer should
be in the form of common equity or hybrid securities.  “The Federal Reserve strongly supports such efforts to
increase the level and quality of regulatory capital for our
internationally active banking organizations,” Patrick
Parkinson, director of the division of  Banking Supervision and
Regulation , said yesterday in the text of a speech in
Washington.  “The additional requirement should be met with high-
quality capital that can reliably absorb losses and allow the
institution to remain a going concern,” he said.  For audio of Parkinson speech, click here.  Comings and Goings  Draghi Wins EU Parliament Panel Support to Be New ECB President  Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi won a  European
Parliament  committee’s endorsement to succeed Jean-Claude
Trichet as head of the  European Central Bank .  The Parliament’s  Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee 
yesterday in Brussels approved Draghi’s nomination to become ECB
president for an eight-year term starting on Nov. 1. The full
736-seat European Union assembly is due to give its verdict on
June 23.  Draghi completed a confirmation hearing before the panel
yesterday.  Kenya Names Gatabaki as New Chair of  Capital Markets Authority   Kenyan President appointed Kungu Gatabaki as the new
chairman of the  Capital Markets Authority , the regulator said.
Gatabaki replaces Micah Cheserem, who resigned in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 