-- 
Brookfield Plans $250 Million Upgrade of Retail at World Financial Center

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-16T21:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/brookfield-plans-250-million-upgrade-of-retail-at-world-financial-center.html
Brookfield Office Properties plans
to spend about $250 million to upgrade and expand the retail
portion of lower Manhattan’s World Financial Center.  The plan calls for a “dramatic” glass pavilion along West
Street, across from the World Trade Center, which will link the
8 million-square-foot (743,000-square-meter) complex with
downtown’s two new mass transit hubs, Brookfield said in a
statement. It also includes a dining concourse overlooking the
 Hudson River , and would save the Winter Garden staircase, which
had been slated for elimination in earlier proposals.  “These improvements to the World Financial Center are
coming at the perfect time, given the $20 billion private and
public investment in lower Manhattan,” Richard “Ric” Clark,
New York-based Brookfield’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “We are pleased to be moving forward with a plan
that incorporates the existing Winter Garden staircase and
repositions the World Financial Center for decades to come.”  Lease Expirations  Brookfield is facing the 2013 expiration of rental
agreements on 4.6 million square feet of offices -- more than
half the financial center -- originally leased to Merrill Lynch
& Co., now controlled by Bank of America Corp. The landlord is
working to make the complex more attractive to help it attract
and retain tenants.  Construction is scheduled to start in October and will
conclude in 2013, the company said. The architect for the glass
pavilion is Pelli Clarke Pelli, the firm that designed the
financial center.  Plans call for more than 40 high-end fashion shops and a
25,000-square-foot gourmet food marketplace. The entire retail
complex will be 177,000 square feet, according to Brookfield.  Brookfield this year has signed more than 600,000 square
feet of new leases at the center with companies including
OppenheimerFunds Inc. and Commerzbank AG, both of whom were sub-
tenants of Merrill, the company said.  Winter Garden Stairway  Proposals to replace the circular stairway were opposed by
many residents who associate its post-9/11 restoration with the
community’s recovery from the 2001 terrorist attacks. Brookfield
wanted to eliminate the marble staircase to open up the Winter
Garden’s eastern entrance and prevent bottlenecks of pedestrians
coming up from the trade center’s PATH train terminal across the
street.  Manhattan  Community Board 1, which represents neighborhood
residents, passed a  resolution  last July urging Brookfield to
“carefully explore all options that will permit retention of
the grand staircase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  