-- 
Brown Vetoes California Budget Without Tax Extension

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-06-16T20:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/brown-vetoes-california-budget-passed-by-legislature-without-tax-extension.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
vetoed a budget lacking the tax extensions he sought less than
24 hours after it was passed by the Democrat-controlled
Legislature, continuing a stalemate over a $10 billion deficit.  Brown, a Democrat who pledged to solve California’s fiscal
malfunctions without gimmicks and accounting tricks, said the
budget sent to him yesterday used legally suspect techniques to
paper over the shortfall.  “The budget I have received is not a balanced solution,”
Brown said today in a statement. “It continues big deficits for
years to come and adds billions of dollars of new debt. It also
contains legally questionable maneuvers, costly borrowing and
unrealistic savings. Finally, it is not financeable and
therefore will not allow us to meet our obligations.”  The veto means  California , the biggest issuer of municipal
debt in the U.S., faces the start of its fiscal year July 1
without a budget that would let the state borrow from  Wall
Street  to pay bills. Democrats, who don’t command enough votes
to override Brown’s veto, said it’s now up to Brown to find a
compromise with Republicans who oppose his tax plan.  “I’m dismayed by the governor’s action,” Senate President
Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , told
reporters in Sacramento. “We are too far down the road for the
governor to continue avoiding a specific proposal or specific
set of proposals on what he intends to do or what he wants to be
done if he can’t gain those Republican votes.”  Extending Increases  Brown wants lawmakers to fill the gap by extending more
than $9 billion of expiring tax and fee increases to avert deep
spending cuts to schools and public safety. He said he would ask
voters to validate the move later. The governor has so far
failed to find a minimum of four Republican votes he needs for
the plan.  Democrats instead passed a budget that relies on a variety
of one-time fixes such as delaying $3 billion in school aid for
four months and penciling in optimistic revenue projections to
the fill gap.  Democrats were able to pass their plan with a simple
majority, thanks to a November voter initiative that lowered the
threshold from two-thirds. Lawmakers faced the loss of salary
and per-diem pay for every day they failed to meet a June 15
deadline for passing a spending plan.  Controller John Chiang, who issues state paychecks, hasn’t
said whether the budget approved yesterday is enough to meet
that requirement. The law’s language requires legislators to
send the governor a balanced budget; it doesn’t say it must be
enacted to clear that threshold.  “We clearly met the obligation to pass an on-time
budget,” Assembly Speaker John Perez, a  Los Angeles  Democrat,
told reporters today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Los Angeles at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  