-- 
Brown Vetoes California Budget With Pledge to Seek $9 Billion in Taxes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/brown-vetoes-california-budget-with-a-pledge-to-seek-9-billion-in-taxes.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  said
he would keep negotiating with Republican lawmakers to extend
$9 billion of expiring tax and fee increases after vetoing a
budget written by Democrats that lacked the provision.  Brown, a Democrat who pledged to solve California’s fiscal
malfunctions without gimmicks and accounting tricks, said the
budget sent to him yesterday used legally suspect techniques to
paper over a $10 billion shortfall.  The veto means California, the biggest issuer of municipal
debt in the U.S., faces the start of its fiscal year July 1
without a budget that would let the state borrow from  Wall
Street  to pay bills. Democrats, who don’t command enough votes
to override Brown’s veto, said it’s now up to the governor to
find a compromise with Republicans who oppose his tax plan.  “In the next several days, I’m going to do everything I
can, I’ll move heaven and earth, to get those votes,” Brown
said. “I’m certainly going to give them the chance to become
heroes rather than people who become complicit in the
destruction of our universities and our schools.”  Brown wants lawmakers to fill the gap by extending expiring
tax and fee increases to avert deep spending cuts to schools and
public safety. He said he would ask voters to validate the move
in a later referendum. The governor needs to persuade at least
two Republicans in each legislative chamber to back his plan
before it can pass.  June 15 Deadline  Facing a June 15 deadline to send Brown a budget, Democrats
passed a plan that relies on a variety of one-time fixes such as
delaying $3 billion in school aid for four months and penciling
in optimistic revenue projections to fill the gap.  “The budget I have received is not a balanced solution,”
Brown said in his veto message. “It continues big deficits for
years to come and adds billions of dollars of new debt. It also
contains legally questionable maneuvers, costly borrowing and
unrealistic savings. Finally, it is not financeable and
therefore will not allow us to meet our obligations.”  Democrats were able to pass their plan with a simple
majority, thanks to a November voter initiative that lowered the
threshold from two-thirds. Lawmakers faced the loss of salary
and per-diem pay for every day they failed to meet a June 15
deadline to send a budget to the governor.  Controller John Chiang, who issues state paychecks, hasn’t
said whether the plan approved yesterday is enough to meet that
requirement. The law’s language requires legislators to send the
governor a balanced budget; it doesn’t say it must be enacted to
clear that threshold.  “We clearly met the obligation to pass an on-time
budget,” Assembly Speaker John Perez, a  Los Angeles  Democrat,
told reporters today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Los Angeles at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  