-- 
Boston Bruins End 39-Year Stanley Cup Wait With 4-0 Win Against Canucks

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-16T05:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bruins-beat-canucks-4-0-to-win-nhl-stanley-cup-for-first-time-since-1972.html
Patrice Bergeron and rookie  Brad Marchand  scored two goals each to give the  Boston Bruins  their
first National Hockey League Stanley Cup title in 39 years.  Boston beat the Vancouver Canucks 4-0 last night in the
deciding seventh game of the series to claim the cup for a sixth
time and deny the host its first NHL championship.  “It was such a long and hard run for us,” said Bruins
team captain Zdeno Chara in a televised interview. “It’s a good
feeling to stand at the end a winner.”  The Bruins also won Game 7 matchups with Montreal and Tampa
Bay in the Eastern Conference playoffs, making them the first
team in NHL history to win three deciders in the same
postseason. The victory ends Boston’s run of five losses in the
 Stanley Cup  Final since they last claimed the trophy in 1972.  Boston’s Tim Thomas, who stopped 37 shots, became the 15th
goaltender to be named Most Valuable Player of the series. The
Bruins outscored the Canucks 23-8 over the seven games.  “It feels great; it still hasn’t kicked in,” Thomas said
before receiving the  Conn Smythe Trophy . “The physical work we
had done during the series had built up.”  Since the Bruins last won the Stanley Cup, the  Boston Red
Sox  have twice won  Major League Baseball ’s World Series, ending
an 86-year title drought; the  National Football League ’s New
England Patriots have won the  Super Bowl  three times; and the
 Boston Celtics  have been  National Basketball Association 
champion six times.  Top Seeds  The Canucks finished the regular season with the best
record in the NHL and began the final as the 1-2 favorite at Las
Vegas Sports Consultants to win the title for the first time
since joining the league in 1970. They lost in their previous
trips to the championship series in 1982 and 1994.  The host team has lost the past two Stanley Cup Final
deciders, giving visiting teams a 4-12 record in seventh games.
Pittsburgh won at  Detroit  in the last Game 7 two years ago.  Vancouver  fans clashed with police after the game at Rogers
Arena, hurling beer bottles at television screens set up in the
downtown area and setting fire to at least two parked cars.
Rioters also overturned a bus and set two police cars alight.
Police estimated that about 70,000 people crowded into the
downtown area to watch the game on three giant screens.  $5,000 Tickets  The numbers swelled after average Game 7 ticket prices
soared to more than $5,000 on the secondary market. The average
exceeded the $4,300 for last year’s Olympic gold medal hockey
game between  Canada  and the U.S., which was also played in
Vancouver, according to FanSnap.com, an Internet search engine
that finds seats on about 50 ticket-reselling websites.  There were riots in downtown Vancouver the last time the
Canucks lost a deciding game in the Stanley Cup, against the  New
York Rangers  in 1994.  There was also a rampage through the streets of Montreal a
year earlier when the Canadiens became the most recent Canadian
recipient of the Stanley Cup.  Bruins President Cam Neely said it was “incredible” that
 Boston  recovered to win last night after losing the first two
games in the series and forcing a decider with a 5-2 victory in
Game 6 three days ago. Prior to Game 7, the home team had won
every game in the series.  Goals  Bergeron opened the scoring after 14 minutes, 37 seconds
when he redirected Marchand’s center off Vancouver goalie
Roberto Luongo’s right-hand post and into the net.  Marchand got a goal 12:13 into the second period when he
took the puck behind the Canucks’ net before slipping it past
the sprawling Luongo.  Bergeron made it 3-0 with a short-handed goal with 2:35
remaining in the second period without Chara, who got a penalty
for interference.  Marchand completed the scoring with his 11th goal of the
playoffs into an empty net with 2:44 to play in the game.  “I’m so happy to say I’m part of the team to bring the cup
back to Boston,” said Bergeron.  The team wanted to win the title for  Mark Recchi , who will
retire after playing 1,652 NHL regular-season games, the fourth-
most in league history, Bergeron said.  Recchi, 43, won the Stanley Cup with three teams in three
decades. His first title came in 1991 at the  Pittsburgh Penguins 
and he was also a part of the Carolina Hurricanes team that
lifted the trophy in 2006.  “Game 6 was the turning point,” said Recchi. “We came
out and played a helluva game. When our backs were against the
wall we played great in Games 6 and 7.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 