-- 
Bruins to Take Champions’ Bow After Joining Red Sox, Patriots, Celtics

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-06-16T15:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/bruins-to-take-champions-bow-after-joining-red-sox-patriots-celtics.html
With celebrations saluting two  World
Series  wins for the Red Sox, three Super Bowls for the  New
England Patriots  and a basketball title for the Celtics, the
 Boston Bruins  were the city’s only major team on the victory
parade sidelines -- until now.  The National Hockey League’s Bruins won the Stanley Cup
title last night by beating the Vancouver Canucks 4-0 in the
final game of the best-of-seven championship series. The city
will honor the team with a parade at 11 a.m. on June 18.  “This is the players’ rally,” Boston Mayor Tom Menino
said at a press conference today at TD Garden shortly after the
team arrived in buses from their flight. “They brought the
championship to Boston.”  Menino said the so-called rolling rally, which in the last
decade has ferried the championship  Red Sox , Celtics and
Patriots through city streets in amphibious duck boats, would
start at TD Garden and end in Copley Square. Further details of
the route will be announced later, Menino said.  Bruins spokesman Eric Tosi said he may have more
information later in the day on whether the Bruins will pick up
part or all of the tab for the celebration. In  Dallas , where the
Mavericks won the National Basketball Association title on June
12, billionaire team owner  Mark Cuban  said he will pay for the
team’s title celebration.  In Vancouver, where last night’s game was played, police
arrested dozens of people and donned riot gear to control mobs
of disappointed fans. The regional hospital authority,  Vancouver 
Coastal Health, said on its website that about 140 people were
treated for injuries including stabbings and exposure to tear
gas and pepper spray.  Well-Behaved Boston  Boston police spokesman Officer James Kenneally said seven
people were arrested there for disorderly conduct.  “By and large, we would describe the crowd as well-
behaved,” Kenneally said.  Sports fans in the city, who waited 86 years for the Red
Sox to win a Major League Baseball championship in 2004, will
celebrate the Bruins ending their 39-year title drought with a
unique sort of homage, said Richard Johnson, curator of the
Sports Museum at TD Garden.  “Hockey pucks will definitely be placed at gravestones
today, Johnson said. “There’s no question that will happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 