-- 
Builders Probably Started More U.S. Houses After Weather-Related Plunge

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/builders-probably-started-more-u-s-houses-after-weather-related-plunge.html
A gain in housing starts in May
probably failed to make up for ground lost the prior month as
U.S. homebuilders remained reluctant to ramp up projects,
economists said before a report today.  Work began on 545,000 houses at an annual pace, up 4.2
percent from the prior month, according to the median estimate
of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Construction
plunged 11 percent in April as flooding and tornadoes shut down
building sites.  Falling real estate values and the threat that foreclosures
will push prices even lower mean the  construction industry  will
continue to lag behind other parts of the economy. Joblessness
exceeding 9 percent indicates that a rebound in housing will
take years to develop.  “This is just a major dampener on the growth outlook and
it’s going to be with us for a while,” said  John Herrmann , a
senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets
LLC in  Boston . “It’s very difficult for the economy to sustain
growth above 3 percent without a rebound in the residential
construction market.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 493,000 to 585,000.  Building permits decreased to a 557,000 annual pace from a
563,000 rate in April, according to the survey median.  Builder Confidence  Confidence among homebuilders plunged in June, led by a
decline in the outlook for sales. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index dropped to 13 this
month from 16 in May, data from the Washington-based group
showed yesterday. A measure of sales expectations for the next
six months matched the lowest level on record.  Firms like  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  are still struggling
to turn a profit in the housing market. The largest homebuilder
in New Jersey reported a net loss for the three months ended
April 30 that was wider than analysts estimated.  Homebuilders have underperformed the broader stock market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has
fallen 6.7 percent so far this year, compared with a 0.6 percent
increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  Sales of previously owned homes, which make up more than 90
percent of the market, fell 4 percent to a 4.85 million annual
pace in May, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
National Association of Realtors will report on June 21.
Existing-home sales have been gaining market share from new
houses due to growing demand for lower-priced distressed
dwellings.  Jobless Claims  Another report today is expected to show the U.S. labor
market is struggling to improve. The number of Americans
applying for  unemployment insurance  last week probably fell to
420,000 from 427,000 the prior week, according to economists
surveyed ahead of Labor Department figures due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington.  Manufacturing, the industry that helped the U.S. emerge
from recession in June 2009, is showing signs of cooling as
factories await supplies from  Japan  following the earthquake and
tsunami. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index in June climbed to 7 from 3.9 the previous month,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey. The
gauge is down from a 43.4 reading in March.  Figures greater than zero signal expansion in the area
covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .
The data are due at 10 a.m. New York time.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  