-- 
Buy Bearish Developed-Market Options Amid European Debt Crisis, MKM Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-16T07:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/buy-bearish-developed-market-options-amid-european-debt-crisis-mkm-says.html
Investors should use options to bet
that developed-market stocks will extend declines as the
 European Central Bank  struggles to contain the region’s
worsening debt crisis, MKM Partners LP said.  Jim Strugger and Etai Friedman, equity options strategists
at the firm, recommended using  iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund (EFA) 
options in a “put butterfly” strategy, selling two of the
August $55 calls while buying one August $51 call and one August
$59 call. The trade profits most if the ETF tracking 958
companies in  Europe , Asia and Australia falls to $55. The U.S.
ETF lost 3.3 percent to $58.29 yesterday, paring this year’s
gain to 0.1 percent.  “Sovereign debt pressures in peripheral Europe continue to
mount as the ECB proceeds with contracting its balance sheet,”
the Stamford, Connecticut-based strategists wrote yesterday,
when the ETF traded at $60.27. “These strains, coupled with our
view that equities may be approaching a period of elevated
volatility, lead us to believe that short directional exposure
is warranted.”  Stocks tumbled around the world yesterday and the euro slid
the most in more than a month amid rising concern that  Greece 
will default and that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will be
forced out of office amid escalating protests over budget cuts.
The cost of protecting corporate bonds soared to the highest
level since January, with credit-default swaps anticipating
about a 74 percent chance that Greece won’t pay its debts.  Austerity Measures  The strategists cited Michael Darda, MKM’s chief market
strategist, who has said that the ECB’s monetary policy will
“deflate its balance sheet, damping nominal GDP growth and
further threatening the periphery even following drastic
austerity measures and bailouts,” according to the report.  Europe’s benchmark gauge of stock-market volatility rose to
the highest in three weeks today. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which
measures the cost of protecting against a decline in shares on
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, increased 7.9 percent to 24.88 at 8:20
a.m. in  London . The Euro Stoxx 50 stock index fell 1 percent to
the lowest since December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  