-- 
California’s Citizen Map Could Lead U.S. Out of Political Gridlock: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-16T20:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/california-s-citizen-map-could-lead-u-s-out-of-gridlock-view.html
(Corrects name of county in fourth paragraph.)  Republicans are angry. Democrats are
running for cover. And the executive director of a group that
represents Latino officials of both parties has called it a
“worst-case scenario.” It seems the  California Citizens
Redistricting Commission  has hit a nerve.  The commission is the product of two state ballot
initiatives that took redistricting power away from state
legislators and vested it in 14 unelected Democrats, Republicans
and independents. Last week, the group released its  draft map  of
 California ’s new state and congressional legislative districts,
daring to produce cohesive geographic lines and “communities of
interest” in lieu of meandering boundaries and safe seats for
incumbents.  Most analysts say Republicans would lose at least two
congressional seats if the new map withstands political and
legal challenges. Meanwhile, veteran Democratic lawmakers would
be pitted against one another in a handful of newly drawn
districts that take no account of their seniority.  Democratic Representative Howard Berman and Republican
Representative David Dreier, who have 58 years in Congress
between them, are suddenly in jeopardy. Berman’s once-safe
suburban Los Angeles district would be fused with that of
another liberal Democrat, Brad Sherman. Dreier’s San Bernardino
County district would become more Latino, making the
conservative’s re-election a suddenly shaky proposition.  Faced with a similar reshuffling, Democratic Representative
Bob Filner has decided to run for mayor of  San Diego  rather than
seek re-election in a more heavily Latino district. (Although
Latino voters gain clout in a number of districts, it’s not
clear that the number of Latino representatives would increase
immediately -- hence the objections of Latino elected
officials.)  Let’s be clear: The new redistricting commission won’t
vanquish the political polarization that characterizes
California’s congressional delegation and paralyzes the state
Legislature in  Sacramento . California requires a two-thirds vote
of the Legislature to raise taxes, enabling a determined
minority to hold the annual budget hostage. The state has a
projected deficit of  $10 billion  and no political means of
closing it.  Yet stripping the Legislature of redistricting powers
should have some positive effects on the margins. At least some
of the newly drawn districts should be more amenable to
moderates of both parties. In addition, citizen-driven
redistricting should be a healthy complement to the state’s new
system of  open primaries , in which candidates of all parties
compete in a single primary, with the top two vote-getters
advancing to the general election regardless of party
affiliation.  The open primary is similarly intended to reward moderate
candidates at the expense of the extremes. Most of the time, it
won’t -- after all, polarization resides not in our districts,
but in ourselves. But closing the divide in even a few districts
could be enough to put California on the road to legislative
compromise and fiscal sanity.  Two dozen states allow  ballot initiatives ; getting citizen
redistricting reforms on their ballots would be a small but
important step toward healing the sclerotic U.S. political
system. Opposition to any such efforts will be fierce. A
nonpartisan redistricting plan in  Florida  is under a bipartisan
legal attack under the guise of safeguarding minority rights. In
 Virginia , volunteers have started a  redistricting mapping
project  on the Web that encourages residents to draw their own
lines. Meantime, the state’s 11-member congressional delegation
is designing districts to ensure each member’s re-election.  The California commission is required to produce a final
map on Aug. 15. If its members can withstand political pressure
and stick to their map lines, they’ll provide a promising sketch
for their state. Maybe for the nation, too.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials . 