-- 
California Lawmakers Send Brown Budget With No Tax Extension

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/california-lawmakers-send-brown-budget-with-no-tax-extension.html
California’s Democrat-controlled
Legislature sent Governor  Jerry Brown  a spending plan without
extending tax increases, meeting the legal deadline to pass a
budget for only the second time in 25 years.  The plan approved yesterday covers a $10 billion deficit
with $4 billion siphoned from schools and children’s programs,
optimistic revenue projections and the sale of state office
buildings that Brown previously rejected. It calls for online
retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to collect $200 million in
sales taxes and boosts auto registration fees by $12.  California, the largest U.S. borrower in the municipal  bond
market , has the lowest  credit rating  for any state from  Standard
& Poor’s  after years of late budgets and gaping deficits. Brown,
a 73-year-old Democrat, has vowed to fix that. He asked
lawmakers for a statewide vote to extend more than $9 billion of
expiring tax and fee increases to fill the gap. The referendum
needed the approval of two-thirds of lawmakers, more than
Democrats could muster.  “This budget is not our preference,” Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento, said prior to
the vote. “The governor has pushed for another plan and we
support that plan, and maybe and hopefully that can still get
done.”  Brown, who has railed against similar techniques used to
paper over deficits in the past, hasn’t said whether he will
sign the package. He began the year facing a $26 billion deficit
through June 2012. Spending cuts passed in March and better-
than-expected revenue narrowed the deficit.  Simple Majority  Democrats in the most-populous U.S. state were able to pass
their plan with a simple majority, thanks to a voter initiative
that lowered the threshold from two-thirds. Voters also stripped
lawmakers of salary and per-diem pay for every day they failed
to meet the June 15 deadline for passing a spending plan for the
year beginning July 1.  The budget delays $3 billion in school funding from next
March until July. It also collects $1.2 billion by selling state
office buildings and leasing the property back.  It also raises about $300 million by adding $12 to the cost
of vehicle registration, and gets $900 million by adjusting the
local sales-tax rate, which is scheduled to drop by 1 percentage
point, to retain a quarter of that amount.  The notion of selling state office buildings revives a plan
approved by lawmakers and Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in
October. Brown canceled the sale in February, saying it was an
example of the budget gimmicks he intended to end.  Redevelopment Agencies  The Democrats turned down Brown’s plan to close more than
400 redevelopment agencies and divert $3 billion a year to
schools and local governments. While the budget allows the anti-
blight agencies to remain open, it requires them to turn over
about $1.7 billion next year and about $400 million annually
thereafter. Courts have ruled similar raids aren’t permitted
under the state constitution.  The budget plan also counts on sales-tax collections by
online retailers including Amazon on Internet purchases by state
residents. Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has
threatened to sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in
 California  over threats to impose the levies.  “Another sham budget was foisted upon the people of
California, this time by a simple majority vote,” said Senator
Doug LaMalfa, a Richvale Republican. “Make no mistake, this
budget increases taxes without a vote of the people, increases
spending beyond our income and plays games to fake being
balanced.”  Governor’s Plan  Brown sought voter approval to retain a 1 percentage-point
boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5
percentage-point increase in vehicle-registration fees to 1.15
percent of value. Brown also wanted to extend a reduction of the
annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in place
in 2009 and are set to expire by July 1.  Negotiations with Republicans over a June ballot faltered
in March. Brown then asked lawmakers to directly extend the
taxes until voters are given a chance to decide, possibly as
soon as September.  “We’re really not seeing any structural changes, it’s kind
of status quo,” said Konstantine “Dino” Mallas, manager of
the T. Rowe Price California Tax-Free Bond Fund, in a telephone
interview from Baltimore yesterday. “We’d like to see more
substantive changes to the budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  