-- 
Camaro Outruns Mustang as Lost Sales Put Factory in Doubt

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/camaro-outruns-mustang-as-lost-sales-put-factory-in-doubt-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Mustang is falling
farther behind the Chevrolet Camaro as the top-selling U.S.
sports car, jeopardizing a Michigan factory as designers work to
win back the hearts of pony car fans.  Ford narrowly lost the crown in 2010 after a 24-year run,
and the gap widened this year, with  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s revived
Camaro outselling Mustang by 33 percent through May. The 1,700-
person plant in Flat Rock has just one shift of workers, and its
Japanese partner decided last week to pull out.  “The Mustang on its current sales pace isn’t enough to
sustain Flat Rock,” said  Jeff Schuster , an automotive analyst
with researcher J.D. Power & Associates in Troy, Michigan. “The
Camaro has a more modern feel and seems to draw more attention
from a younger age group.”  The second-largest U.S. automaker is working to increase
production of V-6 engines while its designers prepare for a new
version in 2014 to restore its cachet. GM started selling a
convertible version of the Camaro this year and says the Mustang
is one of the top trade-ins for the Chevy sports car.  “They have a huge, loyal base with the Mustang,” John
Fitzpatrick, the Camaro’s marketing manager, said in an
interview. “We are starting to chip away at that.”  Adding to Mustang’s misery,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  said last
week that it plans to pull its Mazda6 model out of the Michigan
assembly plant where Ford also makes the sports car. Ford, which
owns half of the factory, said it is working with Mazda and the
United Auto Workers union to explore options for the
“critical” site.  Manufacturing ‘Options’  Not sharing the assembly line with Mazda will allow Ford to
build more Mustang variations, said Steve Ling, the car’s
marketing manager.  “The flexibility that that provides is a good thing,”
Ling said in a June 14 interview, declining to give specifics on
how Mustang production might change after Mazda leaves. “It’s
good to have options and that’s what that scenario provides.”  Even if Mustang manages to overtake Camaro, Ford will never
sell enough of its muscle car to fill up Flat Rock, Schuster
said. The factory has the capacity to build 240,000 vehicles a
year, Mazda has said. Last year, Ford sold 73,716 Mustangs.  “Even with a boost from a redesign, because of what Camaro
has achieved, you’re still looking at sales volume for the
Mustang below 100,000 a year,” Schuster said. “The bottom line
is something at Flat Rock will have to change.”  Ford is to introduce a redesigned Mustang in 2014, said
 Brian Johnson , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in  Chicago .  Popular V-6  This year, Mustang sales have suffered because of a short
supply of a new V-6 engine that gets 31 miles per gallon on the
highway while generating 305 horsepower, Ling said. The Mustang
shares that engine with the F-150 pickup, the centerpiece of
Ford’s top-selling truck line.  As rising fuel prices have driven up demand for the V-6
engine, Ling said Ford has chosen to apportion more supply to
the F-150, among its most profitable models. The V-6 Mustang
starts at a list price of $22,310, according to Ford.com.  “The V-6 powertrain that’s shared with all of our hot
products is really very popular right now,”  Jim Farley , Ford’s
global marketing chief, said in a June 9 interview. “We have a
lower days’ supply on Mustang, but we think that’s the right way
to run that business.”  The V-6 engine shortage has left Ford with less than 30
days’ supply of Mustangs, half the inventory it had a year ago,
Ling said. Ford is now looking for ways to boost production of
the V-6, which accounts for 51 percent of Mustang sales, up from
40 percent a year ago, Ling said.  “We’re making sure that the truck has enough engines and
obviously there is an impact to Mustang,” Ling said. “The
dealers feel we could sell more” if Ford had more V-6 engines.  Camaro Rolling  GM is stepping up the pressure by updating the Camaro next
month with a more powerful V-6 engine that gets 30 mpg on the
highway, Fitzpatrick said. It also is updating the car’s
interior with new features like a smaller steering wheel, he
said.  Rising gasoline prices and a stalling U.S. economy can’t
seem to slow down the Camaro, which went on sale in April 2009
after a seven-year hiatus. Camaro sales are up 4 percent this
year, while Mustang is down 3 percent, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  “The Camaro is highly unusual in a segment that tends to
be very fickle,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of
auto researcher Edmunds.com. “Normally a sports car that’s
really hot fades fast.”  Maintaining Interest  To keep interest stoked, GM will advertise around the movie
sequel  “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,”  debuting June 29 and
again featuring a yellow-and-black Camaro as a crime-fighting
robot, Ling said. The Camaro known as “Bumblebee” has been the
ride of actor  Shia LaBeouf  in all three Transformer movies.  “The linkage to Transformers has really helped create and
build the brand Camaro,” Schuster said, “especially with young
people.”  Early next year, GM plans to roll out a ZL1 Camaro with a
550-horsepower engine, matching Ford’s Shelby GT500 version of
the Mustang that starts at $48,810, according to Edmunds.  “It looks like they clearly targeted the GT500,” Ling
said.  Much is riding on Ford’s 2014 redesign of the Mustang,
which Ling declined to describe. By then, Camaro will be five
years old and more than a year away from its own restyling in
late 2015, Schuster said.  “As the Camaro starts to age and the Mustang is
redesigned, that will heat up the battle,” Schuster said. “We
see the Mustang regaining its No. 1 position when it’s
redesigned, but it will be close.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  