-- 
Can Tim Pawlenty Trade Magic Beans for White House?: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-16T00:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/can-tim-pawlenty-trade-magic-beans-for-white-house-ezra-klein.html
Earlier this  month,  Tim Pawlenty ,
the former governor of  Minnesota , promised that his package of
tax cuts, spending cuts and regulatory reforms would boost real
gross domestic product growth to 5 percent annually for 10
years, cutting the deficit almost in half along the way. Sounds
good, right? But why is Pawlenty setting his sights so low?  Economists, of course, think his opening bid already places
him in fantasyland. “The trend growth rate is not going to be 5
percent in the  United States ,”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a top
Republican economic adviser and former director of the
 Congressional Budget Office ,  told Talking Points Memo . “The
market just doesn’t support that.”  Alan Blinder , a former Clinton administration economist and
Federal Reserve vice chairman, had a cheekier take.  “Trend growth is 3 percent or so,” he wrote in an e-mail to
me. “Five percent growth would be 2 percentage points higher,
which should cut the  unemployment rate  by about one percentage
point per year. So after 10 years, it will have fallen from 9
percent to minus-one percent. Nice trick!”  Pawlenty wasn’t impressed by such defeatist math. “Is this
aggressive and bold?”  he responded on Fox News . “Absolutely. But
I don’t buy into the declinist view and attitude of President
Obama that we’re going to settle for anemic growth or average
growth or that America’s going to be a laggard.”  Growth Targets  In other words, if you don’t believe Pawlenty can generate
5 percent economic growth for 10 years, you don’t believe in
America. How does Pawlenty respond to Representative  Ron Paul ,
who used the Republican debate in  New Hampshire  this week to
 suggest  that 10 percent or 15 percent annual growth is
attainable if only we return to the “sound money” policies that
Paul favors? Does Paul simply believe more fervently in the
goodness and potential of the American people?  At another point in the New Hampshire debate, the former
governor asserted: “If China can have 5 percent growth and
 Brazil  can have 5 percent growth, then the  United States of
America  can have 5 percent growth.” Actually, for almost 30
years China’s annual economic growth has been closer to 10
percent than 5 percent. The U.S. should be able to hit those
numbers, too -- provided we stay on the candidate’s logic-train.  In theory, Pawlenty should suffer for opening his campaign
with such a flurry of economic nonsense. This is the candidate,
after all, who titled his book “ The Courage to Stand ” and made
the phrase “Tell the truth” the theme of his announcement
speech. Now he’s peddling magic beans for the American economy.  Smart Strategy  The more depressing view, however, is that this is a smart
strategy. As political scientist  Jonathan Bernstein  has
observed, “provoking liberal ridicule is a very useful skill for
Republican presidential candidates.” If you’re attempting to
prove your conservative bona fides, inciting the ire of liberals
and the condescension of experts and the Lamestream Media is an
excellent credibility-enhancing strategy.  Pawlenty’s approach avoids the problems bedeviling former
 Massachusetts  Governor  Mitt Romney , who’s trying to convince
conservative-base voters that they shouldn’t be turned off that
lots of centrists and even a few liberals seem to think Romney
would make an acceptable president.  Romney’s health-care plan is the fulcrum of this balancing
act. Few dispute that, at the time it was enacted, Romney’s plan
got a seal of approval from many conservatives. Pawlenty himself
hailed Romney as a “nimble and gifted public policy leader” and
said that the individual mandate at the heart of Romney’s health
reform was a “potentially helpful,” if insufficient, way to get
more people insured.  Romney Squeezed  The problem for Romney is that Democrats agreed and
included the individual mandate in their own plan. You’d think
that conservatives would applaud the Republican who convinced
Democrats to abandon more liberal plans in order to embrace a
policy endorsed by conservatives ranging from Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch  to former Kansas Senator Bob Dole. But, of course, you’d
be wrong.  In a world where liberal criticism is a badge of
conservative honor, liberal praise is scorned. Romney’s health-
care reforms are popular in Massachusetts; they are also his
biggest obstacle to the Republican nomination. “President Obama
said that he designed ObamaCare after RomneyCare and basically
made it ObamneyCare,” Pawlenty told “Fox News Sunday.” “What I
don’t understand is that they both continue to defend it.”  This is the strategic choice facing the Republican
contenders. Pawlenty has chosen to appeal to the embattled
partisans who prefer that Democrats express distaste for their
candidate’s ideas. That’s one road. Romney is going in an
opposite direction, working to prove he’s the sort of Republican
whom moderates and independents -- and even some Democrats --
will support in 2012.  It’s too early to say which strategy will prevail in the
Republican primary. But it’s pretty easy to predict which is
more likely to succeed in the general election. At this point,
Pawlenty’s presidential hopes appear even less realistic than
his economic plan.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  