-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls Versus Major Peers as Risk Appetite Drops on Greece

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-16T21:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/canadian-dollar-slumps-to-three-month-low-as-risk-appetite-drops-on-greece.html
The Canadian currency fell against
the majority of its 16 most-traded peers, reaching a three-month
low versus the U.S. dollar, as speculation  Greece ’s debt crisis
is worsening damped the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  Canada ’s dollar, sometimes called the loonie, slid for a
second day versus the greenback as manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank, adding to evidence the
economy of the nation’s largest trading partner is slowing.
Stocks and commodities fell.  “People have taken risk off and are staying very neutral
and very defensive, and that’s put the Canadian dollar under
pressure,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed
income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada.
“We’re going to continue to trade along with equities; if
equities rally, the Canadian dollar will firm up, and vice
versa.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the bird on the C$1
coin, declined 0.2 percent to 98.12 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. in New York, from 97.91 cents yesterday. It depreciated as
much as 1.1 percent to 98.99 cents, the weakest since March 17.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0181.  Implied volatility for one-week U.S.-Canadian dollar
options surged as much as 131 basis points to 10.24 percent, the
highest level since May 16. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  Bonds Climb  Canada’s government bonds climbed, pushing the yield on the
five-year note down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 2.15 percent. It touched 2.12 percent, the lowest level since
Nov. 9. The 2 percent security due in June 2016 gained 16 cents
to C$99.30. Ten-year note yields fell three basis points to 2.92
percent and touched 2.89 percent, also the least since Nov. 9.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks fell 0.8 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day up less than 0.2
percent after falling as much as 0.6 percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index tumbled in June to minus 7.7, the lowest level since July
2009, from 3.9 in May. Readings less than zero signal
contraction. The data followed the New York Fed’s Empire State
Index yesterday, which showed manufacturing in its region also
unexpectedly fell in June.  “We had bad Empire data yesterday, and we have a Philly
Fed out that is much weaker than expected,” RBC’s Davis said.
“If we do register a daily close above 98.74, it suggests the
market is starting to shift its sentiment, becoming a lot less
bearish on dollar-Canada.”  Commodities Fall  The loonie dropped as the S&P GSCI Spot Index of raw
materials declined 0.4 percent after falling earlier as much as
0.9 percent.  “The Canadian dollar just couldn’t hold on with this  risk
aversion , and it just ran out of buyers,” said Dean Popplewell,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp.  Canada’s currency trimmed losses today after government
data showed U.S. jobless-benefits claims fell more than forecast
last week, to 414,000, and housing starts rose more than
anticipated last month, to 560,000 at an annual pace.  The loonie also pared its decline after European Union
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said Greece will be
able to get funds from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  in July as long as it enacts budget cuts. The IMF
backed Rehn in an e-mailed statement.  Confidence Vote  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his allies
in parliament to back his austerity plans that aim to stave off
the euro region’s first default.  Papandreou didn’t give any details of the government
reshuffle he announced yesterday after his bid to form a unity
government with the leading opposition party failed. Defections
by key allies fueled investor concern that his grip on power was
slipping and chances of default increasing.  Foreign investors bought a net C$8.22 billion ($8.33
billion) of Canadian securities in April, the most since
January,  Statistics Canada  reported. Investments in corporate
bonds and government money market paper led the purchases.
Foreign acquisitions of Canadian bonds were a record C$96
billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  