-- 
Canada April International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-16T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/canada-april-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities strengthened
further in April, reaching a three-month high of $8.2
billion. Meanwhile, Canadian holdings of foreign
securities were down by $3.3 billion, led by divestment in
US government bonds.  Foreign investors favour Canadian corporate bonds  Non-residents added $4.9 billion of Canadian bonds to
their portfolios in April, the largest inflow since
January. Foreign investment in Canadian private corporate
bonds remained strong at $2.2 billion, led by mortgage-
backed securities for a third consecutive month. This
activity was mainly comprised of secondary market
acquisitions of Canadian dollar denominated mortgage bonds
with high credit ratings. Non-residents also added $1.3
billion of federal government enterprise bonds to their
holdings in April, mainly US dollar denominated new
issues.  In contrast, the level of foreign investment in
Canadian  government bonds  continued to moderate in April,
following record annual investments in both federal and
provincial government bonds in 2010. Non-residents
acquired $1.0 billion of federal government bonds,
focusing on the medium term-to-maturity bonds as yields
gradually declined in April. In addition, foreign
investors acquired $321 million of provincial government
bonds as overall net new issues contracted and yields
trended up.  Canadian Treasury bills draw large foreign investment  Non-residents invested $3.0 billion in the Canadian
money market in April, the highest level in two years.
Federal government Treasury bills, mainly the three-month
paper, accounted for most of the foreign inflow over the
month. In April, the yield differential on three-month 
T-bills continued to widen, with Canadian short-term rates
exceeding their US counterparts by the largest amount
since November 2008. By month-end, the Canadian dollar
exchange rate appreciated to its highest level against the
US dollar since October 2007.  Foreign purchases of Canadian equities on the secondary
market sustained  Foreign investors added $248 million of Canadian
corporate shares to their holdings in April, the lowest
level since November 2010. Secondary market activity
remained robust with foreign acquisitions of $2.2 billion,
mainly shares of Canadian banks and mining firms. These
inflows were, however, largely offset by outflows related
to cross-border merger and acquisition activities, as
foreign portfolio investors rendered their Canadian shares
to foreign direct investors.  Canadian divestment in foreign bonds focused on US
 government securities   Canadian investors sold $2.5 billion of foreign bonds
in April, adding to the $2.3 billion divestment in March.
Most of the activity in both months was accounted for by
US government bonds. US long-term  interest rates  remained
below their Canadian counterparts for a fifth straight
month in April. In the maple bond market, retirements of
bonds issued by US and non-US financial institutions were
only partially replenished by new bonds issued by non-US
foreign banks.  In the foreign money market, Canadians reduced their
holdings of foreign paper by a further $472 million,
mainly US government Treasury bills. In April, US short-
term interest rates continued to decline to reach their
lowest level since January 2010.  Canadian investors sell non-US foreign shares  Canadians sold $376 million of foreign stocks in April,
following three months of acquisitions. Divestment was in
non-US foreign shares which were down $950 million, with a
sizeable portion in Japanese stocks. The Japanese stock
market rebounded in April but was still the only major
world equity market to a record loss from January to
April.  On the other hand, Canadians continued to invest in US
stocks but at a slower pace. Resident investors added $574
million of US stocks to their portfolios, led by Canadian
pension funds. In April, US equity prices rose 2.4% to
close the month at their highest level since May 2008.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  