-- 
Capital One Will Buy ING’s Online U.S. Bank for $9 Billion in Cash, Stock

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-17T21:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/capital-one-to-buy-ing-s-u-s-online-bank-for-9-billion-in-cash-shares.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
credit-card lender that expanded into branch banking, agreed to
buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank for $9 billion to gain
deposits and access to 7 million customers.  Capital One, this year’s top performer in the KBW Bank
Index, will pay $6.2 billion in cash and $2.8 billion in stock,
giving ING a 9.9 percent stake, the companies said yesterday.
The deal would make McLean, Virginia-based Capital One the
sixth-largest U.S. lender by deposits, up from seventh, and
marks the nation’s biggest bank takeover since 2008.  The deposit boost may help Capital One, which derives more
than half its revenue from credit cards, to diversify its
funding base and tap into what it calls a younger and more
affluent clientele. ING relies on the Internet to attract
customers and has just seven U.S. outlets, which are modeled
after coffee shops.  “The strategy is deposits,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a
credit strategist who covers financial companies at Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York. “ING Direct had gained great traction
in the U.S., and obviously it’s a low-cost way of gathering
deposits. For younger people it’s not as important to have a
bricks-and-mortar branch.”  Capital One Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard D. Fairbank, 60, said on a conference call with analysts that the
company may buy securities with the additional funds. He
declined to comment when asked whether Capital One is interested
in acquiring the U.S. credit-card business of London-based  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   ‘Power Alley’  “Asset acquisitions are an opportunity that’s right in our
power alley,” Fairbank said. “We know consumer assets very
well. That’s what we do. The ING Direct deal only enhances the
potential economics of asset opportunities.”  Capital One intends to finance the cash portion of the deal
mostly by issuing about $2 billion in stock and $3.7 billion of
debt. The transaction, which is expected to be completed in late
2011 or early 2012, will boost tangible book value at closing,
add to earnings per share in 2012 and “result in mid-single-
digit accretion in 2013,” the company said.  The acquisition of ING Direct “is a game-changing
transaction that delivers attractive financial results
immediately as well as a compelling value creation over time,”
Fairbank said during the conference call. “The deal economics
are attractive, particularly against the backdrop of more
traditional bank deals.”  Government Bailout  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, has been
ordered by the European Union to sell the U.S. unit as a
condition of its government bailout during the financial crisis.
The company discussed potential deals with firms including
 General Electric Co. (GE) , CIT Group Inc., Ally Financial Inc. and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , people familiar with the matter have said.  The agreement, which requires approval from the U.S.
Federal Reserve and Dutch Central Bank, gives ING a seat on
Capital One’s board, the Virginia bank said yesterday in an
investor  presentation . Capital One’s restructuring charges and
transaction costs will total $210 million, according to the
presentation.  “The diversified asset base of Capital One combined with
the large deposit base and marketing strengths of ING Direct USA
make an ideal combination for a strong future,” ING CEO Jan Hommen said in a statement.  Credit Cards  ING doesn’t consider its stake in Capital One as
“strategic in the long term,” Hommen told analysts today,
adding he doesn’t feel “uncomfortable” with it either. There
is a six-month lock-up period following the deal, he said.  First-quarter profit at Capital One climbed 60 percent as
fewer credit-card borrowers defaulted and the firm released
money from an account to cover soured loans. The company said in
March that its quarterly dividend would remain unchanged at 5
cents a share after the Fed reviewed the ability of the 19
largest U.S. lenders to weather another recession and approved
some banks’ plans to boost payouts.  The ING deal would make Capital One the fifth-biggest bank
by U.S. domestic deposits only, the company said. It ranks
eighth on that basis currently.  Capital One and ING agreed on a non-compete arrangement,
Hommen said today. Capital One is only allowed to use the Direct
model in the U.S. and U.K.  U.S. Mortgage Assets  “The U.K. is a competitive, huge market, so we didn’t
object,” Hommen said.  Capital One dropped 0.3 percent to $48.84 as of 4:15 p.m.
in  New York , after climbing 2.4 percent yesterday following news
reports that it was close to a deal. The shares have gained 15
percent this year, compared with a 9 percent decline for the 24-
company KBW Bank Index. ING gained 2.8 percent to 8.19 euros in
Amsterdam today, giving the company a market value of 31.4
billion euros ($45 billion).  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government in 2009. The company has repaid 7
billion euros and plans to repay the rest by May.  The divestment of ING Direct USA will release $4.1 billion
in capital, the company said, while boosting ING Bank’s core
Tier 1 ratio by 99 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  In addition to the sale to Capital One, ING yesterday said
it agreed to move the risk-transfer deal with the Netherlands
from ING Direct USA to its banking unit to avoid the state
having to guarantee assets for a third party.  ‘Important Step’  “ING is a complex deleveraging story and this transaction
is an important step on that road,” William Elderkin, a London-
based analyst at  Societe Generale  wrote, in a note today.
“Compared with the redemption cost of the remaining Dutch
government capital” the capital generated by the deal, together
with the potential divestments of the firm’s Latin American
insurance operations, gives ING “an increasingly strong
position,” he said.  The online bank’s $40 billion in net loans and leases gave
it a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of
26.8 percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of
12.7 percent for all U.S. lenders, according to FDIC figures.
The return on assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half the
industry average of almost 0.7 percent, according to the FDIC.  ING Direct USA’s assets include $40.7 billion in
outstanding  mortgage loans , Capital One said in its presentation
yesterday. Capital One said it expects to take a credit mark of
$1.7 billion, or about 4 percent of mortgage balances.  Insurance Operations  European Union regulators approved ING’s taxpayer-funded
bailout in November 2009, after the company agreed to sell its
insurance and U.S. online-banking divisions and make additional
payments to the state. The firm also has to dispose of Dutch
lender  WestlandUtrecht Bank .  ING is considering divesting its insurance operations
through two initial public offerings, one for the U.S. and one
for the European and Asian business. Hommen has said the IPOs
are likely to take place in 2012 depending on market conditions.  The firm also is reviewing options for the Latin American
insurance operations, Hommen said today. The company may make
further announcements on this in the next three to four months,
he said.  In addition to HSBC, other banks based abroad are weighing
the sale of U.S. businesses. Royal Bank of Canada is seeking a
buyer for its U.S. retail branch network, people with knowledge
of the matter said in April.  “This deal stands on its own,” Fairbank said of Capital
One’s agreement with ING. “It does not require additional
acquisitions to make it financially compelling.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Barclays Capital , and Centerview Partners
LLC are advising Capital One. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG
and New York-based JPMorgan are advising ING. ING’s Event
Finance & Advisory unit also advised the firm on the U.S. unit’s
government support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  