-- 
Capital One Said to Near $9 Billion Deal for ING Direct USA

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-16T20:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/capital-one-financial-said-to-near-9-billion-takeover-of-ing-direct-usa.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , this
year’s top performer in the KBW Bank Index, is nearing a deal to
buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank for about $9 billion in cash
and stock, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The companies may reach an agreement for ING Direct USA as
soon as today, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the negotiations are private. The talks may
still fall apart, said the people, adding that  General Electric
Co. (GE)  also made a bid. Capital One may raise $2 billion to
complete the deal, one person said.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, is under
order from the European Union to sell the U.S. unit as a
condition for a government bailout during the financial crisis.
Amsterdam-based ING spoke with firms including  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,
Ally Financial Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private-label credit-
card business, people familiar with the matter have said.  “We believe that ING Direct USA is a valuable asset,”
Duncan Russell and Marine Collas, London-based analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a June 7 report. “It has shown a
very strong ability to build deposits and these deposits have
proven to be sticky despite the financial crisis, implying that
the model works.”  Raymond Vermeulen, an Amsterdam-based spokesman for ING,
declined to comment.  Credit Cards  Capital One, currently the seventh-biggest U.S. commercial
lender with $125.4 billion in deposits at the end of the first
quarter, would become sixth-biggest if it wins control of the
largest U.S. online bank and its $81.6 billion of deposits,
supplanting PNC Financial Services Group Inc. The combined
deposits of about $207 billion would be shy of U.S. Bancorp’s
$208.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deposit boost may help Capital One, which derives more
than half its revenue from credit cards, diversify its funding
base and allow it to increase mortgage lending after closing a
home-loan-origination unit in 2007.  The lender also would have to contend with ING Direct USA’s
$40.5 billion of  mortgage loans  and $19.9 billion of mortgage-
backed securities, based on the latest figures from the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  Capital One, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard D. Fairbank, 60, boosted first-quarter profit 60 percent
as fewer credit-card borrowers defaulted and the firm released
money from an account to cover soured loans.  Shares Climb  Capital One climbed $1.13, or 2.4 percent, to $49 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 15 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent decline
for the 24-member  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   The company may pay $6.2 billion in cash and $2.8 billion
in stock, giving ING an ownership stake of about 10 percent, Dow
Jones Newswires reported, citing an unidentified person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  ING received 10 billion euros ($14 billion) of state aid in
2008 and transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S.
mortgage assets to the Dutch government in 2009. The company has
repaid 7 billion euros to date and plans to repay the remainder
by May.  ING Direct USA’s $40 billion in net loans and leases gave
it a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of
26.8 percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of
12.7 percent for all U.S. banks, according to FDIC figures. The
return on assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half the
industry average of almost 0.7 percent, according to the FDIC.  Taxpayer Bailout  European Union regulators approved the taxpayer-funded
bailout in November 2009, after the company agreed to sell its
insurance and U.S. online-banking divisions and make additional
payments to the state. The firm also has to dispose of Dutch
lender  WestlandUtrecht Bank .  ING is considering divesting its insurance operations by
two initial public offerings, one for the U.S. and one for the
European and Asian business. CEO Jan Hommen has said the IPOs
are likely to take place in 2012 depending on market conditions.  Other banks based abroad plan to sell U.S. businesses.
Royal Bank of Canada is seeking a buyer for its U.S. retail
branch network, people with knowledge of the matter said in
April. HSBC Holdings Plc has plans to shed its upstate New York
operations, people familiar with that effort said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  