-- 
Carstens in China Seeks Emerging-Market Backing to Win IMF Top Job Race

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T12:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/carstens-in-china-seeks-emerging-market-backing-for-imf-bid.html
Agustin Carstens,  Mexico ’s central
bank chief, used a trip to China to call on emerging-market
countries to rally behind his bid to become the first non-
European to lead the  International Monetary Fund .  “It’s a moment for emerging markets to join forces and to
make the strong point that we don’t agree with the way the fund
is being run,” Carstens told reporters in Beijing today. “It’s
time to really express our point of view. I think I represent a
strong option.”  Carstens came away from meetings with People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan and Finance Minister Xie Xuren
without a public endorsement. “I perceived complete
neutrality,” he said. “They really are embracing the process
of a merit-based election.”  Frontrunner  Christine Lagarde , France’s finance minister,
and Carstens have embarked on world tours to lobby for support
of their bids to succeed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  as the IMF’s
managing director. Strauss-Kahn resigned in May after his arrest
on charges of sexually assaulting and attempting to rape a New
York hotel maid. He pled not guilty on June 6.  Carstens, 53, said he faces “an uphill battle” against
Lagarde, because “regretfully this time around Europe didn’t
embrace the spirit of having a merit-based process.” He
reiterated criticism of European countries for backing Lagarde
before all of the candidates were known.  ‘High’ Chances  On June 14, Carstens said chances are “quite high”
Lagarde will win the job, though he stressed today that this
doesn’t mean he’s throwing in the towel. The IMF board aims to
select a successor by June 30.  An IMF deputy managing director from 2003 to 2006, Carstens
says emerging markets should have a greater voice in the
management of the fund and supports the use of measures such as
 capital controls  and accumulation of foreign reserves to fight
excessive capital inflows to developing nations.  South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today that
he hopes an emerging-market candidate will head the IMF someday,
according to Lee Jun Kyu, a senior adviser to the minister.
Bahk’s predecessor, Yoon Jeung Hyun, said last month that he
believed that Lagarde was a good candidate.  EU Support  Before arriving in China, Carstens met Indian Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in
 New Delhi  on June 10. He was in Washington this week before
heading to China and  Japan . Carstens says he’s backed by 12
Latin American nations, though not Argentina and Brazil.  Lagarde, 55, has also taken her campaign to India and
 China . She has the backing of European Union countries and
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has voiced his support.
Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates lined up behind her
on June 12.  Lagarde has benefited from the failure of emerging markets
to coalesce around a candidate from their own ranks after calls
to end a six-decade European lock on the position. She has tried
to turn attention away from her nationality by focusing on her
gender and her role in European efforts to head off a Greek
sovereign-debt default.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  