-- 
Casino Raises Stake in Pao de Acucar to Strengthen Grip on Brazil Retailer

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-16T08:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/casino-raises-stake-in-pao-de-acucar-to-strengthen-grip-on-brazil-retailer.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  raised
its stake in Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar
to 37 percent, strengthening its position after the Brazilian
retailer reportedly held talks with rival  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Casino bought 8.6 million Pao de Acucar preferred shares,
equivalent to a 3.3 percent stake, the Saint-Etienne, France-
based grocer said today. The purchase doesn’t change control of
Grupo Pao de Acucar by the holding company through which Casino
and the Diniz Group share command of the Brazilian retailer.  “This operation shows the group’s continuing commitment
towards GPA and its trust in its executive team,” Casino said
in a statement. “Casino thus reiterates its intent to
strengthen GPA’s long-term development as well as the group’s
positions in fast-growing markets.”  Casino filed for international arbitration against the
Diniz Group last month after discovering its partner held talks
with Carrefour, two people familiar with the matter have said.
The stake increase doesn’t affect those proceedings, which will
continue, a company spokeswoman said today.  Casino fell as much as 2.6 percent in Paris trading and was
down 1.51 euros, or 2.2 percent, to 67.55 euros as of 9:25 a.m.
Carrefour shares dropped as much as 3.2 percent.  Joint Control  Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer, hired
Lazard Ltd. to study a merger between its Brazilian unit and Pao
de Acucar, Journal du Dimanche reported in May, without saying
where it got the information. The Diniz family could take a
stake in the French retailer as part of the operation, the
newspaper said at the time.  Casino, which owned 33.7 percent of Pao de Acucar before
the increase, has had joint control of the grocer with the Diniz
Group since July 2005. From 2012, Casino will have the right to
appoint the chairman of Wilkes, the holding company for Pao de
Acucar, and gain control of the retailer.  Casino, which gets a quarter of its sales from  Latin
America , intends to exercise the option to gain control of Pao
de Acucar, a person familiar with the situation has said.  The Diniz Group agreed in 2005 not to sell its shares in
Wilkes until 2014. All major management decisions must be
unanimously agreed to and Casino and Diniz have the right of
first refusal should the other wish to sell their shares after
the lockup period, according to the pact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  