-- 
German DAX Rises, Posts Its First Full-Week Gain Since April

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-17T16:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/celesio-porsche-rwe-thyssenkrupp-german-equity-preview.html
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose,
posting its first weekly gain since April, as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said her government wants to work with the
 European Central Bank  on resolving Greece’s debt crisis.  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Munich Re  led a rally in European insurers.
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities, rose more than 1
percent.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  plunged the most in 15 years after the
company,  Europe ’s biggest drug wholesaler, said profit may fall.  The DAX Index increased 0.8 percent to 7,164.05 at 5:30
p.m. in Frankfurt for a gain this week of 1.3 percent. The
benchmark has still fallen 4.8 percent from this year’s high on
May 2 as investors speculated the U.S. economic recovery is
slowing and that  Greece  will fail to repay all of its debt. The
broader HDAX Index rose 0.6 percent today.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met as leaders
in Europe struggle to reconcile German calls that investors help
bail out Greece with opposition from the ECB, backed by France,
to a compulsory move that might trigger a default. Sarkozy said
a “breakthrough” had been made on the Greek debt crisis,
following his meeting with Merkel.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel said. This “should be
worked out jointly with the ECB and there shouldn’t be any
dispute with the ECB on this.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fired his finance
minister in a cabinet overhaul aimed at fending off a party
rebellion and ensuring the passage of austerity measures needed
for a fresh bailout.  “The promise of austerity measures has calmed markets a
little bit,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital
in  London . A meeting of European finance ministers in Luxembourg
on June 19-20 “could potentially lead to a compromise on the
involvement of private investors in the bailout, a compromise
that is very much needed as it could remove the uncertainty
prevailing recently in the markets.”  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s gauge of leading
indicators, which measures the outlook for the next three to six
months, rose 0.8 percent, the New York-based group said today.
That beat the average economist forecast for an increase of 0.3
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Allianz, Germany’s biggest insurer, gained 1.6 percent to
93.69 euros, while Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
climbed 2.3 percent to 103.35 euros. Insurers across Europe
advanced 0.9 percent as a group today.  EON and RWE rose 1.4 percent to 19.26 euros and 1.5 percent
to 37.92 euros, respectively.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s
biggest bank, advanced 1.4 percent to 40.33 euros as banking
shares posted the best performance among 19 industry groups in
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Celesio plummeted 15 percent to 12.74 euros, the biggest
retreat since 1996, after saying profit may fall in 2011 as
government health-cost reduction measures across Europe and more
competition in Germany hurt results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  