-- 
Chavez Governing From Cuba Feeds Questions About Leader’s Health

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-06-16T04:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/chavez-governing-from-cuba-feeds-questions-about-leader-s-health.html
Venezuelans, who in the past decade
have grown accustomed to watching Hugo Chavez make national
policy in near-daily television appearances, must now get used
to him governing from a hospital bed in Cuba.  Since traveling to the communist island June 9 and
undergoing unannounced surgery to remove a pelvic abscess, the
normally hands-on leader has stayed out of the spotlight, making
a single telephone call into state-run television. That’s raised
questions about the true state of his health after other medical
problems this year, and is forcing friends and foes alike to ask
who’s in charge of  South America ’s biggest oil producer.  Chavez, 56, was last seen in public June 9 walking down
the steps of his airplane in  Havana  with a metal crutch. The
former paratrooper said he injured his knee while jogging last
month, adding that stress had been building on the joint since
his younger days playing baseball and jumping out of airplanes.  “I’m not sure he can sustain this for weeks, appearing by
phone once in a while,”  Daniel Kerner , an analyst for the
Washington-based Eurasia Group, said in a phone interview from
 Buenos Aires .  Chavez told Telesur network by phone June 12 that he
decided to seek treatment in Cuba, the final stop in a tour of
allied governments in Latin America, after feeling pain in his
abdomen while in Brasilia and  Ecuador . He gave no estimate about
how long his recovery would take, saying only that his injury
was “delicate” and that there’s “no reason to hurry” home.  ‘Suspicious’ Illness  Kerner said the self-declared socialist revolutionary’s
natural instinct would be to try and bounce back quickly from
any illness like former Argentine President  Nestor Kirchner  did
in September when he attended a rally a day after having a stent
implanted to unblock a clogged coronary artery. The fact Chavez
didn’t do so is “suspicious,” Kerner said.  Government officials including Vice President Elias Jaua
have downplayed the possibility of more serious medical
concerns, and point to a presidential decree published this week
in the Official Gazette raising the country’s debt ceiling by 83
percent as proof that Chavez remains in charge from Cuba.  Jaua, who was agriculture minister before being tapped by
Chavez to become vice president last year, rejected calls by the
opposition that he temporarily fill in for his convalescing
boss.  “I’m a man of honor, forged in values of loyalty,” Jaua,
41, said June 14 in comments broadcast on state TV. “I will
defend with my life President  Hugo Chavez ’s constitutional
mandate.”  Doubts Persist  While Jaua said Chavez is recovering quickly, even
supporters aren’t so sure.  “We are all worried because we don’t know who’s running
the country,” Jose Gregorio Saad, a 41-year-old messenger, said
in an interview in downtown Caracas. “Chavez is very strong, he
hasn’t had any serious illness since he took over, but they
should clarify things and speak to the people.”  Richard Cohen, a doctor specializing in internal medicine
at New York Presbyterian Hospital, said an abscess can form on
the pelvis as a result of an infection in the bladder or
appendix, and frequently arises after surgery. Chavez, speaking
to Telesur, gave no cause for the pus formation, saying only
that he was “lucky” it wasn’t malignant.  Presidential Elections  The health scare comes while Chavez is ramping up spending
as he seeks a third consecutive term as president in elections
next year.  Support for Chavez was near the lowest in eight years in a
poll taken in March by Caracas-based Consultores 21. Even though
economic growth accelerated in the first quarter as higher  oil
prices  allowed Chavez to boost spending on the poor, the
country’s 22.8 percent inflation rate in May was still the
fastest among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rising prices, and a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar
in January, has been eroding the buying power of Chavez’s
working-class base. Voters are also angry about power outages
that have persisted more than a year after Chavez declared a
national emergency to fix the nation’s aging electricity grid.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries jumped 36 basis
points yesterday, more than any other developing nation, to
1,169 according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The opposition has seized on the health scare, saying it’s
unconstitutional for Chavez to govern by remote control. In
response, the Chavez-controlled National Assembly passed a
resolution June 14 rejecting an opposition attempt to “imply
there is a power vacuum” in the country.  “The president doesn’t lose his power even if he’s on the
moon,” Iris Varela, a lawmaker from Chavez’s party, said during
the debate.  Workaholic Pace  Chavez is a known to rarely take time off and sometimes
calls into talk shows past midnight. Such a hectic pace may have
contributed to his illness, Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro told
Telesur June 12.  Since taking power in 1999, Chavez has spoken on TV an
average of 43 minutes per day, and interrupted national
broadcasting to address the nation 2,135 times, said Marcelino
Bisbal, director of media studies at the Universidad Catolica
Andres Bello in Caracas.  Since April, when speculation over Chavez’s health began to
surface, his TV appearances have dropped to an estimated 10
minutes a day, Bisbal said.  The president has also had to restrict his public
activities due to illness this year. His tour of  Latin America 
was originally scheduled for May but was called off just hours
before his schedule arrival in Brasilia when he surprised his
compatriots with news of the knee injury.  Chavez’s medical treatment abroad has historical precedent.
In 1908, then President Cipriano Castro traveled to  Germany  to
undergo medical treatment. In his absence his vice president,
Juan Vicente Gomez, staged a  military coup  and Castro spent the
remainder of his life in exile.  “I really hope the president comes out of this,” said
Antonio Arocha, 54, a store manager in Caracas who opposes
Chavez’s rule. “The last thing I want is for chaos to take
over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  