-- 
China Indicator Points to ‘More Moderate’ Growth as Central Bank Tightens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T02:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/china-indicator-points-to-more-moderate-growth-as-central-bank-tightens.html
A  China  leading indicator points
to a likely moderation in the growth of the world’s second-
biggest economy after export demand weakened, the Conference 
Board said.  The index rose 0.2 percent to 154.5 in April, the New
York-based research organization said on its  website  today,
citing a preliminary reading. Revised numbers showed a 0.9
percent increase in March and 0.1 percent decline in April.  The data “is consistent with more moderate growth in
economic activity in coming months,” said the organization’s
Beijing-based economist  Bill Adams .  Stocks fell globally yesterday and oil slid on concern
that  Greece  will default and amid signs that growth is
weakening in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy. The
Shanghai Composite Index has tumbled from this year’s April
high on tightening measures including an increase in bank
reserve requirements announced two days ago.  In China, “the economy is moderating but it is still
expanding at a decent pace,” Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said before
today’s release. “It won’t turn into a hard landing.”  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier.  Higher Rates  Four interest-rate increases since September have yet to
stifle inflation that accelerated to 5.5 percent in May. The
central bank may raise  interest rates  this month and again in
the third quarter, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates.  The leading index “has increased modestly in
the early months of 2011, supported by expansion in credit
and construction activity despite weakness in consumer
expectations and production indicators,” Adams said in a
statement. “Cooler economic conditions in the U.S. and
 Europe  have also contributed to weaker conditions for the
export sector since the beginning of the year.”  The Conference Board first published the index in May
2010. Plotted back to 1986, the gauge has successfully
signaled turning points in China’s economic cycle, the
organization says.  --Zheng Lifei, Huang Zhe. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul
Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  