-- 
Chinese Banks Back $10 Billion Bid to Build Solar in Europe

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-06-16T22:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/chinese-banks-back-10-billion-bid-to-build-solar-in-europe.html
Two Chinese banks are providing as
much as $10 billion in funding to a group of three Chinese
makers of solar equipment to build sun-powered energy projects
in  Europe .  China  Merchants Bank Co. and the state-owned China
Development Bank Corp. are backing the efforts of Goldpoly New
Energy Holdings Ltd., TBEA SunOasis Co. and  China Technology
Development Group Corp. (CTDC)  to expand in Europe, CTDC said in a
 statement .  The solar companies say their goals align with the Chinese
government’s policies on promoting renewable energy, and that
the German government’s plans to abandon nuclear power by 2022
will drive up demand for solar energy in the region.  “We feel confident that we will be leading the next golden
decade of solar energy development,” Tim Yiu, executive
director and general manager of the solar energy business of
Goldpoly, a solar cell maker based in Jinjiang in China’s Fujian
Province, said in the statement.  The three companies plan to use modules produced with their
own components, including polysilicon, wafers, cells and
inverters, according to the statement. They expect to initially
develop small projects and then move on to larger ones.  “Our PV investment consortium has strong financial support
from  China Development Bank  and China Merchants Bank,” said
Jianxin Zhang, chief executive officer of TBEA SunOasis, based
in Urumqi. “Given their backing of $10 billion credit
facilities, we will be able to grow steadily and advance our
investment and construction of solar plants in Europe.”  State Support  An exact timeline and breakdown of the financing wasn’t
disclosed. Lending by China Development Bank for clean energy
projects exceeded $35.5 billion last year, according to a
February report by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China Development Bank has loaned to other Chinese solar
power equipment makers, including more than $26 billion to LDK
Solar Co.,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.,
Suntech Power Holdings Co. and JA Solar Holdings Co., according
to data compiled by the London-based researcher.  The three solar makers said this is the first time three
listed Chinese companies have formed such a group, and the
funding will provide a new avenue to sell their own products.  Other solar companies have purchased development companies
to ensure demand for their products.  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , a U.S.
maker of solar panels, bought Malta-based SunRay Renewable
Energy in February 2010 to increase its sales in Europe. LDK
Solar bought in January a 70 percent stake in Solar Power Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  