-- 
Chinasoft International May Revive U.S. Listing Plan Next Year, CEO Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-06-16T10:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/chinasoft-international-may-revive-u-s-listing-plan-next-year-ceo-says.html
Chinasoft International Ltd. (354) , a
Chinese software company part-owned by Microsoft Corp., said it
may revive a proposal to list stock in the U.S. next year after
postponing the planned offering this month.  “We are continuing to review the proposal,” Chief
Executive Officer Henry Chen said in an interview in  Hong Kong 
today. Delaying the planned listing of American depositary
receipts will also give Chinasoft more time to work on the
financing deal with Hony Capital Ltd. that was announced this
month, he said.  Chinasoft is among companies in China that have postponed
possible capital-raising plans amid increased investor scrutiny
of stock and debt issuers from the Asian country. Overseas-
listed Chinese stocks including  Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd. (LFT)  and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  have declined in the past month as
investors raised concerns about corporate governance.  “Market conditions are not good at the moment,” Chen
said. Investor concerns are “a factor” in the decision to
delay the ADR listing, and Chinasoft has no financing needs at
present, he said.  The proposed ADR listing is “unlikely to be achievable”
by September as planned, Beijing-based Chinasoft said on June 7.
China Qinfa Group Ltd., a Chinese coal company, said this week
it postponed a planned sale of U.S. dollar bonds, without
providing an explanation.  Muddy Waters   Muddy Waters LLC, run by short seller Carson Block, this
month said Sino-Forest overstated its timber holdings in  China ,
sending the forestry company’s shares plunging in Toronto. Sino-
Forest has denied the allegations.  Longtop Financial, a software maker in China, said last
month that auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and a
U.S. regulator started a probe of the company’s financial
reports.  Hony Capital, a private equity fund backed by China’s
Legend Holdings Ltd., agreed to invest HK$279 million ($36
million) to increase its stake in Chinasoft, the software
company said on June 8. Hony will become Chinasoft’s biggest
investor with a 19 percent stake after the completion of the
transaction, Chen said.  “All countries have bad companies, and in China, you can
find some of the world’s very best-run companies,” Hony’s CEO
John Zhao said today. Hony expects “years of very high growth”
at Chinasoft, Zhao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  