-- 
Christie Joins Democrats to Alter N.J. Worker Benefits as Unions Protest

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-16T22:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/christie-joins-democrats-in-n-j-public-worker-benefits-overhaul-agreement.html
Governor  Chris Christie  and New
Jersey legislative leaders agreed to raise government workers’
payments for pensions and health care, as unions protested and
three high-ranking Democrats pledged to oppose the plan.  Christie, a first-term Republican, told a gathering of the
New Jersey Association of Counties in  Atlantic City  that the
proposal may pass as soon as June 24 and called it “historic.”
The Senate Budget Committee voted 9-4 for the measure today as
thousands of employees picketed outside the Statehouse.  “These reforms are needed now, we have a pension system
that is in crisis and teetering on the brink of collapse,”
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , an ironworkers union official,
said during testimony on the bill. “The taxpayers are tapped
out, and we can’t go down that road anymore.”  The proposal pending in the Legislature would overhaul
pensions by raising the  retirement age  to 65 and freezing cost-
of-living raises. Workers would also be forced to contribute as
much as 35 percent of the cost of health insurance premiums
based on income, up from 1.5 percent of salaries currently.
Unions protested that the payments should be negotiated.  Sweeney, 52, and Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, both
Democrats, and Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean and Assembly
Minority Leader  Alex DeCroce , two Republicans, all said
yesterday they planned to advance the proposal. The full Senate
will vote on it June 20, followed by the Assembly, they said.  Three Democrats Oppose  Democrats including Senate Majority Leader Barbara Buono,
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo  and Assembly
Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan  said they oppose the measure
because it would gut collective-bargaining rights. Buono, from
Metuchen, said she doesn’t support packaging health-care and
pension changes in one bill. She and Sarlo joined two other
Democrats on the budget panel in voting against the proposal.  “This isn’t about the next election, this is about the
next generation,” Christie, 48, said today in Atlantic City.
“What you are watching I am going to guarantee you when it’s
finished next Thursday will become a national model and will be
hailed across the country.”  Christie has said the overhaul is needed to shrink a
pension deficit that increased 18 percent in a year to $53.9
billion as of June 30. The state hasn’t made contributions for
most of the past decade, including a $3 billion payment skipped
last year. The government will make a $759 million contribution
to the plan once lawmakers approve the benefits overhaul,
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said last month.  Hissing and Booing  Union members hissed and booed as Sweeney, a Senate sponsor
of the measure, testified on the proposal in the budget hearing.  “You’re not my brother,” one observer yelled from their
midst, a reference to Sweeney’s union position. Outside,
rallying Communications Workers of America members heard more
heated words.  “My brothers and sisters, welcome to Nazi  Germany ,” Chris
Shelton, vice president of the union’s District 1, told the
demonstrators. “We have Adolf Christie and his two generals
trying to make  New Jersey  into  Nazi Germany .”  The union was granted a permit for 5,000 people to rally in
front of the Statehouse Annex office building where the vote was
to occur, State Police Sergeant Brian Polite said yesterday.  Speaking later about Shelton’s comments, Sweeney said he
was “very disappointed for educated people to resort to that
kind of rhetoric.” Shelton subsequently apologized, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Hearing Delay  Inside the capitol, the hearing was delayed as police led
out dozens of union members chanting “union rights are human
rights” and “kill this bill” as Bob Master, the CWA’s
political director, testified against the measure.  “Real Democrats would have killed this bill,” Master
said. His union represents about 40,000 state workers, the
largest among New Jersey government employees, and has urged
lawmakers to let changes in health-care contributions be handled
through contract negotiations rather than with legislation.  Members of his 24-member Senate Democratic caucus are free
to “vote their consciences” on the proposal, Sweeney said. He
said he’s confident the measure will get the 21 votes needed to
pass. The chamber has 16 Republicans.  Millionaire Tax  Once the overhaul has passed, Sweeney said he anticipates
rapid action on the budget and passage before a June 30
deadline, when the fiscal year ends. He said a new tax on
residents with million-dollar incomes may be included.  Christie vetoed a so-called millionaire’s tax last year and
has said he’ll reject a spending plan that increases levies.  Changing the way pensions and health insurance costs are
borne will make New Jersey more affordable for businesses and
residents by curbing government personnel costs, which have
driven up property taxes, Christie said.  “The only way to do that is to control spending -- there
is no magic wand,” Christie said. “Affordability comes at a
price: There are choices to be made and sacrifices to share.”  The overhaul includes a provision sought by Oliver to let
unions seek lower health-insurance payments for members after
four years.  “The pension system as it exists now is unsustainable,”
said Senator Joseph Pennacchio, a Republican from Morris Plains
who voted in favor of the package. “The worst thing we can do
is nothing.”  Swiftly Condemned  Union leaders condemned the agreement as soon as it was
announced yesterday, while a business group gave Christie a
standing ovation last night when he described the accord.  “Senator Sweeney and Sheila Oliver are doing much more
than throwing working families under the bus and into chaos:
They’re attacking workers’ time-honored right to have a voice in
the decisions the government makes about their jobs,” Hetty Rosenstein, state director for the  Communications Workers of
America , said yesterday in a statement. “We expected this from
Governor Christie, but we did not expect so-called Democratic
leaders to abandon working families.”  At least 3,000 government workers, public safety officers
and firefighters assembled outside the capitol annex where the
budget panel met, State Police said. Cars traveling below the
speed limit choked traffic on Route 29, a main road into
Trenton, as unions urged workers to try to delay the arrival of
lawmakers at the Statehouse.  “We’ve heard a lot of lip service about collective
bargaining from members of the Legislature, but they’re ramming
health care at us,” said  Sherryl Gordon , executive director of
New Jersey Council 1 of the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees.  Freezing pension raises would prove harsh for retired
workers, said Bill Lavin, president of the Firemen’s Mutual
Benevolent Association.  “It’s absolutely a betrayal by government of people who
put their lives on the line,” Lavin, an Elizabeth firefighter,
said in an interview. “This gets us on a course to have an
ever-declining standard of living for the rest of our lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  