-- 
Cocoa Falls Most in Six Weeks as World Output Tops Demand; Coffee Declines

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-06-16T18:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/cocoa-falls-most-in-two-weeks-in-london-on-african-supplies-sugar-drops.html
Cocoa futures dropped the most in
six weeks on speculation that global production will exceed
demand this season. Coffee also declined.  There may be a global cocoa surplus of 156,000 metric tons
in the season that ends in September, according to INTL Hencorp
Futures LLC. Prices of the beans will drop because of record
production in  Africa , the world’s largest supplier, Oscar Schaps, the managing director of Hencorp, said yesterday.  “The fundamentals are not very friendly,” said Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City , New
Jersey. “The macro scenario, and especially the stronger
dollar, are adding further pressure.”  Cocoa for September delivery fell $89, or 3 percent, to
settle at $2,886 a ton 12:01 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , the biggest slump for a most-active contract since May 5.  The dollar gained for the second straight day against a
basket of six major currencies, making raw materials priced in
the greenback less attractive for buyers with other currencies.  Cocoa supplies from the  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest
grower and exporter, were disrupted after President  Alassane
Ouattara  ordered a ban on exports to cut off funds to former
leader  Laurent Gbagbo , who refused to cede power after losing a
Nov. 28 election. Prices surged to a 32-year high of $3,775 on
March 4.  Gbagbo was captured in April, and Ouattara ended the ban by
April 15. Cocoa futures have slumped 24 percent from this year’s
high.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery declined 4.7
cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.6115 a pound in New York.  In London, cocoa and robusta coffee also retreated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  