-- 
Consumers’ Expectations Decline to Lowest in Two Years in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-16T14:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/consumers-expectations-decline-to-lowest-in-two-years-in-bloomberg-index.html
Americans’ views on the economy’s
outlook soured in June, showing that unemployment, inflation and
the slump in housing are concerning consumers.  The Bloomberg gauge of economic expectations dropped to
minus 31 this month, the lowest level since March 2009, from
minus 16 in May. The Consumer Comfort Index, issued weekly,
improved to minus 44 in the period to June 12, the highest level
since mid April, from minus 45.9 as fuel prices kept falling.  “Consumers’ biggest concerns are about jobs and income,”
said  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in  New York .
“The bottom line is that income is not keeping up with
inflation right now. People “are making sacrifices.”  Joblessness climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the highest
level this year, and employers added fewer workers to payrolls
than forecast. At the same time, consumer prices last month
exceeded projections as the cost of everything from autos to
hotel fares climbed, making it more difficult for American
households to make ends meet.  Other reports today showed housing starts climbed in May,
claims for  unemployment benefits  decreased last week and
manufacturing in the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
region unexpectedly shrank this month.  More Starts  Work began on 560,000 houses at an annual pace, up 3.5
percent from the prior month and exceeding the 545,000 median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from
the Commerce Department showed. The gain was led by an 18
percent jump in the West that took construction in that area to
the highest level since August.  Jobless claims declined by 16,000 to 414,000 in the week
ended June 11, indicating the pickup in firings that began in
April is abating, figures from the Labor Department also showed.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 420,000 filings,
according to the median forecast.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index fell to minus
7.7, the lowest level since July 2009, from 3.9 the prior month.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the area covering
eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The
median forecast of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
7.  The reports on housing and claims tempered concern about a
slowdown in growth, sending stocks higher. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,270.53 at 10:18 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  also rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.95 percent from 2.97 percent
late yesterday.  One-Month Drop  The 15-point decrease is the consumer expectations index’s
biggest one-month drop since December 2008. The outlook over the
past month deteriorated most among households making from
$15,000 to $40,000 a year and among older Americans.  “Working-class households indicated a growing
dissatisfaction with the direction of the economy likely due to
rising inflation and an elevated rate of unemployment,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. “This group is likely experiencing the most difficulty in
adjusting to the higher costs of necessities and the inability
to draw on credit due to the relatively tight credit conditions
that persist.”  The gain in the weekly comfort index was paced by two of
three components. The gauge of personal finances rose to minus
6.4 last week from minus 8.5. The buying climate index increased
to minus 48.6 from minus 53.8.  Fuel Costs  Falling fuel costs have helped lift consumers’ moods. The
average price of a gallon of regular gasoline dropped to $3.69
yesterday from $3.99 on May 4 that was the highest since July
2008, according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  At the same time, the comfort report’s measure of
Americans’ views of the economy was minus 77 last week, down
from minus 75.5 the previous week.  Recent data showing slower job growth and a housing market
that is struggling to recover may be dimming consumers’ views on
the economy. Payrolls grew by 54,000 workers in May after rising
by 232,000 the prior month, Labor Department figures showed June
3.  Home prices  in 20 cities dropped in March to the lowest
level since 2003. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said in a May 31 report.  ‘Trouble Lurking’  “While any improvement in consumer sentiment is a positive
given the dreary economic numbers that the public has observed
over the past two months, beneath the headline the data suggest
there is real trouble lurking,” Bloomberg’s Brusuelas said.  The overall comfort index reading is still consistent with
levels seen during a recession, according to Langer. The gauge
averaged minus 45.7 last year.  “The economy isn’t growing strong enough to generate
enough jobs to start really attacking the  unemployment rate ,
 consumer confidence  isn’t as strong as you’d like it to be,”
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  Controller Bob Shanks said during a conference
yesterday.  Bloomberg’s monthly measure of the U.S. economy’s direction
showed the proportion of people saying things are getting worse
jumped the most since September 2009, while fewer people said
the economy is getting better. Forty-seven percent of those
surveyed had a more negative outlook, compared with 36 percent
in mid May. Sixteen percent said the economy is getting better,
down from 20 percent in the last survey.  Survey Sample  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  