-- 
Consumer Spending Fades in China Economy After ‘Peak Days’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-17T04:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/consumers-fade-in-china-economy-racked-by-inflation-with-peak-days-gone.html
At the Haiyang Zhuangshi Co.
hardware store in Beijing, sales of paint and aluminum window
frames are slowing, one sign of a diminished role for  consumer
spending  in  China  that’s foiling government objectives.  “It seems the peak days are gone,” said owner Hu Mengbin,
42, whose daily revenue has dropped to about 3,000 yuan ($463)
from as much as 4,000 yuan last year after China stepped up
efforts to rein in home prices. “Between 2006 and 2008 when the
 property market  was red hot, we could make quick money.”  Hu’s loss underlines the dilemma for Premier  Wen Jiabao :
his campaign to control inflation is undermining attempts to
make consumers a bigger driver of the world’s second-largest
economy. Failure to lessen dependence on exports and investment
spending leaves the nation more vulnerable to swings in external
demand and subject to asset booms and busts.  Government data this week showed retail sales growth slowed
to 16.9 percent in May, less than the average of the past five
years and a figure that’s inflated by soaring prices for food.
By contrast, spending on fixed assets such as factories and
property climbed 26 percent, excluding rural households, in the
first five months, the fastest pace in almost a year.  “Consumption hasn’t taken off,” said Patrick Chovanec, an
associate professor at Tsinghua University’s School of Economics
and Management in Beijing. “What has happened is a shift from
exports to investment as a driver of growth.”  Record Low  Analysts at  Capital Economics , a London-based research
group, estimate that private consumption may have fallen to 34
percent of gross domestic product last year, the lowest level
since China began opening its economy to market mechanisms more
than three decades ago. Just 10 years ago, the share was 46
percent, Capital Economics calculates.  “Just at a time when the government in China and a lot of
people elsewhere are hoping to see Chinese consumers step up to
the plate, actually they’ve been staying away from shops,” said
 Mark Williams , an economist in  London  with Capital Economics and
a former adviser on China to the U.K. Treasury. “The trend over
the past couple of years has been relentlessly downward.”  Food costs jumped 12 percent in May from a year before,
eroding the purchasing power of Chinese households even as
policy makers embrace wage gains to bolster domestic demand.
Savings are also being hurt, with the one-year deposit rate of
3.25 percent more than 2 percentage points less than the 5.5
percent annual pace of inflation. Limited exchange-rate
appreciation also means imported products are more costly.  Property Prices  Property prices are also a burden, with 74 percent of
people seeing them as too high, according to a People’s Bank of
China survey released yesterday. Even after interest-rate
increases and curbs on second and third mortgages,  home prices 
rose for the ninth straight month in May, according to data from
SouFun Holdings Ltd. Worker discontent has deepened,
contributing to riots and demonstrations in some regions.  The Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 13 percent from
this year’s April high on concern stepped up efforts to cool
inflation near a three-year high will hurt earnings. The gauge
was up 0.4 percent as of the 11:30 a.m. local time break in
trading today.  China’s leaders have vowed to boost consumption’s share of
GDP since at least 2006, so far to no avail. The ratio is about
half that of the U.S., and about 60 percent of both  Europe  and
Japan, according to Credit Agricole CIB.  Export Reliance  With the Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers claiming
that China’s limits on appreciation of its currency give its
exporters an unfair advantage, Chinese officials have also
repeatedly forecast that the nation’s trade surplus will shrink.
Even so, the excess of exports over imports reached $13 billion
in May, the highest level this year.  Growth driven by exports leaves China vulnerable to
external slowdowns such as during the 2008 global recession,
while expansion driven by investment is less likely to improve
 living standards , said  Li Wei , an economist with Standard
Chartered Plc in  Shanghai .  The risk is pertinent now after the U.S. unemployment rate
climbed back above 9 percent and as the euro region faces a
renewed bout of investor unease about some of its members’ debt
loads. While China unleashed a record fiscal stimulus and credit
expansion in 2008, now its flexibility is restricted by the need
to check inflation.  Rising wages may yet spur a pickup in consumer spending.
The pay of migrant workers jumped 40 percent in 2010 and will
continue to climb 20 to 30 percent annually in the next three
years as China’s leaders endorse income gains to strengthen
domestic demand, according to Credit Suisse AG. The government
has also increased spending on health care and pensions and aims
to build 36 million low-cost houses by 2015.  ‘No  Turning Point ’  “It’s a good plan but up to now we do not see a lot
happening and growth is still driven by investment,” said
Shuang Ding, an economist with Citigroup in  Hong Kong . “There’s
no turning point so far.”  Growth in furniture sales eased to 26 percent in May from
37 percent a year earlier, while household electronics sales
rose 15 percent after gaining 27 percent, official data show.  Passenger-car sales fell for the first time in more than
two years in May after subsidies for purchases ended this year,
supply chains were disrupted by the  Japan  earthquake, and the
property clampdown helped to depress demand.  Consumption would have to grow three percentage points
faster than GDP to reach 40 percent of the economy within five
years, according to  Michael Pettis , a finance professor at
 Peking University  in Beijing.  “We would need the highest consumption growth ever
recorded,” Pettis said. “In the short term we’re not going to
see a lot of change.”  Beijing store owner Hu isn’t expecting any quick turnaround
either. “Making money is getting harder this year,” he said as
he stood in his 20-square-meter shop. “Business is slack.”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Lifei Zheng in Beijing and
Matthew Brooker in Hong Kong. Editors: Chris Anstey,  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  