-- 
Consensus Emerging on Bondholder Role in Greek Aid, Rehn Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-16T10:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/consensus-emerging-on-bondholder-role-in-greek-aid-rehn-says.html
Greece  will receive its next aid
payment in early July, while a consensus is emerging on how to
involve private bondholders in a new rescue package, European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  “We have been in very close contact with the IMF,” Rehn
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today in Brussels.
“I’m confident we can conclude the review in the coming days,
by Sunday, and we can thus take the decisions on the
disbursement respectively in the two organizations, so this next
disbursement can take place in early July.”  Greece is counting on 8.7 billion euros ($12.3 billion)
from Europe and 3.3 billion euros from the  International
Monetary Fund  in July, while debate swirls in European capitals
over the content of a longer-term aid program. Greek bonds
slumped yesterday as street riots led Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to prepare a cabinet shuffle in search of political
support for budget cuts needed to obtain international aid to
avert a default.  “We will be able to avoid any default scenario,” Rehn
said.  Bondholder involvement in the Greek aid package will be
decided at a regular meeting of European finance ministers on
July 11, he said. “We will have to iron out the remaining
differences as regards the nature of private-sector
involvement” at that meeting, Rehn said.  Greek bonds stabilized today after yesterday’s rout sent
repercussions through world markets. The yield on two-year Greek
notes remained above 28 percent for the second day and rates on
10-year bonds rose 2 basis points to 17.75 percent.  Three-Week Lows  The euro dropped to three-week lows against the dollar and
yen, and stocks fell in  Europe  and  Asia .  Bond spreads in Spain, Italy and  Belgium  widened, echoing
the tensions that accompanied Greece’s first 110 billion-euro
rescue package in May 2010 and led the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro safety net for fiscally distressed countries.  Papandreou is seeking fresh faces for his government after
a proposal for 78 billion euros in budget cuts and state-asset
sales prompted defections from allies and failed to win
opposition backing.  European finance ministers meet June 19 after an emergency
session on June 14 broke up without an accord on the next loan
disbursement or on how to get private bondholders to share the
costs of a three-year package to ease Greece’s fiscal strains.  Germany  wants to extend Greek bond maturities, a move that
the  European Central Bank  says would constitute a default and
send shockwaves through the financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  