-- 
Copper May Advance on China Import Speculation, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-06-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/copper-may-advance-on-china-import-speculation-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise on speculation
imports of the metal into top global consumer  China  are set to
climb, signaling stronger demand, a survey showed.  Eight of 17 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 47 percent, said prices will gain next week. Seven
predicted a drop and two forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was up 0.6 percent for this week at $8,988
a metric ton by 1:30 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange.  Copper inventories tracked by  Shanghai ’s futures exchange
fell 36 percent last month and 21 percent in April. Stocks in
bonded warehouses, which are undisclosed, may have dropped by
half over the past two months, Chinese traders and analysts
estimated this week. Industrial production in the country is
expanding even as  interest rates  rise.  “Fundamentals are still quite good and are still
improving, given the latest production figures from China,”
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said by telephone yesterday. “Inventories are being destocked,
especially in China at the moment. These two aspects lead to
higher import needs.”  China’s industrial output gained 13.3 percent from a year
earlier in May, statistics showed this week, little changed from
the prior month’s 13.4 percent increase. The country’s central
bank has raised borrowing costs four times since September.
Copper shipments into China slipped 3 percent last month from
April, according to customs data released June 10.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of June 10.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
69 of the past 141 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 8 Bearish: 7 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  