-- 
Corporate Buying May Bring Relief to Stocks: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/corporate-buying-may-bring-relief-to-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. companies are poised to lend
“crucial support” to the stock market by buying back shares,
according to Andrew Smithers, chairman of the Smithers & Co.
investment-advisory firm.  The CHART OF THE DAY illustrates the relationship between
corporate purchases of equities, according to data compiled by
the  Federal Reserve , and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
2000. Smithers included a similar chart in a report yesterday.
Buying amounts are seasonally adjusted annual rates, net of
sales, and include banks as well as non-financial companies.  “Corporate buying has been the main determinant of
direction of the stock market in recent years,” Smithers wrote.
In this year’s first quarter, net buying rose 69 percent from a
year earlier to $310.7 billion. The S&P climbed 5.4 percent for
the period before erasing most of the gain this quarter.  While stocks have slumped this quarter, repurchases are
likely to last because there’s more than enough money around to
pay for them, the report said. To show this, Smithers cited the
amount of cash at U.S. non-financial companies as a percentage
of debt. This gauge, also derived from the Fed’s figures, has
risen for seven straight quarters.  Smithers, who provides advice on international asset
allocation, wrote that he was “relatively optimistic” about
stocks even though prices were high by historical standards.  The  S&P 500  was overvalued by 65 percent last week relative
to earnings for the past 10 years, a time frame endorsed by  Yale
University ’s Robert J. Shiller, the report said. Relative to the
Q ratio, a comparison of market value with the replacement cost
of assets, the index was 57 percent too high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  