-- 
Country Heights, Merge Energy, Petra: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/country-heights-merge-energy-petra-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index declined 0.1 percent to
1,554.24.  Country Heights Holdings Bhd. (CHH MK): The property
developer said Mark Victor Rozario will quit as Group Managing
Director of the company. Country Heights Executive Director Lee Cheng Wen will become Group Chief Executive Officer starting
June 21, it said in a statement. The stock slid 2.9 percent to
1.02 ringgit.  Merge Energy Bhd. (MEB)  : The construction company
received a 38.1 million-ringgit ($12.5 million) contract from
the East Coast Economic Region Development Council to build a
water treatment facility in Malaysia’s Pahang state, according
to a stock filing. The shares last traded at 33 sen on June 3.  Mitrajaya Holdings Bhd. (MHB)  : The builder agreed to buy
20 percent of Rawang Specialist Hospital Sdn. for 6 million
ringgit, according to a company statement. Mitrajaya, which owns
51 percent of Optimax Eye Specialist Centre Sdn., said the
acquisition will allow it to expand its health-care business to
tap rising demand. The stock slid 1.1 percent to 2.64 ringgit.        Petra Perdana Bhd. (PETR)  : The oil and gas services
provider agreed to scrap a charter arrangement with Mount Tahan
LLC on a vessel to curb losses. The vessel registered low
charter and utilization rates because of weak demand, it said in
a statement. Petra also canceled an option to buy the vessel, it
said. The stock fell 0.5 percent to 92 sen.  RGB International Bhd. (RGB)  : The Malaysian maker of
gaming machines had its debt ratings downgraded at RAM Rating
Services Bhd. Its long-term rating was cut to BB2 from BBB and
short-term rating to NP from P3, RAM said in a report, citing
RGB’s “persistently tight liquidity position and deteriorating
balance sheet.” RGB sank 11 percent to 8.5 sen.  Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust (SREIT)  : The
Employees Provident Fund, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund,
bought 1.56 million shares in the property trust, raising its
stake to 8.7 percent, a stock exchange filing showed. The stock
gained 1.8 percent to 1.11 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  