-- 
Shrek Brings Ogre Princess, Flying Dragon to London: U.K. Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/crazy-shrek-brings-ogre-princess-flying-dragon-to-u-k-warwick-thompson.html
Gags about the gassier bodily
functions usually drag the theater into comedy hell.  In “Shrek: The Musical” they’re part of an unlikely love
duet and it’s comedy heaven.  After a year on Broadway and a U.S. tour, the slick show
moves to the Drury Lane Theatre in  London . Designer Tim Hatley’s
castles, swamps and towers are simplified and enlarged to suit
the large stage, and a British cast takes over.  Nigel Lindsay, with green make-up and stick-out ears, is
the titular misanthropic ogre who unwillingly rescues a princess
in order to win his swamp back. Amanda Holden is his rescuee
Princess Fiona, a girl by day and secret ogre by night.  After initial distrust, the couple begin to bond with each
other in the number “I Think I Got You Beat,” arising out of a
surprisingly amusing fart and burp contest.  It’s when the show takes off in unexpected directions like
this that the sparks really fly. A tap routine for Fiona, the
 Pied Piper , and a chorus of tuxedoed rats is another
showstopper.  The tiny and evil Lord Farquaad is played by Nigel Harman
on his knees, with fake comedy legs dangling from his waist. The
choreography exploits these tiny members with increasing
inventiveness, and when Farquaad begins to swing hand-over-hand
along a 10-sword salute, the effect is wonderfully droll.  Holden is terrific as Fiona, and brings an amusing bossy-
boots tone to the part. The plot works well. The relationships
are nicely judged. The direction by Jason Moore and Rob Ashford
is slick and funny. There’s even a spectacular flying dragon
(voiced by Landi Oshinowo), which swoops to the stage over the
audience. It’s got everything going for it. Nearly.  Pastiche Power  If composer Jeanine Tesori has a great ear for pastiche, it
comes at the expense of anything really personal. There’s a
Jerome Kern-type number, a soul ballad, an Offenbach parody, a
power anthem, and so on. It’s all effective and efficient,
without ever quite being memorable or consistent.  Could this be the reason for only a year’s run -- which is
good, not great -- on Broadway?  Time, and word of mouth, will determine the box-office
takings for a show that deserves to do well. If you don’t come
out humming the tunes, you’ll probably still be singing the
praises of everything else.  Rating: ***½.  Fritz’s Love  Over at  Opera Holland Park  it’s the plot, not the music, of
the latest production which raises eyebrows. Mascagni’s
“L’amico Fritz” (1891) is about a landowner who falls in love
with a young girl. Nothing stands in his way, and it still takes
him a couple of hours to get her.  Plot= 0. Music= 10. The score is full of gorgeous melodies,
and includes “Cherry Duet” made famous by Luciano Pavarotti
and Mirella Freni. Under conductor Stuart Stratford, the
emotional sweep of the music is perfectly judged, and honey-
voiced soprano Anna Leese is delightful as the lover Suzel. If
tenor  Eric Margiore  doesn’t have a huge voice, he makes up for
it with sweetness and stylishness as Fritz.  Annilese Miskimmon ’s delightful production, set in a “Mad
Men”-style 1950s office, does as good a job as possible.  Rating: ***.  Gogol’s Inspector  Richard Jones  is a celebrated opera director (his
production of “Anna Nicole” was a hit at the Royal Opera) who
has recently been returning to his roots in spoken theater.  His production of Gogol’s 1836 comedy “The Government
Inspector” (adapted by David Harrower) at the  Young Vic  is a
masterpiece of farcical choreography and brilliant absurdity.  A satire on greed and corruption, it tells of a group of
townspeople who bribe an inspector who they mistakenly believe
has come to report on them. Jones sets it in a mad visual mix of
19th-century and early-1970s styles. Mutton sleeves are mashed
up with shiny stretch tops, psychedelic patterns with frock
coats. It creates a stifling provincial world, funny and
hideous.  In a superb cast, Doon Mackichan -- all strained vowels and
obsequious curtsies -- steals the show as the mayor’s ambitious
wife. A whirling, frenetic comic joy.  Rating: ****.  Britten’s Lucretia  Equally powerful, for different reasons, was the opening
weekend of the 64th  Aldeburgh Festival  on  England ’s east coast.
A top-notch group of singers, including Angelika Kirchschlager,
Ian Bostridge and Christopher Purves, assembled for concert
performances of Britten’s opera “The Rape of Lucretia.”  Kirchschlager was electrifying as the virtuous Lucretia who
kills herself, and her warm voice soared with passion.
Bostridge, with his trademark clarity of diction, was on great
form, and conductor Oliver Knussen held it together with a vivid
sense of atmosphere and drama.  The festival continues until June 26 with performances by
the French baroque group Les Talens Lyriques, the baritone
Matthias Goerne singing Schubert, and the City of Birmingham
Symphony Orchestra in Stravinsky’s “Petrushka.”  Rating: ****.  “Shrek: The Musical” is at the Drury Lane Theatre.
 http://www.shrekthemusical.co.uk  or +44-844-871-8810  “L’amico Fritz” is in repertory at Opera Holland Park.
 http://www.rbkc.gov.uk/operahollandpark  or +44-300-999-1000  “The Government Inspector” is at the Young Vic.
 http://www.youngvic.org  or +44-20-7922-2922  For information about the Aldeburgh Festival, see
 http://www.aldeburgh.co.uk  or +44-1728-687110.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 