-- 
Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman, UBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-16T10:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/credit-suisse-algosaibi-3m-deutsche-bank-lehman-goldman-in-court-news.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler  had his securities-fraud conviction overturned by a
federal appeals court, which ruled that Brooklyn,  New York , was
the wrong venue for the trial on the charge.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York yesterday upheld
Butler’s conviction on two conspiracy counts. Butler was
convicted in 2009 of fraudulently selling securities that cost
investors more than $1.1 billion in losses.  “No conduct that constituted the offense took place in the
Eastern District” of New York, which includes Brooklyn, the
Manhattan-based court ruled.  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  intentionally misled
clients about securities purchased on their behalf, falsely
claiming they were backed by federally guaranteed student loans.
The men told clients the investments, actually backed by riskier
corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe alternative
to bank deposits or money-market funds, according to prosecutors
in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn.  “We will review the Second Circuit’s decision and consider
our options,”  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, said in an
e-mail.  “We’re grateful that the court reversed on the substantive
count and would have preferred an outright reversal,” Steven F.
Molo, a lawyer for Butler at MoloLamken LLP in Manhattan, said
in a phone interview.  The appeals panel said that, because of its decision,
Butler will have to be resentenced. In January 2010, U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years
in prison on each count, to be served concurrently. He has been
out on bail pending his appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Nvidia Analyst Says He Passed Tips to Networker Jiau  A former  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  financial analyst testified he passed
confidential information about his company to a former  Primary
Global Research LLC  consultant after she befriended him and
suggested they form an investment club.  Sonny Nguyen, 39, the former analyst, testified that he
passed data about Nvidia’s quarterly earnings once to Winifred
Jiau, 43, in August 2008. He said the two met when Jiau worked
as a contract employee at the Santa Clara, California-based
chipmaker in about 2007 and she was about to leave the company.  Jiau, 43, is on trial charged with illegally passing tips
about Nvidia and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund
managers. She is the first of the expert networkers, who provide
industry information to financial company clients, to go to
trial on charges of securities fraud and conspiracy. She faces
as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  “She was asking me to provide Nvidia’s inside
information,” Nguyen testified, adding that he knew that’s what
she wanted. “I had access to all the company’s financial
data,” Nguyen said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman asked Nguyen what he
understood Jiau’s motive was.  “My understanding was that she was going to buy or sell
for personal gain,” Nguyen said. “It would be stock tips of
inside information from various companies.”  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Algosaibi Drops Defense of HSBC $250 Million Default Case  Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co., a Saudi investment
company that defaulted on billions of dollars of debt, won’t
defend itself against a $250 million U.K. lawsuit filed by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks.  Algosaibi switched course during a London trial after
deciding the judge would likely find the company hadn’t done
enough to prevent the forgery and fraud it alleges were behind
the loans, the family said yesterday in a statement. The company
has said Maan al-Sanea, a family relation and founder of Saudi
conglomerate  Saad Group , wrongfully got about $9.2 billion of
loans in Algosaibi’s name.  “It could be found in this case that if the Algosaibis
knew there was” improper use of loans “they should have taken
more aggressive steps to detect and prevent the massive forged
lending scheme,” said Eric Lewis, Algosaibi’s legal coordinator
with the law firm Baach Robinson & Lewis Pllc in Washington.  The case follows a global dispute between Algosaibi and al-
Sanea, one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men who married into the
family before founding Saad Group. Units of the conglomerates,
both based in the Saudi oil city of Al-Khobar, defaulted in 2009
after borrowing about $15.7 billion from more than 80 banks.
Algosaibi has sued al-Sanea in the Cayman Islands, Saudi Arabia
and New York.  James Milton, a spokesman for Saad Group from Cardew Group
in London, declined to comment when reached yesterday by phone.
The company has previously denied all claims by Algosaibi,
sometimes referred to as AHAB.  HSBC spokesman Brendan McNamara declined to comment on the
case until a judgment is handed down.  For more, click here.  3M Sued by U.K. Over Development of Superbug Detection Product  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of products including Scotch tape and
Post-it Notes, is being sued by investors including the U.K.’s
Ministry of Defence for failing to market and develop technology
that detects hospital superbug MRSA.  A U.K. unit of 3M bought the superbug detector in 2007 and
then let it “whither,” Stephen Phillips, a lawyer for Porton
Capital Ltd. and  Ploughshare Innovations Ltd ., a civilian unit
of the Ministry of Defence, said at a trial yesterday. The
investors are seeking $54 million in lost profits, he said.  Porton and Ploughshare Innovations sold 3M a company called
Acolyte, which had obtained regulatory approval for MRSA
detection product BacLite, Phillips said. Part of the sales
price was a payment based on net Acolyte sales in 2009, capped
at 41 million pounds ($66.5 million) according to court
documents.  “By a mixture of delay, incompetence and lack of due
diligence by the 3M group, BacLite was allowed to whither on the
vine,” Phillips said.  In 2008, 3M scaled back, and then terminated the marketing
of Acolyte’s sales activities, resulting in no payment for the
claimants, Phillips said.  The St. Paul, Minnesota-based company said in a statement
on its website that it ceased marketing BacLite because it
proved not to be “commercially viable.”  “In the view of the company, BacLite was not commercially
viable and it failed to meet certain standards of the
marketplace, so the company discontinued its efforts to sell the
product,” 3M lawyer William A. Brewer III said in the
 statement .  The case is 2008-877 Porton Capital Technology Funds v. 3M
UK Holdings Limited.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  HP Sues Oracle in California Over Breach of Contract Claims  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  sued Oracle Corp. over claims that in a
period of eight months Oracle has moved from partner to “bitter
antagonist.”  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in state court in San Jose,
California, cites Oracle’s hiring of Hewlett-Packard’s former
Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd last year and Oracle’s March
announcement that it would no longer support its database
software on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use the
Itanium chip. Oracle also has used “strong-arm tactics” in
forcing customers to “shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware
to Oracle’s own server hardware,” the suit said.  The suit, which also cites libel claims, follows Hewlett-
Packard’s June 8 letter to Oracle demanding that the software
maker keep supporting a server chip made by  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
reiterating its concern that the move will hurt customers and
trammel competition.  On March 22, Oracle said that it would stop developing
software for Intel’s Itanium chip that powers Hewlett-Packard’s
line of Integrity servers, which can cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars.  Oracle, in an e-mailed statement, said Hewlett-Packard knew
of Intel’s plans to terminate its Itanium processor, and said
the company attempted to mislead customers and shareholders into
believing such plans don’t exist. Hewlett-Packard’s claim that
Oracle breached an agreement to support Hewlett-Packard’s
Itanium processor is false, Oracle said.  Hewlett-Packard spokesman  Bill Wohl  said in an interview
that its lawsuit is an attempt to address harm to its customers.  The company demands Oracle reverse its decision on Itanium
support and change its licensing scheme for the Itanium
processor, Wohl said.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  For more, click here.  U.S. Seeks to Collect $403.8 Million in Deutsche Bank Accord  The U.S. filed a lawsuit in Manhattan federal court seeking
to collect $403.8 million as part of a 2010 non-prosecution
agreement with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  over improper tax shelters.  Deutsche Bank admitted in December to criminal wrongdoing
and agreed to pay $553.6 million to avoid prosecution over
fraudulent shelters that generated $29 billion in phony tax
losses.  In the complaint filed yesterday, the U.S. government asked
for the $403.8 million it said Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank had
turned over to the U.S. Treasury Department in satisfaction of
its forfeiture obligation.  John Gallagher, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  The government claimed that from 1996 to 2002, Deutsche
Bank helped wealthy U.S. citizens avoid taxes through 15
different shelters, including transactions called “BLPS,”
“FLIP” and “HOMER.” In the settlement, Deutsche Bank said it
participated in at least 1,300 transactions for more than 2,100
customers.  The case is U.S. v. $403,794,153.00 in U.S. Currency, 11-
cv-04045, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Blackstone Group Sued Over Sale of Hotel Owner Extended Stay  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  was sued over its 2007 sale of Extended
Stay Inc., which left the hotel company insolvent and drove it
into bankruptcy, a trust for Extended Stay creditors said.  Blackstone “siphoned” $2.1 billion from the company as
part of the leveraged buyout without regard for how it would
perform following the deal, the creditor trust said in lawsuits
filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan and New
York State Supreme Court. Blackstone called the suits meritless.  “Blackstone siphoned $2.1 billion of value from the
debtors, rendering them insolvent, undercapitalized and unable
to survive,” the complaints state. “The defendants were well
aware of the financial harm of the LBO, but nevertheless caused
or allowed it to happen.”  Blackstone, based in New York, sold Extended Stay to David
Lichtenstein’s Lightstone Group LLC for $8 billion, according to
a Lightstone statement at the time. Lichtenstein and Lightstone
are also named as defendants in the lawsuits. Extended Stay
filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  “The real cause of the company’s bankruptcy was an
economic tsunami which resulted in across-the-board revenue per
available room declines of more than 20 percent,” Christine
Anderson, a Blackstone spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This was an industrywide phenomenon that landed
every large lodging transaction executed in 2006-2007 in
bankruptcy, foreclosure or restructuring.”  A representative of Lightstone couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  The bankruptcy case is Extended Stay Litigation Trust v.
Blackstone Group LP., 11-02254, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The state-court case is
Extended Stay Litigation Trust v. Blackstone Group, 651667-2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Centro Sued Over $9.4 Billion Sale of Assets to Blackstone  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  said it was sued over claims that a
proposed $9.4 billion sale of its U.S. malls to a unit of
Blackstone Group LP must be approved by shareholders.  Smartec Capital Pty, which owns less than 0.5 percent of
Centro’s outstanding shares, filed the lawsuit in the Federal
Court of Australia, Melbourne-based Centro said yesterday. The
Australian Securities Exchange ruled that Centro didn’t need
shareholder approval to sell the U.S. assets, the shopping-mall
manager said in a statement.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls on March 1. Centro is selling assets to pay debt that
totaled A$16 billion as of Dec. 31, according to its  financial
statements .  “Centro considers that this proceeding is misconceived,”
the company said in the statement. Smartec’s actions are
“diverting management resources and expense and damaging and
being inconsistent with the best interests of all security
holders,” it said.  A copy of the suit, filed in Sydney Federal Court, wasn’t
immediately available.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Goldman Sachs, Lehman End Fight Over Documents for Probe  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  settled a dispute with  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  over documents related to a short-selling
investigation the failed investment bank is conducting.  A lawyer for Goldman Sachs announced the settlement
yesterday during a hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. He didn’t disclose details. Goldman Sachs is
competing with Lehman and a creditor group led by hedge fund
Paulson & Co. to propose a liquidation plan for the defunct
firm.  Goldman Sachs accused Lehman June 14 of harassment in
making a “baseless” demand for documents as part of a probe of
whether rival firms contributed to its September 2008 failure by
putting pressure on its stock through rumors and so-called short
sales.  Lehman said the fifth-biggest U.S. bank was  “deliberately
moving at glacial pace” in handing over information. It asked
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck to order New York-based Goldman
Sachs to produce the documents within two weeks.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UBS Client Greeley Charged in U.S. Tax Case in  San Francisco   A  UBS AG (UBSN)  client, Robert E. Greeley, was charged by
prosecutors in California with filing a false tax return that
failed to disclose two Swiss accounts held in the name of Cayman
Islands entities that he controlled.  Greeley controlled a UBS account named Meyrin Investors
from 2002 through at least 2008 and one named Exchange Preferred
Limited from 2004 through at least 2008, according to a criminal
charge filed June 14 in federal court in San Francisco. Greeley
was charged with filing a 2008 tax return that didn’t disclose
those accounts or the interest income earned.  Greeley couldn’t immediately be located for comment, and
court records didn’t include the name of his lawyer.  Greeley is one of more than two dozen former UBS clients
accused of tax crimes since 2007. Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in February 2009 by paying $780 million, turning
over the names of U.S. account holders and saying it helped
Americans hide assets from the Internal Revenue Service.  The case is U.S. v. Greeley, 11-cr-374, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Adelphia’s Rigases Lose Bid to Dismiss Criminal Tax Case  Adelphia Communications Corp. founder John Rigas and his
son Timothy, who are in prison for securities fraud, failed to
persuade a U.S. judge to dismiss a pending criminal tax case
against them.  John Rigas, 86, is serving 12 years and Timothy Rigas, 55,
17 years for looting the cable company and lying about its
finances. After a federal jury in New York convicted them in
2004, U.S. prosecutors in Pennsylvania charged the two with
conspiring to dodge taxes on $1.9 billion they stole from
Adelphia, a cable-television company that collapsed in 2002.  The Rigases asked a judge to dismiss the tax charges,
claiming prosecutors in the New York case interfered with their
rights to legal counsel and a fair trial by threatening Adelphia
with indictment if it supported them, including by advancing
legal fees. U.S. District Judge John E. Jones III in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, said June 14 that those actions were irrelevant
because they occurred before the New York fraud case.  “When the Rigases were indicted in the instant tax evasion
prosecution, they had already been convicted of federal
securities fraud violations,” he wrote. “That Adelphia did not
provide them at that point with legal fees to defend themselves
in the instant indictment is nothing short of typical business
practice.”  An attorney for the Rigases, Lawrence McMichael, said he
was disappointed by the ruling. He intends to file a similar
motion in federal court in New York, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Rigas, 05-cr-402, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more, click here.  Second Rothstein Associate Pleads Guilty in Investment Scam  A second associate of convicted fraudster Scott Rothstein
admitted to his role in a $1.2 billion investment scheme
involving fake lawsuit settlements.  Stephen Caputi, a 53-year-old nightclub manager, pleaded
guilty yesterday to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud
before U.S. District Judge William Zloch in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida. Howard Kusnick, formerly of Rothstein’s law firm,
entered a guilty plea to the same charge June 14 in West Palm
Beach, Florida.  Rothstein pleaded guilty last year to five counts of
racketeering, money laundering and wire fraud, admitting he sold
investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-harassment
and whistle-blower suits. He was sentenced to 50 years in
prison.  Caputi attended meetings with potential investors in the
scheme, posing as a banker or a plaintiff in the phony suits,
federal prosecutors said.  “I have a lot of remorse and regret for what I’ve done,”
Caputi told the judge. “I want to get this behind me and get on
with my new life.”  Caputi faces a maximum term of five years in  prison  at his
sentencing, which is set for Aug. 24. Prosecutors agreed to take
his cooperation in their investigation into account when making
a sentencing recommendation, Zloch said.  Hy Shapiro, Caputi’s attorney, declined to comment after
yesterday’s hearing. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Kaplan also
had no comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Kusnick, 11-60125, U.S. v. Caputi,
11-60124, U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  