-- 
Cyprus May Follow Europe, Lower Solar, Wind Feed-In Tariffs, Official Says

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-06-16T13:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/cyprus-may-follow-europe-lower-solar-wind-feed-in-tariffs-official-says.html
Cyprus may lower its feed-in tariffs
for solar photovoltaic and wind farm installations on new
contracts with power producers in response to higher than
anticipated investor interest, an energy official said.  Cyprus’s share of renewable energy sources in its overall
energy consumption last year was 5.4 percent compared with the
4.9 percent target for 2011, Ioannis Chryssis of the  Ministry of
Commerce, Industry and Tourism’s  Energy Service said.  “We may lower feed-in tariffs but this will apply only to
new contracts,” Chryssis said today in an interview. “Possible
reductions in tariffs will only occur if there is a reduction in
purchasing and installation cost.”  Should Cyprus lower feed-in tariffs, it would follow
similar reductions in subsidized rates for clean energy by
European nations including  Germany ,  Spain ,  Italy  and the  Czech
Republic  as the price of solar cells rise.  Power producers on the island-nation are offered a 20-year
contract that provides for fixed feed-in tariffs of 0.166 euros
(23 U.S. cents) for each kilowatt-hour produced from  wind
energy , 0.35 euros from household photovoltaic installations,
0.31 euros from large scale photovoltaic installations, 0.26
euros from solar thermal and 0.117 euros to 0.135 euros from
biomass, depending on the applied technology.  Investors on the east Mediterranean island that has a
comparably limited wind  wind potential  and a  high solar
potential  “know in advance what their future revenue will be
provided they have evaluated wind or solar potential
correctly,” Chryssis said. A review of feed-in tariffs would
only affect PV installations and wind farms.  First Wind Farm  In March, Cyprus’s first wind farm with an 82-megawatt
capacity went into operation. Cyprus plans to have installed
wind farm capacity of 300 megawatts by 2020, according to
Chryssis. The capacity of photovoltaic panels installed reached
7 megawatts last month. That may rise to 192 megawatts in nine
years to meet the island’s green energy targets.  The renewable energy plan also provides for the
installation of 75 megawatts of solar thermal and 17 megawatts
of biomass plants, all funded by a 0.0044 euros per kilowatt-
hour fee.  The Nicosia-based Energy Service, meanwhile, approved the
construction of five more wind farms with a total capacity of
75.5 megawatts and the expansion of photovoltaic installations
by 10 megawatts in the next 18 months, Chryssis said.  The island’s overall conventional power generation
capacity, mainly operated by the state-owned  Electricity
Authority of Cyprus , was 1,438 megawatts in May, according to a
website  statement  of the  Transmission System Operator . EAC
raised its tariffs 1.9 percent in April 2010 to recover the cost
of carbon-dioxide emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  