-- 
Czech Stocks Decline Most in Week on Europe Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-06-16T15:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/czech-stocks-decline-most-in-week-on-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
The  Czech Republic ’s benchmark stock
index fell the most in a week as concern about the euro area’s
debt crisis increased after Greek Premier George Papandreou said
he will reshuffle his cabinet and seek a confidence vote.  The PX gauge dropped 1 percent to 1,214 at its 4:28 p.m.
close in Prague, the biggest retreat since June 9.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP) ,
the country’s biggest oil refiner, fell 1.3 percent to 170.9
koruna, its lowest close in more than a year.  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS)  slid 1.5 percent, the most in six weeks, to 817.2 koruna.  Equities tumbled in Asia and Europe and the euro fell to
the dollar for a second session after violence erupted in  Greece 
yesterday over public spending cuts needed to secure more
international emergency loans. The euro area is the main trading
partner for the Czech Republic, which exports about 70 percent
of its gross domestic product.  “Political uncertainties in Greece, with the government
facing a confidence vote early next week, spilt over to emerging
markets this morning,” RBC Capital Markets strategists led by
Toronto-based Nick Chamie wrote in a report to clients today.  Czech transport workers went on a one-day strike today to
protest government plans to overhaul public finances with
measures including a value-added tax increase. The stoppage of
rail traffic and city transit comes a day after thousands of
Greeks rallied against public wage cuts and tax increases.  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of Societe Generale SA,
fell 0.9 percent to 4,080 koruna, its biggest drop in a week.
 CEZ AS (CEZ) , the country’s largest power utility, retreated 0.6
percent to 888 koruna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  