-- 
Debit-Card Swipe-Fee Cap Not Traditional, Lawyer Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-22T17:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/debit-card-fee-cap-should-be-shelved-during-suit-bank-tells-appeals-court.html
(Corrects government lawyer’s comment in sixth paragraph,
description of Senate vote in 11th of story published June 17.)  A planned cap on the debit-card
swipe fees charged to merchants by the biggest U.S. banks is
“discriminatory,” a lawyer for one of the affected banks told
a U.S. appeals court panel.  Timothy D. Kelly, a lawyer for TCF National Bank, told the
St. Louis-based court yesterday that it should reverse a trial
judge’s decision denying the bank’s bid to block the cap while
the lender challenges its legality. The provision is scheduled
to take effect July 21.  The limit on per-transaction charges is part of the Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul. Banks with more than $10 billion in
assets won’t be allowed to collect more than the cost of
providing the service, making profit impossible, TCF claims.  “Below-cost rates and widespread exemptions are not
traditional rate regulation,” Kelly told the three judge panel.  TCF, a Sioux Falls, South Dakota, unit of  TCF Financial
Corp. (TCB) , sued last year seeking to invalidate the measure, arguing
it violates the U.S. Constitution’s promises that the government
will not confiscate private property without just compensation
and of equal protection under the law.  “Plaintiff has no statutory or contractual right to the
continued receipt of any minimum level of interchange fees,”
Justice Department lawyer Lindsey Powell told the judges, in
defense of the regulation.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest electronic payments processor has
“unmitigated discretion” to set fees and has reduced them in
response to market and regulatory pressures, Powell said.  ‘Reasonable Levels’  The as-yet-unannounced rate is to be fixed by the Federal
Reserve. It’s part of a regulatory program intended “to restore
to reasonable levels” fees charged to merchants and, through
them, to consumers, attorneys for the government argued in
appellate filings.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is the lead
defendant in the TCF suit, which also names Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , four Fed governors and Acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh .  The U.S. central bank in December said it was considering
fixing the rate, required by law to be “reasonable and
proportional” to the cost of providing the service, at 12 cents
per swipe. The Fed hasn’t said when the rate will be announced,
Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman, said June 13.  A U.S. Senate vote to delay the fee cap for six months
failed as its proponents garnered just 54 of a needed 60 votes.
The rate is scheduled to take effect on July 21.  The challenged provision added to Dodd-Frank, sponsored by
U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, is known as
the Durbin Amendment.  Swipe Fees  Swipe fees, or  interchange , are set by Visa and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , the second largest electronic-payment network, which
collect the money and remit it to their member banks.  Interchange is the biggest component of the fees merchants
pay when they accept Visa and MasterCard debit cards.  U.S. debit-card transactions have increased in volume from
about 8 billion in 2000 to 38 billion in 2009, surpassing checks
and credit cards as the most frequently used noncash means of
payment, Bernanke said in a March 29 letter to Congress.  The fees exceeded $16 billion in 2009, according to the
Federal Reserve.  TCF says it is the 47th-biggest U.S. bank and the 11th-
biggest issuer of Visa debit cards, with about 1.5 million in
customers’ hands. The new rate will cost it $80 million in the
first year, the bank says.  ‘Discriminatory Statute’  Kelly, responding to a question from U.S. Circuit Judge
Michael Melloy, said Wayzata, Minnesota-based TCF Financial
would need to receive 39.6 cents a swipe to ensure a 4 percent
profit on the service.  Mandating a below-cost rate is an arbitrary decision, TCF’s
lawyer said. “This is a discriminatory statute,” he said.  The regulation won’t apply to about 90 percent of U.S.
banks.  Powell said TCF has no constitutionally protected right to
“this particular revenue stream.” While the regulation says
banks can only charge for the cost of providing the debit-card
service, Powell said TCF was claiming costs for that service
which are “arguably attributable” to the costs of maintaining
a customer’s checking account.  She also said the lender wasn’t entitled to an order
delaying the rule’s implementation because the bank hadn’t
demonstrated to the appellate court, or to the lower court, that
it was likely to prevail on its constitutional arguments.  April Ruling  U.S. District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol in  Sioux Falls 
refused in April to delay enforcement of the law. In his ruling,
Piersol said the bank didn’t meet the test, partly because
“there is no regulation to review at this time.”  Unlike a public utility, a bank is under no compulsion to
provide free debit-card service, Powell said yesterday. She also
said differing economies of scale justified applying different
rules to the biggest U.S. lenders.  TCF Financial Chairman William A. Cooper attended the April
4 hearing in Sioux Falls and yesterday’s oral arguments in  St.
Louis .  In a June 15 telephone interview, Cooper told Bloomberg
News that the swipe-fee cap, if upheld, would force his bank and
others to consider making up the revenue elsewhere.  “It would not be good for our middle-class customer, who
you can anticipate is going to bear at least a part of this
cost, and it would not be good for TCF,” he said.  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of  South Dakota  (Sioux
Falls). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris at the U.S. Court of Appeals in St. Louis
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 