-- 
Greenspan Says Greece Default ‘Almost Certain,’ May Trigger U.S. Recession

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:46:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/default-by-greece-almost-certain-greenspan.html
Alan Greenspan , former Federal
Reserve chairman, said a default by Greece is “almost certain”
and could help drive the  U.S. economy  into recession.  “The problem you have is that it’s extremely unlikely the
political system will work” in a way that solves Greece’s
crisis, Greenspan, 85, said in an interview today with Charlie Rose in  New York . “The chances of Greece not defaulting are
very small.”  Greek government bonds slumped, pushing the yield on the
two-year note above 30 percent for the first time, as Prime
Minister George Papandreou’s failure to win support for more
austerity fueled speculation the European country will fail to
meet its obligations. More than 20,000 people protested in
 Athens  this week against wage reductions and tax increases, with
police using tear gas on crowds and strikes paralyzing ports,
banks, hospitals and state-run companies.  The chances of Greece defaulting are “so high that you
almost have to say there’s no way out,” said Greenspan, who ran
the central bank from 1987 to 2006. That may leave some U.S.
banks “up against the wall.”  Greece’s debt crisis has the potential to push the U.S.
into another recession, Greenspan said. Without the Greek issue,
“the probability is quite low” of a U.S. recession, he said.  “There’s no momentum in the system that suggests to me
that we are about to go into a double-dip,” Greenspan said.  Economic data released today show confidence in the
expansion eroding among Americans and businesses, as
unemployment remains above 9 percent.  U.S. Debt Limit  The U.S. recovery is being hindered by apprehension among
businesses over the long-term outlook, and there’s nothing more
for Fed policy makers to do, Greenspan said.  U.S. lawmakers are wrangling over spending cuts and budget
reforms as they seek an agreement to increase the $14.3 trillion
debt limit before Aug. 2, the date on which the Treasury
Department said it will have exhausted its borrowing authority.  The U.S. debt issue is becoming “horrendously dangerous,”
said Greenspan, who added he doubts lawmakers have another year
or two to solve it.  After leaving the Fed, the former chairman founded the
consulting firm Greenspan Associates and became a consultant or
adviser to Deutsche Bank AG, Pacific Investment Management Co.
and Paulson & Co., a hedge-fund firm that profited from the
collapse of the U.S. subprime-mortgage market.  Greenspan, appointed Fed chairman by Republican President
 Ronald Reagan , was once described as “the greatest central
banker who ever lived” by economist  Alan Blinder , the central
bank’s former vice chairman.  He has since been blamed for contributing to the U.S.
financial crisis by keeping  interest rates  low for too long and
failing to regulate the mortgage market, according to critics
including  Allan Meltzer , a professor at  Carnegie Mellon
University  in Pittsburgh, and members of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  