-- 
Defunct Gold Mines Lure Investors on New Technology, Price Gains

-- B y   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 
2011-06-16T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/defunct-gold-mines-lure-investors-on-new-technology-price-gains.html
The rugged terrain of Asturias in
northern  Spain  is dotted with remnants of aqueducts and mining
pits, reminders that the region was an important supplier of
gold to the Roman Empire 2,000 years ago. Now Asturias is
regaining its luster.  Near the village of Boinas,  Orvana Minerals Corp. (ORV)  is
tunneling into a mountainside to mine a deposit that’s expected
to yield more than 100,000 ounces a year when fully operational
in 2012, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 20 edition.  “This will be Europe’s largest gold mine,” General Manager
Agne Ahlenius says, shouting to be heard above the pneumatic
drills as they sink reinforcing rods into a tunnel a quarter-
mile underground. With gold fetching a record-high $1,528 an
ounce, Toronto-based Orvana, which also owns a gold mine in
Bolivia, says it expects to recover Asturias’s development costs
in less than three years.  Asturias isn’t the only historic gold-mining region getting
a second look. The  Sukari  gold mine near the  Red Sea  in  Egypt ,
mined by Romans and later by the British in the early
20th century, resumed operations in 2010 under Australian
management. Also set to reopen is a South Carolina site that
once supplied gold to the Confederate treasury.  Modern technology helps explain why miners are heading back
to abandoned sites. Most early mines were located on
particularly rich deposits to compensate for crude extraction
techniques. The Romans, for example, heated up rocks containing
gold ore and cracked them open by dousing them with water from
aqueducts. Nowadays ore is mechanically crushed and dumped in
chemical solutions that leach out gold.  Recovery Gains  “It makes sense to follow where others have already found
gold,” says Gregory Ho Yuen, a Toronto-based mining industry
lawyer. “You can recover far more than they ever did.”  While the costs of labor and environmental regulations in
the U.S. and western  Europe  are higher than in less-developed
countries, those expenses are frequently offset by the
availability of roads and electric power.  “We’re not out in the jungle somewhere,” says Dan Symons,
manager of  investor relations  at Toronto-based  Romarco Minerals
Inc. (R) , which is developing the Haile mine in South Carolina.  Opened in the 1820s, Haile became the highest-producing
gold mine east of the Mississippi until General Sherman’s troops
wrecked it. It briefly reopened during World War I and again
when gold prices spiked in the 1980s, but quickly closed when
prices slumped. Romarco acquired the property in 2007 and
expects to start production in 2013. The company is forecasting
operating costs at $379 per ounce of gold produced.  Costs per Ounce  Orvana says operating costs at its Asturias mine will be
about $450 an ounce, while  Centamin Egypt Ltd. (CEY) , operator of the
Sukari mine, pegs costs there at $525 an ounce. Those figures
compare with a worldwide average cost of $557 per ounce,
according to London-based mining consultants  GFMS .  They are far below the average $776 in  South Africa , as
recently as 2005 the world’s top gold producer, which has
suffered a steep decline in output because its remaining
deposits are deep underground, which drives up costs.  China  is now the No. 1 producer, with 11.8 percent of the
global total, followed by  Australia . While only a small
percentage of global production comes from sites that date back
to antiquity, more recent operations are getting a new lease on
life as well. One, the Boddington mine in  Western Australia ,
reopened last year after an almost decade-long hiatus.  GFMS predicts gold prices will surpass $1,600 by the end of
this year. That in turn will spur development of even more
sites, says William Tankard, a senior analyst with the group.  This gold rush is likely to bring more investment to places
like Asturias. Even as Orvana prepares to pour its first gold
bars in the next few weeks, another Canadian company,  Astur Gold
Corp. (AST) , is eyeing a Roman mining site in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  