-- 
Takeda’s Diabetes Drug Actos May Raise Risk of Bladder Cancer, FDA Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T06:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/diabetes-drug-actos-tied-to-cancer-risk-fda.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s diabetes
drug Actos may raise bladder cancer risks in patients who take
the medicine for more than a year, U.S. regulators said.  A five-year interim analysis of data from a decade-long
company-sponsored study showed a greater likelihood of bladder
cancer in patients who took the drug for the longest periods of
time, and at the highest cumulative doses, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a  safety announcement  yesterday. The
medicine from  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda,  Asia ’s biggest
drugmaker, wasn’t linked to an overall increased cancer risk in
all patients who took it.  Actos, the world’s biggest-selling diabetes drug, had shown
a potential risk of bladder cancer in earlier studies on rats
and humans. Takeda won FDA approval of the treatment in 1999 and
agreed to conduct the 10-year study to assess that risk. Actos
became the market leader after a 2007 study showed a 43 percent
higher chance of heart attacks from London-based  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia.  Takeda said it is working with the FDA to make
“appropriate updates” to the drug’s prescribing information.
The company is “confident in the therapeutic benefits of Actos
and its importance as a treatment for  Type 2 diabetes ,” Takeda
said in a statement.  Takeda shares fell 1.9 percent to 3,640 yen in Tokyo
trading today, while the benchmark Topix Index lost 1.5 percent.  Initial Findings  The FDA announcement updated preliminary findings released
nine months ago. The agency had said Sept. 17 that while it
hadn’t found a statistically significant link between Actos and
bladder cancer, the risk appeared to be higher in patients who
took the drug for the longest duration, and at the highest
cumulative doses.  The median duration of therapy was two years for patients
treated with Actos, according to the FDA announcement. Treatment
times ranged from 2.4 months to 8.5 years.  Doctors shouldn’t prescribe Actos to patients with active
bladder cancer, the agency said. In patients with a history of
bladder cancer, the drug’s benefits in controlling blood sugar
levels “should be weighed against the unknown risks for cancer
recurrence,” the FDA said.  Regulators in  France  said last week that the therapy will
be withdrawn from the French market after a study they ordered
showed a slight increase in the risk of bladder cancer.  Actos generated 384 billion yen ($4.1 billion) in sales in
the fiscal year ended in March, Takeda reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  