-- 
Euro Slides Before Leaders’ Meeting on Greece; Franc Weakens Versus Dollar

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-17T08:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/dollar-yen-set-for-weekly-gain-on-signs-of-u-s-slowdown-greece-concerns.html
The euro fell for a third day versus
the yen and slid against the dollar as European leaders prepared
to discuss  Greece ’s debt crisis amid concern a default risks
spreading contagion to other countries.  The single currency headed for a second weekly drop versus
the dollar and the yen after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker
said a “haircut” for holders of Greek securities would have
unpredictable after-effects. Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
will announce cabinet changes today after failing to garner
support for austerity measures. Switzerland’s franc weakened for
the third day in four against the dollar.  “ Risk aversion  is high at the moment and the source of
that is the fear of contagion from Greece and the rest of the
euro-zone’s periphery,” said Chris Scicluna, deputy head of
economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in  London .
“Downside risks to the euro remain, although there is hope that
there will be words of comfort from Germany and France today
which would lend it some support.”  The euro depreciated 0.7 percent to 113.75 yen as of 8:50
a.m. in London from 114.56 yen in New York yesterday, extending
this week’s loss to 1.2 percent. The shared currency dropped 0.4
percent to $1.4142, for a weekly loss of 1.4 percent. The dollar
lost 0.2 percent to 80.48 yen, from a previous close of 80.63.  The Swiss franc declined 0.2 percent to 84.91 centimes per
dollar, taking its decline this week to 0.7 percent. Against the
euro, the franc added 0.3 percent to 1.20032.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet today in Berlin to discuss a rescue
package for Greece. EU finance ministers agreed on June 14 to
convene again on June 19 after they failed to reconcile a
German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of
a new plan for Greek aid.  Greece ‘Haircut’  “A hard haircut would risk contagion for many European
countries with unpredictable consequences,” Juncker said in an
interview, according to the German newspaper Tagesspiegel. “It
will be an extremely difficult process for the Greeks” to
execute policies ensuring they pay back their debt, he said.  Papandreou is struggling to gain parliamentary approval for
a 78 billion-euro ($110.3 billion) five-year package of budget
cuts and asset sales by July to ensure the country receives a
new EU aid package to avoid the euro-area’s first default.  Aid for Greece “is dependent on the Greek parliament
passing the additional austerity package,” said  Robert Rennie ,
chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “That’s going to limit the
potential for any bounce in the euro.”  Banque Nationale de Belgique SA Governor Luc Coene said he
sees the crisis in the Greek government as the main stumbling
block, according to remarks cited by  De Standaard .  European officials are likely to agree on some assistance
for Greece and an announcement over the weekend that a package
is imminent will boost the euro in the short-term toward $1.45,
said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc.  ‘Contagion Risk’  “Our base view is that there will be some kind of
agreement,” Singapore-based Harr said. Longer-term “the bias
is clearly lower, because it would only be a relief rally and it
doesn’t change the fact that eventually Greece will have to
default and there is still a lot of contagion risk to the likes
of Portugal and Ireland.”  The cost of protecting Greek bonds against default for five
years climbed to a record 2,236 basis points on June 16,
indicating traders expect Greece to fail to pay its debts.  A Greek default is “almost certain” and could help drive
the  U.S. economy  into recession, Former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan  said.  “The problem you have is that it’s extremely unlikely the
political system will work” in a way that solves Greece’s
crisis, Greenspan said in an interview yesterday with  Charlie Rose  in  New York . “The chances of Greece not defaulting are
very small.”  Australia’s dollar slipped for a third day against its U.S.
counterpart as a decline in Asian stocks reduced demand for
higher-yielding assets. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares
fell 0.6 percent, reversing an earlier gain.  The so-called Aussie weakened 0.4 percent to $1.0516, and
dropped 0.6 percent to 84.66 yen.  “Reduced risk appetite is weighing on the Aussie,” said
Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond department in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  