-- 
Dong, Iberdrola to Build $2.6 Billion U.K. Offshore Wind Farm

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-16T09:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/dong-scottishpower-to-spend-1-6-billion-pounds-on-duddon-farm.html
Dong Energy A/S, the world’s largest
owner of offshore wind parks, and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power
unit said they will build a 389-megawatt wind farm off northwest
 England  by 2014.  The 1.6 billion-pound ($2.6 billion) project at Duddon
Sands will consist of 108  Siemens AG (SIE)  3.6-megawatt turbines,
Skaerbaek, Denmark-based Dong said today in an e-mailed
statement. It will generate enough electricity to power 300,000
homes, placing it among the world’s largest offshore wind farms
when built, Dong said.  The U.K. aims to build 13 gigawatts of offshore wind farms
by 2020. It’s attempting to reach a self-imposed target of
cutting carbon dioxide emissions 34 percent from 1990 levels by
that date and a European Union goal of deriving 15 percent of
its energy from renewables. Britain has more turbines installed
at sea than any other country, and the government wants to lure
manufacturers and developers.  “West of Duddon Sands will be the first offshore wind
project in our pipeline to be commissioned and marks the start
of our extensive investment program in the offshore wind
sector,” Scottish Power Renewables Chief Executive Officer
 Keith Anderson  said in the statement.  The $1.6 billion cost includes the price of building
offshore transmission infrastructure, Dong said. Those assets
will be sold when the farm is built to an offshore transmission
operator chosen by the energy regulator, Ofgem, Dong said.  Subsidy for Wind  The U.K. already has 1.3 megawatts of offshore wind
capacity. It rewards utilities with two tradable Renewable
Obligation Certificates, or ROCs, per megawatt of power derived
from sea-based  wind turbines , double the incentive for land-
based wind facilities. The government’s Department of Energy and
Climate Change plans to  revise  the number of ROCs awarded for
different technologies this fall.  Even so, the technology remains expensive. It costs about
$176 to generate a megawatt-hour of electricity from offshore
wind, more than double the $83 cost for onshore wind and almost
triple the $60 price of power from natural gas, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance cost of energy data.  The global consultant PwC said last year that U.K. offshore
wind developers need 30 billion pounds to build the turbines
needed by 2020. The Committee on  Climate Change , which advises
the government on carbon cuts, recommends the government should
slow investment in offshore wind and build more nuclear power to
reduce the cost of meeting its targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  