-- 
Dong to Weaken, Credit Suisse Says: Vietnam GDP Forecast Cut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T05:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/dong-to-weaken-credit-suisse-says-vietnam-gdp-forecast-cut.html
The dong’s recent stability will
likely be temporary and it will resume weakening by year-end,
Credit Suisse Group AG said today as it cut its growth forecast
for  Vietnam .  The Southeast Asian country’s economy will expand 5.8
percent this year, compared with an earlier forecast of 6.2
percent, a Credit Suisse  research note  released today said. The
dong will weaken 1.4 percent to 20,900 per dollar by year-end
and reach 21,400 by the end of 2012, according to the prediction,
which said the currency’s recent steadiness was driven more by
administrative measures than monetary tightening.  “There are many reasons to believe that this is only a
temporary phenomenon before another episode of instability,”
wrote Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse. “A combination of higher inflation, slower growth,
and signs of financial distress are likely to spark concerns
among investors in the coming months.”  The dong, which was devalued in February for the fourth
time since 2009, has traded between 20,346 and 20,760 per dollar
this month, a range of less than 2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Vietnam’s central bank said this month it
would increase the reserve-requirement ratio on U.S. dollar
deposits by a percentage point, while also cutting the interest
rate cap on dollar deposits by individuals to 2 percent from 3
percent and for institutions to 0.5 percent from 1 percent.  The currency has benefited from a tighter monetary policy,
and from the curbing of trading in gold and foreign exchange
outside the banking system, the  International Monetary Fund   said
last week .  Increasing dollar-reserve ratios and capping dollar-deposit
rates have driven the relative calm in the Vietnamese currency,
Sathirathai wrote. The currency’s stability may provide a
“false sense of security,” he wrote.  Surging Inflation  Vietnam’s inflation rate reached 19.78 percent in May, the
highest since 2008. The economy will probably expand by about
5.6 percent in the first half, Deputy Minister of Planning &
Investment Cao Viet Sinh said last week. The government expects
the pace of expansion to accelerate in the second half, and is
forecasting full-year growth of 6 percent, down from an original
target of 7 to 7.5 percent.  Credit Suisse expects “the negative impact on growth”
from tightening measures to become more visible in the third
quarter, with some companies “running into financial
distress.”  “While a lack of quality data makes it difficult to gauge
the extent to which banks and firms might be facing difficulties,
news from local media suggests that several firms’ balance
sheets are being squeezed,” wrote Sathirathai. “It is likely
to be only a matter of time before we see this in the macro
data.”  Entrenched Expectations  The dong still faces entrenched expectations that it may
weaken, Benedict Bingham, the IMF’s senior resident
representative in Vietnam, said at a conference last week. Those
expectations are driven by concern over whether Vietnam will
sustain its current monetary-policy stance, whether the
government is committed to cutting its fiscal deficit, and over
“vulnerabilities in the corporate and banking sector,” he said.  The recent measures discouraging the use of the dollar
“will not prevent funds from leaving the country when the macro
fundamentals are in question,” Sathirathai wrote. “It is too
early to argue that the worst is behind us.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Andrew Janes,
Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  