-- 
Draghi ECB Succession Deal for Italy Piles Pressure on Bini Smaghi to Quit

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-17T14:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/draghi-ecb-succession-deal-for-italy-piles-pressure-on-bini-smaghi-to-quit.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  faced mounting pressure from
the leaders of Italy and France to quit as part of their deal to
allow fellow Italian  Mario Draghi  to become ECB president.  “To obtain the support of France for our candidate Mario
Draghi, we need to have a French member on the  board  and we are
working on that,” Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  told
journalists yesterday before he asked Bini Smaghi to resign.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today in Berlin that Italy
had given “its word” on the matter.  While euro-area nations have found consensus on Draghi’s
succession to replace Jean-Claude Trichet as chief of the
Frankfurt-based ECB in November, that would leave  Italy  with two
seats on the six-member Executive Board. Berlusconi agreed with
Sarkozy in April to seek Bini Smaghi’s resignation and make room
for a French appointee in return for support for Draghi,
currently Bank of Italy governor.  “There is an unwritten rule that everyone knows well,
which is that among the six members of the ECB board, it’s in
the ECB’s interest that all big countries are represented,”
Sarkozy said today. “Two Italians on the six-member board is
not a very European solution.”  Berlusconi received Bini Smaghi for a 10-minute discussion
yesterday at Palazzo Chigi, the government’s headquarters in
Rome, and Bini Smaghi left without commenting on the meeting.
The premier asked Bini Smaghi to resign “in the name of
European solidarity” and as “an act of responsibility to the
European institutions and his country,” according to a
statement from Berlusconi’s office afterwards.  “Full Independence”  ECB executive board members are appointed for eight years
and take decisions in full independence, a spokeswoman for the
central bank said today, responding to questions about Bini
Smaghi’s future. The independence of  Europe ’s central banks is
guaranteed by the  Maastricht Treaty , Bini Smaghi told  Corriere
della Sera  in an interview published today.  The  eight-year term  of Bini Smaghi, who spoke today in
Stockholm at a conference entitled “Monetary Policy in an Era
of Fiscal Stress,” isn’t set to end until May 2013. Draghi’s
candidacy is due for ratification by European Union leaders next
week in Brussels. Bini Smaghi declined to comment on his
position in questions after his speech today.  France  warned Berlusconi that it would delay the
appointment of Draghi unless Bini Smaghi, 54, resigns, the
 Financial Times  reported on its website yesterday, citing an
unnamed official. France would be left without representation on
the ECB’s management board if Bini Smaghi remains when Draghi
replaces Trichet, a Frenchman.  ‘Entirely Inappropriate’  “It’s entirely inappropriate for France to raise the issue
in that way,” said  Daniel Gros , director of the Brussels-based
Center for European Policy Studies. “This is a specific case,
but it illustrates the way politicians think about this
appointment and the functions of the central bank.”  The terms of board members at the central bank is a
“matter of legality” as they are appointed “for a certain
period,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said June 6 to
reporters, when asked whether Bini Smaghi should step down.  In a speech earlier yesterday at the Vatican in  Rome , Bini
Smaghi said ECB members must have “personal independence, which
ensures the security of tenure of the members of the decision-
making bodies for the whole term of office.”  Thomas More  After declining to comment to reporters on the details of
yesterday’s meeting with Berlusconi, Bini Smaghi said, “I have
been to the Vatican this morning and I spoke of Thomas More.”  “It is no coincidence that central bankers have adopted
Saint Thomas More as their patron saint,” he had said in the
speech. More was a scholar and statesman who was sentenced to
death in 1535 for opposing  Henry VIII ’s break with the Roman
Catholic Church.  Bini Smaghi is a potential candidate to replace Draghi at
the  Bank of Italy , along with Treasury Director General Vittorio Grilli, who enjoys the support of Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , and Bank of Italy Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni. The nomination is up to Berlusconi, although Italian
President Giorgio Napolitano will play a key role and officially
appoint the new governor.  Thomas More “followed his conscience, even at the cost of
displeasing the sovereign,” Bini Smaghi cited Pope Benedict XVI
as saying in a September speech in  London . “It may seem bold to
compare a central bank to the Church, but that is precisely what
Heinrich Mussinghoff, bishop of Aachen, did two weeks ago in his
address on the occasion of the awarding of the Charlemagne Prize
to  Jean-Claude Trichet .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  