-- 
Bob Dylan Rasps, Malkovich Kills, Meet Paltrow: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/dylan-growls-malkovich-kills-castro-yells-meet-paltrow-london-weekend.html
John Malkovich  returns to the stage
as an Austrian serial killer known for targeting prostitutes.  The actor joins a Baroque orchestra and two sopranos to
perform “The Infernal Comedy: Confessions of a Serial Killer”
at  London ’s Barbican Centre. It’s based on the true story of
Jack Unterweger, who committed suicide in 1994.  Don’t expect any gory reenactments: The Malkovich character
is merely coming back from the dead to plug his new book.  “The Infernal Comedy” is at the Barbican Centre, Silk
Street, EC2Y 8DS today and tomorrow. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-4141.  There’s a treat if you’re going to the Barbican and would
like somewhere new to eat.  Chiswell Street Dining Rooms, two minutes’ walk away, is
the informal new venue of Tom and Ed Martin, whose expanding
dining business includes the Botanist, on Sloane Square.  The kitchen is open until 11 p.m. serving dishes such as
lobster and prawn risotto, and snail and bacon pie. The bar
closes at 1 a.m. Information:
 http://www.chiswellstreetdining.com/  and +44-20-7614-0177.  If love stories are more your thing than Malkovich’s
psychodrama, see the Royal Ballet dance “Romeo and Juliet”
outside its comfort zone: in the colossal  O2 Arena , with as many
as 12,000 people watching. Big screens, rock-concert-style, will
help boost visibility.  Star dancers  Carlos Acosta  and Tamara Rojo headline two of
the four performances between today and Sunday; 40,000 tickets
have already been sold. Information:  http://www.theO2.co.uk  or
call +44-844-856-0202.  Saturday  A neatly combed Jean-Paul Sartre poses in his Left Bank
study amid a tower of manuscripts and a wall of books.  The French writer-philosopher looks confident in the black-
and-white 1961 image by Ida Kar, among the more insightful
pictures in the  National Portrait Gallery ’s tribute to her.
Chagall, on the other hand, looks worriedly out the window; his
backdrop is a bowl of fruit. A young, uniformed  Fidel Castro 
makes a rousing speech at a 1964 televised conference.  Kar, who was of Armenian heritage (she was born Ida
Karamian), captured the personality of many of her sitters.  The exhibition ends this weekend, June 19, at the National
Portrait Gallery, St. Martin’s Place, London WC2H 0HE.
Information:  http://www.npg.org.uk  or call +44-20-7306-0055.  Saturday Night  Bob Dylan  brings his raspy delivery and familiar songbook
to London. The grizzled legend tops the bill at the two-day  Feis 
festival, which celebrates Irish and folk music. The
unpredictable star is likely to feature tracks from across his
career, sometimes performed sad and slow, occasionally fast and
upbeat. The set list is subject to constant change.  The June 18 line-up also includes  Christy Moore  --
sometimes billed as Ireland’s answer to  Johnny Cash  -- who is
joined by guitarist Declan Sinnott. Earlier sets come from the
Gaslight Anthem, the Waterboys, Shane MacGowan, the Cranberries,
Imelda May and the Saw Doctors.  Sunday’s theme is even more Gaelic, with  Clannad  and
Horslips. Thin Lizzy will rock the crowd before another gruff
veteran, Van Morrison, rounds things off. Fans will be watching
out for Morrison’s hits such as “Gloria” and “Moondance.”  Finsbury Park, N4. Information:  http://www.londonfeis.com   Sunday  If you fancy a bit more star spotting to spice up your
weekend,  Gwyneth Paltrow  will be signing her cook book, “Notes
From My Kitchen Table,” from 2 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. on Sunday at
the Taste of London in Regent’s Park. Other highlights will be a
cookery demonstration by Jason Atherton of Pollen Street Social,
one of the country’s most respected chefs.  For the first time this year, there’s a  Taste of Jamaica ,
where on Sunday you can meet TV chef  Gary Rhodes  and his
Jamaican stepfather or learn Caribbean cooking with Collin Brown
and Martin Blunos. Jamaican food will be served and there’s live
music, a bar, a dance stage and plenty of rum.  Entry to Taste of London, which opened yesterday, is 22
pounds ($35.60) in advance or 26 pounds on the door. Sessions
sometimes sell out and it’s worth checking availability here:
 http://bit.ly/k9IRHA . Information and tickets:
 http://www.tastefestivals.com/london/  and +44-871 230 7132.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 