-- 
EasyJet Adds Fourth London Hub in Southend to Reap Olympics’ Travel Boom

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-06-16T11:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/easyjet-adds-fourth-london-hub-in-southend-to-reap-olympics-travel-boom.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  will establish a fourth
 London  hub at Southend airport east of the U.K. capital as it
seeks to tap leisure trips to the  Olympic Games  and business
travel to the U.K. capital’s financial district.  EasyJet will begin selling tickets to 10 destinations from
Southend next month, with flights starting in April, Customer
and Revenue Director Catherine Lynn said on a conference call.
The Olympics commence three months later, centered on London’s
East End, which is served by a railway line from the airport.  Europe ’s second-biggest discount airline will initially
base three Airbus SAS A319 aircraft in Southend, aiming to
attract 800,000 passengers a year. It will offer a mix of
tourist and business routes, Lynn said, with the first including
Barcelona, the holiday island of Ibiza and Faro in  Portugal .  “We expect the new routes to appeal to customers in Essex
and London looking for a convenient new departure point,” Lynn
said. “We also believe that the European city links will attract
a high number of inbound business and leisure passengers.”  The new base, located 54 miles (87 kilometers) east of
London, will employ about 150 people, she said, and EasyJet
plans to “rationalize” its operations at London Stansted
airport, which also serves north and east London, accordingly.  The carrier also serves Britain’s biggest city from Gatwick
to the south and Luton, where it is based, to the northwest.  Olympic Shuttle  EasyJet may also provide an Olympic shuttle service to
Southend from some of its European bases, including Madrid,
Berlin and Amsterdam, Lynn said. The carrier’s contract with
U.K. logistics operator  Stobart Group Ltd. (STOB) , the airport’s owner,
spans 10 years, the two companies said in a statement.  Stobart is upgrading Southend’s infrastructure to boost its
credentials as a London terminal. A modern control tower went on
line in March, a train station 100 paces from the airport opens
next month, a new terminal building is due for completion this
fall and a runway extension will be built over the winter.  The rail line links Southend with Stratford, close to the
Olympic stadium, in 44 minutes and with Liverpool Street in
London’s financial district six minutes later, Stobart Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler said on the conference call.  The swift journey times mean the airport may compete with
London City, located six miles from the banking hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  