-- 
Heat to Build in East as Forecasters Split on Texas Outlook

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-16T13:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/heat-to-build-in-u-s-east-while-texas-cools-off-rogers-says.html
Heat will grip the U.S. East Coast
next week, while forecasters are split on whether parched Texas
will cool as wetter weather moves up from the south.  Texas temperatures will drop to near-normal, according to
 Matt Rogers , president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland . However, MDA EarthSat Weather predicts
temperatures in Houston and Dallas will reach into the high 90s
Fahrenheit, which is above normal.  The average high temperature in Dallas this time of year is
about 83 (28 Celsius), while in Houston it’s 82, according to
MDA. Both cities have had temperatures in the 90s to 100 or more
all month.  “As unusual as it sounds given the summer so far, the
forecast has trended wetter for east Texas due to moisture
feeding in from the south,” Rogers said today in a note to
clients. “This should offer the state only near-normal
temperatures instead of above- and much-above for the first time
in quite some time.”  Natural gas futures declined for a third day in  New York 
yesterday on forecasts of moderating temperatures in the eastern
U.S. this week and milder Midwest temperatures next week.  Power
plants  account for about 30 percent of natural gas demand.  Both commercial forecasters agree heat will take hold in
the East during the 6- to 10-day outlook period. Rogers predicts
it will stretch from the Canadian Maritimes to northern Florida
with the highest temperatures centered on the mid-Atlantic,
including New York, Philadelphia and  Washington .  MDA calls  for the heat to moderate in the Maritimes, New
York and  New England  on the last two days of the forecast
period, June 24 and 25, according to a note to clients.  Rogers said the heat in the East will hold through June 26
to June 30 while another wave of intense heat builds in from the
 Great Lakes  to the Mississippi Valley. MDA also predicts heat
will start to build from the Mississippi to the East Coast
during the same time period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  