-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for June (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-06-16T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-june-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s June monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 9 June 2011 to keep
the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. The information that has
become available since its meeting on 5 May 2011 confirms
continued upward pressure on overall inflation, mainly owing to
energy and commodity prices. The underlying pace of monetary
expansion is gradually recovering. Monetary liquidity remains
ample, with the potential to accommodate price pressures in the
euro area. Furthermore, the most recent data confirm the
positive underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro
area, while uncertainty remains elevated. Overall, the monetary
policy stance remains accommodative, lending support to economic
activity. On balance, risks to the outlook for price stability
are on the upside. Accordingly, strong vigilance is warranted.
On the basis of its assessment, the Governing Council will act
in a firm and timely manner. It will do all that is needed to
prevent recent price developments giving rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures. The Governing Council remains strongly
determined to secure a firm anchoring of inflation expectations
in the euro area in line with the aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. This is a
prerequisite for monetary policy to make an ongoing contribution
towards supporting growth and job creation in the euro area.  The Governing Council also decided at its meeting on 9 June to
continue conducting its main refinancing operations (MROs) as
fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as long as
necessary, and at least until the end of the ninth maintenance
period of 2011 on 11 October 2011. This procedure will also
remain in use for the Eurosystem’s special-term refinancing
operations with a maturity of one maintenance period, which will
continue to be conducted for as long as needed, and at least
until the end of the third quarter of 2011. The fixed rate in
these special-term refinancing operations will be the same as
the MRO rate prevailing at the time. Furthermore, the Governing
Council decided to conduct the three-month longer-term
refinancing operations (LTROs) to be allotted on 27 July, ﻿31
August and 28 September 2011 as fixed rate tender procedures
with full allotment. The rates in these three-month operations
will be fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of
the respective LTRO.  As stated on previous occasions, the provision of liquidity and
the allotment modes for refinancing operations will be adjusted
when appropriate, taking into account the fact that all the non-
standard measures taken during the period of acute financial
market tensions are, by construction, temporary in nature.  With regard to the economic analysis, in the first quarter of
2011 the euro area recorded strong real GDP growth of 0.8%
quarter on quarter, following the 0.3% increase of the fourth
quarter of 2010. Recent statistical releases and survey-based
indicators point towards a continued expansion of economic
activity in the euro area in the second quarter of this year,
albeit at a slower pace. This easing reflects the fact that the
strong growth in the first quarter was partly due to special
factors, which will cease to play a role in the second quarter.
Hence, it is appropriate to look through such short-term
volatility and to emphasise the positive underlying momentum of
economic activity in the euro area. Looking ahead, euro area
exports should be supported by the ongoing expansion in the
world economy. At the same time, taking into account the
favourable level of business confidence in the euro area,
private sector domestic demand should contribute increasingly to
economic growth, benefiting from the still accommodative
monetary policy stance and the measures adopted to improve the
functioning of the financial system. However, activity is
expected to continue to be dampened somewhat by the process of
balance sheet adjustment in various sectors.  This assessment is also reflected in the June 2011 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP growth in a range between 1.5% and 2.3 % in 2011
and between 0.6 % and 2.8% in 2012. Compared with the March 2011
ECB staff macroeconomic projections, the range for 2011 has been
revised upwards, while the range for 2012 remains broadly
unchanged. The June 2011 Eurosystem staff projections are
broadly in line with recent forecasts by international
organisations.  ﻿In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook remain broadly balanced in an environment of
elevated uncertainty. On the one hand, favourable business
confidence could provide more support to domestic economic
activity in the euro area than currently expected and higher
foreign demand could also contribute more strongly to growth
than expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to the
ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial markets that
may potentially spill over to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in energy prices,
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances.  As regards price developments, euro area annual HICP inflation
was 2.7% in May according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, after
2.8% in April. The relatively high inflation rates seen over the
past few months largely reflect higher energy and commodity
prices. Looking ahead, inflation rates are likely to stay
clearly above 2% over the coming months. Upward pressure on
inflation, mainly from energy and commodity prices, is also
discernible in the earlier stages of the production process. It
remains of paramount importance that the rise in HICP inflation
does not translate into second-round effects in price and wage-
setting behaviour and lead to broad-based inflationary pressures.
Inflation expectations must remain firmly anchored in line with
the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to, 2% over the medium term.  The June 2011 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.5%
and 2.7% for 2011 and between 1.1% and 2.3% for 2012. In
comparison with the March 2011 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, the range for HICP inflation in 2011 has been
revised upwards, largely reflecting higher energy prices. The
projection range for 2012 has narrowed somewhat. It is
appropriate to recall that the staff projections are conditional
on a number of purely technical assumptions, including  oil
prices , interest rates and exchange rates. In particular, it is
assumed that oil prices will decline somewhat and that short-
term interest rates will rise, in accordance with market
expectations. Overall the projections embody the view that the
recent high ﻿rates of inflation do not lead to broader-based
inflationary pressure in the euro area.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices. Furthermore, there is a risk
of increases in indirect taxes and administered prices that may
be greater than currently assumed, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years. Finally, upside risks may
come from stronger than expected domestic price pressures in the
context of increasing capacity utilisation in the euro area.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
was 2.0% in April 2011, after 2.3% in March. Looking through the
recent volatility in broad money growth, M3 growth has continued
to edge up over recent months. The annual growth rate of loans
to the private sector strengthened slightly to 2.6% in April,
after 2.5% in March. Overall, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion is gradually recovering. At the same time, monetary
liquidity accumulated prior to the period of financial market
tensions remains ample, with the potential to accommodate price
pressures in the euro area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1 decreased
in April, while that of other short-term deposits increased. The
development partly reflects the gradual increase in the
remuneration of these deposits over recent months. At the same
time, the steep yield curve implies a dampening impact on
overall M3 growth, as it reduces the attractiveness of monetary
assets compared with more highly remunerated longer-term
instruments outside M3. However, available information suggests
that this impact may be waning.  On the counterpart side, there has been a further slight
strengthening in the growth of loans to non-financial
corporations, which rose to 1.0% in April, after 0.8% in March.
The growth of loans to households was 3.4% in April, unchanged
from the previous month. The latest data confirm a continued
gradual strengthening in the annual growth of lending to the
non-financial private sector.  ﻿The overall size of bank balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged over the past few months, notwithstanding some
volatility. It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector in an environment of
increasing demand. To address this challenge, where necessary,
it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the
market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take full
advantage of government support measures for recapitalisation.
In particular, banks that currently have limited access to
market financing urgently need to increase their capital and
their efficiency.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB interest rates
unchanged. The information that has become available since its
meeting on 5 May 2011 confirms continued upward pressure on
overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity prices.
A cross-check of the outcome of the economic analysis with that
of the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is gradually recovering. Monetary liquidity
remains ample, with the potential to accommodate price pressures
in the euro area. Furthermore, the most recent data confirm the
positive underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro
area, while uncertainty remains elevated. Overall, the monetary
policy stance remains accommodative, lending support to economic
activity. On balance, risks to the outlook for  price stability 
are on the upside. Accordingly, strong vigilance is warranted.
On the basis of its assessment, the Governing Council will act
in a firm and timely manner. It will do all that is needed to
prevent recent price developments giving rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures. The Governing Council remains strongly
determined to secure a firm anchoring of inflation expectations
in the euro area in line with the aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. This is a
prerequisite for monetary policy to make an ongoing contribution
towards supporting growth and job creation in the euro area.  Turning to fiscal policies, all parties involved in the
preparation of the 2012 national budgets must ensure that they
are fully in line with the requirement to support confidence in
fiscal policies. A comparison between the latest
economic ﻿forecasts by the European Commission and the fiscal
plans embodied in the stability programmes points to the need
for many countries to underpin their budget targets with
concrete consolidation measures in order to correct their
excessive deficits by the commonly agreed deadlines. The
implementation of credible fiscal adjustment strategies is
crucial in view of ongoing financial market pressures.  At the same time, the implementation of ambitious and far-
reaching structural reforms is urgently required in the euro
area to strengthen substantially its competitiveness,
flexibility and longer-term growth potential. In particular,
countries which have high fiscal and external deficits or which
are suffering from a loss of competitiveness should rapidly
carry out comprehensive economic reforms. In the case of product
markets, policies that enhance competition and innovation should
be vigorously pursued to facilitate productivity growth.
Regarding the labour market, the priority must be to enhance
wage flexibility and incentives to work, and to remove labour
market rigidities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  