-- 
ECB’s Mersch Says Extending Greek Bond Maturities No Solution

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-16T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ecb-s-mersch-says-extending-greek-bond-maturities-no-solution.html
European Central Bank council member
 Yves Mersch  said extending the maturities of Greek bonds is not
an acceptable solution to the nation’s crisis.  “To politically enforce maturity extensions of Greek bonds
held by private investors comes up short,” Mersch, who heads
Luxembourg’s central bank, said in a speech in Hamburg today.
Not only have  ratings agencies  signaled that such a move would
constitute a default, the ECB would not accept such bonds as
collateral in its refinancing operations, Mersch said.  Investors have increased bets that Greece will not be able
to pay its debts and will become the first euro-area nation to
default. Germany has proposed extending maturities on Greek
bonds to give the country more time to get its finances in order.  Mersch said the disorderly insolvency of a euro member
state would have disastrous consequences for the region as a
whole. He said Greece remains solvent and it’s up to governments
to find a solution to the problem.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said today that ECB
concerns about the structure of a new Greek aid package must be
taken into consideration.  “We have to observe a certain number of red lines, mainly
those mentioned by the ECB -- no default, no rating downgrades
and the private-sector involvement has to be done on a voluntary
basis,” Juncker said in Luxembourg. “If we were to move to
larger solutions, we have to take into account all the risks
entailed.”  For its part, the ECB will continue to guarantee  price
stability , Mersch said. He indicated the central bank is likely
to raise  interest rates  again next month to fight inflation
risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  