-- 
Edison, Air Liquide EU Rulings May Aid Fine Cuts, Lawyers Say

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-16T15:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/edison-air-liquide-eu-rulings-may-aid-fine-cuts-lawyers-say.html
Edison SpA (EDN)  and Air Liquide SA’s
successful challenges to European Union antitrust fines may aid
companies seeking to avoid paying fines for competition
violations committed by subsidiaries, lawyers said.  Edison today won a EU court challenge to a 58.1 million-
euro ($82 million) antitrust fine based on errors committed by
EU regulators. Air Liquide SA, the world’s biggest producer of
industrial gases, also won its bid to overturn the EU’s decision
of collusion in the cartel.  The  EU General Court  in Luxembourg said regulators failed
to consider evidence submitted by Edison showing it didn’t have
decisive influence over units involved in the cartel. The
European Commission in April slashed a fine against
ArcelorMittal SA by 80 percent, saying they couldn’t force the
company to pay fines imposed on several of the steelmakers’
units.  “Until today’s judgment no parent company had ever before
managed to escape liability,” said Alfonso Lamadrid, a lawyer
at Garrigues in Brussels. “This is one of the most common
grounds of appeal.”  The court also reduced  Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s fine in the case to
139.5 million euros, from 167 million euros.  FMC Corp. (FMC)  lost an
appeal to overturn or cut a 25 million-euro penalty.  Shares of Milan-based Edison,  Italy ’s second-largest power
generator, rose 1.2 percent to 82.5 euro cents in trading today.  ‘Enormous Effort’  Simon Hirsbrunner, a lawyer at Heuking Kuhn Lueer Wojtek’s
Brussels office, said a parent company would need to show that
it “doesn’t intervene in market behavior and its influence is
limited to a financial holding” in a subsidiary.  “You’d have to make an enormous effort to reverse
liability, it’s an uphill struggle, but it’s not hopeless,”
Hirsbrunner said.  EU regulators had previously raised penalties against
parent companies, saying they were automatically liable for
competition violations by their units.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the
world’s largest maker of paints and coatings, lost a 2009 appeal
over its financial liability for a unit’s violations.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based
antitrust agency, said the regulator carefully asses the
decision  Parental Liability  “The general court confirmed the correctness of the
commission’s decision as regards parental liability,” by
upholding regulators’ decision to require two other companies in
the cartel, FMC and SNIA SpA, to pay their units’ fines, she
said.  In the underlying case, the commission  fined  seven
companies 388.1 million euros in 2006 for fixing prices of
hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborates, used by the pulp and
paper-making industry and to make antiseptic and hair-care
products. Solvay and Akzo Nobel previously paid $72.8 million to
settle U.S. criminal charges in a similar cartel.  Air Liquide SA (AI) , based in Paris, hadn’t been fined in the
cartel, because it left the market in 1998 and the EU could no
longer penalize it. Philadelphia-based FMC said it was
“disappointed with the court’s decision and we are evaluating
our options for further appeal.”  The EU court today upheld a 25.6 million-euro fine against
Solvay Solexis SpA, a former Edison unit that was acquired by
Solvay.  3 1/2 Year Probe  The cartel lasted from 1994 until 2000, according to the EU
regulator. The penalties followed a 3 1/2 year probe against 18
companies.  Brussels-based Solvay, the world’s largest soda-ash maker,
got the highest penalty of 167 million euros plus a 26 million-
euro fine for Solvay Solexis, which it acquired from Edison in
2002. Erik De Leye, a spokesman for Solvay, had no immediate
comment on today’s fine reduction.  The court cut Solvay’s fine because it said the commission
had wrongly assessed the period during which the company took
part in the cartel.  Total SA (FP)  and Arkema SA, which were fined
78.6 million euros, have their  appeals  still pending at the EU
court. Akzo’s appeal against a 25 million-euro penalty was
 removed  from the court register in December 2009.  The cases are: T-185/06, L’Air Liquide v. Commission; T-
186/06, Solvay v. Commission; T-191/06, FMC Foret v. Commission;
T-192/06, Caffaro v. Commission; T-194/06, SNIA v. Commission;
T-195/06, Solvay Solexis v Commission; T-196/06, Edison v.
Commission; T-197/06, FMC v. Commission.  -- Editors: Christopher Scinta, Peter Chapman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  