-- 
Lehman Will Recover Up to $65 Billion for Creditors, Marsal Tells CNBC

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-16T17:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/lehman-will-recover-up-to-65-billion-for-creditors-marsal-tells-cnbc.html
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. plans
to raise as much as $65 billion for creditors and begin making
distributions next year, Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal 
said in an interview on CNBC.  Lehman is working on a revised liquidation plan and will
recover $60 billion to $65 billion for creditors from its
assets, Marsal said today. He expects to begin making
distributions in the first quarter of 2012.  “There undoubtedly will be some holdouts, but I think
we’re going to a have a plan that’s going to get the blessing”
of creditors, Marsal said.  Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy in 2008, is competing
against two rival proposals to pay creditors. One is backed by a
group of bondholders, including hedge fund Paulson & Co. and the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System . Another is from
a creditor group that includes  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The groups are clashing
over how to distribute Lehman’s assets and how much to pay
various groups of creditors.  Lehman is negotiating with those creditor groups to resolve
their opposition to its existing proposal,  Kimberly Macleod ,
Lehman’s spokeswoman, said today in a phone interview. Any
agreement could be the basis of a revised Lehman plan, she said.  Defending 350 Workers  In the CNBC interview, Marsal defended employing about 350
former Lehman workers, saying they know the history of the
firm’s assets.  Lehman has raised between $25 billion and $27 billion in
cash so far, he said. Lehman will sell assets “in a responsible
way” and won’t be “dumping” them onto the market, he said.
Lehman’s commercial assets are rising in value, Marsal said.
Investments in private equity are “very slow,” though they’re
coming back, he said.  “Almost across the board, we’ve seen our values improving
over the last 12 months,” he said.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 