-- 
Eircom May Seek $1.4 Billion Debt Writedown from Lenders to Irish Telecom

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-16T13:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/eircom-said-to-weigh-seeking-over-1-billion-euro-debt-writeoffs.html
Eircom Group Ltd., the Irish
telecoms company, may ask lenders to write off more than 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of debt, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  The Dublin-based company will seek haircuts on payment-in-
kind securities and floating-rate notes, according to one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the company has
not yet formally engaged with creditors. Second-lien creditors
may be offered equity for accepting a discount. It isn’t clear
whether first-lien lenders will be affected, the person said.  Eircom, saddled with 3.75 billion euros of debt following
five changes in ownership in the last 12 years, said last month
it as “very optimistic” it can resolve its debt situation this
year, even as it warned of a likely breach in financial
covenants within three months. Moody’s Investors Service this
month downgraded ERC Ireland Finance Ltd, parent of the company,
and warned of a possible default on debt.  Eircom has cut its earnings forecasts, according to the two
people. The company had earlier projected earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of more than 600
million euros in coming years, the people said. Now, it has cut
its forecasts to as low as about 550 million euros, said one of
the people. It is not known when the cuts were made.  “The company has no comment regarding speculation
concerning any proposal regarding the balance sheet,” said Paul Bradley, a spokesman for Eircom, by telephone. “At our recent
third-quarter results, the company stated that we will make a
proposal to lenders in due course. At that time, we also guided
that there would be an acceleration in EBITDA decline.”  Liens  Taken over last year by Singapore Technologies Telemedia
Pte and a trust owned by current and former Eircom employees,
the company had 2.36 billion euros of first lien debt, according
to  results  released on May 27.  Eircom also has 350 million euros of second-lien
borrowings, 350 million euros of floating-rate notes and 643
million euros of payment-in-kind notes at the end of March.  Eircom’s owners will also be expected to provide new equity
to the company as part of a capital restructuring, the two
people said.  Eircom, advised externally by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Gleacher Shacklock & Co. Inc., expects to “shortly” agree
terms of engagement with a committee formed to represent senior
creditors in talks on a restructuring of debt, Bradley said on
June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  