-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall to Three-Month Low on Interest Rates, Greece

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T22:02:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/emerging-market-stocks-slump-to-three-month-low-on-interest-rates-greece.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
three-month low as concern deepened that  Europe ’s debt crisis
and rising interest rates in developing nations will curb global
economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.8 percent to
1,107.43 at 5:30 p.m. in  New York , the lowest since March 18.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.5 percent, while  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 0.8 percent and  South
Korea ’s Kospi dropped 1.9 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa index lost
1.2 percent and  Russia ’s Micex fell 0.5 percent.  Equities in  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  sank,
while east European currencies weakened as violence erupted in
 Greece  over budget cuts. The Shanghai composite tumbled to the
lowest level since September after the Economic Information
Daily said in a front-page editorial that an interest-rate
increase in  China  isn’t “far away.” The Sensex extended this
year’s drop to 12 percent after India’s central bank raised
borrowing costs for the 10th time since the start of 2010.  “Governments are walking a fine line between growth and
social obligations,” said Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage
about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.
“Cheap money for funding businesses will eventually dry up.”  The MSCI gauge of emerging markets has fallen 3.8 percent
this year, compared with a 0.5 percent slide in the MSCI World
Index of developed-nation stocks. Shares in the MSCI emerging
index are valued at 10.1 times analysts’ 12-month earnings
estimates, the lowest level since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrials and Financials  Industrial and financial stocks were among the biggest
decliners on the MSCI emerging gauge today. Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder, slumped 4.3
percent.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s second-
largest lender by market value, plunged 4.8 percent in  Hong
Kong .  The Czech PX index retreated 1 percent and Hungary’s
benchmark BUX index of shares dropped 0.7 percent. Poland’s
zloty weakened 0.9 percent against the euro after the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that Hungary’s
government may breach the European Union’s budget-deficit limit
next year.  Banco do Brasil SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
lost 2 percent, the most in a month, as traders raised bets for
higher borrowing costs and concern mounted that proposed
international regulations may subject banks to capital
surcharges if they grow any bigger. Miner Vale SA followed metal
prices lower and oil company OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA
fell for the fifth day in  Brazil .  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 321, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will reshuffle his
Cabinet today and seek a confidence vote, battling to control a
shrinking majority and pass austerity measures demanded by
international lenders. Police used tear gas to break up protests
in central  Athens  last night.  Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan said yesterday senior
bondholders should share in the losses of Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
and Irish Nationwide Building Society, reversing a policy of
protecting owners of senior securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  