-- 
EON ‘Acted Early’ to Buy Back German Power After Nuclear Reactor Halts

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T09:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/eon-acted-early-to-buy-back-german-power-after-nuclear-halts.html
EON AG,  Germany ’s biggest utility,
has bought back lost future electricity production it had
already sold from two nuclear plants that were ordered to shut
by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  in March.  “We were acting early on this, we are not uncomfortable
with the situation that we are in now,” Jorgen Kildahl, EON’s
board member responsible for generation and trading, said
yesterday in an interview in London. “We will post a slight
negative number on that, but it’s nothing dramatic.”  German power prices have jumped since the nuclear disaster
in  Japan  on March 11 and as Merkel ordered the halt of the
country’s seven oldest reactors on atomic safety concerns. EON,
based in Dusseldorf, shut its Isar-1 plant on March 17 and the
Unterweser facility a day later and won’t fight the government’s
decision to accelerate its nuclear exit, Kildahl said.  German next-year power, a European benchmark, rose 12
percent to 59.65 euros ($84.38) a megawatt-hour from March 11 to
today. The contract slid as much as 0.7 percent today, the most
since June 6.  “They realized straight away that these nukes won’t come
back and covered themselves,” said Lueder Schumacher, a
Unicredit SpA analyst in  London , said today by e-mail. “Not so
much smart as common sense.”  EON had hedged, or sold, 90 percent of its 2011 generation
and 80 percent of its 2012 power as of March 31, according to
slides on the company’s website.  500 Million Euros  “They had to do this quickly, because of the sales
commitments they have,” Per Lekander, UBS AG’s global head of
utility research, said today by phone from Paris.  EON will lose as much as 500 million euros in sales this
year from lost nuclear production and buying back electricity,
according to the Swiss bank. The utility also co-owns two
reactors in Germany with Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s
biggest utility.  Annual output from Isar-1 and Unterweser is about 15
terawatt-hours, Kildahl said. He declined to say how much of the
lost output EON has so far bought back.  “It’s not really a huge number for us,” he said of the
nuclear output from the two plants. EON’s total generation last
year was 275.5 terawatt-hours, of which 26 percent came from
nuclear stations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  