-- 
EPA’s First Carbon Rules Seen to Costing Little, Gaining Little

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T17:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/epa-s-first-carbon-rules-seen-to-costing-little-gaining-little.html
The first round of greenhouse-gas
rules issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is
unlikely to burden companies with substantial costs or
significantly cut emissions linked to  climate change , according
to a Bloomberg Government study.  The EPA rules let new and modified industrial facilities
such as power generators and refineries meet the standards by
investing in  energy efficiency . Most companies are already
incorporating conservation measures into their construction and
expansion projects, according to the study published today.  President  Barack Obama ’s EPA pushed ahead with regulations
last year after Congress failed to pass climate-change
legislation. The rules prompted protests from industry officials
such as Mike Morris, chief executive officer of American
Electric Power Co., who has said the regulations will impose a
moratorium on U.S. power-plant construction.  Such comments are overblown, at least for the initial
phase, according to the study by Marisa Buchanan and Rob Barnett, Bloomberg Government energy analysts.  “The rules don’t change industry behavior much from
business as usual,” Barnett said in an interview. “It’s a
rubber stamp on what companies would do anyway.”  The regulations under the  Clean Air Act , which took effect
in January, require polluters to apply for state permits if they
build or enlarge operations. The decision on what controls are
needed is made on a case-by-case basis.  A second phase may be more costly and affect existing
plants, according to the report.  Nucor’s Plant  Greenhouse-gas permits issued under the new rules include
one for  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the second-largest U.S.-based steelmaker by
sales. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company announced in
March that it began construction of a $750 million iron-making
plant in  Louisiana  after meeting federal and state pollution
requirements. The project will spur job growth and help the
economy, Nucor Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dan DiMicco
said in a March 7 statement.  So far, the only direct challenges to permits issued under
the new EPA rules have come from environmental groups arguing
the emission controls don’t go far enough. The Sierra Club
petitioned the EPA last month, asking the agency to challenge
the company’s state air permit. The group said the emissions the
Nucor plant will be allowed to discharge are at a “considerably
higher” level than they should be.  The EPA, as part of a legal settlement with 11 states and
groups such as the San Francisco-based  Sierra Club , has said it
will propose further greenhouse-gas rules later this year.  The EPA said on June 13 that the next proposal for
utilities will be delayed by two months to give the Obama
administration more time to hear recommendations, including from
companies and states. The agency, which had faced a July 26
deadline, now intends to issue a draft rule by Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  