-- 
Tepco Shares Decline Today After 65% Advance on Short Covers

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-06-16T07:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/tepco-shares-decline-today-after-65-advance-on-short-covers-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the
utility at the center of the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years,
fell today after a record 65 percent surge in the past two days,
spurred by investors covering short sales.  Tepco, as the utility is known, dropped 2.7 percent to 320
yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
after earlier climbing as much as 4.6 percent. The stock rallied
32 percent yesterday and 25 percent on June 14 as the exchange
raised the collateral requirement for short sales of Tepco to 50
percent from 30 percent, discouraging short selling by making
the trade more expensive.  Tepco trading “has become a money game,” said  Tsutomu Yamada , a market analyst at Kabu.com Securities Co. in Tokyo:
“As we had a round of people closing out of their short
positions, it’s harder for the stock to move much today.”  Japan’s Cabinet approved a disaster compensation bill on
June 14 to help Tepco pay reparations. The utility is preparing
compensation for victims of the disaster after March’s record
earthquake and tsunami wrecked the atomic station, leading to
radiation leaks. Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi also
said Japan will guarantee bank loans to a third-party
organization created to ensure the utility can compensate
victims of the accident.  Credit-default swap contracts insuring Tepco debt against
non-payment for one year dropped to 1,987 basis points in Tokyo
yesterday, the biggest decline in seven weeks, according to data
provider CMA. The company has 6.83 trillion yen ($85 billion) of
bonds and loans outstanding.  Worst Performer  Tepco has lost 85 percent of its value since March 10, the
day before a record earthquake and tsunami hit  Japan  and caused
radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. The
company is the worst-performing stock on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average, which has lost 9.8 percent since March 10.  “In the last couple of days, we saw significant short
covering driving moves in shares such as Tepco,” said Mattia Ciancaleoni, director of equity sales at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. “It is probably too early to turn complacent
as the macro and political headwinds both in Japan, as well as
globally, are unlikely to disappear immediately.”  About 5 percent of Tepco’s outstanding shares have been
sold short, the most since at least 2006, according to June 13
data compiled by  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.
In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them, trying
to profit by repurchasing the stock at a lower price, repaying
the loan and pocketing the difference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Tokyo at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 