-- 
Terex to Buy Demag for $1.4 Billion After Sweetening Offer

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T20:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/terex-to-acquire-demag-cranes-for-1-4-billion-after-sweetening-its-offer.html
Terex Corp. (TEX) , the maker of
Powerscreen rock crushers, agreed to buy  Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  for
about 963 million euros ($1.4 billion) after raising its offer
to win over management of the German company.  Terex is offering 45.50 euros a share, up from a previous
bid of 41.75 euros, Dusseldorf, Germany-based Demag said today
in a statement. The price is 25 percent higher than Demag’s
close on April 29, the last day of trading before the Westport,
Connecticut-based company’s first proposal.  Terex, keen to expand in port cranes as world trade
recovers, overcame resistance to a combination from both Demag
and shareholders such as Cevian Capital. Demag’s services
division, which performs repairs and inspections, would cushion
Terex’s earnings from stackers and mining trucks, which are more
vulnerable to economic slowdowns. Demag has more than 660,000 of
its cranes and hoists installed around the world.  “It’s about growth, not cost cutting,” Demag Chief
Executive Officer Aloysius Rauen said today in a telephone
interview.  Demag, which already attracted an approach from  Konecranes
Oyj (KCR1V)  in February, advanced 1 euro, or 2.3 percent, to 45.23 euros
in Frankfurt, putting its market value at 959 million euros.
Demag has gained about 60 percent since October, prior to
Terex’s initial bid and other takeover speculation.  Terex rose 58 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $26.06 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Shaky Start  Terex CEO Ronald DeFeo tried in vain to get a meeting with
his counterpart Rauen to discuss Terex’s initial offer,
Handelsblatt reported on June 9. A day earlier, Demag had said
it would only talk if a more attractive offer was made.  Rauen said he stuck by his strategy to tease out a better
offer before engaging in negotiations. Demag secured a pledge
that there will be no factory closures for five years and no
forced firings for three years.  The new offer values Demag at 11.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on
analysts’ estimates for earnings in the current year. That
compares to an average 6.5 times Ebitda for material-handling
deals in the last 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.  Terex agreed to transfer its harbor-cranes business to
Demag and the German crane maker will retain responsibility for
both strategy and profitability under the terms of the offer,
Rauen said in the interview.  ‘Highly Complementary’  “Our businesses are highly complementary and the
combination has compelling industrial logic,” DeFeo said in the
statement.  Demag’s headquarters will remain in Dusseldorf and Terex
wants current management to stay on, Rauen said. The executive
declined to comment on whether he plans to continue with the
company.  Crane makers are benefiting from a rebound in global demand
with more than 80 percent of the world’s trade carried by sea.
Terex, which makes cranes used at construction sites, as well as
backhoes and wheel loaders, has said that buying Demag will
“substantially” increase its earnings.  Demag expects an operating profit margin of about 6.4
percent for fiscal 2011, compared with 5.8 percent in the prior
year. Sales are forecast to total 1.06 billion euros, ahead of
an earlier target of 1.02 billion euros to 1.05 billion euros,
Demag has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  