-- 
Merkel’s Greek Bondholder Gambit Tested

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-17T07:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/merkel-s-greek-bondholder-gambit-tested-as-sarkozy-presses-for-compromise.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets with
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  today to resolve the impasse over a
second Greek rescue as  Germany ’s insistence that bondholders
share the cost fans the risk of contagion.  The euro dropped and stocks in Europe and  Asia  declined as
the focus shifted from political turmoil in  Athens  to talks
between the leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies in Berlin.
To break the deadlock, they must reconcile German calls that
investors help bail out Greece with European Central Bank
warnings backed by France against any compulsory move that might
trigger a default.  “Germany is playing a domestic political game” to appear
tough, Henrik Enderlein, a political economist at the Hertie
School of Governance in Berlin, said by phone. “It would have
been much wiser to accept a purely voluntary solution one or two
weeks ago. The collateral damage of this could be enormous.”  As the tussle splits the euro area, sending the single
currency to a three-week low, the  International Monetary Fund 
said that it would continue to support Greece while “progress
is being made” on a revised aid package. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  named a new Cabinet to better push through his
budget-cutting plans after failing to win over the opposition
for a unity government to push through the austerity measures.  Yields Fall  Greek government bonds rose, with the yield on the two-year
note dropping 51 basis points to 29.19 percent as of 8:24 a.m.
in  London . It reached 30.32 percent yesterday, the most since
the euro’s introduction in 1999. The nation’s 10-year bond yield
climbed to a record 18.35 percent before settling at 17.72
percent, down 23 basis points from yesterday.  “We have to help them,” Deutsche Bank AG Chairman  Josef Ackermann  said today in an interview in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia .
“If they need more funds, we have to provide for them.”  German demands spearheaded by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to shift the onus for bailouts to bondholders stalled
efforts to craft an aid package this week in the face of ECB
resistance. Ministers will resume talks in Luxembourg on June
19-20 and won’t complete a plan until July 11.  ‘Red Lines’  “We have to observe a certain number of red lines, mainly
those mentioned by the ECB -- no default, no rating downgrades
and the private-sector involvement has to be done on a voluntary
basis,” Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group
of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday.  After a pounding in five state elections this year and
facing another two votes in September, Merkel’s coalition is
displaying little appetite for changing tack before a June 23-24
European Union summit that had been slated to complete the deal.  Schaeuble’s proposal that bond maturities be extended by
seven years is a “core” aspect of German plans and “still
holds,” said Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial policy
spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  “The government should only back new aid for  Greece  with
an adequate share from private creditors,” Flosbach said in an
interview. While bondholder involvement has to be achieved
without triggering a default or causing market upheaval, it
“has to be of a substantial kind,” said Michael Meister, the
finance spokesman for the chancellor’s CDU party.  ‘Symbolic’ Involvement  Merkel, hemmed in by domestic political considerations and
ECB resistance, may opt for a “symbolic” involvement of the
private sector, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group
in Brussels.  “I wonder whether the German government would really be
willing to let the whole thing escalate,” Brzeski said by
phone. “We’ve seen Merkel and the German government switching
more positions than the ECB.”  Merkel dropped her support for automatic sanctions against
euro-area countries that run persistent deficits in talks with
Sarkozy at Deauville in northern  France  in October. In exchange,
she won his backing to lock in bondholder contributions under
the permanent ESM rescue mechanism that comes in from 2013.  The two leaders are scheduled to meet at 11 a.m. in the
Chancellery, with a press conference due at 11:45 a.m.  Thirteen months after European leaders backed a 750
billion-euro ($1,062 billion) rescue fund to bolster the euro
against the impact of the debt crisis, the turmoil surrounding
Greece is again infecting global markets. The MSCI World Index
of equities declined for a second day yesterday, losing as much
as 1.3 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific retreated 0.5
percent today, taking its five-day drop to 2.2 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on Greek, Irish and
Portuguese government debt all surged to records yesterday.  With the euro falling to $1.4074, the weakest since May 26,
Sarkozy used a speech in Paris to call for a united front to
defend the single currency, “one of the major European
achievements.”  “What we need most today is unity,” Sarkozy said. We have
“to once again find the sense of our common destiny in  Europe  -
- the compromises on which Europe is constructed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka at   aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  