-- 
Ethanol Hits Longest String of Losses Since April as Corn Falls

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-06-16T20:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ethanol-hits-longest-string-of-losses-since-april-as-corn-falls.html
Ethanol futures fell for a fourth
day in Chicago as corn declined on favorable weather and as the
 U.S. Senate  voted to repeal incentives that help buoy the
biofuel industry.  The grain-based additive extended its longest streak of
losses in two months as warm, wet weather in the Midwest sent
corn lower. The Senate voted to eliminate the 45-cent tax credit
for refiners on each gallon of the fuel mixed with gasoline, as
well as the 54-cent tariff on Brazilian imports.  “It was corn-oriented,” said Jerrod Kitt, an analyst at
Linn Group in Chicago. “There may be a knee-jerk reaction in
corn. Rain makes grain and we’re getting plenty of rain.”  Denatured ethanol for July delivery dropped 5.4 cents, or 2
percent, to $2.634 a gallon on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the
fourth day of losses and the longest such streak since April 11.
Futures have gained 11 percent this year.  The measure the Senate voted on would be part of an
economic development bill and isn’t likely to become law, Kitt
said.  “This is just one step in a six-step process,” he said.
Kitt said he wouldn’t recommend selling ethanol or corn based on
the vote.  In cash market trading, ethanol was unchanged in the U.S.
Gulf at $2.775 a gallon, while on the West Coast the fuel
slipped 1 cent, or 0.4 percent, to $2.84 a gallon, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chicago Drop  Ethanol in Chicago dipped 3 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$2.725 a gallon and in  New York  the biofuel dropped 2.5 cents,
or 0.9 percent, to $2.825.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 13 cents, or 2
percent, to $6.53 a bushel in Chicago. Corn is the primary
ingredient for ethanol production in the U.S.  Ethanol plants have been seeing profits increase over the
past two weeks as corn declined, Kitt said.  Corn has dropped 6.2 percent in June, while ethanol is
little-changed, supported by its discount to gasoline, which
makes it more attractive to blenders seeking to pocket the 45-
cent tax credit and the spread between the two fuels.  Based on today’s closing prices, ethanol traded at a 31.54-
cent discount to gasoline traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Gasoline for July delivery rose 2.59 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $2.9494 a gallon on the Nymex. The contract covers
reformulated gasoline, which is made to be blended with ethanol
before delivery to filling stations.  Production of conventional gasoline blended with ethanol
surged 5.2 percent to a record 5.2 million barrels a day last
week, the Energy Department said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 