-- 
EU to Watch Carbon Prices to Gauge Fallout of Energy-Efficiency Push

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-17T06:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/eu-to-watch-co2-price-to-gauge-fallout-of-energy-efficiency-push.html
Regulators will watch carbon prices
to gauge whether new energy efficiency measures cut demand for
emission permits, a senior official at the European Union said.  EU commissioners are scheduled June 22 to consider a
directive to improve energy efficiency as part of their effort
to fight  climate change . The European Commission, the EU
regulator, will later consider tightening the supply of permits
if the efficiencies risk a decline in carbon price, according to
the official, who asked not to be identified, citing EU policy.  The EU said in March that more-efficient use of energy can
help the 27-nation bloc surpass its current carbon-reduction
goal, lower reliance on fossil fuels and boost security of
supply. The commission signaled that the EU could opt to
withhold an unspecified number of permits in its cap-and-trade
program starting in 2013 to support CO2 prices.  The EU regulator isn’t proposing steps for now, and any
decision to adjust supply in the world’s biggest emissions
trading program would involve member states, the official said.  EU allowances for December 2011 delivery fell 0.3 percent
to 16.05 euros a metric ton as of 7:20 a.m. on  London ’s ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. Permits have dropped 12 percent from
the May 31 high of 18.18 euros on concern that demand from
utilities has been less than forecast, according to analysts at
Barclays Plc.  The EU emissions-trading system, known as the ETS, is the
cornerstone of Europe’s climate plan. It imposes pollution
limits on more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers including
Electricite de France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator, and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the continent’s largest oil company.  Surplus Allowances  EU emitters that produce less carbon than their quota can
sell surplus allowances, and those exceeding their limits can
buy additional permits in the carbon market.  While the EU said it’s on track to meet its binding
emission-reduction goals, the 27 nations are lagging behind on
their political pledge to boost  energy efficiency  by 20 percent.  Emissions in the ETS are forecast drop by as much as 43
percent in 2020 compared with the current goal of a 21 percent
cut from 2005 levels should the EU meet the efficiency target
and increase the use of renewable energy, Ecofys and Climate
Strategies consulting groups said in a report in April.  The scenario shown in that report may be “very bearish”
for EU carbon permits, according to analysts at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. The European electricity industry association,
Eurelectric, said on June 15 it’s “seriously concerned” that
the draft energy efficiency directive will impose double-
regulation on power generation and “act to undermine the
functioning of the emissions-trading system.”  Lower demand for permits and a resulting drop in CO2 price
may discourage companies from curbing pollution, the commission
said in the March policy paper. That may lead to efficiency
measures resulting in little or no energy savings and no
additional emission reductions.  The rules drafted by Commissioner Guenther Oettinger’s
directorate for energy will be published next week should other
commissioners support them. A majority of the proposed measures
would occur in industries covered by the EU emissions trading
system, the official said.  Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard, who oversees the
carbon program, supports bigger energy efficiency and it’s a
question of what accompanying measures are needed to ensure the
effectiveness of the policy mix, the official said.  Rules that could help accelerate energy savings include
requiring public authorities to refurbish at least 3 percent of
their buildings each year, roughly double the actual renovation
rate, the commission said earlier this year. Higher standards
should also be applied in public purchases of goods, services
and works, it said. Another idea could be to focus on the roll-
out of smart grids and smart meters to limit energy consumption.  The energy savings resulting from the new efficiency
measures could cause a “collapse of or tremendous decline” in
the price of emission allowances, five European power producers
including  Denmark ’s biggest utility Dong Energy A/S said earlier
this week. They called on the commission to ensure that the
proposal comes with “a clear mandate to tighten the ETS” by
setting aside carbon permits corresponding to the expected
reductions of emissions resulting from the efficiency directive.  The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since it started the program six years ago, will move toward
sales in the next phase from 2013. A potential set-aside would
be gradually created from the pool of permits to be auctioned to
companies by member states, according to the commission.  While the commission and member states could agree to
postpone the auctioning of some allowances without changing the
EU  directive  on the emissions trading system, an eventual
cancelation of permits at the end of the next trading period
would require a revision of the directive, a politically
contentious step that also involves the European Parliament.  BusinessEurope, a Brussels-based employers’ federation
representing more than 20 million companies, urged the EU
ministers due to meet in June 21 not to adopt any language that
would allow for “politic intervention in the market mechanism”
as it would “increase uncertainty and reduce overall support
for the system,” according to a position paper send by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  