-- 
Euro Pares Drop Against Dollar as EU Officials Work on Greece Debt Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-16T15:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/euro-declines-to-three-week-low-as-eu-officials-work-on-greece-debt-crisis.html
The euro pared its decline against
the dollar after reaching a three-week low amid speculation an
agreement between the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  may allow  Greece  to avoid a debt default.  Europe ’s shared currency erased most of its earlier
declines after European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said Greece will be able to get funding from the EU
and International Monetary Fund in July as long as it enacts
budget cuts. The IMF backed Rehn in a statement. The yen
strengthened against the dollar after a report showed an
unexpected slowdown in Philadelphia area manufacturing.  “The slight improvement in risk was generated by a
perception that Greece will be given some breathing room by the
EU in which they will provide funding for upcoming July funding
dates,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York .  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.4161 at 11:39 a.m. in New
York and reached $1.4074, the weakest level since May 26. The
shared currency slid 0.5 percent to 114.24 yen, after touching
113.50, the least since May 16. The euro weakened 1.2 percent to
a record 1.19466 francs before trading at 1.20372.  The dollar declined 0.3 percent to 80.69 yen after falling
as much as 0.6 percent.  Option View  Implied volatility for one-week euro-U.S. dollar options
surged as much as 294 basis points to 16.81 percent, the highest
level since November 2010. It rose 349 basis points yesterday,
the most since May 2010. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  The franc appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar to
84.95 centimes and strengthened against all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts. The central bank kept its main interest
rate at 0.25 percent, an outcome predicted by all 26 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  The franc is the most overvalued it’s even been versus the
euro, based on models,  Thomas Stolper , chief currency strategist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on a conference call.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will reshuffle his
cabinet and seek to win a confidence vote today after attempts
to garner opposition support for an austerity plan failed.  Amid Riots  As riots broke out in  Athens  and the Greek government
teetered, EU Commissioner Rehn said “close contact” with the
IMF made him confident of an accord at a weekend crisis meeting
to pay out 12 billion euros ($17 billion) in July as long as
Greece enacts new budget cuts.  Greece’s immediate concern is to obtain 8.7 billion euros
from Europe and 3.3 billion euros from the IMF in July, promised
as part of last year’s precedent-setting aid package to stave
off the euro area’s first default.  “Progress is being made in the discussions to ensure the
full financing of the program, and we anticipate a positive
outcome on this at the next Euro-group meeting,”  Caroline Atkinson , a spokeswoman for the IMF, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet tomorrow in Berlin, with pressure
increasing for the leaders to reach an accord on a rescue
package for Greece. European Union finance ministers agreed on
June 14 to convene again on June 19 after they failed to
reconcile a German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of
the cost of a new plan for Greek aid.  Euro Trade  “If  risk aversion  continues to pervade markets and we have
these ongoing concerns about the situation in Europe, that will
continue to see the euro trade heavily,” said Mike Burrowes, a
currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in Wellington.
“The dollar, the Swiss franc and the yen would be expected to
appreciate in that sort of environment.”  The MSCI World Index of equities declined for a second day,
losing as much as 1.3 percent.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars dropped as stocks
fell, sapping demand for higher-yielding assets. New Zealand’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, weakened against all 16 major
counterparts monitored by Bloomberg after Finance Minister  Bill English  said the currency’s strength was hurting the economy.  Australia ’s currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.0549, and New
Zealand’s dollar declined 0.5 percent to 80.24 U.S. cents.  U.S. jobless claims declined by 16,000 to 414,000 in the
week ended June 11, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
420,000 filings, according to the median forecast.  Housing Starts  Housing starts in the U.S. increased more than forecast in
May, led by a jump in the West as other parts of the country
languished. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time in nine months,
raising the risk the industry may contribute less to the
economic expansion.  “Initial jobless claims, as long as they’re above 400 it
signifies that the labor market remains weak, so it’s not such a
promising outlook,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York. “It’s positive that we’ve seen an
uptick in housing numbers, especially given the previous number.
The housing market remains the Achilles heel of the  U.S.
economy .”  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, rose 0.1 percent to
75.637 and touching the highest since May 25. Yesterday, it had
its biggest gain since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  