-- 
Euro Falls Against Swiss Franc as EU Works to Resolve Greece Debt Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-16T21:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/euro-falls-against-swiss-franc-as-eu-works-to-resolve-greece-debt-crisis.html
The euro fell to a record low
against the Swiss franc amid concern  Greece ’s sovereign debt
crisis is worsening and the government won’t agree on austerity
measures.  Europe’s shared currency erased its loss against the dollar
as most U.S. stocks gained and European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said Greece will be able to get
funding from the EU and International Monetary Fund in July as
long as it enacts budget cuts. The yen strengthened against the
dollar after a report showed an unexpected slowdown in
Philadelphia area manufacturing.  “We’ve seen continued weakness here and abroad and
continued pressure on Greece and neither of those things are
good for risk,” said  John McCarthy , director of  currency
trading  at ING Groep NV in  New York . “It’s another reason to
sell euros.”  The euro weakened 1.2 percent to a record 1.19466 francs
before trading at 1.20413 at 5 p.m. in New York. It traded at
$1.4204 after reaching $1.4074, the weakest level since May 26.
The shared currency slid 0.2 percent to 114.56 yen, after
touching 113.50, the least since May 16.  The dollar declined 0.4 percent to 80.63 yen after falling
as much as 0.6 percent.  Implied volatility for one-week euro-U.S. dollar options
surged as much as 294 basis points to 16.81 percent, the highest
level since November 2010. It rose 349 basis points yesterday,
the most since May 2010. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  Swiss Franc   The franc appreciated 0.6 percent against the dollar to
84.76 centimes and strengthened against all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts. The central bank kept its main interest
rate at 0.25 percent, an outcome predicted by all 26 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  The franc is the most overvalued it’s even been versus the
euro, based on models,  Thomas Stolper , chief currency strategist
in  London  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on a conference
call.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  plans to reshuffle
his cabinet and seek to win a confidence vote after attempts to
garner opposition support for an austerity plan failed.  As riots broke out in  Athens  and the Greek government
teetered, EU Commissioner Rehn said “close contact” with the
IMF made him confident of an accord at a weekend crisis meeting
to pay out 12 billion euros ($17 billion) in July as long as
Greece enacts new budget cuts.  Aid Package  Greece’s immediate concern is to obtain 8.7 billion euros
from  Europe  and 3.3 billion euros from the IMF in July, promised
as part of last year’s precedent-setting aid package to stave
off the euro area’s first default.  “Progress is being made in the discussions to ensure the
full financing of the program, and we anticipate a positive
outcome on this at the next Euro-group meeting,”  Caroline Atkinson , a spokeswoman for the IMF, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “The slight improvement in risk was generated by a
perception that Greece will be given some breathing room by the
EU in which they will provide funding for upcoming July funding
dates,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  EU Meets  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet tomorrow in Berlin, with pressure
increasing for the leaders to reach an accord on a rescue
package for Greece. EU finance ministers agreed on June 14 to
convene again on June 19 after they failed to reconcile a
German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of
a new plan for Greek aid.  While the MSCI World Index of equities declined for a
second day, losing as much as 1.3 percent, the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.2 percent.  The Brazilian real fell even after the nation’s central
bank said it will continue with its strategy of raising  interest
rates  for a “sufficiently long” period, while saying the
inflation outlook is showing “more favorable signs.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has raised the
selic rate by 1.5 percentage points in 2011, and traders are
betting on a 0.50 percentage point of increases this year,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest-rate futures.  New Zealand ’s dollar, known as the kiwi, weakened against
most of its 16 major counterparts monitored by Bloomberg after
Finance Minister  Bill English  said the currency’s strength was
hurting the economy.  New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.2 percent to 80.48 U.S.
cents.  Economic Indicators  U.S. jobless claims declined by 16,000 to 414,000 in the
week ended June 11, Labor Department figures showed. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 420,000 filings, according
to the median forecast.  Housing starts in the U.S. increased more than forecast in
May, led by a jump in the West as other parts of the country
languished. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time in nine months.  “Initial jobless claims, as long as they’re above 400 it
signifies that the labor market remains weak, so it’s not such a
promising outlook,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York. “It’s positive that we’ve seen an
uptick in housing numbers, especially given the previous number.
The housing market remains the Achilles heel of the  U.S.
economy .”  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, fell 0.2 percent to
75.451. Yesterday, it had its biggest gain since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
A. Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  