-- 
Europe’s ‘Lehman Moment’ Looms as Greek Debt Unravels Markets: Euro Credit

-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-16T09:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/europe-s-lehman-moment-looms-as-greek-debt-unravels-markets-euro-credit.html
The European Union’s failure to
contain the Greek debt crisis is sending fresh shockwaves
through currencies, money markets, equities and derivatives.  The euro lost more than 2 percent against the dollar in the
past two days and the cost of protecting corporate bonds soared
to the highest level since January, with credit-default swaps
anticipating about a 78 percent chance that  Greece  won’t pay its
debts. Equities declined around the world, while a measure of
fear in fixed-income markets jumped the most since November.  Market moves suggest heightened concern that authorities
won’t be able to keep Greece’s debt troubles from spreading
after Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade BNP
Paribas SA and two other big French banks because of their
investments in the southern European nation. The collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 caused credit
markets worldwide to freeze as investors fled all but the safest
government debt.  “The probability of a eurozone Lehman moment is
increasing,” said Neil Mackinnon, an economist at VTB Capital
in London and a former U.K. Treasury official. “The markets
have moved from simply pricing in a high probability of a Greek
debt default to looking at a scenario of it becoming disorderly
and of contagion spreading to other economies like  Portugal ,
like Ireland, and maybe Spain, Italy and Belgium.”  New Government  Lehman’s collapse contributed to $2 trillion in writedowns
and losses at the world’s biggest financial institutions, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, and central banks cut  interest rates 
to record lows as economies slipped into recession.  Markets were roiled yesterday as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said he would name a new government and call a
vote of confidence in Parliament as he seeks to pressure rebel
lawmakers to back an austerity plan that would secure a new
bailout. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index fell a further 1.1 percent today,
while the Swiss franc rose to a record against the euro.  Papandreou needs to clinch a parliamentary vote on a 78
billion-euro ($110 billion) five-year package of budget cuts and
asset sales by July to ensure the country receives a new EU aid
package to avoid the euro-area’s first default.  “Our duty is to the nation, not to political parties,”
Papandreou said in comments televised live on state-run NET TV.
“I will form a new government and immediately afterwards seek a
vote of confidence in Parliament. It is a time for
responsibility.”  ‘Armageddon Scenarios’  Papandreou’s options narrowed as his bid to garner support
from the biggest opposition bloc failed, party allies turned
against him and police deployed tear gas to break up anti-
government protests in central  Athens .  “This is by no means the end of the story, but based on
current majority, such a motion should pass,”  Charles Diebel ,
head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
London, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “If not, then
Armageddon scenarios come into play, which include default and
potentially the whole contagion scenario plays out.”  Earlier this week,  Standard & Poor’s  slashed Greece to CCC
from B, handing the nation the world’s lowest credit rating and
noting it’s “increasingly likely” to face a debt
restructuring.  Greece’s unemployment rate jumped to 15.9 percent in the
first quarter from 14.2 percent in the last three months of
2010, the Hellenic Statistical Authority in Athens said today.
The jobless rate, at a record 16.2 percent in March, has climbed
faster than projected under last year’s 110 billion-euro
bailout.  Sticking Point  The current sticking point is how to engage private
investors in the next stage of rescuing Greece. European Central
Bank authorities, including President  Jean-Claude Trichet , have
pushed back against German plans to lengthen the maturity of
Greek bonds, leaving open only the option to persuade
bondholders to voluntarily reinvest the proceeds of maturing
debt into new securities.  “Keeping existing creditors engaged is far from trivial,
as it involves a combination of incentives and penalties,”
Francesco Garzarelli, a strategist at Goldman Sachs
International in London, wrote in a report yesterday. “If the
transactions are to be completed on a ‘voluntary’ basis in order
not to trigger a default event, the ‘hold out’ problem is
material” as persuading all lenders to move in lockstep is
difficult, he wrote.  Moody’s placed the ratings of BNP Paribas,  France ’s biggest
bank, and local rivals Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA)  under reviews that will focus on their holdings of Greek
public and private debt “and the potential for inconsistency
between the impact of a possible Greek default or restructuring
and current rating levels,” the firm said in a statement.  ‘Ripple Effect’  “This is a ripple effect of the Greek crisis spilling into
European banks,” said  Sarah Hewin , a senior economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in London. “Clearly, there would be an
impact if there is an escalation” of the situation, she said.  German lenders were the biggest foreign owners of Greek
government bonds with $22.7 billion in holdings last year,
according to data compiled by the  Bank for International
Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  French banks, which led the group of Greek creditors with
 overall claims  amounting to $56.7 billion, trailed their German
peers on sovereign debt with $15 billion, according to the June
report from the BIS. The figure for French banks was inflated by
$39.6 billion in lending to companies and households, mainly
because of Credit Agricole’s Greek unit,  Emporiki Bank SA. (TEMP) 
German lenders have no major units in the country.  At the end of 2010, Greek government bonds held by banks in
countries reporting to the BIS totaled $54.2 billion, of which
96 percent was owned by European lenders.  Swap Spreads  U.S. interest-rate swap spreads, used to gauge investor
perceptions of credit risk, widened the most since November
after the announcement about banks by Moody’s.  The difference between the U.S. two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 5.06 basis points to 25.15 basis points. That
was the largest increase since Nov. 30, when the gap widened by
6.5 basis points. The spread is based in part on expectations
for the  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor.  “There is some worry that with what is going on in Greece
there will be downgrades and this will cause a problem in
funding and result in a rise in Libor,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Swap spreads are widening as direct result.”  The yield on two-year Greek notes rose to a record 28.85
percent and 10-year bond rates gained 14 basis points today to
17.86 percent. The cost of protecting Greece against default
climbed 74 basis points yesterday to an all-time high of 1,844
basis points in London, prices compiled by CMA show.  Government Bonds  The contracts, which typically rise as investor confidence
worsens and fall as it improves, pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds across the euro region underperformed German debt,
 Europe ’s benchmark government securities. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to hold Greek 10-year securities
instead of similar-maturity bunds climbed today to 1,493 basis
points, or 14.93 percentage points, while Irish, Spanish and
Italian spreads also widened.  The securities of so-called core members of the currency
bloc also underperformed relative to German debt, with 10-year
yield spreads between Austrian, French, Belgian and Dutch debt
over bunds widening. The yield on the German bund dropped 3
basis points to a five-month low of 2.92 percent.  Euro, Swaps  The euro depreciated 0.5 percent today to $1.4109, the
weakest in three weeks, while demand for options that protect
against a drop in the euro versus the U.S. currency is at the
highest level in a year as the EU struggles to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The premium for euro three-month put options granting the
right to sell the currency against the greenback reached 2.54
percentage points yesterday over calls, which allow for
purchases. That’s the most since June 2010 on an intraday basis.  In the corporate  bond market , the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose 2.25
basis points to 114, the highest since Jan. 10, according to
JPMorgan Chase  Co. The gauge has risen from the low this year
of 94.3 on April 8.  “Nervousness has intensified,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “The market is increasingly fretting that the
components won’t be in place for a bailout package. You see
signs of contagion spreading. Until we see a resolution with the
situation in Greece, you’ll see a flight to quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 