-- 
European Inflation Breaches ECB’s 2% Limit for Sixth Month

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-16T09:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/european-inflation-breaches-ecb-s-2-target-for-sixth-month.html
European inflation exceeded the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for a sixth month in
May, bolstering the case for further interest rate increases.  Consumer prices grew 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
That’s in line with an initial estimate on May 31. European
employment was unchanged in the first quarter, according to a
separate report.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on June 9 signaled a
benchmark rate increase from 1.25 percent next month, citing
“continued upward pressure on inflation” and calling for
“strong vigilance.” Policy makers are concerned that oil-
driven price pressures will feed into wage demands, fueling more
persistent inflation.  “Inflation hasn’t peaked yet, so the ECB will continue to
raise rates once a quarter for the next year,” said Laurent Bilke, global head of inflation strategy at Nomura International
Plc in  London  and a former ECB forecaster. “The economy is
strong enough to withstand it.”  The euro declined after the data were released, trading at
$1.4121 at 11:08 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.4 percent.  The inflation rate will stay above 2 percent for the whole
of 2011, according to the ECB. For next year, the bank forecasts
average inflation to slow to 1.7 percent. ECB Executive Board
member Juergen Stark said on June 10 that the inflation forecast
for 2012 assumes “higher short-term  interest rates ,”
suggesting he may favor tightening beyond July.  ‘Second-Round Effects’  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile items
such as food and energy, slowed to 1.5 percent in May from 1.6
percent in the previous month, the statistics office said.  Crude  oil prices  have increased almost 30 percent in the
past year, breaching $100 a barrel in February for the first
time in more than two years.  “It remains of paramount importance that the rise in HICP
inflation does not translate into second-round effects in price
and wage-setting behavior and lead to broad-based inflationary
pressures,” the ECB said in its monthly bulletin published
today. “We will do all that is needed to prevent recent price
developments giving rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures.”  The statistics office estimates that 146.5 million people
were employed in the euro area in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  