-- 
European Banks Drop on Greek Debt Concerns, Led by Dexia

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-06-16T11:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/european-banks-drop-on-greek-debt-concerns-led-by-bnp-dexia.html
Shares of European banks fell to the
lowest level in two years, led by French lenders, on concerns
the region will fail to stem the Greek debt crisis and the risk
of contagion grows.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local governments that was rescued
by France and Belgium in 2008, led declines in the Stoxx 600
Banks Index, falling as much as 10 percent in Brussels trading.
France’s largest banks,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe Generale SA,
dropped for a second day after Moody’s Investors Service said it
may cut their ratings because of their investments in Greece.  A gauge of banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.9
percent as of 12:14 p.m. in London, the lowest level since July
2009. The measure extended yesterday’s 2 percent slide as
speculation rose that Greece will default on its debt.  “If rating agencies start talking about a default event,
banks will have to realize losses at some point,” said  Maarten Altena , an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep NV. “It can
also result in liquidity issues for banks as a second-round
effect.”  Moody’s placed the ratings of BNP Paribas, Societe Generale
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  on reviews that will focus on their
holdings of Greek public and private debt “and the potential
for inconsistency between the impact of a possible Greek default
or restructuring and current rating levels,” it said yesterday.  Aid Impasse  Exposure to Greece will also be taken into account in the
“ongoing review for possible downgrade of Dexia Group’s core
operating banks,” Moody’s said.  BNP Paribas declined 2 percent to 50.27 euros as of 1:14
p.m. in Paris.  Societe Generale (GLE)  slid 3 percent to 37.60 euros,
while  Credit Agricole  lost 2.4 percent to 9.66 euros. Dexia fell
5.4 percent to 2.14 euros.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is seeking to win a
confidence vote as violence erupted over budget cuts and
austerity measures demanded for international aid. The euro-
region’s impasse over the aid formula and speculation that a
government shakeup would disrupt passage of budget cuts and
asset sales sent Greek bonds and the euro plunging. The two-year
note yield rose to more than 30 percent for the first time.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Nout Wellink
said the emergency fund for euro-area countries should be
doubled if private investors are pressured to contribute to
additional refinancing aid for  Greece , Het Financieele Dagblad
reported, citing an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  