-- 
Ex-Crackhead Loves New York Times; Real Horse Whisperer: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-16T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ex-crackhead-loves-new-york-times-real-horse-whisperer-movies.html
David Carr is an unlikely  New York 
Times columnist, a former crack addict who once left his infant
twin daughters in a freezing car while he bought drugs.  Now he’s the charismatic centerpiece of “ Page One: Inside
the New York Times ,” a documentary that takes a revealing,
behind-the-scenes look at America’s most prestigious newspaper.  Granted free access to the Times newsroom, filmmaker Andrew
Rossi spent a year exploring the paper’s operation and its place
in the changing media landscape. The story is told primarily
through the eyes of Carr and his colleagues in the Times’s media
department, including editor Bruce Headlam and reporters Tim
Arango and Brian Stelter.  What sets it apart from other inside-media docs is Carr, an
outspoken, gruff journalist with an acerbic sense of humor who
could be a character in a modern version of “The Front Page.”  The disheveled, raspy-voiced Carr turns out to be an
eloquent defender of traditional, mainstream media who promises
to “vaporize” anyone predicting the Times’s downfall. He’s
also a take-no-prisoners reporter who is shown doggedly pursuing
a story about the collapse of the Tribune Co., which went
bankrupt under greedy, self-indulgent owner  Sam Zell .  Carr’s personal saga -- he survived jail, cancer and a
major relapse after more than a decade of sobriety -- is woven
into the narrative without distracting from the larger issues.  Bill Keller, who recently announced he’s stepping down as
the paper’s executive editor, quips about wearing “bloody
butcher smocks in the newsroom” as he prepares for more
layoffs.  But too often, the film treats the Times as an oracle that
dictates the country’s news agenda. That once might have been
true, but it overstates the case in today’s hydra-headed media.  Just don’t tell Carr I said so.  “Page One: Inside the New York Times,” from  Magnolia
Pictures , opens tomorrow in New York and July 1 across the U.S.
Rating: ***  ‘Buck’  Buck Brannaman has a magic touch with horses. He can calm
them with his voice, guide them with his hand and teach them
tricks.  He’s a real-life horse whisperer and the inspirational star
of the documentary “ Buck ,” which traces his transformation
from abused child to world-famous horse trainer. If you’re not
moved by this film, you either hate animals or have a heart of
stone.  First-time filmmaker Cindy Meehl, who met Brannaman at one
of his clinics, tells his story through interviews, vintage
clips and extensive footage of the four-day training sessions
that keep him on the road and away from his wife and daughter
most of the year.  ‘Horse Whisperer’  Wearing a wide-brim white cowboy hat, jeans and fringed
chaps, Brannaman teaches gentle methods of handling horses that
include soothing stroking and light prodding with a short flag
stick.  He believes most horse problems can be traced back to the
owner. “Your horse is a mirror to your soul, and sometimes you
may not like what you see,” he says.  Brannaman, a consultant on  Robert Redford ’s “The Horse
Whisperer,” is equally eloquent when talking about getting
beaten up by an alcoholic father who trained Buck and his
brother to perform rope tricks on the rodeo circuit.  After Buck’s mother died, the abuse grew worse until the
two young boys were finally adopted by a loving Montana couple.  “Buck” includes a scene in which he tries to tame a wild
horse that may have suffered  brain damage  at birth. It’s a case
of one damaged soul trying to save another.  “Buck,” from Sundance Selects, opens tomorrow in New York
and  Los Angeles : Rating: ***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 