-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Should Go to Prison Now, U.S. Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-16T22:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-should-go-immediately-to-prison-u-s-says.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler , whose conspiracy conviction for fraudulently
selling securities was upheld yesterday, should go immediately
to prison, the U.S. said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals upheld two conspiracy convictions
against Butler. It reversed a  securities-fraud  conviction,
ruling that Brooklyn, New York, was the wrong venue for the
trial on the charge.  “In light of the Court of Appeals’ decision, the
government now moves for the defendant’s immediate remand,”
U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in Brooklyn said yesterday in a
court filing. The appeals court said Butler needs to be
resentenced, and Lynch asked for a court date for that “as soon
as possible.”  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to  bank deposits  or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  Steven F. Molo, a lawyer for Butler at MoloLamken LLP in
 Manhattan , didn’t return a call for comment. In a letter to U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein today, Molo and Paul T.
Weinstein, another Butler lawyer, opposed Lynch’s request.  ‘Entitled to Bail’  “Mr. Butler is entitled to bail,” they wrote. “At every
stage of this proceeding in which the question was relevant,
including after conviction, this court found that Mr. Butler did
not pose a risk of flight or a danger to the community.”  In January 2010, Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years
in prison on each count, to be served concurrently. He has been
out on bail pending his appeal. Butler, who was found guilty at
a trial in 2009, also was fined $5 million on the securities-
fraud conviction.  The appeals court rejected the government’s argument that
Butler could be tried for securities fraud in the Eastern
District of  New York  because he and Tzolov flew out of John F.
Kennedy International Airport in Queens, which is part of the
district, to meet with clients they defrauded.  Brooklyn is also in the Eastern District. The appeals panel
said the alleged fraud took place in Credit Suisse’s office in
Manhattan, which is in the Southern District of New York.  ‘Overt Acts’  The court agreed with prosecutors that the Eastern District
was the proper venue for the conspiracy counts because
“Butler’s use of Kennedy airport to attend meetings with the
investors were overt acts in furtherance of the conspiracies.”  He was convicted of conspiracy to commit securities fraud
and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .  Butler and Tzolov were indicted in 2008. Tzolov, a native
of  Bulgaria , fled the U.S. before being returned from  Spain  in
July 2009 and pleading guilty. He testified against Butler.  On June 7, Tzolov was sentenced to four years in prison,
with 1 1/2 years of that for bail jumping.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, Second Circuit  U.S. Court of Appeals 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 