-- 
Export Controls Eased for Sales to U.S. Allies, Agency Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-16T16:41:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/export-controls-eased-for-sales-to-u-s-allies-agency-says-1-.html
The U.S.  exempted  additional items
from export-control requirements for sales to 36 allies, a step
that the Commerce Department estimated will affect the sale of
$1.4 billion in products and technology a year.  The final regulation, issued yesterday, implements a
proposal announced by Commerce Secretary Gary Locke in October
2009 for exports to countries such as  Germany ,  Japan  and Canada.  “The new license exception will allow us to focus our
resources on items that pose a significant national-security
risk and help facilitate U.S. exports,” Locke said today in a
statement.  The U.S. requires exporters to obtain a license to sell
civilian technology, such as aircraft parts and encryption
software that also can be used for military purposes. The
restrictions vary based on U.S. relations with the foreign
government, and those rules are administered by the Commerce
Department and State Department.  Under the news rules, almost all items monitored by the
Commerce Department won’t need a government license for sale to
the 36 allies. The exporter will still need to obtain a pledge
from the company buying the item that it won’t in turn sell to a
party in a non-allied nation.  In December, the administration proposed that 125 nations
be allowed to buy a smaller pool of items with a lower risk of
military application without a license requirement. The
government reworked that proposal and cut the list to eight
nations.  Obama Export Goal  The process to obtain such export licenses slows commerce
and harms the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturers, Locke has
said. President  Barack Obama  has made easing those rules part of
his effort to double U.S. exports in five years.  The Obama administration also is in the midst of reworking
the list of items that require a license. That proposal is set
to be released in the coming months.  The 36 nations covered by the eased restrictions are:
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia,  Czech Republic , Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom. The
eight nations eligible to buy some low-risk products are:
Albania,  Hong Kong ,  India , Israel, Malta,  Singapore , South
Africa and Taiwan.  China  isn’t affected by this change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  