-- 
Flaherty as G-7 Finance Dean Pleads With Colleagues to Reduce Deficits

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/flaherty-as-g-7-finance-dean-pleads-with-colleagues-about-debt.html
Canada ’s  Jim Flaherty , the longest-
serving Group of Seven finance minister, urged his counterparts
in  Europe  and the U.S. to restore waning investor confidence in
their finances that threatens to undermine the global recovery.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters yesterday in New York, said
he’s concerned about the “delay” by European officials in
dealing with the Greek debt crisis, while he urged U.S.
lawmakers to quickly come up with a plan to reduce deficits in
the world’s largest economy.  “It’s a detriment to the international system when we have
issues that fester and are allowed to get to the brink before
they are resolved,” Flaherty, Canada’s finance minister since
2006, told reporters following a speech at the  New York  Yacht
Club. “We have seen that before and I hope that we don’t see it
again.”  U.S. stocks sank the most in two weeks yesterday, almost
erasing the gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2011,
and the euro fell the most in more than a month amid rising
concern that  Greece  will default and growing evidence that the
American economy is slowing.  In his New York  speech , his fifth to the Canadian
Association of New York since 2006, Flaherty touted Canada’s
success in largely escaping the global financial crisis, and
held up his country as a model for other countries. He cited
 estimates  by the  International Monetary Fund  that show Canada is
one of only two G-7 nations expected to balance their budgets by
2016.  Earlier this month, Flaherty introduced a fiscal plan that
seeks to bring Canada’s federal government back into surplus as
early as 2014.  Made Canada Stronger  “In demonstrating the value of fiscal responsibility,
Canada has a lot to offer,” Flaherty said. “If anything, our
response to the most recent global downturn has made our country
even stronger and more competitive.”  Flaherty said Canada’s effort to eliminate its deficit
frees up resources to lower taxes and will keep the country’s
interest rates down. Canada’s improving fiscal outlook has
boosted demand for its long-term  government bonds  relative to
other Group of Seven peers, with yields on Canada’s 30-year
securities 78 basis points less than similar U.S. bonds.  In his speech, Flaherty said the health of the global
economy hinges on the U.S. government’s ability to get its
finances in order.  ‘No Time to Waste’  “It’s essential that we all have a clear strategy in place
to ensure markets continue to have confidence in our fiscal
plans, and there is no time to waste in doing so,” Flaherty
said. “The health of Canada’s economy, and of the world’s, for
that matter, depends greatly on the fiscal decisions being made
in this country.”  U.S. lawmakers and White House officials met for the 10th
time yesterday with a goal of wrapping up discussions by early
next month to slash the federal debt and deficit by trillions of
dollars, a condition Republicans have set for increasing the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling in the coming weeks.  Moody’s Investors Service said June 2 it expects to place
the U.S. government’s top credit rating under review for a
possible downgrade if there’s no progress on increasing the debt
limit by mid-July.  Signs of economic weakness have added to the pressure for
lawmakers to reach an accord over the budget, with Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warning that a failure to do so
would have catastrophic consequences for the  U.S. economy  and
choke off access to credit markets.  On Greece, Flaherty said: “I am a finance minister. I
don’t like shocks anywhere in the world when we are dealing with
financial issues.”  Biggest Risk  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday the threat of the
Greek debt crisis spilling over into the banking sector is the
biggest risk to the region’s financial stability.  The ECB and the German government have clashed over how
much investors should contribute to alleviating Greece’s debt
load, which reached 143 percent of gross domestic product in
2010. While the German government has argued for an extension of
the maturities of Greek bonds, the ECB has said it’s against
anything that could be interpreted as a default.  Flaherty also said yesterday his country is “prepared” to
accept additional  capital requirements  for so-called
systemically important financial institutions, adding he doesn’t
think extra buffers now being proposed by regulators would bring
capital requirements above levels that already exist in Canada.  “Some countries feel that it is necessary to impose some
additional capital requirements on systemically important
financial institutions and that’s a situation that we are
prepared to accept, depending on the level that is being
proposed,” Flaherty said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in New York at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  