-- 
Ford Failing in India to Buoy Market Share as Figo Deliveries Slump: Cars

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-06-16T23:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ford-failing-in-india-to-buoy-market-share-as-figo-deliveries-slump-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  tripled sales in
 India  with the introduction of the $8,400 Figo hatchback last
year. Demand for the entry-level model is now slumping and the
company is counting on persuading customers to buy a car that
may cost twice as much.  Deliveries of the Figo, which makes up about 80 percent of
the carmaker’s sales in India, dropped for a second straight
month in May, hurt by higher  interest rates  and fuel costs. To
return to growth in the second half, Ford plans to introduce a
new Fiesta subcompact model that will cost around 700,000 rupees
($16,000), according to IHS Automotive.  Ford is seeking to broaden its appeal beyond the Figo and
woo ‘Ajay’ - its moniker for young aspirational buyers - as
industry car sales grew last month at the slowest pace in two
years. Hyundai Motor Co. and  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  dominate
the market for mid-size cars with a combined 44 percent share.  “The Figo has been Ford’s first and only success in
India,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi based-managing
director of IHS Automotive in India. “In the Fiesta segment,
the competition is tougher as the customer is more evolved.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised interest rates 10
times since the start of 2010 to rein in inflation, driving down
demand for cars in a country where 80 percent of all purchases
are funded by loans.  Delaying Purchases  Customers are delaying purchases and more buyers are opting
for diesel models, leading to a mismatch in supply, according to
Michael Boneham, managing director and president of the Dearborn,
Michigan-based carmaker’s India unit.  “There’s definitely a slowdown in the buying decisions of
people,” Boneham said in a June 2 interview in New Delhi.
“It’s the final decision to put the money down.” He declined
to comment on the price of the new Fiesta model.  Ford’s India passenger-car sales fell 12 percent to 6,874
units in May from a year earlier, accelerating from a 1.7
percent drop in April, according to data from the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers . That compares with a 7 percent
gain in industrywide car sales to 158,817 last month, the
slowest pace of growth since May 2009. The numbers exclude sales
of sport-utility vehicles.  Figo Sales  Starting at 376,985 rupees in Mumbai, the 1.2-liter Figo
helped almost triple deliveries to 95,395 in the year ended
March 31, 2011. That ranked Ford behind Maruti, Hyundai and Tata
Motors Co. in passenger car sales, according to data by the
manufacturers group.  Sales have since slowed. Ford sold 5,608 Figo units in May,
11 percent fewer than a year earlier. April deliveries dropped
to 6,013 from 6,030 a year earlier, manufacturers group data
show.  Ford spent two and a half years fine-tuning the Figo before
introducing it in India, Boneham said. The automaker added
wireless Bluetooth technology to connect mobile phones to the
car stereo after gathering feedback from its target customers,
he said. Low-priced after-sales service also helped attract
cost-conscious shoppers, typically first-time buyers dubbed
‘Sandeep’ by Ford.  The carmaker increased the number of outlets in India to
170 from 120 in two years, and trained the sales staff to
provide detailed comparisons on fuel economy and servicing costs
to potential buyers, Boneham said.  ‘Niche Player’  Ford identified the Indian market for strong growth four
years ago when automobile sales in its biggest market began to
slump as the  United States  went into recession, according to
Boneham. Before that, Ford was “at best an interesting niche
player” in the south Asian nation, he said.  “The Figo is a comeback for Ford in India, allowing it to
compete in the volumes-driven small car segment,” said Ammar Master, an analyst with J.D. Power & Associates in Bangkok. For
Ford to do well in the higher-end segments, “pricing will be
key,” he said.  Hyundai introduced its new 1.4 and 1.6-liter petrol and
diesel-run Verna on May 11. The sedan starts at 733,036 rupees
in Mumbai and the smaller-engine petrol variant travels 17.4
kilometers per liter, according to the company. That compares
with 17 kilometers for the Fiesta’s petrol model, according to
the Automotive Research Association of India.  Honda Motors cut the price for its City sedan by 8.1
percent to 749,000 rupees in  New Delhi , the company said in a
June 14 statement, a move that IHS’s Rathore attributes to
increased competition.  “It’s going to be challenging for Ford,” said  Ashvin Chotai , the London based-managing director of Intelligence
Automotive  Asia , an industry consultant. “There’re some
formidable players in the segment.”  Ford’s Boneham says the automaker will continue its focus
on going down the “value-for-money route.” Of the 8 new models
planned for the Indian market by 2015, the majority will be in
the small- and mid-sized categories, he said.  “It’s important to be in more segments,” he said. “All
the time, there will be Sandeeps coming up and we want to
convert them into Ajays.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  