-- 
Ford China Sales Growing Three Times Industry Pace

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-16T20:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ford-says-china-sales-growing-three-times-faster-than-industry.html
     June 16 (Bloomberg) --  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said sales in  China 
are rising three times faster than the industrywide rate this
year as the U.S. automaker adds an average of two new dealers a
week in the country.  “We’re already outgrowing the industry in China for the
last year and a half without incremental new product,” Joe Hinrichs, chief of Ford’s Asian operations, told reporters in
Dearborn,  Michigan , today. With 340 dealers in a country with a
population of more than 1 billion people, “there’s a lot of
growth potential,” he said.  Hinrichs credits Ford’s growth in China to the expansion of
its retail network. Ford is adding 100 dealers this year in the
country, an average of two per week, as it seeks to double its
retail network there to 680 showrooms by the middle of the
decade, he said.  “There are million-person cities in China that we don’t
have a dealer in,” Hinrichs said. “That will change.”  Ford’s China sales grew 40 percent last year, outpacing the
China market’s 32 percent, Hinrichs said. So far this year,
Ford’s gain is 15 percent compared with a year earlier, while
the market has been increasing by about 5 percent, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said last week that
growth in  Asia  will help boost annual global sales by 50 percent
to 8 million vehicles by 2015. Ford, still dependent on the U.S.
and  Europe  for most of its sales and profit, has a 2.4 percent
share of the passenger-vehicle market in China, trailing  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s 10 percent, J.D. Power & Associates said in April.  Ford fell 32 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $12.83 at 4:01 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
closed at their lowest since Oct. 1, 2010, and have declined 24
percent this year.  Chinese Factory  Ford broke ground today on a $500 million engine factory in
the western Chinese city of Chongqing that will more than double
engine capacity for joint venture Changan Ford Mazda Automobile
Co. to 750,000 units. The plant, opening in 2013, is part of
$1.6 billion Ford is spending to build four factories in China,
 Jim Farley , Ford’s marketing chief, said last week.  The second-largest U.S. automaker plans to triple its
lineup in China by offering 15 models, including the Kuga small
sport-utility vehicle, by mid-decade, Hinrichs said. By offering
more models, Ford will be able to take on the market leaders in
China, GM and Volkswagen AG, he said.  Full Product Range  “They are the same people that we compete with around the
world, but we have a broad, full product range in the other
parts of the world,” Hinrichs said. “So when we put our broad,
full product range, we’ll get our fair share of the market” in
China.  The automaker is focusing on growth after earning $9.28
billion in the past two years. New models like the redesigned
Explorer SUV and Focus compact car are commanding higher prices,
which helped boost first quarter earnings 22 percent to $2.55
billion, the most for the period since 1998. Ford lost $30.1
billion from 2006 through 2008.  Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in 2006, putting up all major
assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. The cash
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  