-- 
Foreclosure Filings Plunge as Bank Delays Mask ‘True Face’ of U.S. Crisis

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/foreclosure-filings-plunge-as-bank-delays-mask-true-face-of-u-s-crisis.html
Foreclosure filings in the U.S.
tumbled last month to the lowest in almost four years as banks
weighed down by an increasing inventory of seized homes delayed
processing defaults, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  A total of 214,927 properties received default, auction or
repossession notices in May, the fewest since November 2007, the
Irvine, California-based data company said today in a statement.
Filings dropped 33 percent from a year earlier and 2 percent
from April. One in 605 households got a notice.  Foreclosure filings have fallen for eight straight months
on a year-over-year basis as banks rework their documentation
procedures following claims they improperly repossessed homes.
Weak demand from buyers is making it difficult for lenders to
sell the properties that they already have on their books, known
as real estate owned, or REOs, according to RealtyTrac.  “Foreclosure processing delays continue to mask the true
face of the foreclosure situation,” James J. Saccacio,
RealtyTrac’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“Even at a significantly lower level than a year ago, the new
supply of REOs exceeds the amount being sold each month.”  Unemployment and falling home values are limiting property
sales and have pushed about 28 percent of mortgage holders
underwater on their loans, meaning they owe more than the home
is worth, according to Zillow Inc. The U.S. jobless rate rose to
9.1 percent in May from 9 percent the previous month, the Labor
Department reported June 3.  Eight-Year Low  Home prices  slid 3.6 percent in the first quarter to the
lowest level since 2003 in the S&P/Case-Shiller index of values
in 20 U.S. cities. Confidence among builders in June was at the
weakest in nine months, as executives expressed pessimism about
the prospect of higher sales, the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index showed yesterday.  The inventory of distressed homes nationwide stands at 1.8
million, which would take about three years to sell at the
current pace,  Daren Blomquist , RealtyTrac’s communications
manager, said in a telephone interview.  Default notices were filed on 58,797 U.S. properties last
month, the lowest in more than four years and a 39 percent
decline from a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  Auctions were scheduled for 89,251 properties, down 33
percent from May 2010. Lenders seized 66,879 homes, a 29 percent
decrease from a year earlier.  States where courts oversee foreclosures showed a 45
percent decrease in filings from a year earlier, while non-
judicial states had a 25 percent decline and accounted for
almost two-thirds of the national total, RealtyTrac said.  Nevada , Arizona  Nevada had the highest rate of foreclosure filings per
household for the 53rd straight month, with one in 103 getting a
notice. Arizona had the second-highest rate at one in 210 and
 California  was third at one in 259.  Michigan , Utah, Georgia,
Idaho,  Florida ,  Illinois  and Colorado also ranked in top 10.  Five states accounted for more than half of the U.S. filing
total, led by California’s 51,906. Florida was second at 19,192
and Michigan third at 14,614. Arizona, Nevada, Illinois,
Georgia,  Texas , Ohio and Wisconsin rounded out the top 10.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the  U.S. population .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  