-- 
Gardner Gets Game-Winning Hit as Yankees Top Rangers 3-2 in 12 Innings

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/gardner-gets-game-winning-hit-as-yankees-top-rangers-3-2-in-12-innings.html
Brett Gardner  hit a 12th-inning
game-winning single as the  New York  Yankees beat the Texas
Rangers 3-2.  The victory completed a New York sweep of the series at
Yankee Stadium in a game marked by the first Yankees start for
pitcher Brian Gordon, a 32-year-old former outfielder.  Curtis Granderson  led off the bottom of the 12th inning
with a single to right field, his third hit of the game. After
Mark Teixeira’s flyout to left,  Robinson Cano  was awarded first
base for being hit by a pitch that television replays showed
might only have contacted the bottom of his bat. Gardner then
singled to right field, scoring Granderson from second base.  The Yankees (39-28) had 11 hits in the win to complete a
three-game sweep of the Rangers (36-34), who had nine hits.  Gordon, who signed with the Yankees yesterday following his
release from the  Philadelphia Phillies ’ organization, allowed
two earned runs on seven hits in 5 1/3 innings, striking out
three and walking three.  With C.J. Wilson starting for the Rangers, the Yankees’
first run came in the bottom of the second inning on a Russell Martin single that scored Cano.  The Rangers scored twice in the fifth inning to take a 2-1
lead. Their first run came on an  Ian Kinsler  double that scored
catcher Taylor Teagarden. After loading the bases with one out,
Gordon almost eluded more trouble before hitting Adrian Beltre
with a curveball, scoring Eric Chavez.  Crowd Reaction  Gordon pitched into the next inning, leaving to a standing
ovation. Wilson went eight innings for  Texas , allowing two
earned runs on seven hits while striking out 10 and walking
three.  Gordon’s only previous major-league experience was four
innings pitched for the Rangers in 2008. He switched to pitcher
from outfielder four years ago. Until yesterday he was pitching
for the Philadelphia Phillies’ Triple-A Lehigh Valley IronPigs,
though an opt-out clause in his contract enabled his release and
signing by New York’s major-league club.  Reliever Cory Wade pitched two scoreless innings to earn
his first win for New York, while Michael Kirkman (1-1) took the
loss during his third inning of work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 