-- 
Gazprom Seeks LNG Deals Abroad That May Involve Asset Swaps

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 
2011-06-16T16:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/gazprom-seeks-lng-deals-abroad-that-may-involve-asset-swaps.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas export
monopoly, is seeking liquefied natural-gas deals outside of
Russia that may involve asset swaps.  “We are looking at new projects,” Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Alexander Medvedev said today in an interview at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum. “In possible asset
swap deals we will be interested to include existing LNG assets
that our potential partners have.”  Medvedev declined to identify possible partners, though he
said that talks with Royal Dutch Shell Plc include an “LNG
element.”  Gazprom, which leads Russia’s sole LNG project known as
Sakhalin-2, with Shell, Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp., wants
to expand in markets such as Asia where demand is growing at a
faster rate. The Moscow-based producer is targeting production
of as much as 25 billion cubic meters of LNG outside Russia,
according to a  presentation  to investors on Gazprom’s website.  Shell may offer assets in  Asia  to Gazprom to support
expansion of the Sakhalin-2, people with knowledge of the
negotiations said in February. The Hague-based company may gain
access to offshore blocks in Russia’s east, they said at the
time.  Gazprom is considering expanding the Sakhalin-2 LNG plant
and is looking at ways to increase the resource base needed to
support a third  production line , or train, Medvedev said today.
At the same time, the company is also studying plans to build an
LNG plant near the city of Vladivostok, he said.  Most of the gas from Sakhalin-2 goes to  Japan , the world’s
biggest LNG consumer, where a March earthquake and tsunami have
knocked nuclear power offline.  “Japan is now analyzing what the consequences of this
catastrophe are, also in view of demand recovery from
industries,” Medvedev said.  Japan may need as much as 20 million tons of additional
LNG, Medvedev said. “And this is a very serious volume that
doesn’t yet exist on the market, you have yet to produce it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in St. Petersbrug via Moscow at 
7729 or  ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Connan in  St. Petersburg  via London at   cconnan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  