-- 
GE Pursues $3 Billion of Brazil Deals as Petrobras Demand Rises

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-06-16T18:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ge-pursues-3-billion-of-brazil-deals-as-petrobras-demand-rises.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , which spent
more than $4.1 billion on acquisitions since October to build
its oil and gas unit, is bidding for about $3 billion of  Brazil 
energy contracts over three years as the industry expands.  GE is competing for work that includes supplying  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  with equipment for its  floating production
vessels , Fernando Martins, a vice president for GE’s oil and gas
division in  Latin America , said yesterday in a telephone
interview from Rio de Janeiro. The company is also talking with
Petrobras on supplying subsea wellhead systems, he said.  “We have equipment and services from the subsea well up to
the refinery,” he said. “This is a terrific opportunity.”  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , earlier this week won
three contracts worth $350 million in Brazil, including deals to
provide subsea logistics services to Petrobras and drilling
systems for Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Brazil, home to the biggest
oil discovery in the Americas in the past three decades, is
seeking to more than double its oil output by 2020.  GE plans to hire 500 workers for its Brazilian oil and gas
business before year-end, an increase of about 42 percent,
Martins said. The company is also setting up plans to retain its
employees as the “very fast” expansion increases competition
for human resources in the country, he said.  Employee Retention  “Sometimes more importantly than hiring new people is
making sure that you retain your own employees,” Martins said,
adding that the unit had a turnover rate of less than 3 percent
of its workforce in the past year.  GE Oil & Gas has more than 20,000 employees in 100
countries. In 2010, the division provided $7.6 billion of the
parent company’s $150.2 billion in total sales.  GE’s acquisitions since October have included John Wood
Group Plc’s well-support division, parts of Dresser Inc. and
Wellstream Holdings Plc, an oil services provider focused on
Brazil.  GE rose 6 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $18.30 at 2:22 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained
about 16 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  