-- 
Glaxo Epilepsy Drug Trobalt Wins U.K. Health-Cost Agency Backing

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/glaxo-epilepsy-drug-trobalt-wins-u-k-health-cost-agency-backing.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Trobalt
epilepsy drug won the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost agency
as a treatment option for patients who aren’t helped by existing
therapies.  Trobalt, also known as retigabine, is recommended for
adults with partial-onset seizures who haven’t responded well to
eight other medicines including Glaxo’s Lamictal and Pfizer
Inc.’s Neurontin, the London-based  National Institute for Health
and Clinical Excellence  said today in an e-mailed statement.
Generic versions of Lamictal and Neurontin are available.  Epilepsy affects as many as 416,000 people in England and
 Wales , according to the agency, known as NICE. Most patients
experience partial-onset seizures, which are caused by too much
electrical activity in one part of the brain, and often need to
take a combination of medicines to control the disorder, NICE
said. Trobalt won NICE’s backing less than three months after
getting European regulatory approval.  “While there are a number of effective anti-epileptic
drugs already widely available on the  National Health Service ,
people can have different responses to them,” said Carole Longson, director of NICE’s Health Technology Evaluation Centre,
in the statement. “It’s therefore very important for doctors to
have a broad range of options so they can find the right
combination for their patients.”  If NICE doesn’t receive any appeals to the draft guidance,
final recommendations to the National Health Service will be
published next month. The agency advises the state-run health
system on the cost-effectiveness of treatments. A pack of 84
Trobalt tablets, each containing a 50-milligram dose, costs
about 19.46 pounds ($31.33), though prices may vary because of
negotiated discounts, NICE said.  Brain Channels  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, bought global
marketing rights to the drug from  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  in 2008. The medicine acts on the brain’s
potassium channel, controlling nerve cells so they don’t become
overstimulated and cause a seizure. Most current drugs regulate
sodium or calcium channels.  Trobalt won marketing approval in the European Union in
March. The treatment won regulatory approval on June 13 in the
U.S., where it is known as ezogabine or Potiga. The  Food and
Drug Administration  cleared the drug for use as an additional
therapy for patients who aren’t helped by current treatments.
The FDA delayed a decision on the product twice last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  