-- 
Goldman Adds Barnard College President Debora Spar to Board of Directors

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-16T17:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/goldman-adds-barnard-college-president-debora-spar-to-board.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, added Debora L. Spar, president of
the women-only liberal arts school Barnard College, to its board
at a meeting today in  London .  Spar, who turned 48 today, will sit on the audit, risk,
compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees,
New York-based Goldman Sachs said in a statement. She joined New
York’s  Barnard  College in July 2008 after 17 years on the
faculty of  Harvard Business School .  Goldman Sachs, which was the most profitable securities
firm in Wall Street history before the 2008 financial collapse,
has been a target of regulatory and political investigations
since then. The firm paid $550 million last year to settle a
civil fraud suit by the Securities and Exchange Commission and
has denied claims by a U.S. Senate subcommittee this year that
the firm misled clients into buying mortgage-linked securities.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein’s
wife, Laura, is a Barnard College alumna and is listed on the
school’s website as a member of the board of trustees. She has
resigned that post, Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs, said today. The Lloyd & Laura Blankfein Foundation
donated $50,000 to Barnard College in fiscal 2010, which ended
Jan. 31, 2010, and $25,000 in the previous year, according to
the nonprofit’s federal tax filings.  ‘Tremendous Asset’  “Debora’s valuable and independent perspective on finance
and business, emerging markets and recruitment, particularly of
women, will be a tremendous asset for Goldman Sachs in the years
ahead,”  Lloyd Blankfein  said in the statement.  Blankfein, 56, has been seeking new board members since the
departures of Brown University President Ruth Simmons in May
2010 and former  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  CEO H. Lee Scott last
month. Spar, who will join Lois D. Juliber as one of two female
board members, brings the number of Goldman Sachs directors to
11, including 9 independent members.  Independent board members who served throughout the full
year 2010 were granted Goldman Sachs stock worth $478,284, or
$503,287 for the directors who served as committee chairs,
according to the bank’s annual proxy filing. Goldman Sachs has
dropped more than 18 percent this year on the New York Stock
Exchange, compared with the 7 percent decline in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Salary and Benefits  Spar received $279,688 in salary and non-taxable benefits
in the year ended June 30, 2009, Barnard’s most recent public
tax filing shows.  All of Goldman Sachs’s independent board members, or their
family members, are involved in tax-exempt organizations that
have business relationships with Goldman Sachs and that receive
charitable donations from Goldman Sachs or the firm’s employees,
according to the company’s latest proxy filing.  Stephen Friedman , who has served as an independent director
since April 2005, worked at Goldman Sachs from 1966 until 1994,
when he left as the firm’s senior partner and management
committee chairman, the proxy shows.  A political scientist, Spar graduated from  Georgetown
University ’s School of Foreign Service and received a doctorate
in government from Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  At Harvard Business School,  Spar  served as a senior
associate dean for recruiting for a year, as chair of the
Business, Government and the International Economy unit from
1999 to 2004, and taught courses on the politics of
international business and comparative capitalism and economic
development.  Emerging Markets  “Hopefully, I will be able to bring to the board my
knowledge of the global economy and in particular emerging
markets,” Spar said in a telephone interview. “I also hope to
be able to draw upon the subject I’ve studied throughout my
career, which is the overlap between firms and government in the
international economy.”  At Harvard, she also served as chairwoman of a university
committee on human rights and chairwoman and creator of Making
Markets Work, a program to develop leaders in the private and
public sectors in African nations.  “I find Goldman to be a particularly interesting company
to be part of, given how involved they are with the
international economy,” Spar said. “It was a firm that fit my
background and interests well.”  Barnard Endowment  Barnard College’s endowment was valued at $187 million as
of June 30, 2010, according to the National Association of
College and University Business Officers and Commonfund
Institute. The college’s endowment ranked 249th among 865
schools ranked by the institute. Harvard, the richest U.S.
university, had $27.6 billion in its endowment.  Spar, a trustee of the  Nightingale-Bamford School  in  New
York  City, said she had “a series of conversations with people
at the firm and other directors” over the past five or six
months.  Simmons joined Goldman Sachs’s board in January 2000 while
she was president of Smith College, a women’s liberal arts
school in Northampton, Massachusetts. She is president of Brown
in Providence,  Rhode Island , and sits on the board of Texas
Instruments Inc.  University presidents are often tapped to serve as
corporate directors.  Barnard is an affiliate of  Columbia University , whose
president, Lee Bollinger, sits on the board of Washington Post
Co.  Shirley Tilghman, president of  Princeton University  in
Princeton,  New Jersey , is a director at Google Inc., in Mountain
View,  California . John Hennessy, president of  Stanford
University  near  Palo Alto , California, is a  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
corporate director and also sits on the board of Cisco Systems
Inc.  Susan Hockfield, president of the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in Cambridge, is a board member of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 