-- 
Gold May Gain as Europe’s Debt Woes Spur Demand, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/gold-may-gain-as-europe-s-debt-woes-spur-demand-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurs demand for the metal as a protection
of wealth, a survey found.  Fifteen of 23 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 65 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Five
predicted lower prices and three were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was down 0.1 percent for this week at $1,527.30 an
ounce by 11:34 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It
reached a record $1,577.40 on May 2.  The cost of insuring against default on Greek, Irish and
Portuguese government debt surged to records yesterday, CMA
prices showed. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet today in Berlin, with
pressure increasing for the leaders to reach an accord on a
rescue package for  Greece .  “Gold should continue to be purchased as the European
sovereign debt crisis is deepening and appears to be reaching a
dangerous denouement,” said Mark O’Byrne, executive director of
brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. Divisions “as to how to
resolve the euro-zone debt crisis are creating a risk of
contagion.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of June 10.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 211 of 367 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 15 Bearish: 5 Neutral: 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 