-- 
Golfer’s Tax Court Case Tests Principle That Image Is Everything

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/golfer-goosen-s-tax-court-case-tests-principle-that-image-is-everything.html
The international golfers at this
week’s  U.S. Open  in Bethesda,  Maryland , will be watching for
two-time champion Retief Goosen on the leaderboard. Their
lawyers will be studying Goosen’s U.S. Tax Court  decision .  The South African native challenged the  Internal Revenue
Service ’s analysis of the endorsement income he earned from such
companies as  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and Rolex Group.
The case will affect golfers, tennis players and pop stars from
around the world who tour in the U.S., license their images for
advertising and hawk perfumes, cars, and jewelry.  The June 9 case provides the first clear judicial
guidelines for how such endorsement income should be taxed, and
it focused on how much Goosen earned because of his image and
how much he earned based on his performance. It’s also a
reminder that the IRS is paying attention to how high-profile
performers earn money, said  Lucy Lee , an attorney at Caplin &
Drysdale in Washington.  “They’re watching what clubs are being used, what logo’s
being displayed on the bags, the uniforms, and they’re taking
notes,” said Lee, whose clients include female Korean golfers.  The court issued a mixed decision in Goosen’s case,
resolving some issues in the golfer’s favor and deciding some
questions the way the government wanted. It’s unclear from the
decision how much money, if any, Goosen will owe the IRS.  ‘Flash’ Over ‘Cool’  The biggest near-term effect of the Goosen case will be
felt by fellow golfer  Sergio Garcia , who has a similar case
pending in Tax Court and is also playing in this week’s  U.S.
Open  tournament at Congressional Country Club. In her opinion,
Tax Court judge Diane Kroupa compared Goosen with Garcia, noting
that endorsers valued Garcia’s “flash, looks and maverick
personality” over Goosen’s “cool, ‘Iceman’ demeanor,” despite
Goosen’s better on-course record. Robert Hudson, a partner at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in Miami and one of Garcia’s attorneys,
declined to comment.  The distinction between image and performance matters for
tax purposes because royalty income derived from an athlete’s
image is typically taxed more lightly under tax treaties than
“personal services income.” Such income is subject to the
regular U.S. tax rates, which top out at 35 percent.  Goosen’s endorsers included Adidas, which makes TaylorMade
 golf clubs , and Acushnet Co., the maker of Titleist golf balls,
which is being sold by  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)  He also had off-
course endorsement agreements with Rolex, video-game maker
Electronic Arts and Upper Deck Co., a maker of trading cards.  The TaylorMade contract included a base endorsement fee of
$400,000 a year, plus bonuses based on tournament victories and
international rankings. To receive the base fee, Goosen had to
play in at least 20 PGA Tour events and 11 European Tour events,
according to the court ruling.  Personal Services Income  When he filed his tax returns for 2002 and 2003, the years
in between his two  U.S. Open  victories, Goosen had contended
that his on-course endorsement income was half royalty and half
personal services. The IRS said it all should have been
considered personal services income because Goosen was required
to play in golf tournaments and use the companies’ products, and
determined that Goosen owed the government $164,698 for the two
years in question.  Kroupa examined the contracts, which included elements that
made them appear to be royalties and other elements that made
them appear to be payments for golf performance. For example,
Goosen’s contract with Acushnet allowed the company to use his
name and picture on advertisements for Titleist golf balls and
gloves. It also required him to use the company’s equipment in
tournaments and perform public relations work for the company.  The Tax Court judge ruled that the on-course endorsements
should be treated as half royalty income and half personal
services income, rather than determining that all of the income
derives from his golf performance.  ‘Publicity Rights’  The judge ruled against Goosen by determining that he
should have treated more of his income as having been earned in
the U.S.  Matthew Kadish, one of Goosen’s tax lawyers, said the case
provides guidance on how to determine royalty income.  “It does establish that the publicity rights are a
separately licensable intangible, and that it’s not all golf
income based upon the facts,” said Kadish, a partner at
Cleveland-based  Kadish, Hinkel & Weibel .  Other athletes and entertainers should view the case as a
guide for how to structure endorsement agreements and how to
anticipate the IRS’s strategy, said  Tony Nitti , a partner at the
accounting firm of WithumSmith & Brown in Aspen,  Colorado .  “Entertainers, athletes, nonresidents -- they’ve been
waiting for something like this,” said Nitti, whose clients
include entertainers who sell the rights to their likeness.  Nitti said Garcia,  who is disputing  $1.7 million in taxes
related to endorsements, would benefit from the Goosen precedent
that treats on-course endorsements partly as royalty income.  Little Wiggle Room  The court’s analysis of where Goosen earned his income,
which relied on the U.S. share of Upper Deck’s trading card
sales and Electronic Arts’ video game sales, doesn’t leave much
room for argument with the IRS, Nitti said.  “That’s really the thing that comes out of this case that
should scare some people,” he said.  The IRS has a team that focuses on overseas athletes and
entertainers, and that group remains active, Lee said.  “These individuals and those associated with arranging
their appearances in the U.S. and managing their financial
affairs are typically high-income individuals,” says a page on
the IRS  web site  explaining the program. “Because of this, it
is important to ensure proper tax reporting and payment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  