-- 
Gordon Gekko’s Swiss Tax Haven Lures Rich From Emerging Markets

-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-06-16T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/gordon-gekko-s-swiss-tax-haven-attracts-millionaires-from-emerging-markets.html
Wealthy emerging-market clients are
flocking to Switzerland as a haven from instability, filling a
gap as Americans and Europeans flee a crackdown on  tax evasion .  Customers from developing economies deposited a record 52
percent of the 1.96 trillion francs ($2.3 trillion) held in
offshore Swiss bank accounts last year, according to  Boston
Consulting Group . Their share may climb to 63 percent by 2015
from 37 percent as recently as 2007, the firm said.  Last year’s handover of  UBS AG (UBSN)  accounts to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service has tarnished Switzerland’s reputation
for protecting the secrets of millionaires. As the private
banking model evolves, a scene in Oliver Stone’s 2010 “ Wall
Street ” sequel where corporate raider Gordon Gekko repatriates
$100 million from a Swiss account evokes a bygone age.  “For most banks, business with American clients is
incredibly complicated and will cause more trouble than it’s
worth,” said Peter Damisch, a partner at Boston Consulting in
Zurich. “There will be a big shift from mature markets toward
emerging markets.”  North American assets will fall to less than 30 billion
francs in 2015 from a peak of about 150 billion francs in 2007
and 60 billion francs last year, Boston Consulting estimates.  Swiss offshore assets will grow at an annual rate of 2.5
percent during the next five years as money from the  Middle
East ,  Africa  and Latin America outweighs redemptions from
European clients, Damisch said.  Global Tumult  While bank secrecy helped Switzerland attract 27 percent of
the world’s offshore wealth, most undeclared assets are in the
country for “stability reasons,” according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Those “safe-haven attributes” are
drawing investors amid political upheaval in the Middle East and
growing speculation that  Greece  may be the first country in the
17-member euro region to default, the IMF  said  on May 26.  “The less stable the world is, the better it is for
Switzerland,” said Teodoro Cocca, professor of  wealth
management  at Johannes Kepler University in Linz,  Austria .  Switzerland has been a financial refuge for fugitives from
unrest since Geneva’s Pictet & Cie. and Lombard Odier Darier
Hentsch & Cie. were established more than 200 years ago to
safeguard the riches of aristocrats fleeing the French
Revolution.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, attracted 11.1 billion
francs at its wealth-management unit in the first quarter after
customers withdrew 198.7 billion francs in the nine quarters
through June 2010. Funds from emerging market investors and net
new money at its Swiss division countered withdrawals by
Europeans from cross-border accounts, the Zurich-based bank
said.  Regulatory Pressure  The commitment to regulatory and tax compliance will put
“tremendous pressure on Switzerland” as western European
clients repatriate their wealth or transfer it to other
investments such as real estate, Boston Consulting said in a May
31 report.  As Swiss wealth managers lose lucrative cross-border
clients, they must spend to build onshore networks in Germany,
 Italy  and other European countries.  “Easy money is an addiction and it’s very hard to go from
earning a lot of money for doing very little to earning much
smaller margins for investing much more,” said Philip Marcovici, a Hong Kong-based lawyer who advises banks and
governments on taxes. “How much knowledge do you need to say
‘let’s hide your money and go to lunch’?”  UBS’s wealth business, the world’s second biggest, earned
88 cents for every $100 of international assets it managed last
year, compared with $1.12 for those booked in Switzerland.  Focus on Taxes  The Swiss government hopes the country’s commitment to
attracting only taxed assets will boost its appeal.  “That increases the legal security and the competitiveness
of Switzerland as one of the world’s top financial centers,”
Michael Ambuehl, state secretary to the  finance ministry , said
in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg News.  Switzerland may get more attractive should it negotiate
withholding taxes with the U.K. and  Germany  on the interest,
dividends,  capital gains  and investment income earned by clients
with offshore accounts. While imposing additional administrative
costs on Swiss banks, the arrangement would allow them to keep
customer identities secret.  Inflows from emerging markets may help Swiss offshore
assets rebound to about 2.3 trillion francs by 2015, according
to Boston Consulting. This suggests the country’s bankers can
overcome the loss of their traditional tax advantage, said Lukas
Haessig, author of “Paradise Lost -- The End of Swiss Banking
Secrecy.”  Hollywood Movies  “Switzerland didn’t consist only of banking secrecy,
although it’s often depicted like that in Hollywood movies like
Wall Street,” said Haessig. “Yes, Switzerland is a bit boring,
but boring and safe is better than sexy and risky.”  The country’s staid image offers stability that lures
clients, said Lawrence Howell, chief executive officer of
Zurich-based  EFG International AG (EFGN) , the private bank controlled
by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family.  “The cultural reality is it isn’t a particularly
revolutionary society,” Howell said. “That supports the idea
that Switzerland will continue to be a sovereign-risk haven as
opposed to a tax-evasion haven.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  