-- 
Rory McIlroy Takes Three-Shot Lead After First Round of U.S. Open Golf

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-17T00:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/graeme-mcdowell-ernie-els-trail-johan-edfors-by-one-at-u-s-open-golf.html
Rory McIlroy shot a 6-under 65 to
open a three-shot lead after the first round of golf’s U.S. Open,
the second major championship of the season.  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy had six birdies and no bogies
today at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,  Maryland , to
grab at least a share of the first-round lead for the third time
in the past four majors.  McIlroy, 22, was tied for the opening-round lead at the
Masters Tournament in April and took a four-shot advantage into
the final round before closing with an 8-over 80. At the 2010
British Open, McIlroy followed up his first-round 63 with an 80
and eventually tied for third.  “It was a good round,” McIlroy said in a televised
interview. “I said to my caddie coming up nine that I’m sort of
getting used to these first rounds at majors. I just need to
keep it going.”  It’s the biggest first-round lead since amateur Mike Reid
led four players by three shots at the 1976  U.S. Open .  Masters champion Charl Schwartzel of South Africa is three
shots behind after firing a 3-under 68. Y.E. Yang, a South
Korean who won the 2009  PGA Championship , also opened with a 68.  Phil Mickelson  shot a 3-over 74 that featured an opening-
hole double bogey, while the top three players in the  Official
World Golf Ranking  -- Luke Donald, Lee Westwood and Martin Kaymer --also failed to break par on day one.  Oosthuizen 2 Under  Louis Oosthuizen , the 2010 British Open champion from South
Africa, shot 2-under 69, as did Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , American
Ryan Palmer, Brazil’s Alexandre Rocha, South Korea’s Kyung-Tae
Kim and Australia’s Scott Hend.  Graeme McDowell of  Northern Ireland , who’s seeking to
become the first player to retain the title since Curtis Strange
in 1988-89, is at 1 under.  “I kept it in play well off the tee and I played smart
golf,” said McDowell. “It was a pretty good start.”  Sweden’s Henrik Stenson and Johan Edfors also shot 70, as
did Australia’s John Senden, Spain’s Alvaro Quiros and Americans
Stewart Cink,  Davis Love III , Bubba Dickerson, Robert Garrigus
and Chez Reavie.  If an American golfer fails to win this week, it would mark
the first time five straight major titles were won by non-U.S.
players.  World No. 1 Donald of England opened with a 74. Third-
ranked Kaymer of Germany also had 74, while second-ranked
Westwood, also of  England , had a 75.  Donald and Westwood entered the tournament as co-favorites
of Las Vegas oddsmakers, with Mickelson at 12-1.  Mickelson, who turned 41 today, was among the afternoon
starters, playing alongside McIlroy and Dustin Johnson. After
starting with a double bogey on the par-3 10th hole, Mickelson
added three bogies and two birdies.  Three-time champion  Tiger Woods  skipped the tournament
because of leg injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Bethesda, Maryland, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  