-- 
Greek First-Quarter Unemployment Rate Rises to Record High

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-16T11:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/greek-first-quarter-unemployment-rate-rises-to-record-high-1-.html
Greece ’s unemployment rate rose to a
record high in the first quarter as the government’s austerity
measures deepened the recession, compounding the pressure on
Prime Minister  George Papandreou .  The jobless rate rose to 15.9 percent, or 792,601, from
14.2 percent in the fourth quarter and 11.7 percent in the same
period of 2010, the  Hellenic Statistical Service  said in an e-
mailed statement today in Athens. That is the highest since the
introduction of quarterly data going back to 1998.  The growing ranks of unemployed are raising the political
cost of Papandreou’s budget cuts as he tries to secure
additional European Union and International Monetary Fund aid
following a 110 billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout last year.
The prime minister will today reshuffle his Cabinet and then
call a confidence vote. Such debates typically take three days,
making the vote likely on June 19.  “Increasing job insecurity amid rising unemployment will
certainly heighten discontent,” said Tullia Bucco, an economist
at Unicredit Global Research in Milan. “New austerity measures
targeting cuts in the number of employed at state-owned
enterprises or privatization of these same entities are going to
make the situation worse.”  Athens  Protests  Protests in central Athens turned violent yesterday with
police using tear gas to disperse crowds ringing Parliament
house as about 20,000 people rallied against the latest round of
wage cuts and tax increases proposed by Papandreou.  Papandreou’s government began this week defending in
parliament the 78 billion-euro package of cost reductions and
asset sales designed to secure further aid. He has so far failed
to win the cross-party support that EU officials have called for
in exchange for the aid.  The unemployment figures compound the bad economic news for
Greece, after the statistics authority last week released
figures showing first-quarter GDP contracted 5.5 percent from
the year before instead of the previously reported 4.8 percent.  Joblessness was 19.5 percent among women and 13.3 percent
for men, while the rate was 30.9 percent for men and women aged
from 15 to 29.  Almost half of the unemployed in the country has been
without work for a year or more, according to the statement.
Unemployment was highest in the South Aegean, which includes the
popular holiday islands of Mykonos and Santorini, reaching 24.3
percent.  Deficit Goals  “Extreme austerity is placing significant stress on the
labor market and, consequently, additional pressure on the
prospects for domestic demand,” said Vladimir Pillonca, an
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “Rising
unemployment and continued pressures on domestic demand will
continue to complicate the achievement of tax revenue targets.”  The slumping economy has prevented Greece from reaching
deficit targets, as the fiscal gap closed at 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product last year, exceeding the goal of 9.5
percent. Net revenue collection dropped 7.1 percent in the first
five months of this year, Finance Ministry data released this
week showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 