-- 
Greek Debt Rollover Requires Doubling Aid Fund, Wellink Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-06-16T07:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/greek-debt-rollover-requires-doubling-rescue-fund-wellink-says.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Nout Wellink said the emergency fund for euro-
area countries should be doubled to 1.5 trillion euros ($2.1
trillion) if private investors are pressured to contribute
additional aid for  Greece ,  Het Financieele Dagblad  reported.  “If credit-rating agencies see the debt rollover as
involuntary and a partial default, then contagion of other
peripheral euro-zone countries takes place,” Wellink, who also
heads the Dutch central bank, said in an interview published
today in the Amsterdam-based newspaper.  “If you take these risks, you need to realize you should
build a safety net for that,” Wellink said. “It should go to
1,500 billion euros and there should be more flexibility in how
the money can be spent. Also, it should be willing to do things
the ECB did before,” such as buying  government bonds , he said.
Wellink’s comments were confirmed by Dutch central bank
spokesman Tobias Oudejans.  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last
year created a 750 billion-euro emergency fund for euro-zone
countries that will be replaced by the permanent European
Stability Mechanism in 2013.  ‘Chain of Reactions’  Thirteen months after Greece was granted a 110 billion-euro
bailout that failed to halt the spread of the debt crisis to
Ireland and  Portugal , politicians are at odds over fulfilling a
pledge to make creditors pick up some of the cost of a second
rescue.  Wellink, who steps down as Dutch central bank president
this month, said the ECB strongly opposes an involuntary
contribution from investors.  “If a contribution isn’t voluntary, it will lead to a
chain of reactions disadvantageous for all of us,” Wellink
said. “Credit-rating agencies judge whether that is a  credit
event , and a little pressure already creates such a situation.”  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager on June 14 said
private-sector investors should contribute at least 30 percent
of possible additional refinancing aid for Greece. A voluntary
rollover of Greek debt by private investors could be made
attractive by using “sweeteners,” such as granting special
rights to new debt that old debt lacks, he said.  “Then you start to nibble away at the voluntariness,”
Wellink said. “Greece’s credit rating isn’t far away from a
default, so it only needs a nudge to go wrong. Where the border
between voluntary and involuntary lies, no one actually knows.
But if you seek the edges, you need to be aware you have the
obligation to jump in when there are problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  