-- 
Greek Hunt for Debt ‘Holy Grail’ Pits ECB Against Naked Banks: Euro Credit

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-06-17T08:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/greek-hunt-for-debt-holy-grail-pits-ecb-against-naked-banks-euro-credit.html
European policy makers are on a
collision course with the  bond market  as they seek to resolve
the Greek debt crisis without triggering payouts under credit-
default swap insurance contracts.  European Central Bank chiefs are determined to ensure any
Greek debt restructuring won’t be deemed a credit event enabling
buyers of protection to seek compensation from swaps sellers. It
costs $2 million annually to insure against Greek default for
five years, with Portuguese and Irish swaps also seeing all-time
high prices.  A debt restructuring that doesn’t trigger swaps would be
more damaging to the market as it would devalue contracts,
according to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Such a move would leave banks with
unprotected, or unhedged, holdings, forcing them to sell bonds
and ultimately drive sovereign borrowing costs higher.  “The ECB fears having to admit a colossal mistake when it
declared euro zone governments as undefaultable,” said Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in London, which oversees $580 billion of assets.
“The ECB wants to protect its balance sheet and reputation.”  The ECB’s total exposure to  Greece  may be between 130
billion euros ($184 billion) and 140 billion euros, Dutch
Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said this week. The ECB
provided 90 billion euros of liquidity to Greek banks, he said.  Swaps Record  The decision whether to trigger swaps lies with
representatives from 15 dealers and investors under the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association. The committee,
which includes Deutsche Bank AG and the world’s biggest money
manager BlackRock Inc., rules whether a credit event should be
declared after a request is made by a market participant.  “If you were to have an event and CDS did not respond,
that means banks are naked,” said Christian Dinesen, head of
international credit research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  London . “And we don’t need any more naked banks.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year Greek
bonds relative to German bunds of similar maturity reached a
record 15.43 percentage points today. The country’s two-year
securities yield about 30 percent.  Default Probability  A failure to trigger credit-default swaps won’t necessarily
render the contracts worthless. They may fall initially and then
continue to rise on speculation the government will still
default in future. Swap prices imply there’s about an 80 percent
probability of Greece defaulting within five years.  “Just because one act doesn’t trigger, it doesn’t mean
risk goes away,” said Andrew Sheets, head of European credit
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “In high-yield, you have
restructurings that are followed by hard credit events.”  Euro-area finance chiefs are struggling to break a deadlock
on how to force investors to share the cost of Greece’s second
rescue in 14 months without triggering a default. With consensus
elusive before the target date of a leaders’ summit late next
week, finance ministers agreed to convene again on June 19, a
day earlier than planned. Talks may drag on into July,
Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  A “hard haircut” for investors in Greek securities would
risk contagion to other European countries,  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
head of the euro-region finance ministers group, was cited as
saying in an interview with German newspaper Tagesspiegel.  “We have absolutely no experience as to what may happen if
a member of a unique monetary union such as this one were to
take such a step,” Juncker was quoted as saying. “The risks
are so big that I can only warn of such a move.”  ‘Holy Grail’  “The holy grail is to find a way in which to involve
private sector participation, but without triggering a
default,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit Agricole
SA in London. “I don’t see how that’s possible.”  Swaps on western European governments can pay out on a
credit event triggered by failure to pay, restructuring or a
moratorium on payments.  A restructuring event can be caused by a reduction in
principal or interest, postponement or deferral of payments or a
change in the ranking or currency of obligations, according to
ISDA rules. Any of these changes must result from deterioration
in creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding
on all holders.  Corporate Trigger  A voluntary “reprofiling,” as EU officials are calling a
possible maturity extension, or exchange of Greek debt would not
be a credit event, according to New York-based ISDA. Such
agreements are often made with U.S. corporate bondholders
without triggering swaps, said Steven Kennedy, ISDA’s spokesman.  “A default by any other name that does not trigger CDS
means banks are not hedged,” said Dinesen at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. “That puts banks in an extremely precarious
situation.”  The EU’s aversion to triggering swaps by restructuring
contrasts with the stance of companies, which have become
increasingly willing to facilitate settlement of derivatives
linked to their debt. That’s because many investors in corporate
bonds also buy insurance on their holdings and are more likely
to agree to restructure bonds if they’re compensated for losses
by swaps.  Irish Banks  Allied Irish Banks Plc offered on May 11 to call one series
of notes later than others “to accommodate an orderly unwind”
of swaps. The planned buyback is similar to an exercise carried
out by the nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which agreed to
stagger calls of its bonds last year so that securities would be
available to use in settlement auctions.  ISDA  ruled this week that swaps may be triggered after
Allied Irish changed terms on its subordinated bonds, wiping out
investors who refuse to accept as much as a 90 percent discount
on their notes.  “Many corporate treasurers see a liquid CDS market on
their debt as a positive benefit rather than a burden,” said
Saul Doctor, head of credit derivative strategy at JPMorgan in
London. “Treasurers have also realized that many holders of
bonds are also holders of CDS protection and that they can no
longer ignore these holders in any restructuring offer.”  One reason for the difference may be that fewer investors
in  government bonds  use swaps to hedge. Credit-default swaps on
Greece cover a net notional $5 billion, according to the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a central registry
that captures most trades. That’s just 1 percent of the
government’s $482 billion of bonds and loans outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italy  Swaps  Swaps on Italy cover a net notional $25 billion, the most
of any country or company in the world, according to DTCC. That
compares with $2.3 trillion of debt. By contrast, swaps on
General Electric Capital Corp., the top-traded company, cover
$11 billion, or 3 percent of outstanding debt, and contracts on
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which have about the same net notional
value as swaps on Greece, cover 28 percent of the company’s
debt.  “Structuring a Greek restructuring so as to specifically
not allow CDS triggers seems to be missing the wood for the
trees,” JPMorgan’s Doctor said. “A major disruption to the
market will cause hedgers to reconsider the value of their
hedges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  