-- 
Ignored Greek Default Risk Makes Bank Stress Tests ‘Irrelevant’

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-06-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ignored-greek-default-risk-makes-bank-stress-tests-irrelevant-.html
European Union stress tests on the
region’s banks are becoming “irrelevant” because they ignore
the possibility of a default by  Greece .  “Everybody is so concerned about Greece defaulting and the
effect that’s going to have on banks, yet that’s not something
even being considered as part of the stress tests,” said Jane Coffey, head of U.K. equities at Royal London Asset Management,
which manages about $51 billion. “Greece defaulting isn’t
exactly a black swan event. There’s a very good chance it will
happen.”  The cost of insuring Greek government debt against the risk
of default surged to a record yesterday as concern mounted that
policy makers will struggle to stop the crisis. Credit-default
swaps indicate an 82 percent chance Greece will fail to meet its
commitments within five years, according to CMA prices. The cost
of insuring Irish and Portuguese  government bonds  also hit
records this week, driving a gauge of European bank bond risk to
the highest level since January.  The European Banking Authority, set up by the European
Union last year to oversee the tests, won’t include a Greek
default in the scenarios in the second annual assessment of
banks’ resilience to economic shocks. European bank stocks have
fallen 12 percent since last year’s tests, led by the EBA’s
predecessor. Allied Irish Banks Plc, which passed those tests,
later required a taxpayer bailout.  “The stress tests have lost all credibility and look like
a complete waste of time for all involved,” said Lex van Dam, a
London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which
oversees about $500 million. “They are totally irrelevant.”  Sovereign Default  The EBA can’t include a sovereign default in the stress
tests because that would lend credence to the possibility of
such an event happening and undermine confidence in the region,
said  Richard Reid , an economist at the London-based
International Centre for Financial Regulation.  Credit-default swaps on Greece soared 435 basis points to
2,189 yesterday, Ireland rose 37 basis points to 799, and
 Portugal  climbed 21 basis points to 806. The average cost of
insuring the debt of 13 of  Europe ’s biggest banks surged 6 basis
points to 163, the highest since Jan. 14.  “Politically it’s very difficult for the EBA to assume a
sovereign restructuring,” said Richard Barnes, the primary
credit analyst for European banks at Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Service. “But by requiring the banks to publish their sovereign
exposures, investors and other market participants are given the
means to adjust the stress-test results however they like.”  ‘More Important’  Officials at the EBA didn’t respond to requests for
comment. The London-based regulator has said it has toughened
the tests after criticism that last year’s weren’t stringent
enough. The disclosure of banks’ bond holdings by country will
allow analysts to model their own scenarios.  The watchdog will also “check what banks are doing with
reference to some sovereign exposures and see whether they’re
taking a conservative attitude” when valuing the assets, Enria
said in an interview in April.  “We want more certainty on what exposures are, and for a
lot of the banks the last disclosure is from the stress tests
last year,” said Philip Richards, a banking analyst at  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA. “Everything that’s going on and might happen in
Greece makes the stress test more important and not less.”  French Banks Cut  German lenders were the biggest foreign owners of Greek
government bonds with $22.7 billion in holdings last year, the
 Bank for International Settlements  said last month. French banks
were second with $15 billion. At the end of 2010, Greek bonds
held by banks in countries reporting to the BIS totalled $54.2
billion, of which 96 percent was owned by European lenders.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s biggest bank, Societe Generale and
Credit Agricole SA may have their credit ratings cut because of
their investments in Greece, Moody’s Investors Service said this
week.  The EBA, led by former Italian banking supervisor Andrea
Enria, has been carrying out the tests since April, and may
publish the results in July. A date for publication hasn’t been
set formally because the EBA has said it must ensure it is
satisfied with the quality of submissions from the banks.  Ninety-one banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA said. That capital measure is stricter than
last year’s assessment, which had a pass rate of 6 percent Tier
1 capital, a measure of financial strength that encompasses a
broader range of securities.  ‘Main Weakness’  This year’s exams will test banks’ resilience to a 0.5
percent economic contraction in the euro area, a 15 percent drop
in equity markets and a 125 basis point jump in short-term
inter-bank financing costs.  “The main weakness is that the stress scenario in absolute
terms is milder than what we do when we’re doing similar
exercises,” said Richard Barnes, the primary credit analyst for
European banks at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service.  S&P’s own stress test, published in March, found European
banks would need as much as 250 billion euros ($354 billion) in
fresh capital if faced with a “sharp” increase in yields and a
“severe” economic downturn. In contrast, a survey of 113
investors by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. published last week showed
they expect banks to raise 29 billion euros after the tests.  ‘Taking Them Seriously’  Last year’s tests were criticized for not being tough
enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were shown by
regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros of additional capital,
about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  “This feels very similar to last year when the Irish banks
passed the stress tests and then duly collapsed,” said  Bruce Packard , a banks analyst at Seymour Pierce in  London . “It is
difficult to see who exactly they are for, but I see little
evidence that the buy-side is taking them seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  