-- 
Milan Models Eclipsed by M&A Chatter as Prada Deal Sets Stage

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-17T06:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/milan-models-eclipsed-by-m-a-chatter-as-prada-seen-presaging-further-deals.html
Men’s spring-summer 2012 in Milan
may be the first fashion season where clothing and accessories
are the last things on people’s minds.  As PPR SA hunts assets, Prada SpA and Salvatore Ferragamo
SpA court investors for initial public offerings and a French
investment firm snaps up Moncler SpA, the chatter in Milan is of
who’ll be next to list or get bought. Suitmaker Corneliani kicks
off four days of shows in the Italian city tomorrow.  Potential targets may include  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ,  Mulberry
Group Plc (MUL)  and Tiffany & Co. in the medium term, according to
 John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London .  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s 4.3 billion-euro
($6.1 billion) purchase of Rome-based jeweler  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  may
spark a wave of consolidation as some companies seek to narrow
the gap with their larger peers.  “Expect more mergers and acquisitions and IPOs,” said
 Armando Branchini , vice chairman of Intercorporate, a Milan-
based consulting firm specializing in luxury goods. “When the
favorable winds blow, all the sailors hoist their sails.”  A lack of scale or expertise limits smaller companies’
ability to build  brand recognition  and tap demand in  Asia  and
may lead some to seek alternative paths to growth, said Pierre Mallevays, managing partner of Savigny Partners LLP, a London-
based advisory firm specializing in  luxury goods .  ‘Winner Takes All’  China is “a kind of winner-takes-all market where the
bigger the brand, the better known you are, the more
infrastructure you have on the ground and the more people want
you,” Mallevays said. “There’s a virtuous circle of success
that the big brands have there and it has only increased the
value creation” gap with smaller brands.  Spending on high-end apparel, accessories and other goods
may rise 8 percent this year to 185 billion euros, excluding
currency swings, Bain & Co. said in May. Luxury sales in
mainland China, which doesn’t include  Hong Kong , Macau or
 Taiwan , may surge 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros on the same
basis, keeping it the fastest-growing market, according to the
consultant.  The largest companies, including Paris-based LVMH, offer
the most attractive valuations amid expected positive earnings
momentum, UniCredit analysts wrote in a June 15 note.  Plans to sell stock may be put on hold until stock markets
rebound. Moncler, a maker of $1,000 ski jackets, scrapped an IPO
in Milan because of market weakness and opted to sell a stake to
Eurazeo.  ‘Obvious Candidate’  When the moment is right, “Burberry is the obvious
candidate” for a takeover and would fit nicely in Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA’s portfolio, which includes Dunhill and
Chloe, Guy said. Burberry, which gets about 30 percent of sales
in the Asia-Pacific region, appeals to consumers there because
of its craftsmanship and “Made in  England ” heritage, even
though it has fewer stores than peers in the region.  “That makes Burberry very attractive to a much larger
player,” Guy said. “Mulberry also has “enormous potential.”
Alexa bagmaker Mulberry yesterday reported more-than-fivefold
growth in full-year profit.  Jenna Littler, a spokeswoman for Burberry, declined to
comment. An outside spokeswoman for Richemont didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. The maker of Montblanc watches
doesn’t plan to use equity to fund acquisitions, Chief Executive
Officer Johann Rupert said last month.  Bulgari Premium  PPR (PP) , which is selling retail businesses to focus on luxury,
sports and lifestyle, is targeting mid-sized companies with
high-growth potential. The interest in luxury companies by
established investors and new ones from Asia is forcing up
valuations, which is “potentially a sign of strong activity to
come,” Mallevays said.  LVMH paid a 60 percent premium to snag Bulgari, the world’s
third-largest jeweler. Including debt, that was a multiple of
28.2 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, more than LVMH had paid for any other company.  PPR, which owns Gucci and Balenciaga, may have to also pay
up or risk losing out in its bid to add to its watch and jewelry
portfolio. “Interesting” luxury targets are usually family
controlled, PPR CEO Francois-Henri Pinault said last month. Many
owners of companies that he may be interested in, including
watchmaker  Patek Philippe , aim to stay independent, according to
Barclays Capital analysts including Victoria Lee.  Swiss Regulation  That may change amid Swiss regulatory changes. Swatch Group
AG will from next year cut component deliveries as it seeks to
end a regulatory requirement that it sell such parts to rivals.
If that happens, the financial burden of investing in their own
research and development and manufacturing capabilities may
force some smaller companies to sell, Guy said.  Independent companies wishing to remain so may pursue IPOs
as a path to fundraising instead. Ferragamo, the Florence,
Italy-based shoemaker, spurned suitors, both private equity and
competitors, in favor of selling shares to the public, Chairman
Ferruccio Ferragamo said this week. Ferragamo is set to start
trading in Milan on June 29.  Rivals will be watching the success of both Ferragamo,
whose shoes have been worn by actresses Marilyn Monroe and
 Jennifer Lopez  over the company’s 84-year history, and Prada,
which is said to have raised about $2.1 billion in a Hong Kong
initial public offering after the company sold shares at the low
end of its price range amid a global market slump. Prada shares
will start trading on June 24.  At the low end of the price range, Prada is valued at about
23 times estimated earnings while LVMH trades at about 18.55
times. PPR is valued at about 13.5 times.  Question of Price  Most deals involving medium-sized companies that lack the
financial or human resources to tap growth in  China , will be
with investors who have expertise and contacts in the region to
help manage the “skyrocketing” costs for employees and real
estate, Mallevays said.  The Ferragamo family in March sold an 8 percent stake in
the shoemaker to Hong Kong businessman Peter Woo and agreed to
raise its stakes in distributors based in China, Hong Kong,
Taiwan and Macau.  How long potential targets stay independent may be partly a
question of price, according to Guy.  “Luxury-goods stocks have had a phenomenal run since the
financial downturn, but ultimately there is more to go for if
you’re a smaller player and you’ve still got big opportunities
to grow size and scale relative to peers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  