-- 
Illegal Video Streaming Elevated to Felony Under Senate Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T18:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/illegal-video-streaming-elevated-to-felony-under-senate-measure.html
The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee
approved a measure today that would make illegal streaming of
video over the Internet a felony offense in some cases, sending
the proposed legislation to the full Senate.  The bill, S. 978, would make illegal video streaming for
commercial purposes a felony punishable by as much as five years
in prison if it involves 10 or more instances of streaming
copyrighted works over a 180-day period. The retail value of the
video must exceed $2,500, or the licenses to the material must
be worth more than $5,000.  The bill was introduced May 12 by Senators  Amy Klobuchar , a
Minnesota Democrat,  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, and
Christopher Coons, a Delaware Democrat.  “This isn’t about individuals or families streaming movies
at home,” Klobuchar said in an e-mail after today’s vote.
“It’s about criminals streaming thousands of dollars worth of
stolen digital content and profiting from it.”  The Obama administration supported making illegal video
streaming a felony “in appropriate circumstances” in a set of
recommendations released March 15 for fighting the illegal sale
of pirated products and content.  Maria Pallante, director of the U.S. Copyright Office, also
backed making illegal streaming a felony in a June 1 House
Judiciary subcommittee hearing, saying that treating the offense
as a misdemeanor gives prosecutors little incentive to file
charges in such cases.  $75 Billion Cost  Piracy of digital movies, music and software cost
businesses from $30 billion to $75 billion in 2008 in the Group
of 20 leading global economies, according to a February report
commissioned by the  International Chamber of Commerce  from
Frontier Economics, a London-based consulting firm.  The Copyright Alliance, a Washington-based group whose
members including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal,  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  and Viacom Inc., said it “applauds” the Senate Judiciary
Committee’s vote on the illegal streaming bill.  “The distribution of other people’s work without their
permission should be punished the same way under the law
regardless of the technology used,” Sandra Aistars, executive
director of the Copyright Alliance, said in an e-mail.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, is concerned that the measure may
constrain free speech, Abigail Phillips, a senior staff attorney
for the organization, said in an interview today.  “The more serious the potential penalties, the greater
deterrent effect on innovation and speech activity online,”
Phillips said.  She said it’s unclear whether the legislation would apply
to websites accused of offering illegal video, people who upload
illegal video to such sites, or people who “press play” to
watch such videos online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  