-- 
Time Warner Cable Considers Usage-Based Internet Billing

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/time-warner-cable-considering-billing-web-customers-by-usage-ceo-says.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable-television operator, is testing technology to
measure consumption-based billing for broadband Internet use,
said Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt.  The New York-based company is working on installing meters
in its network that calculate Internet usage, Britt said in an
interview yesterday at the National Cable & Telecommunications
Association’s show in  Chicago . Time Warner Cable hasn’t decided
if it will introduce the system, he said.  Moving from a flat fee to consumption-based billing will
likely allow consumers who use the Internet for just e-mail and
basic searches to pay less, he said. The service may affect
companies like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  that require consumers to use large
amounts of bandwith to stream video online. Heavy users of
Netflix may find themselves paying more.  “It really depends on the bandwidth caps,” said  Michael
Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles .
“Think of it exactly in the same terms as minutes on your cell
phone.”  Time Warner likely will charge fixed amounts for specific
levels of service. In that scenario, consumption-based billing
probably would only affect Netflix customers who watch streamed
content for more than the average of eight hours per month, he
said.  Netflix doesn’t object to charges that Internet providers
need to cover the cost of increasing bandwidth capacity, Chief
Financial Officer  David Wells  said on a June 1 conference call.  “So as long as they’re doing it for network optimization
and traffic shaping, and sort of the honest portions of being a
network owner, it’s fine,” Wells said. “But when they’re doing
it for anti-competitive purposes, I don’t think that’s in the
interest of anyone.”  Time Warner Cable fell 70 cents to $73.18 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have added 11
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  