-- 
IMF Staff Urge Japan to Raise Consumption Tax to Battle Debt

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-16T20:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/imf-staff-urge-japan-to-raise-consumption-tax-to-battle-debt.html
Japan  should gradually raise its tax
on consumption to 15 percent over the next several years to help
the country reduce its public debt as it seeks to maintain
social services to a rapidly aging population, a study by the
 International Monetary Fund  said today.  Increasing the consumption tax, also known as the Value-
Added Tax, or VAT, from its current level of 5 percent could
provide about half of the fiscal adjustment measures needed to
put the public debt ratio on a downward path within the next
several years, according to the study by IMF staff members.  “Raising the VAT can provide a relatively robust source of
revenue,” the study said.  “Phasing in a modest increase in
the VAT starting next year -- sooner rather than later -- would
allow Japan to lock in early the revenue gains and capitalize on
the strength of the cyclical recovery expected in 2012.”  Japan’s gross public debt has more than tripled in the past
two decades to more than 200 percent of gross domestic product.
At the same time, slow economic growth has led to a fall in  tax
revenue , even as social security spending for an aging
population has risen rapidly.  Pre-announcing an increase in VAT could “stimulate current
consumption” as residents spend to get ahead of the measures
while strengthening the credibility of government deficit-
cutting measures, the study said.  Adjusting the VAT has the advantage of being easy to
administer and well-suited to addressing the pressures of an
aging society, the study said. While the measure, like any tax,
would hamper growth in the short term, that effect can be
mitigated by a gradual increase and offset by positive
confidence effects of growth-enhancing structural policies, it
also said.  The VAT measures would be accompanies by other deficit
cutting measures, including limiting entitlement spending and
broadening the personal income tax base, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  