-- 
India Signals Slower Pace of Interest-Rate Rises on Global Economic Risks

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-17T07:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/india-signals-slower-pace-of-interest-rate-rises-on-global-economic-risks.html
India’s central bank signaled it may
slow the most aggressive monetary tightening among  Asia ’s major
economies as risks to global growth threaten to undermine
consumer demand.  “While the  Reserve Bank  needs to continue with its anti-
inflationary stance, the extent of policy action needs to
balance the adverse movements in inflation with recent global
developments and their likely impact on the domestic growth
trajectory,” the central bank said yesterday after it raised
the repurchase rate to 7.50 percent from 7.25 percent.  Asian nations such as China and the  Philippines  refrained
from boosting  interest rates  this week, pausing to gauge the
strength of the global economy. The  Reserve Bank of India  said
lead indicators suggest growth moderated in advanced and
emerging countries, and uncertainty about the resolution of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has “increased.”  “Global risks are weighing on monetary policy decisions
across the region,” said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The RBI is in its last leg of rate
increases, and will be gradual going forward given the slowdown
in growth.”  Yields Decline  The yield on the 7.80 percent bond due in April 2021 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.26 percent as
of 12:50 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive
Index declined 0.5 percent, and the rupee was little changed at
44.92 per dollar.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao yesterday boosted
borrowing costs for the 10th time since the start of 2010,
extending the longest streak of monetary tightening in a decade,
after India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
9.06 percent in May from 8.66 percent in April.  For now,  India ’s growth outlook remains the same as
outlined in the central bank’s May 3 statement, Subbarao said,
adding that the “recent global macroeconomic developments pose
some risks to domestic growth.”  Rate increases will slow India’s economic expansion this
year and help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward
bias” by March 31, 2012, Subbarao said May 3.  India’s economy 
may grow “around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.5
percent in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  China’s Stance  In China, where consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May,
the biggest gain since 2008, Premier Wen Jiabao’s government
hasn’t raised rates for 10 weeks, the longest gap this year.  Wen aims to tame prices and sustain growth to maintain
social stability.  China  has so far boosted rates every other
month from mid-October, with the most recent increase taking
effect on April 6. Officials have also increased banks’ reserve
requirements to a record and allowed the yuan to gain about 1.9
percent against the dollar this year.  The Philippine central bank yesterday unexpectedly kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent, a decision
predicted by only six of 16 economists in Bloomberg News survey.
The rest expected an increase. Instead, Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas increased the reserve requirement to 20 percent from
19 percent effective June 24.  The Bank of  Korea  may need to slow the pace of rate
increases after its fifth move since July 2010 last week because
of rising risks to the global economic outlook, Kang Myung Hun,
one of six policy makers who votes on rates, said in an
interview in  Seoul  yesterday.  Global Growth  Officials may be reviewing signs of weakening global
growth.  U.S. manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in more
than a year, according to the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index, while  consumer spending  rose less than forecast
in April. The  unemployment rate  in the nation unexpectedly
climbed to 9.1 percent last month.  In  Europe , 13 months after  Greece  was granted a 110
billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout that failed to halt the
spread of the debt crisis to Ireland and  Portugal , policy makers
are at odds over fulfilling a pledge to make creditors pick up
some of the cost of a second rescue.  Ireland opened a new front in the drive to restructure debt
on the euro area’s periphery. Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan said June 15 that senior bondholders should share in the
losses of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society, reversing a policy of protecting owners of senior
securities.  India’s Concerns  The Indian central bank’s concerns about the global economy
“would imply that if there is any major deterioration in the
global growth environment, and global commodity prices also
correct meaningfully, like  oil prices  dropping to $90 a barrel,
then the RBI will likely stop hiking policy rates,” said  Chetan Ahya , Singapore-based regional economist at Morgan Stanley.  In the meantime, climbing food costs may add to inflation
after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s coalition increased the
prices it pays farmers for grains and oilseeds. The federal
government sets the crop prices to assure farmers’ incomes,
while selling subsidized grains and cooking oils to the poor.  India also plans to allow state-run refiners such as Indian
Oil Corp. to increase diesel tariffs. A panel of Indian
ministers will meet “shortly” to consider raising fuel costs,
Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said June 13. The refiners had a
revenue loss of 450 billion rupees ($10 billion) in the first
quarter from selling fuel below cost, Reddy said.  “Our major challenge in the short term is inflation,”
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee told a conference in  New Delhi 
today. The management of inflationary pressures “is critically
dependent” on boosting farm production and “taking steps to
moderate aggregate demand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  