-- 
India Raises Interest Rates for a 10th Time Since 2010 to Tame Inflation

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-16T12:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/india-raises-rates-for-10th-time-since-2010-to-curb-accelerating-inflation.html
India ’s central bank raised interest
rates for the 10th time since the start of 2010, extending the
longest streak of monetary tightening in a decade after
inflation accelerated. Stocks and rupee fell.  The  Reserve Bank of India  increased the repurchase rate to
7.50 percent from 7.25 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today. Nineteen of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predicted the decision, while one expected no change.  India joins nations from  China  to  South Korea  in stepping
up the fight against surging living costs, with the central bank
signaling today it will continue to raise rates. Accelerating
inflation has contributed to a 12 percent decline in the
benchmark  stock index  in Mumbai this year,  Asia ’s worst drop, on
concern the policy will hurt economic expansion.  “Demand pressures need to be damped to ensure that
inflation doesn’t become a structural problem in India,” said
 Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. “Even though growth is moderating, uncomfortably high
inflation won’t give the RBI any respite in the near future.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index declined 0.8
percent at the close of trading in Mumbai, while the rupee
weakened 0.3 percent to 44.91 per dollar. The yield on the 7.80
percent bond due in April 2021 slid 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 8.30 percent.  ‘Inflation Risks’  The  Reserve Bank  said in the statement “domestic inflation
risks remain high,” adding “some short-run deceleration in
growth may be unavoidable in bringing inflation under control.”  India’s key wholesale-price inflation quickened to 9.06
percent in May from 8.66 percent in April.  Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the top economic adviser to Indian
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, said June 14 the central bank
needs to further tighten policy to curb price gains, which
undermine spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  says
three-quarters of the people live on less than $2 a day.  In China, policy makers on June 14 increased lenders’
reserve requirements to drain cash from the economy after
consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May, the biggest jump since
2008. China has so far boosted  interest rates  four times since
September and allowed the yuan to gain about 1.6 percent against
the dollar this year. South Korea has raised borrowing costs
three times this year.  Slowing Demand  “Certainly in India, you’re seeing the first signs of
slowing in consumption demand,” Raghuram Rajan, a professor at
the  University of Chicago  and a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in  Singapore  yesterday. “So
long as fiscal policy cooperates, you should see some slowing
into the rest of this year and hopefully a softer landing.”  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee has pledged to narrow
India’s budget deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March 31 from 4.7 percent in the previous 12
months.  India’s factory production growth eased in April, with
output rising 6.3 percent from a year earlier after an 8.8
percent gain in March, the statistics office said last week. The
nation’s gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the three
months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the weakest pace in
five quarters, government data show.  Price Outlook  Rate increases in India will slow growth this year and help
ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by March 31,
2012, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said May 3.  India’s
economy  may expand “around 8 percent” in the year through
March from 8.5 percent in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  Subbarao today reiterated he is willing to risk a slowdown
in growth to curb price pressures.  The rising cost of inputs such as  palm oil  is squeezing
profits, said P. Ganesh, Mumbai-based executive vice-president
of finance at  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL) , an Indian maker of
soaps and detergents.  “We were forced to increase prices twice since January
because of higher raw-material prices,” Ganesh said in an
interview on June 13. “If raw-material prices remain high,
there will be industry-wide pressure to hike prices.”  Street Protests  Thousands of workers from across India marched toward
parliament in  New Delhi  in February protesting against rising
prices and low wages. The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party
organised a rally against inflation and corruption on May 16 in
the nation’s capital.  Climbing food costs may add to inflation after Prime
Minister Singh’s coalition increased the prices it pays farmers
for grains and oilseeds. The federal government sets the crop
prices to assure farmers’ incomes, while selling subsidized
grains and cooking oils to the poor.  India also plans to allow state-run refiners such as Indian
Oil Corp. to increase diesel tariffs. A panel of Indian
ministers will meet “shortly” to consider raising fuel costs,
Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said June 13. The state-run
refiners had a revenue loss of 450 billion rupees ($10 billion)
in the first quarter from selling fuel below cost, Reddy said.  “Despite the slowdown in growth, elevated inflation
remains a worry,”  Rohini Malkani , a Mumbai-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., said before the report. “With the RBI
prioritizing inflation over growth, we expect a further 25 to 50
basis points increase during the course of 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  