-- 
Indonesia Cleric Abu Bakar Bashir Is Sentenced to 15 Years for Terrorism

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-06-16T09:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/indonesian-cleric-bashir-sentenced-to-15-years-for-funding-terrorism.html
Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir
today was found guilty of funding terrorism and sentenced to 15
years in prison, five years after his acquittal for links to
bombings that killed 202 people in the Bali tourist resort.  The conviction is the first for Bashir, 72, on terrorism
charges, though he has served two jail terms since 2003. He was
arrested last year and charged with contributing funds to an
Islamic militant training camp in Aceh province.  Bashir “has been proved legally and convincingly guilty of
committing a criminal act of terrorism,” South Jakarta district
chief judge Herry Swantoro said. Bashir said he rejected the
verdict as “haram” -- anything prohibited under Islamic Shariah
law -- and defense lawyer Achmad Michdan said he would appeal.  The ruling is the culmination of a trial that took place
under heavy security. About 3,000 police and army troops today
guarded the court and others were spread out in Java, Kalimantan,
Sumatra and Bali, police spokesman Ketut Untung Yoga Ana said.
Hundreds of Bashir supporters chanted “God is great” outside the
court building before the verdict.  “The 15-year sentence is appropriate,” said Fatima Astuti,
managing director for the Jakarta-based Institute of
International Peace Building. “Based on previous experience,
it’s possible he could get the sentence reduced.”  Attacks  Terrorist attacks on hotels and tourist destinations over
the last decade have tarnished Indonesia’s reputation as a
magnet for foreign investment. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
visited  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy last year, touting his
boyhood home as a crucial buyer of American exports.  Indonesia’s economy, Southeast Asia’s largest, expanded 6.1
percent in 2010, the fastest pace in six years. The central bank
on June 9 said this year’s growth may reach the upper end of its
6 percent to 6.5 percent forecast. Foreign direct investment
rose almost 600 percent to $3.3 billion in 2010.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has risen almost 30
percent in the past year.  Bashir’s arrest last year followed a  February raid  on a
training camp in Aceh that resulted in the arrest of more than
100 terrorism suspects, according to the government. In
September 2009, police killed militant leader Noordin Mohammad Top, who was suspected of involvement in every major anti-
Western attack in  Indonesia  since 2002.  The October 2002 attacks on a Bali nightclub are blamed on
Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda linked group. Bashir’s conviction
for involvement in the bombings was overturned by the  Supreme
Court  in 2006. Security forces killed suspected Bali bomber
Dulmatin and two others in March 2009.  Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim country,
allowed Aceh to impose Shariah law in 2001 in a bid to win over
the population during the central government’s war with
separatists there. More than 98 percent of Acehnese are Muslims
who mostly adhere to a stricter interpretation of Islam than
others in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  