-- 
Invest-Bank’s Borowski Sees Rate Rise Less Likely After Wages

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-16T13:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/invest-bank-s-borowski-sees-rate-rise-less-likely-after-wages.html
Poland ’s slowing wage and employment
growth in May reduces the chances of a rate increase next month,
which had risen after yesterday’s above-expected consumer price
data, said Jakub Borowski, chief economist at Invest-Bank SA.  Average corporate wages rose 4.1 percent on the year,
compared with 5.9 percent in April, the  Central Statistical
Office  reported in Warsaw today. The figure was below the median
forecast of 5.4 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists.
Corporate employment rose an annual 3.6 percent, below the 3.8
percent median estimate.  Borowski spoke in a phone interview today.  “Now we can see that April was a one-time jump caused by
shifted bonus payments in the mining sector. Wage growth
returned in May to its pace in previous months, confirming that
nothing new is happening on the labor market.  “Wage pressure remains absent and there is an evident
decline in real wages. Jobs aren’t being created fast enough to
generate wage pressure. We still have a lot of unused production
capacity and the economy is still in the very early stages of an
investment recovery. Capital expenditures are mainly occurring
at big companies, and until the recovery spreads to smaller
businesses, the demand for labor won’t rise. We may see this
process starting late in the third quarter, with wage growth
likely to accelerate in the fourth quarter.  “There’s no reason to expect private consumption growth to
accelerate, it’s more likely to slow down. The data clearly
reduce the likelihood of a July rate increase, which had grown
after the May consumer price data, because it’s evident there is
no wage pressure. Central bankers will focus their attention on
industrial output and the central bank’s inflation forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  