-- 
Investors Urge Gillard to Introduce Australian Carbon System

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-16T04:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/investors-urge-gillard-to-introduce-australian-carbon-system.html
A group of investors told Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  that delaying an Australian emissions
trading system may deter investment and increase costs for
companies if they have to meet regulations and deadlines set by
a global agreement.  The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, a
group of 72 members with 6.5 trillion euro ($9.2 trillion) under
management, today delivered a letter to Gillard’s office saying
investments in the nation will suffer if it doesn’t start a
pollution reduction plan.  “The longer Australia waits the higher the cost will be
for companies, which will impact on the fixed income and
equities markets,” David Russell, co-head of responsible
investment at London-based Universities Superannuation Scheme
Limited which has A$1 billion ($1.06 billion) Australian
investments, said in Canberra today. “The markets need
certainty.”  Gillard wants to start an emissions trading system in July
2012 to cut the world’s biggest coal exporter’s emissions 5
percent by 2020. A Multiparty  Climate Change  Committee, which
includes independent lawmakers and the Greens Party whose
support is needed for the plan to pass parliament, is scheduled
to present its recommendations to her in the next two weeks.  Gillard’s government, whose popularity has fallen in
opinion polls ahead of an election due in late 2013, is trying
to address voter concern over how to cut pollution to protect
natural icons including the Great Barrier Reef and Kakadu
National Park. The opposition Liberal-National coalition says
the plan will increase living costs.  Continue to Grow  The government has increased its marketing in the past two
weeks, with Treasurer  Wayne Swan  telling the  National Press Club 
on June 7 the economy would continue to grow. The Productivity
Commission said on June 9 that a trading system was the best way
to cut pollution and Gillard two days ago released fact sheets
on why  Australia , one of the world’s top 20 polluters and the
developed world’s biggest emitter, needed a climate plan.  Climate Change Minister Greg Combet today said the
government would spend A$12 million advertising its policy.
Independent lawmakers  Tony Windsor  and  Rob Oakeshott , who are
members of the climate committee, said it was “unhelpful” to
advertise a policy they hadn’t yet agreed on.  “An emissions reduction plan must happen,” Marcel Jeucken,
head of responsible investments at Dutch pension fund
administrator PGGM NV, said in Canberra. “The best way is to
introduce a price signal, which is being done elsewhere, and any
delay is bad for investments.”  Coal Mines  Companies have warned the government that 18 coal mines
will close in the next decade if the system is introduced and
that it will be harder to attract investment.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
the third-largest producer of steelmaking coal, said it will
struggle with a $4 billion Australia expansion plan because the
climate plan would slash its investments there by 45 percent.  “Companies actually need a clear signal on carbon and the
sooner the better,” William P. Sherwood-McGrew, portfolio
manager at  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , said
in Canberra today. “They may say it will harm them but it is
inevitable Australia needs to adopt a plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  