-- 
Ireland Snubs ECB Effort to Avoid Meltdown With Threat to Bank Bondholders

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-06-16T15:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ireland-snubs-ecb-effort-to-avoid-meltdown-with-threat-on-bank-guarantees.html
Ireland opened a new front in the
drive to restructure debt on the euro area’s periphery, adding
to the European Central Bank’s concerns as it tries to head off
another wave of financial turmoil.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday that
senior bondholders should share in the losses of Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society, reversing a
policy of protecting owners of senior securities. The ECB is
against imposing losses on investors. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Feb. 7 that haircuts aren’t part of a plan to
reduce Ireland’s debt load.  Ireland’s about-face on bondholder involvement in its
banking crisis comes as European lawmakers struggle to settle a
dispute over how to avoid a Greek sovereign default. While
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said last week that
Europe’s biggest economy insists on the participation of the
private sector, his French counterpart  Christine Lagarde  has
ruled out any action that constitutes a “credit event,”
backing the ECB’s view.  “Noonan must be kidding,” said  Klaus Baader , an economist
at  Societe Generale  in  London . “It’s not so much money-saving
as a way of Ireland trying to improve its bailout terms, just as
the Eurogroup is focused on Greece. Naturally, it means investor
stress and increases pressures on bank funding. The ECB won’t
take this particularly seriously, but the annoyance factor is
extremely high.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which sets monetary policy for the
17 nations sharing the euro, declined to comment.  Unguaranteed, Unsecured  Greece, Ireland and Portugal have already secured bailout
packages worth a combined 273 billion euros ($385 billion) to
help them reduce debt levels and budget deficits.  Ireland, which has injected a combined 34.7 billion euros
into  Anglo Irish  and Irish Nationwide over the past two years,
is merging both lenders and winding down their assets over a 10-
year period. The government had previously said it wouldn’t seek
to impose losses on senior bondholders unless the lenders need
additional capital. The Irish central bank said last month
neither would need a further cash injection.  Noonan was referring to Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide’s
senior unguaranteed, unsecured bonds. These total 3.8 billion
euros, the central bank said on April 1.  Pillar Banks  Noonan said in an interview in  New York  today that he’ll
seek to discuss Anglo Irish’s senior debt with the ECB in the
autumn. He told Bloomberg Television’s “In Business” with
Margaret Brennan that his comments yesterday related to Anglo
Irish and Irish Nationwide alone.  There is “no question whatsoever of bondholders being
touched” at the “pillar banks”  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and
Bank of Ireland Plc, he said. “We’ll pay every last red cent.”  The government won’t act unilaterally in its aim to share
losses with investors, he said.  “The ECB’s position was justified on financial stability
concerns for Ireland, as well as on grounds of potential
contagion for other European banking systems,” said Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief economist for southern Europe at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “Ongoing concerns on financial stability,
especially in European periphery financial institutions, could
make contagion remain a relevant issue for ECB’s stance on this
issue.”  EU Summit  The ECB’s dispute with the German government over private-
sector involvement in a Greek bailout has helped send the credit
default swaps of Ireland,  Greece  and Portugal to records. While
European Union leaders were scheduled to hammer out their
differences at a June 23-24 summit, European Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said today an agreement
won’t come until July 11.  Ireland secured a bailout package of 85 billion euros on
Nov. 28 after it was locked out of credit markers due to
concerns about its ability to cope with its bank debt and budget
deficit. The government has failed to negotiate a reduction of
the 5.8 percent interest rate on its aid loans because it has
resisted pressure to raise its 12.5 percent corporate tax rate.  Greece, which remains shut out of financial markets a year
after its initial 110 billion-euro bailout, sent fresh
shockwaves through markets yesterday.  As violence erupted on streets in Athens, Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  announced he would name a new government and
call for a vote of confidence in parliament in an effort to
pressure rebel lawmakers into backing an austerity plan that
would secure a new bailout and avert a default. The risk that
euro-area banks holding Greek  government bonds  will be saddled
with losses has jumped after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece
with the world’s lowest credit rating on June 13.  ‘Contagion Effect’  “Greece could have a contagion effect,” ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday. “That’s the reason
why we are against any sort of default with haircuts and any
form of private-sector event that could lead to a  credit event 
or a rating event.”  The euro fell to $1.4074 in New York, the weakest level
since May 26, before paring its decline. The cost of protecting
European corporate bonds soared to the highest level since
January and credit default swaps anticipated an 81.5 percent
chance that Greece won’t pay its debts. The cost of insuring
against default on Irish and Portuguese government debt also
surged to records.  “Given the amount of pressure the ECB is under on Greece
and its hardening position against any private-sector
involvement, I don’t think they’ll be changing their position on
Ireland at this stage,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  