-- 
Irish Payrolls Drop; Unemployment Falls as Labor Force Shrinks

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-16T11:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/irish-payrolls-drop-unemployment-falls-as-labor-force-shrinks.html
Irish payrolls fell 2.9 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier as builders, hotels and
restaurants cut jobs.  The number of people in employment fell 53,400 to 1.8
million in the first quarter from the same period a year
earlier, the Cork-based  Central Statistics Office  said in a
statement today. The percentage decline is the smallest since
the third quarter of 2008. The seasonally adjusted jobless rate
fell to 14 percent from 14.8 percent in the previous quarter.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , who’s trying to boost economic
growth and rein in a  budget deficit  after the country’s bailout
last year, announced a job-creation plan in May to be funded by
a levy on private pension savings. He’s also cutting the sales-
 tax rate  on tourism-related services to help the industry.  Employment fell in seven of 14 economic sectors in the
first quarter, the CSO said. Construction jobs fell by 21,800,
while employment in accommodation and food-service activities
dropped by 20,800.  The data “indicate that the labor market is very close to
stabilizing, with half of all industry categories showing year-
on-year increases,” said Ronnie O’Toole, chief economist at
 National Irish Bank  in Dublin. “These increases however, were
not large enough to offset the continued loss of jobs in
hospitality and construction.”  The number of people out of work on a long-term basis now
accounts for more than 55 percent of total unemployment,
compared with about 41 percent a year earlier and 22 percent in
the first quarter of 2009, according to today’s statement.  The number of people in the  labor force  was 2.1 million in
the first quarter, a drop of 1.5 percent from the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  