-- 
Hitachi Is ‘Ready to Start’ Lithuanian Nuclear Plant Project

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-06-16T07:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hitachi-is-ready-to-start-lithuanian-nuclear-plant-project-1-.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
maker of nuclear reactors, is ready to supply technology and
invest in  Lithuania ’s planned atomic power plant, the company’s
president said.  “By being a strategic investor, we will fully commit our
own efforts and resources to the long-term, stable operation and
success of the project,” Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi
said at a press conference in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius
today.  The Baltic nation plans to open a new plant in Visaginas
in 2020 to diversify its energy resources. Lithuania
closed its Soviet-era Ignalina nuclear plant at the end of 2009
to comply with European Union rules, which pushed up energy
costs and increased dependence on Russian sources of power.  Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy Ltd. offered its ABWR reactor
technology and is “ready to start development activities for
the Visaginas plant as soon as approval is given,” Nakanishi
said.  Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius, speaking at the
same press conference, said Hitachi shows “very serious
intentions.” Kubilius declined to reveal any further details
about the proposal.  Westinghouse Electric Corp. said on June 1 it is also
biding to build a nuclear power plant in Lithuania. Westinghouse
offered its AP1000 reactor technology with a proposed capacity
of 1,154 megawatts in output along with “a strong commercial
proposal,” it said.  Lithuania has said in the past that the strategic investor
could be offered as much as 51 percent stake in the new plant
and an agreement would require parliament’s approval.  The tender for a strategic investor to build a nuclear
plant failed last year after  Korea Electric Power Corp (KEP)  withdrew
its bid. Lithuania continued to look for an investor through
direct negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  