-- 
J&J Loses Appeal of U.K. Backing of Rival’s Thalidomide

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-17T14:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/j-j-fails-to-win-appeal-of-u-k-backing-of-rival-s-thalidomide.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  lost its appeal of
the U.K.’s health-cost agency’s decision to back the use of a
cheaper rival to the U.S. drugmaker’s Velcade treatment for an
incurable blood cancer.  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s thalidomide, in combination with two other
therapies, is recommended as an initial treatment for multiple
myeloma patients who can’t receive high-dose chemotherapy and
stem-cell transplants, according to final draft guidance issued
today by the  National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence . J&J’s Velcade may be substituted for use by those
who can’t tolerate thalidomide, the regulator said.  Thalidomide, which is taken as a pill, costs an average of
2,100 pounds ($3,400) for each treatment cycle, the London-based
agency, known as NICE, said in a statement. Velcade, given
intravenously, costs an average of 3,000 pounds for each cycle,
NICE said. The agency advises the state-run  National Health
Service  on which treatments represent value for money.  “Although the choice of treatment would differ for each
individual, a thalidomide regimen would be considered more
suitable for most patients,” Carole Longson, director of NICE’s
Health Technology Evaluation Centre, said in the statement.
“The two regimens were similar in terms of clinical
effectiveness, but thalidomide regimens were more cost-
effective.”  Celgene rose 92 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $58.75 at 10:40
a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Multiple Myeloma  Multiple myeloma  is a type of cancer that develops from
cells in bone marrow. Treatments only slow the disease’s
progress or relieve its symptoms rather than curing it,
according to NICE. About 3,600 cases a year are diagnosed in the
U.K., the regulator said.  Thalidomide was linked to severe  birth defects , including
malformed limbs, in the 1960s and temporarily withdrawn from the
market. The drug returned as a potent tumor-fighter, with a
warning against use by women who are pregnant. It works by
programming cancer cells to commit suicide, and by creating an
environment that stalls tumor reproduction.  Velcade targets a process in cells that causes them to stop
dividing and die. The drug won NICE’s recommendation in 2007
after  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J offered to reimburse
the National Health Service for the cost if the medicine doesn’t
help patients.  NICE last year recommended both Velcade and thalidomide,
marketed in the U.S. as Thalomid, as treatments for multiple
myeloma. Johnson & Johnson appealed the decision. A panel agreed
with one point of the appeal in November, and NICE worked to
remove confidential data from an economic model, which was
shared with the companies.  A committee met to reconsider the earlier guidance and
decided not to change it, NICE said. A final decision will
probably be published next month, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  