-- 
Japan’s Bonds Rise as Greece Political Turmoil Boosts Demand for Safety

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-06-16T06:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/japan-s-bonds-rise-as-greece-political-turmoil-boosts-demand-for-safety.html
Japan ’s bonds rose, snapping a
three-day drop, as concern political turmoil in  Greece  will
delay a second bailout for the debt-stricken nation boosted
demand for the relative safety of the Asian country’s debt.  Bond futures rallied from a two-week low after the
opposition in Greece told Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to
resign, allies turned against him and police deployed tear gas
to break up anti-government protests in  Athens . Demand for the
securities also increased after Treasuries rallied and Asian
stocks extended a global decline in equities.  “Greece can’t repay its debt, and the situation is
hopeless,” said Shinji Hiramatsu, senior investment manager in
Tokyo at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co. Ltd., which
oversees about $50 billion. “People need to buy bonds today.”  The yield on the 1.2 percent bond due June 2021 fell four
basis points to 1.120 percent as of 3:06 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
That was the lowest level since June 9. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.47 to
141.07 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Ten-year
futures reached 140.53 yesterday, the lowest since June 1.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Nout Wellink
said the emergency fund for euro-zone countries should be
doubled if private investors are pressured to contribute to
additional refinancing aid for Greece, Het Financieele Dagblad
reported, citing an interview.  Treasury 10-year yields fell 13 basis points to 2.97
percent yesterday. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional
shares dropped as much as 2.2 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 