-- 
Juncker Says ECB ‘Red Lines’ Must Be Observed on Greek Debt

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-16T17:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/juncker-says-ecb-red-lines-must-be-observed-in-any-greek-bailout-package.html
The European Union must heed
European Central Bank warnings about forcing bondholders to
participate in a second bailout package for  Greece , Luxembourg’s
Jean-Claude Juncker said.  “We have to observe a certain number of red lines, mainly
those mentioned by the ECB -- no default, no rating downgrades
and the private-sector involvement has to be done on a voluntary
basis,” Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, told reporters in Luxembourg today. “If we were to
move to larger solutions, we have to take into account all the
risks entailed.”  Juncker said the main stumbling block is determining a role
for investors in the rescue. ECB policy makers have warned
against German proposals that maturities on Greek debt be
extended for seven years, an outcome rating companies have said
would be considered a default. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said on June 9 that governments were flirting with what could be
an “enormous mistake.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on June 10
stepped up his calls for bondholders to assume a “fair” share
of further Greek aid.  Germany  must “insist on the participation
of the private sector,” he said.  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  ECB Governing Council member Yves Mersch today renewed the
central bank’s opposition to extending Greek bond maturities.
“To politically enforce maturity extensions of Greek bonds held
by private investors comes up short,” he said.  Not only have rating companies signaled that such a move
would constitute a default, the ECB would not accept such bonds
as collateral in its refinancing operations, Mersch said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets in Berlin tomorrow
with President Nicolas Sarkozy of  France , which has indicated
backing for the ECB’s position.  “I think that we’ll come to the conclusion that a slight,
smart reprofiling will be the best way to deal with the problem,
but it depends on the discussions we’ll have” in preparations
for meetings of euro-area finance ministers in Luxembourg on
June 19-20, Juncker said.  International Monetary Fund  acting head  John Lipsky  will
attend the meetings, Juncker said.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said today
that views are converging over the German-led push to saddle
bondholders with some of the costs of Greece’s longer-term
rescue. He predicted an agreement next month on a three-year aid
package including a “voluntary” rescheduling of Greek debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  