-- 
Facebook Juror Sentenced to Eight Months in Jail for Contacting Defendant

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-06-16T12:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/juror-in-u-k-trial-receives-eight-month-jail-for-facebook-message-contact.html
An English juror was jailed for
eight months after she used Facebook Inc.’s social-networking
service to contact a defendant in a drug case and discussed the
jury’s deliberations.  Joanne Fraill, 40, was sentenced today by the Chief Justice
Igor Judge and two other judges. She admitted to contempt of
court at a hearing earlier this week.  “Her contact with the acquitted defendant as well as her
repeated searches on the Internet constituted flagrant breaches
of the orders made by the judge for the proper conduct of the
trial,” Judge said.  This is the first time someone has been punished for
contempt of court because of contact over the Internet,
according to U.K. Solicitor General Edward Garnier, who
prosecuted the case.  Judge said the fact that Fraill used the Internet to make
contact didn’t change the nature of the offense.  “The jury’s deliberations, and ultimately their verdict,
must be based -- and exclusively based -- on the evidence given
in court, a principle which applies as much to communication
with the Internet as it does to discussions by members of the
jury with individuals in and around, and sometimes outside the
precincts of the court,” he said.  Suspended Sentence  The defendant Fraill contacted, Jamie Sewart, 34, was also
found guilty of contempt and given a suspended sentence of two
months. That means she won’t go to jail unless she commits
another crime.  Garnier said at a hearing earlier this week that Fraill
contacted Sewart on Aug. 3 using Facebook’s instant messaging.
While Sewart had already been acquitted, the Manchester,
England, jury was still deliberating charges against others.  During the conversation Sewart asked Fraill “what’s
happening with the other charge,” Garnier said.  Fraill responded: “No-one budging,” while telling Sewart
not to mention the message, saying she feared a mistrial.  Sewart said on the witness stand that she wasn’t sure she
was speaking with a juror when she received the messages and
denied the contempt of court charge. The morning after she had
the conversation with Fraill, she reported it to her lawyer who
informed the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  