-- 
KB Home to Pay Lenders Up to $225 Million to Settle South Edge Claims

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-06-16T20:56:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/kb-home-to-pay-lenders-up-to-225-million-for-south-edge-1-.html
KB Home (KBH)  agreed to pay lenders as
much as $225 million to settle claims for its share of the
bankrupt South Edge community near  Las Vegas , more than
previously announced, the builder said today.  The company, which specializes in houses for first-time
buyers, previously estimated a $211.8 million obligation while
awaiting a court settlement, according to an April 11 regulatory
filing. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and two other lenders filed an
involuntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy on the property, which was
upheld on appeal in April.  KB Home said in a filing today that its total obligation
would be from $216 million to $240 million, including legal fees
and other costs. The Los Angeles-based builder had $735.8
million in cash on hand as of Feb. 28. It has reported losses
totaling $1.88 billion over the last five years, with only five
quarters of profits during the period, Bloomberg data show.  “We believe that the resolution of this matter is a
positive, and we expect that it will provide a short-term relief
for the stock,” Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote today in a note to investors.
“However, several other issues with KBH continue to put us on
the sidelines with the name.” McGrath has a “neutral” rating
on the shares.  KB Home rose 21 cents to $11.15 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Its shares have lost 17
percent this year, compared with a 5.2 percent decline for the
12-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  ‘Fully Discounted’  The settlement, which is subject to bankruptcy court
approval, “represents a resolution to an issue that has been
fully discounted by the company’s current stock price,”  Michael Rehaut  and Jason Marcus, analysts with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
New York, wrote in a note to investors today. They have an
“overweight” rating on the shares.  KB Home owned 48.5 percent of the 1,950-acre (789-hectare)
community, also known as Inspirada, in Henderson, south of Las
Vegas, which fell into default in 2008 after the housing market
collapsed.  Las Vegas home prices have fallen 59 percent since peaking
in August 2006, more than any other area in the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of values in 20 U.S. cities. Las Vegas also leads the
country in foreclosures for cities with a population of more
than 200,000, according to RealtyTrac Inc., and has the highest
rate of “underwater” homes, in which the outstanding mortgage
is larger than the value of the house, Zillow Inc. said.  Cash Settlement  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the nation’s largest luxury
homebuilder, which owned 10.5 percent of Inspirada, reached a
cash settlement of undisclosed size with lenders.  “The company believes it had made adequate provision in
prior reporting periods,” the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a filing. Toll Brothers wrote down $29.6
million for joint ventures during its two most recent quarters,
according to a June 7 filing.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  estimated it owes Inspirada’s lenders
from $15.7 million to $17 million, the Atlanta-based homebuilder
said today in a filing.  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , based in
Scottsdale,  Arizona , said it owed $13.2 million under the
bankruptcy settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  