-- 
Kotak’s Shanbhag Says RBI May Continue to Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-06-16T07:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/kotak-s-shanbhag-says-rbi-may-continue-to-raise-interest-rates.html
Sudhakar Shanbhag, the Mumbai-based
chief investment officer at Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life
Insurance Ltd., comments on the outlook for  India ’s debt and
equity markets after the central bank raised rates for the 10th
time since start of 2010.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.6
percent to 18,024.30 at 1:22 p.m. local time, set for its lowest
close since May 25. The  Reserve Bank  of India lifted the
repurchase rate to 7.50 percent from 7.25 percent, extending the
longest streak of monetary tightening in a decade after
inflation accelerated. Shanbhag, who managed about $1.9 billion
in assets at the end of March, made his comments in an e-mail.  "The latest readings on inflation and industrial output are
making the balancing act between growth and inflation more
challenging.  "The RBI has chosen inflation control as its main focus at
this point of time and will most probably continue on the rate
tightening mode until clear signs of inflation control are in
sight."  On the  debt market :  "The overhang of supply and probable slippages in the
fiscal deficit numbers are in consideration as well as the
growth moderation, which can impact long-term  interest rates .  "If the fiscal deficit numbers can be managed around the
budgeted level, it can be a surprise to the market."  On stocks:  "The equity markets have largely discounted the higher
inflation, interest rate environment and lesser growth relative
to the previous year. The markets have absorbed a series of
negatives and held up well over the last three to four months.  "In the immediate future, a good monsoon and foreign funds
flows can give a positive trigger to the market," while "global
uncertainty and continued lack of progress on the development
front locally can lead to corrections."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 