-- 
Networker Used Friends to Help ‘Fund Paymasters,’ Prosecutor Tells Jury

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 7 5 2 5 5 8 2 ]   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/networker-used-friends-to-help-fund-paymasters-jury-told-1-.html
     June 17 (Bloomberg) --A former  Primary Global Research LLC 
consultant got friends at  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to give her financial data she sold to her “hedge
fund paymasters,” a prosecutor told a jury.  “This was a brazen  insider-trading  scheme, and at the
heart of it was Winifred Jiau,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi
Weitzman said yesterday in closing arguments at her trial in
 Manhattan  federal court. “Just like her hedge fund clients, she
did it for the money,” he said.  Jiau, 43, is charged with illegally passing nonpublic
financial information about the two  Santa Clara , California-
based technology companies to hedge fund managers. She’s the
first of the so-called expert networkers to go on trial since
the U.S. charged at least a dozen people beginning in November.  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , is charged with securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud. If convicted
she faces as long as 25 years in prison.  Weitzman said Jiau befriended Sonny Nguyen, then a senior
financial analyst for Nvidia, and Stanley Ng, an accountant with
Marvell, to obtain the information she then sold.  Jiau also cheated the friends who passed the information,
Weitzman said. She demanded more money from her hedge fund
clients to pay Nguyen and Ng then failed to share the payments,
he said. The portfolio managers paid Primary Global Research
$10,000 a month for exclusive access to Jiau, one of them
testified. Jiau earned at least $208,000 for her work, Weitzman
said.  Cooperating Witnesses  Nguyen testified for the prosecution as one of three
cooperating witnesses. He pleaded guilty to federal charges in
May. Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
court records show.  Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager, testified that he had a secret agreement with Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP, to
pay Primary Global for exclusive access to Jiau.  Trading records show that minutes after a May 23, 2008,
conversation between Jiau and Barai, the fund reversed its
trading in Marvell stock, changing from a short position of
25,000 shares to taking a long position of 118,400 shares in the
chipmaker.  Profits, Losses  As a result, Barai Capital made more than $800,000 in
profits and avoided losses of more than $60,000, Weitzman said.  A third person who the government said received Jiau’s tips
was Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital fund manager and
Freeman’s former best friend. Freeman, Barai and Longueuil have
all pleaded guilty.  “With these well-placed insiders at Nvidia and Marvell,
Jiau had spies in important places at public companies,”
Weitzman said.  A Financial Industry Regulatory Authority official
testified that Jiau passed a securities licensing exam in 2008
at the same time she was engaged in the conspiracy with Barai
and Freeman, Weitzman said. He said 50 percent of the exam was
 securities law  and 20 percent pertained to insider trading and
ethics.  Prosecution witnesses also corroborated each other on key
details, he said. Freeman testified that in 2007 he sent Jiau
presents such as iPhones, gift certificates to the Cheesecake
Factory and live lobsters. An Nvidia official testified Jiau
gave her a gift of live lobsters in November 2007 while Nguyen
said Jiau gave him an iPhone, took him and his family to the
Cheesecake Factory and gave him live lobsters in late 2007.  ‘Re-gifted Lobsters’  “She re-gifted lobsters,” Weitzman said.  Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lawyer, told the jury that despite
the government’s assertion her client was at the center of the
insider-trading scheme, Barai and Freeman had many other sources
of inside information. There was no evidence they considered her
tips serious enough to base trades upon, she said.  She showed jurors the raft of e-mails concerning Marvell
financial information which was sent by another person the
portfolio managers nicknamed “10-K” because Freeman said his
tips were as complicated as a company’s filing. Hendon also
presented jurors with Jiau’s trading records that showed she
lost tens of thousands of dollars when she traded in Marvell and
Nvidia stock.  Hendon also referred to a series of instant electronic
messages between Barai and Longueuil in which they mock Jiau,
her accent and ambitions. “She is CRAZY,” Barai said in one.  ‘Crazy’  “They thought she was crazy,” Hendon said. “Then they
come into court two years later, and they tell you she was their
most critical source of information and that she’s in the center
of their insider-trading scheme.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the
case, told jurors yesterday that they will hear a rebuttal
summation from a prosecutor today and then he will instruct them
on the law. They will then begin their deliberations, he said.  Expert networkers provide industry information to financial
company clients. Jiau is the first to go to trial on charges of
 securities fraud  and conspiracy.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 