-- 
New York Mets Deny Report Einhorn Could Gain Control for Additional $1

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T18:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/new-york-mets-deny-report-einhorn-could-gain-control-for-additional-1.html
The  New York Mets  denied a report
that Greenlight Capital Inc. President  David Einhorn  could gain
control of the franchise for $1 more than the $200 million he’s
agreed to invest for a minority stake.  Einhorn, 42, in May agreed to buy 33 percent of the
franchise for $200 million from the Mets’ owners, who are
attempting to pay off debt and resolve a $1 billion suit by the
trustee representing people who lost money in the  Ponzi scheme 
run by Bernard L. Madoff.  As part of the agreement, Einhorn has an option to own 60
percent of the franchise in three years, several media
organizations, including ESPN.com, reported.  Fred Wilpon ,
majority owner of the franchise, also could opt to return the
$200 million, though Einhorn would continue to hold a stake in
the team.  If Einhorn were to gain control, the price to raise his
interest in the team to 60 percent would be $1, bringing his
total investment to $200,000,001,  Forbes reported yesterday .  “Like many other media reports speculating on the terms of
a potential agreement, yesterday’s was simply false, too,” the
Major League Baseball team said today in an e-mailed statement.  Jonathan Doorley, Einhorn’s spokesman, declined to comment
on the report.  If the Mets returned his initial investment, Einhorn would
keep the 33 percent stake, Forbes also said.  Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp Ltd., a consulting firm
in  Chicago , called a $1 price to take a controlling ownership
position and a 27 percent increase in equity “eye-opening, if
true,” though he also said the debt Einhorn would assume as
part of such a deal would be significant.  “One has to look at what obligations he’d be assuming as
well,” Ganis, who has helped develop dozens of sports
facilities, said in a telephone interview. “He would be taking
additional risk.”  Mets Debt  The Mets are carrying $427 million in debt and could lose
as much as $70 million this season, Wilpon, 74, told  Sports
Illustrated  in a May 30 story. The team also owes an almost $43
million payment in lieu of taxes this year on bonds tied to the
construction of Citi Field. That payment is part of $1.4 billion
due the  New York  City Industrial Development Agency through
2046, according to the authority’s financial statement.  “He would be on the hook for providing any capital the
team needs to service its debt, which is very significant,
especially when you take the stadium debt into account,” Ganis
said.  Cuomo Mediates  The dispute between Wilpon and trustee Irving Picard is
being mediated by former New York Governor  Mario Cuomo . Wilpon
says he is willing to negotiate a settlement on the $295 million
in fictitious profits from his accounts with Madoff but not the
$700 million he and his partners invested in the six years
before the financier was arrested, Madoff told Sports
Illustrated.  The $1 deal with Einhorn, if true, “certainly would
indicate that Wilpon is putting all his eggs in the beating
Picard basket,” Ganis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 