-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Fall for Third Day as Asian Stocks Fall on Greece

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-17T17:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/new-zealand-dollar-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-greece-slowing-u-s-economy.html
The  Australia  and New Zealand
dollars snapped two days of losses after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  agreed to compromise and work with the European
Central Bank on a debt plan for Greece, bolstering demand for
riskier assets.  New Zealand’s currency pared its biggest weekly loss since
the five days ended May 6. The Australian dollar posted its
largest weekly gain in a month against the U.S. currency after
China’s industrial output increased.  “ Germany  has backed down and they won’t be formally asking
for any private sector contribution to Greece and we can see
better risk sentiment,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York . “The
Australian dollar gained this week on growth in  China  may not be
slowing as fast as some had expected.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.0596 at 1:27
p.m. p.m. in New York from $1.0558 yesterday. It headed for a
0.5 percent weekly advance against the U.S. currency, even after
it slipped to a three week low on June 16. The currency slid 0.2
percent to 84.94 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to 81.05 U.S.
cents, paring this week’s decline to 1.3 percent. The so-called
kiwi traded little changed at 64.97 yen from 64.89 yen.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said a “breakthrough”
had been made on the Greek debt crisis, following a meeting with
Merkel, who said she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to
avoid disrupting markets.  Chinese Production  Chinese industrial production increased 13.2 percent last
month, more than economists forecast, and retail sales rose 16.9
percent, the statistics bureau reported. The consumer-price
index gained 5.5 percent, matching economists’ median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. Lenders were ordered to set aside more
cash as reserves.  Gains in the higher-yielding South Pacific nation
currencies were capped as weaker-than expected U.S. data spurred
speculation the recovery it the world’s largest economy is
faltering.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell this month more than
forecast as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 71.8, from
74.3 in May. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a reading of 74.  “The twin concern of markets at present was again at the
fore --  Greece  and the poor run of U.S. data,” Khoon Goh, head
of market economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  