-- 
Nigerian Police Headquarters in Abuja Damaged After Explosion in Car Park

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-06-16T12:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/nigerian-police-headquarters-in-abuja-hit-by-explosion-1-.html
A blast at  Nigeria ’s police
headquarters in the capital, Abuja, killed at least five people
and injured 11 others, said Yushua Shuaib, a spokesman for the
National Emergency Management Agency.  The explosion may have been caused by a suicide bomber,
Shuaib said by phone today. A text message sent to Bloomberg’s
reporter in Bauchi, northern Nigeria, claimed the attack in the
name of the Boko Haram Islamic sect. The claim could not be
immediately confirmed.  The blast occurred in the parking lot inside the compound
of the police headquarters, said Yemi Ajayi, a spokesman for the
police. Streets around the building are cordoned off and only
emergency workers and security agents are allowed through.  “There were body parts all over the place,” Shuaib said.
“We suspect it was a suicide bomber who was apparently
targeting the inspector general.”  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have previously blamed Boko
Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for bomb attacks and killings targeting government
officials and security forces. More than 14,000 people died in
ethnic and religious clashes between 1999 and 2009 in Nigeria,
 Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous nation, according to
the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  Boko Haram have set conditions for peace talks with
President Goodluck Jonathan, including the introduction of
Sharia law in the country’s northern states, Usman al-Zawahiri,
a spokesman for the sect, said on June 13.  Militants from the oil-producing  Niger Delta  have also
attacked government officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 