-- 
Nine of 10 U.S. High School Students Don’t Get Enough Exercise

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-16T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/nine-of-10-u-s-high-school-students-don-t-get-enough-exercise.html
About 90 percent of all U.S. high
school students aren’t getting enough exercise, a new study
said, indicating that a lack of activity is exacerbating the
increase in childhood obesity and diabetes.  About half of the students did muscle-strengthening
exercises for the  recommended  three or more days a week,
according to the study in the  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report . Only 15 percent of students engaged in aerobic activity
for at least an hour, seven days a week, as recommended. Girls,
older students, and  obese students  were the most likely to fall
short of meeting U.S. guidelines.  About 17 percent of children and adolescents in the U.S.
are obese, triple the rate from the previous generation,
 according to the  Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention , which published today’s report. Childhood obesity,
which can cause sleep apnea, type 2 diabetes, asthma and  heart
disease , is the target of programs such as the first lady
 Michelle Obama ’s “Let’s Move” aimed at getting children more
active, and more are needed, the study authors wrote.  The study’s results “justify the need to improve and
increase the efforts to promote physical activity among
youths,” the authors wrote. The writers suggested more
partnerships involving schools, communities and the private
sector may be required.  Growing Problem  About 151,000 people under the age of 20 are diabetic, and
type 2 diabetes is a “sizable and growing” problem among U.S.
kids, the CDC said. The agency, along with the  National
Institutes of Health , is funding a five-year study examining
diabetes among American youth.  Students don’t participate in physical activity because
they aren’t confident in their abilities, they don’t know what
the benefits are, they don’t have the support of parents and
peers, and community and school facilities are inadequate, the
authors wrote.  The CDC has a goal of getting at least 20 percent of
students to engage in aerobic activity for an hour or more every
day  by 2020 .  Only 8.4 percent of female students met the aerobic
guidelines, compared with 22 percent of male peers. While 19
percent of ninth graders met requirements, just 13 percent of
12th graders did.  Limiting the intake of sugar-sweetened beverages is one of
the CDC’s  suggestions  for reducing childhood obesity. In a
separate CDC report today, study authors found that the most
commonly-consumed beverages among high school students were
water, milk and 100 percent fruit juice.  Almost a quarter of students reported having had soda in
the last seven days, 16 percent consumed a sports drink, and 17
percent had other sweetened beverages, such as lemonade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 