-- 
Nortel Delays Auction to June 27 on ‘Significant’ Interest

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-16T14:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/nortel-networks-delays-patent-auction-to-june-27-on-significant-interest.html
Nortel Networks Corp., the bankrupt
phone-equipment maker, is delaying an auction of its range of
patents set for June 20 by one week after seeing a “significant
level of interest” in the technology portfolio.  The auction of the 6,000 patents and patent applications
will now be held on June 27, the Mississauga, Ontario-based
company said in a statement today.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is looking to acquire patents that could
be used for phones that run its Android software, offered $900
million in April in what Nortel said was a starting point for an
auction. RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
considering a bid, an attorney for the company said last month.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, and phone-equipment supplier Ericsson AB are also
weighing bids, people familiar with those companies’ plans have
said.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after a loss of
$5.8 billion as its customers put off spending on new equipment
amid the recession. Since then, Nortel has raised about $3
billion to pay creditors by selling businesses, with the patents
portfolio the last of the major assets to be sold.  The Nortel patents cover telecommunications technology used
in wireless handsets and networks, as well as Internet search,
semiconductors and social networking. The patents may also help
protect companies in legal disputes or generate licensing
revenue.  To top Google’s bid, companies have to offer at least $929
million under rules approved by the courts overseeing Nortel’s
bankruptcy. The growing interest may boost the price for
Nortel’s patents to more than $1 billion, said Rich Ehrlickman,
president of  Boca Raton , Florida-based patent broker
IPOfferings.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  