-- 
NRC Sides With Entergy in Vermont Plant Debate, Sanders Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-16T20:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/nrc-sides-with-entergy-in-vermont-plant-debate-sanders-says-1-.html
Nuclear regulators urged the Justice
Department to intervene in a legal dispute over an  Entergy Corp. (ETR) 
power plant in Vermont, U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders disclosed as
he protested the agency’s action.  The five-member U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  voted 3-
2 yesterday in a non-public session to ask the Justice
Department “to get involved in that fight,” Sanders said today
at a Senate hearing in  Washington . State officials want to close
Entergy’s Vermont Yankee plant and the NRC shouldn’t get
involved, said Sanders, a Vermont independent who caucuses with
Democrats.  “It is not your business to tell the people of Vermont to
keep open a nuclear plant they do not want,” Sanders said at
the hearing, where all five NRC commissioners were witnesses.  While the NRC has approved a 20-year license extension for
the plant, Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, and state
lawmakers want to close it next year. Entergy filed a lawsuit
against Shumlin and state officials in April to keep the plant
open.  The NRC has jurisdiction over nuclear-plant safety. Sanders
said the agency wants the  Justice Department  to side with
Entergy in the lawsuit, which says the plant’s federal operating
license trumps the wishes of Vermont officials.  The commission wouldn’t confirm the vote. NRC Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said the agency couldn’t comment on the matter.  Commissioner Kristine Svinicki said “the litigation
posture of the U.S. is under active consideration” in the
Vermont Yankee case and the Justice Department has asked NRC
officials not to comment.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  