-- 
Nuclear Energy Program Supported by 85% of U.A.E. Residents

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-16T17:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/nuclear-energy-program-supported-by-85-of-u-a-e-residents.html
Emirates Nuclear Energy Corp. , the
developer of nuclear  power plants  in the United Arab Emirates,
said most respondents in a national poll support the country’s
development of nuclear power plants.  Of 750 residents interviewed in the country, 85 percent
“believe that peaceful nuclear energy is important for the
nation,” Emirates Nuclear said in a statement distributed in
Abu Dhabi today.  Nuclear power projects in some European countries have been
halted amid public fears over reactor safety following the March
meltdown of the JFukushima Dai-Ichi reactor in  Japan . Chancellor
Angela Merkel endorsed a blueprint last month to shut  Germany ’s
nuclear-power plants by 2022, making the nation the biggest to
exit atomic power.  Italy has also put its nuclear plans on hold following the
accident in Japan arising from the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. Switzerland deferred plans for new reactors and the
U.K. said it may delay its program.  The U.A.E. awarded  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760)  an $18.6
billion contract in December 2009 to build four nuclear plants
by the end of this decade. The Persian Gulf nation is turning to
atomic power to help satisfy growing energy demand as its
expanding industries deplete available supplies of natural gas.  The federation will be the first Arab country in the Gulf
to develop nuclear power if it starts operating a first reactor
in May 2017 as planned. Iran has already built a nuclear plant
in Bushehr, and  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf nations are studying
the possible use of nuclear technology to meet greater domestic
energy needs.  Peak power demand in the U.A.E. will double to about 45,000
megawatts by 2020 from 22,000 megawatts now, David Scott, the
executive director for energy and economy at the  Abu Dhabi 
Executive Affairs Authority, said in April. Abu Dhabi is the
country’s capital and largest emirate.  The U.A.E. appointed Hans Blix, the former chief weapons
inspector for the United Nations, as head of an advisory board
to support the national nuclear program. The country plans to
search for uranium in its western region, Al-Ittihad reported in
December, citing Emirates Nuclear Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed al-Hammadi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 