-- 
Obama Calls On U.S. Lawmakers to Maintain ‘Spirit of Community’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-16T00:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/obama-calls-on-u-s-lawmakers-to-maintain-spirit-of-community-.html
President  Barack Obama  told
lawmakers at the White House’s annual congressional picnic to
hold onto a “spirit of community” when they go back to work.  “You’ve got Democrats here and Republicans here and we all
have differences on issues at any given moment, but the one
thing we have to remind ourselves every day is that we’re all
Americans,” the president said to members of Congress and their
families.  The president has continued the tradition of welcoming
members of the  U.S. Senate  and the  House of Representatives  and
their families to an evening of food and games on the South Lawn
of the White House.  The theme of this year’s picnic was a “state fair,” with
corn dogs, French fries and ice cream sundaes. Last year’s
picnic included foods from different regions of the country; in
Obama’s first year as president, the event was a traditional
Hawaiian luau, in honor of the state where Obama was born.  Obama said the annual get-together was also a chance to
thank the lawmakers’ families.  “We understand that public service is tough on the
families,” he said. “This is just one modest way for us to say
to all of you thank you for the enormous contributions you make
to the country.”  Before the picnic, Obama paid tribute to fathers serving in
the U.S. armed forces.  “Thank you for your service, thank you for your
dedication,” Obama told a group of military families at the
White House. “When I say ‘Thank you,’ it’s not just to those in
uniform; it’s also to the families.”  An Absent Father  Obama, who was raised by his mother and his maternal
grandparents, has used the U.S. celebration of Father’s Day to
speak out on the importance of fatherhood in each of his three
years as president. Father’s Day this year falls on June 19.  Obama’s father left the family when Obama was a toddler.
Obama met his father once after that, when he was 10 years old.
Barack Obama Sr. died in an automobile accident in 1982.  Obama hosted military fathers and their children today for
a viewing of the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s movie “Cars 2.”  “This is just one small way that we can say thank you to
all of you,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  