-- 
Obama’s Chief Information Officer Kundra to Leave Post in August

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-16T13:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/obama-s-chief-information-officer-kundra-to-leave-post-in-august.html
Vivek Kundra, the U.S. chief
information officer who helped lead a government shift to
Internet-based technology, is leaving the Obama administration
in mid-August for a Harvard University fellowship, the White
House said.  Kundra was named by President  Barack Obama  in March 2009 as
the first-ever federal chief information officer with a mandate
to oversee about $80 billion the government spends each year on
 information technology . The post put him in charge of the Office
of Management and Budget’s e-government initiatives, where he
worked with government agencies to improve computer systems and
make more information available on the Internet.  When he arrived, Kundra faced “an aging infrastructure
with rising operating costs, too many major projects failing to
deliver and increasing vulnerability to outside threats,” OMB
Director  Jacob Lew  said in an e-mailed statement.  Lew credited Kundra with saving $3 billion in “wasteful
information technology spending,” moving the government to
cloud computing and strengthening cyber security.  Kundra’s departure was reported earlier by Politico.  Kundra introduced the IT Dashboard in June 2009, giving
Americans the ability to track  government spending  via the
Internet, including the $814 billion stimulus program.  Last month Kundra announced that government agencies will
move 78 computer systems off their own servers and onto shared
cloud resources over the next 12 months for greater efficiency.  That shift is part of a larger plan announced in February
that calls for moving $20 billion in e-mail, website management
and claims processing to so-called cloud computing.  “His work has been replicated across the world from 16
countries that have deployed the data.gov model to tap into the
ingenuity of their people to multiple countries that have
deployed the IT dashboard to save money,” Lew said.  Kundra plans to serve as a joint fellow at the Kennedy
School and the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, Lew
said.  Before his government post, Kundra was chief technology
officer for Washington, D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  