-- 
Obama Is Said to Talk With Economist Blank About Heading Economic Advisers

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-16T22:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/obama-is-said-to-talk-with-economist-blank-about-heading-economic-advisers.html
President  Barack Obama  has
interviewed Rebecca Blank, a labor economist at the Commerce
Department, to replace  Austan Goolsbee  as head of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Another potential candidate under consideration is Alan Auerbach, an economics professor at the  University of California 
at Berkeley, said another person. The job will be vacated by
Goolsbee when he returns to the  University of Chicago  this
summer.  The people requested anonymity to discuss internal
administration deliberations. A spokeswoman at Commerce, where
Blank is undersecretary for economic affairs, declined to
comment. Auerbach didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone
messages. The White House declined to comment.  Obama is looking to fill the position of chief White House
economist as the global economy faces threats from the debt
crisis in  Greece  and amid recent data suggesting the U.S.
recovery is slowing. Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months in May, Labor Department figures released June 3 showed.
Other reports showed manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in
more than a year in May, and  consumer spending  rose less than
forecast in April.  ‘Takes a Nation’  Blank received her Ph.D. in economics from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and served as dean of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the  University of
Michigan . Her 1997 book, “It Takes A Nation: A New Agenda for
Fighting Poverty,” won the Richard A. Lester Prize for
Outstanding Book in Labor Economics and Industrial Relations,
according to her Commerce Department biography.  She was a member of President  Bill Clinton ’s CEA under
then-chairman Janet Yellen. Among her duties at commerce, Blank
oversaw the most recent census.  “She’s a very solid, careful thinker,” said William Gale,
a tax policy specialist at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington , who worked with her there. “I don’t think of her as
ideological at all, I think of her as digging out what works and
what’s effective.”  “Given the status of the labor market, she could bring a
lot of expertise to the position right now,” he said.  Negotiations  The administration is in the middle of negotiations with
Congress over cutting the government’s long-term deficit. At the
same time, Obama has said he is seeking ways to spur the
economic recovery, including extending some of the provisions
such as a temporary cut in the  payroll tax  that were part of a
deal with Republicans last year.  Blank has indicated that she doesn’t think additional
stimulus is needed. “What the government is doing right now in
terms of a push is not dollars of stimulus, but being smarter,”
she told  National Journal Daily  in an article published June 15.
Citing strong corporate profits and falling gas prices, she
said, “I guess I understand the reason to say, let’s see if
this economy can do it on its own.”  “There’s no question we’re in a steady, solid recovery,”
she told the National Journal. “That’s the good news. The bad
news is there are some sectors of the economy that aren’t
recovered yet.”  Auerbach is director of the Burch Center for Tax Policy and
Public Finance at Berkeley, according to his biography on the
school’s  website . He was deputy chief of staff for the Joint
Committee on Taxation in 1992.  Tax Expert  “Alan is one of the leading experts on taxation and fiscal
policy in the  United States ,” said James Poterba, an economics
professor at MIT, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “Two of his
particular areas of focus are the taxation of corporations and
the economics of long-run fiscal policy.”  “His research expertise is very well suited to tackling
the fiscal policy challenges that we currently confront,”
Poterba said in an e-mail.  The CEA chairman, among other duties, briefs the president
on economic data and helps prepare the unemployment and growth
forecasts, including the president’s annual economic report.  The administration hasn’t given a timeline for nominating a
new CEA chairman, which is subject to Senate confirmation. The
council has two other members, Carl Shapiro and Katharine Abraham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  