-- 
Och-Ziff May Profit From Market Turbulence With $12 Billion Options Bet

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/och-ziff-may-profit-from-market-turbulence-with-12-billion-options-bet.html
Daniel Och’s hedge-fund group bought
options on almost $12 billion of U.S. stocks during the first
quarter, a move that may generate profits if markets turn more
volatile this year.  The strategy, disclosed in a May regulatory filing by New
York-based  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , included an
$8.8 billion option bet on companies in the Standard & Poor’s
100 Index. The firm bought both bearish put options and bullish
calls on most of the members, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 American Express Co. (AXP)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Och, a former risk arbitrager at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
hasn’t previously disclosed the widespread use of options since
his firm began reporting holdings electronically in 1999. With
the S&P 500 little changed this year, options have become an
inexpensive way for managers wagering that markets will become
more turbulent, said Christopher Rich, head options strategist
at JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC in  Chicago .  “The only reason you would want to do this is if you were
massively concerned about the markets on the whole and expected
volatility to rise,” Rich said in an interview. “Going from
zero to this is very, very significant.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, an outside spokesman for Och-Ziff,
declined to comment.  Six weeks of stock-market losses failed to spur investors
to pay higher-than-average prices for options that protect
against declines. The CBOE Volatility Index, known as the VIX,
rose 3.06 points, or 17 percent, yesterday to 21.32, closing
above its historical average of about 20 for the first time
since March.  Three-Month High  The VIX, also known as the market’s “fear gauge” because
it almost always rises when stocks fall, measures the cost of
using options as insurance against declines in the  S&P 500  and
expresses expectations for stock swings in the next 30 days.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange VXO Index, a gauge of
S&P 100 options prices, rose 16 percent to a three-month high of
20.51 yesterday as reports spurred concern the economy is
slowing. The VXO has averaged 16.86 this year.  Och, 50, who once served as Goldman Sachs’ co-head of U.S.
equity trading, oversees about $30 billion in assets as chairman
and chief executive officer at Och-Ziff, a publicly traded
hedge-fund manager. Since starting the firm in 1994 with $100
million in capital from Ziff Brothers Investments LLC, he has
sought to deliver positive returns with less volatility than the
 S&P 500 Index , according to the company’s website.  14% Annual Gains  The firm’s flagship OZ Master Fund has generated net annual
gains of about 14 percent from inception through 2010 with one-
third of the volatility of the S&P 500, according to a March
investor  presentation . Och’s strategies include investing in
structured credit, stocks, closely held companies and arbitrage
involving mergers, derivatives and convertible bonds.  Och-Ziff bought options on $11.8 billion of U.S. stocks in
the first quarter, swelling the face value of its domestic-
equity holdings to about $19 billion from $6.9 billion as of
Dec. 31, according to a Form 13F filed May 16 with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. As of March 31, Och-Ziff
held call and put options on U.S. stocks with face values of
$4.65 billion and $7.14 billion, respectively, according to the
filing.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  Previous Holdings  Och-Ziff has disclosed owning options six times since the
firm began filing Form 13Fs through the SEC’s electronic
document system in 1999, and only once before did the holdings
equal more than 1 percent of reported equities. In March 2006,
Och-Ziff held puts on $197.8 million of Engelhard Corp. shares
and calls on $67.6 million of Dade Behring Holdings Inc.,
equaling 3.8 percent of the $6.9 billion of assets listed.  Without knowing what other investments Och-Ziff has made,
along with the maturities and strike prices of the options, it’s
difficult to tell what sort of strategy the firm is pursuing,
said Bob Gordon, president of Twenty-First Securities Corp., a
New York-based broker that creates investing strategies for high
net-worth individuals.  “It could be a bet on implied volatility,” Gordon said in
an interview.  ‘Dispersion Trade’  Och-Ziff might be following an options strategy known as a
“dispersion trade” that has become increasingly popular this
year, said Jared Woodard, principal at Condor Options, a New
York-based trading and research firm that focuses on market-
neutral strategies.  Dispersion trades are a way of betting on an end to the
historically high market correlation that began during 2008,
when shares of companies in various industries all rose and fell
together, frustrating money managers who earned their keep by
researching and picking individual companies.  In a dispersion trade, managers sell put and  call options 
on an index such as the S&P 100 during market declines, when
demand is heavy among investors who want to protect themselves
from losses. They use the rich premiums received for the index
options to buy put and call options on some or all of the stocks
comprising the index.  Och-Ziff’s Form 13F filing doesn’t disclose whether the
firm sold any options on the index. Money managers with more
than $100 million of U.S.-listed stocks must file a Form 13F at
the end of each quarter that lists their equity-related
holdings, including options and convertible bonds.  SEC Filing  The first-quarter purchases included contracts on 93 of the
stocks within the S&P 100, a benchmark comprising the largest
U.S. companies. The money manager held contracts on $8.84
billion of S&P 100 stocks as of March 31, and the market value
of its direct shareholdings in the companies totaled about $565
million.  For all but three of the companies, Och-Ziff bought both
put and call options, positioning the firm to profit regardless
of whether the shares subsequently rose or fell. The holdings
included $3.4 billion of calls and $5.4 billion of puts, as Och-
Ziff held more bearish than bullish options on March 31,
particularly on financial, cyclical and energy stocks.  If the stocks within an index go in different directions, a
dispersion trade can yield a profit. Ideally, half of the stocks
surge, driving up the value of related call options, while half
plunge, increasing the value of the put options. The index
itself would remain flat because half of its members are rising
and half are falling, canceling each other out.  High Correlation  The level of correlation in the market remains elevated,
according to Bouhari Arouna, vice president of equity
derivatives strategy at the New York office of BNP Paribas SA.
He pointed to a CBOE index that compares the cost of options on
the S&P 500 to the cost of options on 50 of the largest stocks
within the benchmark.  The CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index tied to January
2013 option maturities rose 1.6 percent to 63.79 yesterday,
above the low of 42.76 recorded in October 2008 and higher than
its 62.01 average this year.  “Usually when you trade dispersion, you are betting that
correlation will drop,” said Stephane Mattatia, head of global
equity-flow engineering at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “If we
switch to a stock-picker’s market, what will happen is low
correlation and you will make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  