-- 
Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Decline in Six on Concern Over European Debt

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-17T06:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/oil-gains-for-second-day-on-u-s-economic-reports-heads-for-weekly-drop.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
decline in more than a month in  New York  amid concern the Greek
debt crisis will threaten Europe’s economic recovery, curbing
fuel demand.  Futures slipped as much as 0.8 percent, giving up earlier
gains, after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, was cited in a newspaper
as saying Greece faces “an extremely difficult process.” Crude
is down 4.8 percent this week after tumbling as reports showed
U.S. manufacturers turned pessimistic in June and demand for
diesel declined.  “We expect the recovery to be sustainable, but at the
minute things look a little soft,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne, who predicted crude will average $113 a barrel in the
third quarter. “Everyone is waiting to see what happens in
 Greece ,” he said.  Crude for July delivery slipped as much as 78 cents to
$94.17 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $94.41 at 2:15 p.m.  Singapore  time. The
contract advanced as much as 45 cents earlier. Prices are 23
percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for August delivery dropped 67 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $113.35 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are 44 percent higher the past year.  Four-Month Low  Oil fell to its lowest in almost four months on June 15,
after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November. U.S.
consumption of distillate fuel, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, tumbled 5.2 percent last week to the lowest
since January, the Energy Department said on the same day.  Juncker’s comments, reported in an interview in the German
newspaper Tagesspiegel, sent the euro lower against the dollar,
limiting the appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency.
The euro slid to $1.4141 from $1.4204 yesterday in New York.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will today discuss a rescue package for Greece,
where Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is set to make changes to
his cabinet after failing to garner opposition support for
austerity measures. A Greek default is “almost certain” and
could help drive the  U.S. economy  into recession, said  Alan
Greenspan , former Federal Reserve chairman.  OPEC Loadings  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut
crude-oil loadings for the first time in seven weeks as summer
demand for driving fuel in the northern hemisphere is set to
pass its peak, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Producers will ship 22.81 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to July 2, down 0.7 percent from the period ended June 4,
the Halifax, England-based consultant said in a report yesterday.  OPEC failed to agree on an output target when it met on
June 8. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi pledged that day
the kingdom would keep markets adequately supplied in the
absence of an accord by the 12-member group.  Oil may fall next week on signals that economic growth in
the U.S. and  China  will slow, curbing fuel use in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming countries, a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Eighteen of 38 analysts, or 47 percent, forecast oil will
decline through June 24. Thirteen respondents, or 34 percent,
predicted prices will increase and seven estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 54 percent of respondents said futures
would drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 