-- 
Oil Producer Deadlock Leaves Saudis Calling Shots on $100 Crude

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d ,   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-16T20:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/oil-producer-deadlock-leaves-saudis-calling-shots-on-100-crude.html
More than a week after  Saudi Arabia 
failed to persuade its fellow OPEC members to increase oil
output, analysts and investors are still trying to sort out the
meaning of the fracas. One of the consequences may be the death
of OPEC, or at least its irrelevance for the foreseeable future.  As Saudi Arabia seeks to manage the fallout from the Arab
Spring, the kingdom is engineering a new economic and foreign
policy that clearly puts its interests first and those of OPEC
second,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its June 20 issue.  The Saudis have been under pressure from Western patrons
and Asian customers for weeks to increase oil supplies. Worried
that global growth is in danger of seizing up -- and that demand
for oil will slide as a result -- the Saudis decided that to
preserve their own growth, they had to guard the economic health
of their customers by making oil more affordable.  When an unsympathetic group of OPEC members including
 Libya , Iran,  Algeria  and  Venezuela  shot down the idea of
increasing supply, the Saudis vowed they would go their own way.
 Saudi Aramco , the kingdom’s national oil company, quickly
contacted refiners in  India ,  China ,  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and
 Europe , asking whether they wanted more oil. Suddenly the
Saudis’ desire for a modest increase in output was transformed
into a determination to show rival oil suppliers that it was
still calling the shots in the global energy market.  “They came to raise the ceiling, but [OPEC has] wound up
killing it,” says Bhushan Bahree, an OPEC analyst at IHS CERA.  Venezuela, Iran  In a recovering oil market there is always tension between
the Saudis and their Gulf allies -- who all have excess oil they
can quickly bring to market -- and producers such as Venezuela
and  Iran . The latter two countries lack the wells and developed
fields needed to pump more oil on short notice and often argue
for limiting production to raise prices.  At the latest OPEC meeting the civil war in Libya, an OPEC
member, and tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran, the leaders
of the two main factions in the cartel, aggravated the
differences between the two sides.  “Saudi Arabia has invested billions in its oil sector
while other members haven’t,” says Sadad I. al-Husseini, a
former senior Aramco executive and now a consultant. “They’re
still fighting revolutions and confusing foreign and economic
policy.”  The Iranian-Saudi rivalry has grown especially bitter.
Iran, the world’s No. 4 oil producer, and Saudi Arabia, the No.
1 exporter, ideally would work jointly to manage  oil prices . The
Saudis have grown alarmed at the spread of Iranian influence.
The Shiite Iranians now influence policy in  Iraq , which could
turn into a big oil producer.  Saudi Accusations  The Sunni Saudis have accused the Iranians of fomenting
dissent in Shiite-majority Bahrain and in Saudi Arabia’s own
Eastern Province, which has a Shiite majority. Saudi troops
spearheaded an Arab force that rolled into Bahrain on March 15
to crush the mainly Shiite demonstrators threatening the
Bahraini royal family, who like the Saudis are Sunni Muslims.  “Iranian sectarianism is the cause of the tension,” says
Sheikh Abdul Mohsen Al-Obeikan, an adviser to the Saudi royal
court.  The OPEC schism means the Saudi-led  Cooperation Council for
the Arab States of the Gulf  (GCC) will likely become more
important in developing  energy policy . The council consists of
six Gulf Arab monarchies and includes three other major oil
producers: Kuwait, Qatar, and the  United Arab Emirates .  “Saudi Arabia and the other three GCC countries are able
and willing to supply whatever the market needs,” Saudi Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said on June 8.  Free Trade Union  The GCC is not just a mini-OPEC: It’s a free-trade union
and a military alliance that’s growing tighter as the Iranian
threat looms larger. The Saudis who marched into Bahrain were
part of a GCC force called the Peninsula Shield.  To strengthen the alliance, the Saudis have dangled the
prospect of GCC membership to fellow Sunni monarchs in Morocco
and Jordan, perhaps because these countries could be a source of
troops in an Iranian-Saudi showdown. The GCC has also promised
$10 billion each in support to Bahrain and Oman, a less well-off
member of the GCC.  “From Bahrain to OPEC, the kingdom is showing Iran who’s
boss,” says  Theodore Karasik , an analyst at the Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.  Oil and the army are two of the Saudis’ major weapons. The
other is cash. Saudi King Abdullah’s pledge of $130 billion in
housing subsidies and other services to his own subjects is
well-known. Saudi generosity is also extending to  Egypt .
Although they’re dismayed by the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak, the Saudis are trying to influence Mubarak’s
successors, whoever they turn out to be, by supplying $4 billion
in economic assistance.  Imitating Policies  The Saudis’ allies are starting to imitate the kingdom’s
policies. The  Kuwait  government sent every citizen, infants
included, a payment of about $3,600 earlier this year. Kuwaitis
as well as their household servants now get generous allocations
of free chicken, rice, sugar, cheese, baby formula and other
food.  “It is becoming a burden,” says Kamel al-Harami, a
Kuwaiti analyst.  Yet such policies are helping to keep chaos at bay -- goal
No. 1 for the Saudis and their allies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley Reed in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  