-- 
Hong Kong Mortgage Loan Transactions May Decline 40%

-- B y   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-06-20T01:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hong-kong-mortgage-loan-transactions-to-decline-barclays-says.html
(Corrects to say property prices in second paragraph for
story published June 16.)  Hong Kong  mortgage loan transaction
volume may slump 40 percent over the next two years as banks are
required to set aside additional reserves and liquidity tightens,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Property prices may decline 25 percent to 30 percent, Hong
Kong-based Tom Quarmby, head of regional banking research at
Barclays, said in a telephone interview.  Home prices  in the
Chinese city have risen more than 70 percent since the beginning
of 2009, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority may ask some banks to set
aside more reserves, the latest step to curb credit growth and
prevent loan defaults, after borrowing surged and mortgage rates
advanced. The de-facto central bank will start talks on lenders’
deposit levels to “better absorb the impact of bad debts,” K.
C. Chan, secretary for financial services and the treasury, said
last month.  “The HKMA has made the decision to protect banks from
future risks, rather than addressing any immediate problems, but
this means some future business opportunities may be missed,”
said Quarmby. “If investors don’t see the potential for strong
earnings growth to continue at the Hong Kong banks, this will
translate into lower valuations.”  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  are among lenders in the city that can pass on the
higher cost of funding, he said.  The HKMA may require local banks to make more provisions
and set aside some profit as reserves, Apple Daily reported June
13, citing unidentified people. The central bank plans to set up
a top-up provision ratio based on banks’ total lending, the
paper said. The HKMA “discusses different issues with banks
from time to time,” it said in an e-mail statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Jiang in Hong Kong at 
 vjiang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  