-- 
Too Big to Fail Ends With Wave of a Magic Wand: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/too-big-to-fail-ends-with-wave-of-a-magic-wand-jonathan-weil.html
In the words of  Sheila Bair , the
departing chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the
era of too-big-to-fail banks isn’t just ending -- it’s already
over. Consider her statement two weeks ago, in a  news release 
heralding the creation of a committee to advise the agency on
how to deal with large, dying financial firms:  “Congress has given the FDIC a tremendous amount of
responsibility to ensure that financial organizations formerly
deemed too big to fail will no longer receive taxpayer funded
bailouts.”  Formerly deemed, huh?  Maybe Bair didn’t express herself clearly or was giving
voice to her inner hopes. Either way, it’s hard to believe she
convinced anyone that the government wouldn’t rescue Bank of
America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- to name just a few --
amid a crisis that threatened to take down the global financial
system.  The capital markets sure don’t seem to buy it. Otherwise,
the bonds of these banks would be trading for a lot less, as
would their stocks. Bank of America and Citigroup, whose shares
fetch much less than the net assets on their balance sheets,
might be dead already.  The basis for Bair’s assertion rests in the FDIC’s new
powers under the  Dodd-Frank Act  passed by Congress last year.
The act, it’s worth noting, didn’t even pretend to end too big
to fail at  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac , both of which are in
government conservatorship almost three years after they were
seized, or  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , which is still
majority-owned by the Treasury Department.  Qualified Answer  At least the FDIC’s general counsel, Michael Krimminger,
qualified his answer when he testified before Congress this week
about whether Dodd-Frank will work as advertised. He said the
act provides “the tools to end too big to fail, if properly
implemented.”  Yes, Dodd-Frank prohibits bailouts of the sort we saw under
the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program. Financial
companies deemed “systemically important” must submit so-called
 living wills  to regulators, mapping out how they would dismantle
themselves in a crisis. Those that don’t turn in credible plans
could face sanctions, including higher capital minimums. If and
when such companies become insolvent, the government would have
the option of placing them into a special resolution program
aimed at providing an orderly liquidation, as an alternative to
a traditional bankruptcy filing.  All this remains untested. There’s little reason to expect
the bureaucrats at the FDIC would know a good living will if
they saw one. It’s even harder to envision that executives who
don’t know what’s going on inside their own too-big-to-manage
banks would be any better at designing a resolution roadmap.  Last Time  And we all remember what happened the last time regulators
decided they didn’t have the right tools to deal with a
financial crisis that was spiraling out of control. They scared
Congress into changing the law, and in 2008 we got TARP.
Congress always could change the law again in the face of a
potentially cataclysmic meltdown.  Dodd-Frank doesn’t end taxpayer-supported bailouts. The
liquidation scheme outlined in the act would let the FDIC borrow
money from the Treasury Department to finance a company’s
operations, as a way to promote calm and head off bank runs.
That protects bondholders and counterparties from the sorts of
large, immediate losses they otherwise might incur through a
traditional bankruptcy proceeding.  Good Luck  The law says any company that enters the special resolution
process must be liquidated within five years, which isn’t
exactly quick. It also says there shall be “no losses to
taxpayers,” and that the financial-services industry would have
to foot the bill for a company’s liquidation through special
fees if necessary. By then, taxpayers’ money would be out the
door, and good luck getting it back. The FDIC already has a hard
time charging banks enough premiums to keep its deposit-
insurance fund solvent.  Congress could have broken up the nation’s banking cartel
had it wanted to. It didn’t. Alternatively, regulators could
saddle the largest banks with capital requirements of, say, 20
percent of assets or more, giving them an adequate cushion to
absorb the inevitable losses from risky, reckless trading. That
might even compel some banks to break themselves up and shed
their financial casino operations. That’s not happening either.  This leaves the government with one way to demonstrate that
too big to fail is dead. That’s to let a huge, systemically
important company die, which means accepting the risk that
others will blow up with it and take down the economy. The
markets have decided they’ll believe that when they see it, and
understandably so. The pain from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
death in 2008 proved too much for policy makers to bear.  The new regulations called for by Dodd-Frank remain largely
unfinished. The living wills don’t exist yet, not that they
would be much help during a global credit freeze. There’s no
reason to believe regulators will be more competent at enforcing
their new rules than the old ones. The main thing that’s changed
since 2008 is some of the biggest banks have gotten bigger.  We’re no safer today than we were then.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  