-- 
OPEC to Cut Supply for First Time in 7 Weeks, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-16T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/opec-to-cut-supply-for-first-time-in-7-weeks-oil-movements-says.html
OPEC will cut oil shipments by the
end of the month for the first time in seven weeks as summer
demand for driving fuel in the northern hemisphere is set to
pass its peak, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will ship
22.81 million barrels a day in the four weeks to July 2, down
0.7 percent from the period to June 4, the consultant said in a
report. The data exclude  Ecuador  and Angola. It’s the first
decline reported by Oil Movements since the month to May 14.  “It’s the tail-end of quite a big surge in volumes,” Roy Mason, the founder of Oil Movements, said by telephone from
Halifax,  England . “Westbound sailings from the Gulf are falling
quite sharply. The summer season for sour crude in the Atlantic
basin is, although not over, the first leg of it has been taken
care of.”  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global oil
supplies, failed to agree an output target when it met on June
8. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi pledged that day the
kingdom would keep markets adequately supplied in the absence of
an accord by the 12-member group.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will drop 1.2 percent to 17.56 million
barrels a day in the period, the report showed.  Crude on board tankers will average 494.2 million barrels
in the four weeks, up 3.4 percent from 478 million barrels in
the period to June 4, Oil Movements said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran ,  Iraq ,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the group’s quota
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  