-- 
Google Says Oracle Seeks ‘Harassing’ Deposition of Larry Page

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/oracle-seeking-billions-of-dollars-in-damages-from-google-in-java-lawsuit.html
Google Inc. is fighting what it
calls  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s “harassing demand” for a deposition of
Chief Executive Officer Larry Page as part of Oracle’s
multibillion-dollar lawsuit alleging the Android operating
system infringes its Java patents, according to a court filing.  Page “participated in negotiations that took place”
between Sun Microsystems and Google regarding a Java license for
Android and his testimony is relevant to “the value of the
infringement to Google,” Oracle said in a letter jointly filed
by the companies yesterday with U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu
in  San Francisco .  Google’s opposition to Page’s deposition is “manifestly
inconsistent” with its own notice to depose Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison , Oracle said in the letter.  Taking a sworn statement from Page would be ‘superfluous”
and “duplicative” given testimony already available from other
witnesses, Google said in the joint letter to the judge.  Google has offered to withdraw its notice to depose Ellison
if Oracle doesn’t intend to call him as a witness at trial, and
Oracle rejected that proposal, the search engine company said in
the filing. A similar agreement was reached as to Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt , according to the letter.  Oracle is seeking as much as $6.1 billion in damages in a
patent- and copyright-infringement lawsuit against Google that
claims the search-engine company’s Android software uses
technology related to the Java programming language, according
to court papers.  Sun Microsystems  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , got Java when it
bought Sun Microsystems in January 2010. The company sued Google
the following August, seeking a court ruling that would ban
further use of its intellectual property and force the
destruction of all products that violate Java-related copyrights
on the code, documentation and specifications.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, said in court
filings that the patents are invalid and not infringed and that
users of the Android platform have a license to any patents in
the case. It said Oracle made general copyright-infringement
claims with nothing to back them up.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message after regular business
hours yesterday. An e-mail to Google’s press office after
regular business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  