-- 
Orange Capital Calls Meeting to Remove Manager of Charter Hall Office REIT

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-06-17T03:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/orange-capital-is-said-to-plan-ouster-of-management-at-charter-hall-reit.html
Orange Capital LLC called for a
shareholder meeting to vote on replacing the manager of
 Australia ’s  Charter Hall Office REIT. (CQO)   The hedge fund, which owns 19 percent of the Sydney-based
trust along with Luxor Capital Group LP and Point Lobos Capital
LLC, plans to hold the meeting on or about July 27, Orange said
in an emailed statement. Fortius Funds Management Pty Ltd. and
Moss Capital Funds Management Ltd. have agreed to manage the
trust, continue U.S. asset sales, seek bids for its Australian
assets, and review whether any of its approximately $200 million
should be returned to unitholders, the statement said.  “Moss Capital and Fortius are well positioned to manage
Charter Hall’s assets,” said the statement, which was issued by
Orange Capital Managing Partner Daniel Lewis.  Orange last month requested a copy of Charter Hall Office’s
unitholder registry to plan the vote, saying the manager had
rejected its call for measures to narrow the gap between the
value of the trust’s assets and its unit price.  Charter Hall Office shares have gained 22 percent since Jan.
12, the day before New York-based Orange disclosed its stake and
said it had hired advisers to evaluate options for the company.
The REIT rose 1.1 percent to A$3.64 a share as of 1:53 p.m. in
Sydney.  Charter Hall Group (CHC)  shares fell 5.1 percent to A$2.06,
the biggest drop since December.  Apollo, Broadway  Charter Hall is proceeding with the sale of its $1.68
billion of U.S. assets, after backing away from an initial plan
for a joint venture that would have allowed the manager to keep
a 50 percent stake in the properties and manage them for a fee.
Shortlisted bidders are in due diligence, independent Chairman
Roger Davis said in a letter to shareholders.  Apollo Global Management LLC and Broadway Partners are
among companies that have offered to buy the U.S. buildings for
more than the value Charter Hall placed on them last year, three
people familiar with the bid said last month. Area Property
Partners, Boston Properties Inc. and Highwoods Properties Inc.
also made separate offers for some or all of the 14 U.S.
properties, which include office buildings in  Los Angeles  and
Denver, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  