-- 
House Panel Endorses Budget Cuts at IRS, Consumer Bureau

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-16T19:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/house-panel-endorses-budget-cuts-at-irs-consumer-bureau-1-.html
A U.S. House Appropriations
subcommittee approved a spending bill that would cut funding for
the  Internal Revenue Service , limit the budget of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and deny a spending increase sought
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The  $19.9 billion bill  was approved today in Washington on
a voice vote by the subcommittee on financial services and
general government, and heads to the full committee. It includes
funding for the Treasury Department, the White House, the
 District of Columbia , the federal courts, the  Consumer Product
Safety Commission  and the  General Services Administration .  “We really have to make difficult choices if we’re going
to reduce the federal government’s unsustainable level of
spending,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, the committee’s
chairwoman and a Missouri Republican.  Democrats opposed the bill, saying the spending cuts
included in the legislation would hurt the public.  “At these funding levels, there will be a significant harm
to America’s consumers, investors, taxpayers, workers,
businesses, judiciary, the security of our elections and even
our deficit,” said Representative Jose Serrano of  New York , the
top Democrat on the panel.  Limits on Funding  The bill  would limit to $200 million the amount the  Federal
Reserve  can transfer to the new consumer bureau in fiscal 2012,
which starts Oct. 1.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, created the
consumer bureau and called for it to be funded by a percentage
of the Fed’s budget, as much as $500 million a year, with the
bureau’s director deciding how much is needed.  The Republican spending bill includes the requirement that,
effective Oct. 1, 2012, appropriations would be made by
Congress.  Republicans have sparred with Democrats over the new
agency’s funding, mission and leadership.  The bill is part of a broader Republican effort to reduce
federal spending. Overall, the $19.9 billion bill would mark a
$1.85 billion, or 8.5 percent, cut from this year’s spending
level. It would be $5.79 billion, or 22.5 percent, below the
administration’s $25.7 billion spending request.  Emerson said she tried to make a priority spending for the
 Small Business Administration , drug task forces and anti-
terrorism programs at the Treasury Department.  Proposed IRS Cuts  The IRS, with a proposed budget of $11.5 billion, makes up
more than half the spending in the bill. The agency received
$12.1 billion this year and requested $13.3 billion for fiscal
2012 as it seeks to beef up tax enforcement and implement parts
of the health-care law passed in 2010.  The proposed funding in the bill is similar to the level
that Republicans tried to pass earlier this year for the current
fiscal year. IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman told the
subcommittee March 1 that cuts of that magnitude would reduce
tax enforcement and collection, increasing the  budget deficit .  “The investments in our budget more than pay for
themselves and directly contribute to  deficit reduction ,” he
said then.  Serrano said the bill would cause the IRS to furlough as
many as 4,100 employees.  “This is exactly the sort of short-term cut that will do
much greater harm than good in the long term,” he said.  New Mandates  The bill also would prevent the IRS from enforcing the
health-care law’s individual mandate to purchase health
insurance. It would require the government to provide regular
updates on a proposed regulation that would require U.S. banks
to report the identities of their non-U.S. account holders.
Banks and lawmakers are opposing the rule.  The Republican proposal would give the SEC $1.2 billion,
the same amount the agency received this year. The
administration was seeking an additional $222 million.  Serrano said the SEC wouldn’t be able to carry out the new
responsibilities it received in the Dodd-Frank law.  Senator  Richard Durbin , chairman of the corresponding
Senate subcommittee, said in an interview today that he hadn’t
reviewed the House bill. The Illinois Democrat said he didn’t
know how much money his panel would have to work with because
the Senate is farther behind in the budget process than the
House.  The Senate hasn’t set a spending target for the year or
divided that target into broad categories for the subcommittees.  “That makes it hard,” Durbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  