-- 
Temporary Payroll Tax Cut a ‘Sugar High’: Ryan

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-16T16:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/house-budget-chairman-ryan-opposes-u-s-employer-payroll-tax-cut.html
A temporary employer payroll tax cut
that has been under discussion in the Obama administration is
little more than a “sugar high,” House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  said.  “Temporary tax rebates don’t work to create economic
growth,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, said at an event today
in  Washington  sponsored by The Hill newspaper. “Businesses make
decisions on certainty.”  The Obama administration has considered the employer
payroll tax cut as a tool to try to reduce the 9.1 percent U.S.
unemployment rate. Legislation enacted in December included a
similar cut for payroll taxes paid by employees and has been
credited with providing a jolt to the economy in the first
quarter of 2011.  The administration hasn’t offered lawmakers a formal
proposal to cut payroll taxes.  Ryan’s comments add to the lukewarm reception the temporary
payroll tax cut has received on  Capitol Hill  since word of the
idea emerged last week. Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, has said the administration
would be better off focusing on infrastructure spending. Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the ranking Republican on the Finance
Committee, said passing free-trade agreements and easing wage
restrictions might be more effective than the payroll cut.  Seeking Permanent Changes  Instead of offering such temporary measures, Ryan said the
administration should focus on permanent changes to the tax
code. Ryan, along with House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp ,
a Michigan Republican, has said the tax code should be rewritten
to lower top corporate rates from 35 percent to 25 percent.  A comprehensive rewrite of the U.S.  tax code  has been
debated in recent months without a legislative proposal. Camp
has held a series of hearings on ideas for a tax code overhaul
without offering a timeline for a legislative proposal.  Ryan, who also sits on the Ways and Means Committee, said
he is “fine” with the pace of the tax overhaul discussion in
the House.  “The frustration is the Senate didn’t do a budget so that
makes it really difficult to do a tax bill,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  