-- 
Lower U.S. Cattle Sales Squeezing Beef Supply Means More Costs for Packers

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/lower-cattle-sales-tighten-beef-supply-boosting-packer-costs.html
Feedlot operators in the U.S.
probably bought fewer young cattle in May, signaling tighter
beef supplies at the end of the year and higher prices that may
trim meatpacker profit.  Purchases fell 7.5 percent to 1.877 million head of cattle
last month, compared with May 2010, according to a Bloomberg
News survey  of 13 analysts. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
will report inventories at 3 p.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Fewer animals were available after buying surged in March
and April as a drought destroyed pastures in  Texas , the biggest
cattle-raising state, and forced ranchers to sell more cattle
than normal, said John Nalivka at Sterling Marketing Inc., a
livestock- and meat-industry consultant. Spot-market steer
prices may jump 8.3 percent by year-end, he said.  Reduced supplies will “pressure packer margins beginning
in the fourth quarter on out,” said Nalivka, who worked as a
USDA cattle analyst in the 1980s and is based in  Vale ,  Oregon .
“As we go through and we continue to tighten the supply of
cattle, we’ve got too much slaughter capacity. Margins will
probably turn negative.”  In the U.S., the leading beef producer and second-largest
exporter, feedlots buy year-old cattle that weigh 500 pounds
(227 kilograms) to 800 pounds, called feeders. It takes about
four or five months on a diet of mostly corn before the animals
weigh about 1,200 pounds, when they are sold to meatpackers.  Beef Price Outlook  Slaughter rates will drop 7 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, curbing beef supplies and sending wholesale
prices up about 4.7 percent, said Nalivka, who has been studying
the cattle markets for more than 30 years and is Sterling
Marketing’s president.  While wholesale beef fell 0.5 percent to $1.7194 a pound
yesterday, the price is still up 12 percent from a year earlier,
government data show. Demand will need to remain strong for
prices to climb as expected, Nalivka said.  Retail-beef prices are  forecast  to rise as much as 8
percent this year, the most of any major food group, according
to the USDA, which estimates overall U.S. food costs may rise 4
percent this year, the most since 2008. Global food prices rose
in nine of the past 11 months, including a record in February,
United Nations data show. Costlier meat has spurred grocery
stores and restaurants to pass along the increases to consumers.  Restaurant operator  Luby’s Inc. (LUB)  plans to increase prices on
some menu items at its Fuddruckers restaurants because of “the
significant inflation of beef prices,” Chief Financial Officer
Scott Gray said on a conference call June 9.  U.S. retail beef fell to $4.43 a pound in May from a
revised record of $4.444 in April, the USDA said yesterday in a
report on its website. The price had reached all-time highs in
the previous five months.  Southern Drought  Supplies of feeder cattle have dropped after ranchers sold
off herds when pastures were destroyed in the Great Plains. More
than 60 percent of the South, including Texas and  Oklahoma , is
experiencing “severe” drought, according to the University of
 Nebraska ’s U.S. Drought  Monitor .  “Placements are finally going to start running below year-
ago levels, probably until fall, as we have placed quite a few
cattle earlier in the year due to the southern drought and
because of general supply tightness in available feeder-cattle
numbers,” Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind Cattle
Brokerage in  Chicago , said in an e-mail. “This is going to be
supply friendly for the fed-cattle market once we get into the
fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next
year.”  Rising Demand  Overseas demand for U.S. beef has pushed prices higher.
Cattle futures that reached an all-time high of $1.21625 a pound
on April 4, are up 18 percent over the past year. Feeder-cattle
futures, which reached a record $1.42 a pound on April 1, are up
14 percent in the past 12 months.  Cattle futures for August delivery fell 0.5 percent to
$1.0485 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday, while
feeder cattle fell 0.2 percent to $1.26975.  U.S. exporters shipped 856.5 million pounds (388,500 metric
tons) of beef in the first four months of this year, up 31
percent from a year earlier, the latest government  data  show.
 South Korea  was the biggest buyer, followed by Mexico and  Canada .
 Brazil  is the leading shipper.  The total feedlot herd probably totaled 11.06 million head
on June 1, up 5.4 percent from a year earlier, after increased
placements in March and April, according to the Bloomberg survey.
Producers sold about 1.924 million fattened cattle to
slaughterhouses in May, up 3.1 percent from a year earlier,
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  