-- 
Toyota Expects to Return to Full North America Vehicle Output in September

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-17T00:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/toyota-to-return-to-full-north-american-output-in-september-1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , slowed by tight
parts supplies since Japan’s record earthquake in March, said
production at its North American auto plants is recovering
faster than expected and will return to normal in September.  Full output of eight models, including Camry and Corolla
cars, Sienna minivans and Highlander sport-utility vehicles, was
restored June 6, and Tundra and Tacoma pickups and RAV4 and
Lexus RX SUVs will reach that level by September, said  Bob Carter , group vice president of U.S. sales. Toyota estimated in
April that pre-quake production would resume in November.  “Our inventories are at the bottom but will be improving
quickly,” Carter said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Torrance,  California . “I’m doing back flips.”  Toyota, Japan’s largest automaker, has struggled to restock
U.S. dealers in the months since the 9-magnitude quake and
tsunami curbed supplies of its top-selling Camry and Prius
hybrid. Inventory shortages led to a 33 percent drop in Toyota’s
U.S. sales in May and are constraining deliveries this month.  The automaker’s sales may be “slightly over 100,000 units
this month,” Carter said. “In July, you’ll see us come back to
a more normalized share of the market.” The Toyota City, Japan-
based company reported selling 140,604 vehicles in June 2010.  Toyota rose 0.3 percent to 3,205 yen as of 9:01 a.m. in
Tokyo trading, in line with the gain in  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  New Camry  While restoring production is critical, Toyota has to
revamp models such as the Camry that are under pressure from
sedans from  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , said Alan Baum, principal of automotive consultant Baum & Associates in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “Camry is a particular issue for them, since it carries
the flag for the brand,” said Baum, who expects a new version
of the top-selling U.S. car to arrive late this year. “Relative
to competitors, in terms of quality a lot of consumers now see
Toyota has just ‘one of the boys.’ They’ve got to find a way to
address that.”  Toyota hasn’t said when the redesigned Camry, built at its
Georgetown, Kentucky, plant and at affiliate Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd.’s Subaru factory in  Indiana , will go on sale.  Toyota now has only a 37-day supply of vehicles, which will
rise during the next few months, Carter said. The automaker will
boost advertising to ensure U.S. customers know its dealers
again have cars and trucks in stock, he said.  “There is a perception out there that Toyota dealers don’t
have vehicles,” Carter said.  Prius Supplies  Incentives such as no-interest loans and discounted leases,
now available on the Camry, will be expanded to other models as
supplies increase, he said.  Supplies of the Prius are improving and the U.S. may get
more than the 36,000-unit allotment expected for the June-
through-August period, Carter said, without elaborating.  After September, Toyota will work to make up lost
production, said Steve St. Angelo, the company’s executive vice
president for North American engineering and manufacturing.  “Our team members and suppliers here and in Japan have
worked tirelessly to get us back to 100 percent, overcoming many
challenges,” he said in a statement. “The effort in Japan has
been incredible, especially in the midst of such tragedy and
devastation.”  The company has 14 auto-assembly and parts plants in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico . Its U.S. sales unit is based in
Torrance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  