-- 
Palestinian Reconciliation Will Spur Growth, Abbas Adviser Says

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-06-16T15:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/palestinian-reconciliation-will-spur-growth-abbas-adviser-says.html
Reconciliation between the  West
Bank ’s Fatah leadership and the  Gaza Strip ’s ruling Hamas
movement will spur growth in both territories, the Palestinian
Authority president’s top economic adviser said.  The move to heal the four-year schism between President
Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah organization and Hamas may lead to 20
percent annual growth in Gaza, Mohammad Mustafa said. West Bank
growth may exceed 13 percent over the next two years, he said.
Growth in the West Bank and Gaza Strip was 9 percent in 2010,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report in April.  “Best-case scenario, if the reconciliation is implemented
and the border crossings of Gaza are opened not only for people
but also for goods, I believe we can easily reach 20 percent
growth in Gaza,” Mustafa said in an interview in Dubai.  Mustafa is chairman and chief executive officer of the
 Palestine  Investment Fund, the Palestinian Authority’s primary
vehicle for bringing in foreign investment. He acknowledged that
he is being considered as a possible replacement for Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad if Hamas won’t agree to
keep the Texas-educated economist in the job.  “I came to Palestine upon the request of the president to
head the PIF and to act as his economic adviser,” said Mustafa,
who previously worked for the  World Bank  in  Washington . “I have
done that for the last five years and I’m very satisfied with
the progress I’ve made at this job. But if he decides that he
wants me to help in any other job, obviously I will respond
positively to his request.”  Hamas, considered a terrorist group by the U.S., European
Union and  Israel , split with Fatah after a violent clash between
their forces in Gaza in June 2007. The two factions signed a
reconciliation agreement in Cairo last month to set up a new
unity government ahead of elections later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Ramallah, through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 