-- 
Pandora Plunges Below IPO Price, Reversing Yesterday’s Gains

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-16T21:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/pandora-plunges-below-ipo-price-reversing-yesterday-s-gains-3-.html
Pandora Media Inc. fell below its
initial public offering price in its second day of trading amid
concern that competition may hinder the streaming radio
company’s potential for growth.  The Oakland, California-based company declined 24 percent
to $13.26 as of 4:15 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange after
climbing 8.9 percent yesterday. The company raised $234.9
million in an IPO on June 14.  Pandora failed to hold the value investors gave it in its
IPO this week even as professional-networking site LinkedIn
Corp. trades 52 percent above its May offering price and Yandex
NV, Russia’s most popular search engine, is 22 percent higher
than its IPO price last month. Pandora’s competitors include
satellite radio service  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  as well as online
music services from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “The barriers to entry are not very high, and the
innovation is really taking place at the speed of light,” said
 Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about $49
billion. “They are very susceptible to changing technology and
changing consumer preferences.”  ‘Array of Competitors’  Pandora gained a market value of $2.6 billion, or about 19
times last year’s sales, selling 14.7 million shares for $16
each. The company had originally offered 13.7 million shares for
$7 to $9. Sirius trades at about 2.7 times last year’s sales.  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at New York-based BTIG LLC,
initiated coverage of Pandora with a “sell” rating today, with
a one-year price target of $5.50, citing risks from competition
and inadequate earnings growth.  “Pandora has been the ‘survivor’ in Internet radio, but we
believe digital music will have a wider array of competitors
over the coming year,” Greenfield said in a research note
today.  While Pandora already competes with peers such as Sirius,
it may face a bigger risk staying ahead of Apple, Google and
Amazon, which are investing in so-called cloud music offerings
that allow users to store their digital music collections
remotely.  Slacker, Rdio  Startups such as San Diego-based Slacker Inc. and San
Francisco-based Rdio Inc., as well as CBS Corp.’s Last.fm, also
provide competition by offering music through the Internet.  Spotify Ltd., the London-based online-music provider that’s
available in seven European countries, has reached agreements
with three major record labels and is close to a deal with a
fourth to begin a U.S. service, which could start as soon as
next month, people with knowledge of the matter said on June 13.  Founded in 2000 by  Tim Westergren  under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora makes 87 percent of its sales from advertisements
that target users based on age, gender, home postal code and
musical taste. Ads support the free radio service, and the
company sells subscriptions to users who want to listen without
advertising.  Pandora, which has struggled to convert users into paying
customers, has lost $92 million since 2000. The annual loss
shrank to $1.8 million last year from $16.8 million a year
earlier as registered users topped 90 million. Royalty costs
increased 21-fold since 2007 to $69.4 million last year, while
revenue jumped to $137.8 million in the same period.  LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View ,  California , booked $15.4
million of net income last year and more than doubled in value
on the first day of trading following its IPO. Yandex, based in
Moscow, has had net income every year since at least 2006,
according to its regulatory filings.  “There was a good track record of performance out of the
gate more recently, and Pandora’s faltering performance reminds
us that these IPOs are not guaranteed moneymakers,” said
RidgeWorth’s Gayle. It “is likely to cause investors to
exercise more careful scrutiny of future IPOs in that space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  