-- 
Papandreou Pleads With Parliamentary Allies to Back Greek Austerity Effort

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-16T16:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/papandreou-pleads-with-parliamentary-allies-to-back-greek-austerity-effort.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on his allies in parliament to back his
austerity plans that aim to stave off the euro region’s first
default.  “We must rise to the occasion and realize how dramatic the
situation is and work with a united spirit to face the crisis,”
Papandreou told lawmakers in Athens today. “Our answer to
the storms around us is stability and to continue our course,
with our planned changes and targets.”  Papandreou did not give any details of the government
reshuffle he announced last night after his bid to form a unity
government with the leading opposition party failed. Defections
by key allies fueled investor concern that his grip on power was
slipping and chances of default increasing, roiling global
financial markets.  The yield on  Greece ’s 2-year bond topped 30 percent for the
first time and the cost of protecting Greece against default
climbed 280 basis points to a record 2,050 basis points,
according to prices compiled by CMA. The euro fell to a three-
week low earlier in the day after sliding the most in more than
a month yesterday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent
today to 266.73.  The political turmoil came as European Union talks on
forging a new bailout to prevent the first euro-area default
stalled. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said in an interview that he was confident an agreement would be
reached to allow Greece to receive its next bailout payment.  Financial Crisis  Failure to secure the aid would push Greece to the brink of
default, with the country needing the funds to cover 6.6
billion euros ($9.3 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  “The alternative to compromise would be outright default,
which would be a disaster for everyone, including the Greeks and
the rest of the region,” said David Mackie, London-based chief
European economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. “It would lead to a
collapse in the Greek banking system and the economy, and would
likely generate a significant financial crisis across the
region.”  Papandreou sought to reassert his authority in a televised
address last night hours after police used tear gas to break up
protests in central  Athens  and media reported he was in talks to
step down in favor of a unity government. He said he would
reshuffle his Cabinet and then call a confidence vote in
parliament.  Allies Resign  Two members of his parliamentary group resigned today,
prompting lawmakers from his Pasok party to demand an emergency
meeting, which has delayed the announcement of a new Cabinet.
Papandreou told lawmakers that the country needs unity more than
ever and that he had faith that his allies would stand with him.
The meeting began at about 7 p.m. in Athens after his speech.  Papandreou will be able to replace the two with other party
members, so their exit won’t affect his parliamentary majority,
which shrank to five seats after the defection this week of two
other allies.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , who shepherded
Greece’s 110 billion-euro bailout last year, is under attack for
the new round of budget cuts and may be replaced, Greek media
have reported.  Lucas Papademos , the former European Central Bank
vice president and now an adviser to Papandreou, is touted as a
substitute.  Papandreou’s options are narrowing after attempts to gain
opposition support for the austerity plan failed, party allies
turned against him and public anger grew. The premier needs to
clinch a vote on a 78 billion-euro five-year package of budget
cuts and state-asset sales by the end of the month to ensure the
country gets a new aid package needed to prevent a default.  Athens Protests  “It is certainly regrettable that the efforts to build a
national unity government failed yesterday,” Rehn said in the
interview today in Brussels. “We supported those. And as it was
possible in Ireland and in  Portugal , it is difficult to see why
this cannot be possible in Greece.”  More than 20,000 people rallied yesterday in Athens against
wage reductions and tax increases as lawmakers debated the
budget cuts and asset sales. Ports, banks, hospitals and state-
run companies were paralyzed by strikes.  The political shakeup comes a week before a meeting in
Brussels of European leaders, who had pledged to sign off on a
new aid plan for Greece to plug a funding shortfall of about 30
billion euros next year. Under the original bailout, Greece was
due to return to markets in 2012. With its 10-year bond yielding
almost 18 percent, more than twice the level at the time of last
year’s rescue, Greece has abandoned that plan and is seeking
additional aid from its European partners.  IMF Funds  EU leaders are under further pressure to reach an agreement
on a new three-year aid plan after the  International Monetary
Fund  threatened to withhold its share of a 12 billion-euro
bailout payment due this month until the EU figures out how to
close Greece’s funding gap, which may reach 90 billion euros
over the next three years.  The IMF is “ready to continue our support for Greece,”
the organization said in a statement in  Washington  today.  “We have been in very close contact with the IMF,” Rehn
said. “I’m confident we can conclude the review in the coming
days, by Sunday, and we can thus take the decisions on the
disbursement respectively in the two organizations, so this next
disbursement can take place in early July.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  