-- 
Passos Coelho Wants Portugal to Return to Markets in Less Than Two Years

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-06-16T13:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/passos-coelho-wants-portugal-to-return-to-markets-in-less-than-two-years.html
Pedro Passos Coelho , Portugal’s
incoming Social Democratic premier, said he wants his country to
return to markets for funding in two years or less after it
requested a 78 billion-euro ($110 billion) bailout in April.  “We will need to return to the market in two years,”
Passos Coelho told reporters in Lisbon today. “We’ll do
everything so that return to the market will be even faster. We
will have to be very diligent in meeting the agreement that was
signed with the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . But we will also have to surprise.”  Passos Coelho spoke after the Social Democrats and the
 People’s Party  today signed an agreement to form a coalition
government following June 5 elections that gave the two parties
combined a majority of seats in parliament. Passos Coelho’s
 Social Democrats  defeated the Socialist Party of outgoing Prime
Minister Jose Socrates in the vote.  The coalition government will have to implement an
austerity plan that was a condition of the financial aid package
from the EU and the IMF. With the country’s debt and borrowing
costs surging, Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in April in
seeking a rescue.  Borrowing Costs Rise  The aid will allow Portugal to avoid having to raise funds
in bond markets for two years,  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF
mission in Portugal, said on May 5. Socrates’s minority
government fell in March, leading to the early elections, after
lawmakers rejected his proposed deficit-cutting plan as he
struggled to avoid a bailout.  Borrowing costs have increased since Portugal requested
aid. The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of more than 800 basis points today, up from 511
basis points when Socrates sought the bailout on April 6. The
10-year bond yield reached 10.97 percent today and the five-year
yield rose as high as 12.63 percent, also the highest levels
since the euro was adopted in 2000.  The yield on  Greece ’s 2-year bond topped 30 percent for the
first time today on concerns Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s grip on power was slipping, threatening passage of
a new austerity plan aimed at securing a second aid package and
avoiding the euro region’s first default. Papandreou decided to
reshuffle his Cabinet and demand his allies vote confidence in
his government.  Bill Auction  Yesterday, Portugal auctioned 1 billion euros of six-month
and three-month bills. The securities due in December were
issued at an average yield of 4.954 percent, less than the 5.529
percent at the previous auction on April 20. The bills due in
September were sold at an average 4.863 percent, compared with
4.967 percent at the previous auction on June 1.  Portugal ’s new government will have to carry out various
measures by the end of July, including the sale of failed lender
Banco Portugues de Negocios SA and the elimination of all
“golden shares” or other special rights held by the state in
publicly traded companies. It will also have to propose a law on
reducing severance payments and present a plan to cut employers’
social security contributions.  The three-year aid plan set goals for a budget deficit of
5.9 percent of GDP this year, 4.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent
in 2013. The country had the fourth-biggest gap in the 17-
country euro region last year at 9.1 percent of GDP.  Portugal’s public debt swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010
from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission forecasts
Portugal’s debt will increase to 101.7 percent this year and
107.4 percent in 2012. The debt ratio will start declining from
2013, according to outgoing Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos.  Teixeira dos Santos said on May 5 the economy will shrink 2
percent this year, twice as much as he previously forecast, as
further austerity measures are implemented. GDP will also
decline 2 percent in 2012, he said. Portugal’s economic growth
has averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past decade, one
of  Europe ’s weakest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 