-- 
Pfizer’s Chantix May Be Tied to Added Heart Risk, FDA Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-06-16T20:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/pfizer-s-chantix-tied-to-heart-risk-with-cardiovascular-disease.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s smoking cessation aid
Chantix, already carrying a warning it raises risks of suicide,
may be tied to higher heart danger in patients with
cardiovascular disease, U.S. regulators said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  found infrequent chest
pain, heart attacks and other adverse reactions in a study of
700 people with cardiovascular disease, the agency said today in
a  statement . The information will be added to the warnings and
precautions section of the prescribing information for Chantix.  The FDA is requiring New York-based Pfizer, the world’s
biggest drugmaker, to further evaluate the heart risks with an
analysis of existing studies. Chantix, approved in 2006,
generated $755 million in sales last year. The revenue has
fallen since the FDA warned in 2009 that the medicine may
increase the chance of suicide or erratic behavior.  “The known benefits of Chantix should be weighed against
its potential risks when deciding to use the drug in smokers
with cardiovascular disease,” the FDA said in its statement.  “The overall cardiovascular event rates reported in the
study were low,” Pfizer said in an e-mailed statement.  The company plans to discuss the analysis of existing
studies and the product labeling with FDA.  Pfizer rose 5 cents to $20.24 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Chantix affects dopamine, a chemical in the brain involved
in controlling mood and behavior. Because dopamine triggers a
positive mood response, regulating its levels can remove some of
the pleasure derived from smoking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 