-- 
Confidence Is Eroding Among U.S. Factories, Consumers, Economic Data Show

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-16T20:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-unexpectedly-falls-to-7-7-from-3-9.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly contracted in June and Americans’ views on
the economy’s outlook soured, signaling an erosion of confidence
in the expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.7, the lowest since July 2009, from 3.9
the prior month. Readings less than zero signal contraction. The
Bloomberg gauge of economic expectations slumped to minus 31
this month, the weakest since March 2009, from minus 16.  The Fed’s report corroborates data yesterday showing New
York-area manufacturing shrank in June and adds to evidence the
economy’s slowdown extended through the second quarter.
Unemployment above 9 percent makes it difficult for Americans to
ramp up spending, helping explain why central bankers may keep
the benchmark interest rate near zero into 2012.  “Economic data have taken a decided turn for the worse,
manufacturing in particular,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York. Job growth
“is going to prove fairly disappointing,” he said, and that
means “the consumer is not going to have enormous ammunition
for spending.”  Stocks rebounded, a day after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped to a three-month low, as better-than-estimated
housing starts and jobless claims reports tempered concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent to 1,267.64
at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Unemployment Benefits   First-time filings for unemployment benefits declined by
16,000 last week to 414,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 420,000
claims, according to the median forecast.  Construction began on 560,000 houses at an annual pace, up
3.5 percent from the prior month and exceeding the 545,000
median forecast of economists, Commerce Department figures
showed.  The median forecast of 54 economists surveyed before the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic activity
index was 7. Estimates for the manufacturing gauge that covers
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware  ranged
from zero to 19.5.  The Fed report also showed the outlook for the next six
months among Philadelphia-area factories dropped to 2.5 in June,
the lowest since December 2008, from 16.6. Part of the pessimism
may stem from supply disruptions related to the Japanese
earthquake in March.  “The economy isn’t growing strong enough to generate
enough jobs to start really attacking the  unemployment rate ,”
Ford Motor Co. Controller Bob Shanks said at an industry
conference yesterday. “ Consumer confidence  isn’t as strong as
you’d like it to be.”  Payrolls Growth Slows  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
and the jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent from
8.9 percent. A report yesterday showed the cost of living rose
more than forecast last month, threatening to erode the buying
power of consumers whose spending accounts for 70 percent of the
economy.  The Philadelphia Fed’s employment index was the weakest
since October, while the measure of new orders dropped to the
lowest level since June 2009.  The overall index isn’t composed of the individual
measures, one reason some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers. Economists monitor the  New York 
and Philadelphia Fed factory reports for clues about the
Institute for Supply Management national figures on
manufacturing during the month. The ISM data are due on July 1.  New York Fed  Figures from the New York Fed yesterday showed the so-
called Empire State index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level
since November, from 11.9 in May.  Americans’ views on the economy’s outlook soured in June,
showing that unemployment, inflation and the slump in housing
are worrying consumers, according to the Bloomberg consumer
comfort report.  The 15-point decrease in the Bloomberg gauge of economic
expectations was the biggest one-month drop since December 2008.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, issued weekly, improved to
minus 44 in the period to June 12, the highest level since mid
April, from minus 45.9 as gasoline prices kept falling.  Rising Inflation  “Working-class households indicated a growing
dissatisfaction with the direction of the economy, likely due to
rising inflation and an elevated rate of unemployment,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. “This group is likely experiencing the most difficulty in
adjusting to the higher costs of necessities and the inability
to draw on credit due to the relatively tight credit
conditions.”  Bloomberg’s monthly measure of the economy’s direction
showed the proportion of people saying things are getting worse
jumped the most since September 2009, while fewer people said
the economy is getting better. Forty-seven percent of those
surveyed had a more negative outlook, compared with 36 percent
in mid May. Sixteen percent said the economy is getting better,
down from 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net  