-- 
Polish Central Bank May Keep Key Rate Unchanged This Year, Bratkowski Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-16T06:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/poland-may-leave-main-rate-unchanged-this-year-bratkowski-says.html
Poland ’s central bank may leave
 interest rates  unchanged this year as it waits for 100 basis
points of increases since January to curb the fastest inflation
in a decade, central banker Andrzej Bratkowski said.  Inflation, which surged to 5 percent in May, will slow as
economic growth in the second half may be less than 4 percent
and household income, squeezed by high energy and fuel prices,
will restrain consumption, Bratkowski said in an interview in
Warsaw yesterday.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  last week raised its benchmark
interest rate to 4.5 percent, the fourth increase this year, and
signaled it will pause before further increases. Central bankers
need more time to assess the effects of this year’s monetary
tightening as they seek to slow consumer-price growth to their
2.5 percent target.  “We have got room to wait for the effects of four rate
hikes and I don’t expect anything that could force me to vote
for a fifth one before the end of this year,” Bratkowski said.
“If we keep on raising rates as long as inflation exceeds the
target, we would overshoot. A maximum of four quarters should be
enough to see the inflation rate returning to a decent level.”  Policy makers around the world are battling to contain
inflation spurred by rising food, commodity and energy costs.
Central banks in Norway, Russia and  Denmark , along with the
 European Central Bank , have increased borrowing costs in the
past two months in response to price pressures.  Rate Bets  Investors boosted bets on a Polish interest-rate increase
in July after the May inflation report was released yesterday.
One-month forward-rate agreements were trading 30 basis points
above three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, up 2 basis
points from a day earlier.  The six-month FRA are trading 38 basis points above the
Wibor, compared with 30 basis points a day earlier, indicating
investors in the derivative market expect borrowing costs to
rise no more than a quarter-point this year.  Inflation may not slow in the next two or three months,
according to Bratkowski, who pledged to focus on other
indicators such as wage growth and industrial output when making
rate decisions.  “The May inflation rate was high, but not decisive,” he
said. “This index won’t matter to me in the next two or three
month as I expect it won’t start falling earlier. Much more
important will be the data on economic activity. Some strong
trends would have to emerge to make me vote for tightening.”  ‘Won’t Panic’  Policy makers “won’t panic” because of the May inflation
figure, Governor  Marek Belka  said yesterday. Elzbieta Chojna- Duch, another member of the rate-setting panel, said she sees no
room for rate increases at the moment as higher borrowing costs
may hurt investments and the inflation rate will probably begin
declining in July.  Bratkowski voted for rate increases three times this year,
including a failed motion in March, according to central bank
voting records.  “Chances are that the inflation trend will reverse within
the next two or three quarters and it won’t be a tragedy if the
annual rate doesn’t fall below 4 percent at the end of the
year,” Bratkowski said. “If I see that this process doesn’t
start within these two-to-three quarters, then I will support
resuming rate hikes as that would mean slower economic growth
isn’t enough to curb inflation within the next two years.”  Currency Impact  Gains by the zloty will help tame inflation, Bratkowski
said. The currency has strengthened 3.6 percent against the euro
in the past three months, the fifth-best performance among 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  "A fast rate-hike series could have discouraged investors
from the zloty, so we can see the impact of tightening on the
currency only now as there is some potential for strengthening,"
he said.  The zloty strengthening beyond 3.6 per euro within a short
period of time and economic growth slowing to less than 3
percent, wold make it possible to lower borrowing costs.  "This could be an argument for considering a rate cut," he
said. "The probability of another hike is dramatically lower
than leaving the rates unchanged and only slightly higher than a
cut."  The zloty traded at 3.9531 against the euro at 8:43 a.m. in
Warsaw from 3.9457 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  