-- 
Polish Wage Growth Slows, Giving Central Bank Room to Pause Rate Increases

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-06-16T14:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/polish-may-wage-growth-slows-giving-central-bank-room-on-rates.html
Polish corporate wage growth slowed
in May from a 16-month high, suggesting the central bank may not
need to override its governor’s preference for taking a break
from increasing  interest rates .  Corporate wages rose 4.1 percent on the year, compared with
5.9 percent in April, the Central Statistical Office reported in
Warsaw today. The figure was below the median forecast of 5.4
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists.  “The data clearly reduce the likelihood of a July rate
increase, which had grown after the May consumer price data,”
Jakub Borowski, the chief economist at Invest-Bank SA in Warsaw,
said by phone. “It’s evident there’s no wage pressure.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the fourth
increase this year, to curb inflation that has remained above
the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since October.  The zloty was little changed after the data release and
traded at 3.9817 per euro at 3:56 p.m., 0.9 percent weaker on
the day. The 10-year Treasury bond price pared its decline after
the publication and yielded 5.91 percent, compared with 5.89
percent yesterday.  Wait to See  Inflation accelerated to 5 percent in May, the highest in
almost a decade, the  Central Statistical Office  reported
yesterday. While faster price growth prompted Raffaella Tenconi,
an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London , to
predict policy makers may need to raise rates for a fourth month
in July, central bank Governor Marek Belka said last week the
Monetary Policy Council would wait to see if this year’s rate
increases will be sufficient to slow inflation.  The inflation rate will diminish as economic growth slows
later this year, central banker Andrzej Bratkowski said
yesterday in a Bloomberg interview. Continuing to increase
interest rates until inflation slows to the central bank’s
target would be an “overshoot,” he said. Economy Minister
Waldemar Pawlak said today he “hopes” the central bank will
stick to its plan to pause policy tightening.  Annual inflation may remain at a “relatively high level”
with the rate “probably” exceeding the central bank’s upper
target limit of 3.5 percent throughout this year, the Monetary
Policy Council cited some members as saying in the minutes of
its June 7-8 meeting, published today.  The minutes cited other central bankers saying that fast
wage growth in April may have been due to delayed first-quarter
bonus payouts at mining and power companies, while high
unemployment “reduced the risk of a mounting wage pressure.”
The jobless rate was 12.6 percent in April, the highest rate for
that month in four years.  Employment increased an annual 3.6 percent in May, down
from 3.9 percent in April, compared with the 3.8 percent median
forecast by 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  