-- 
Poltrona Frau Expects Haworth Deal to Boost North American Sales

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-16T07:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/poltrona-frau-expects-haworth-deal-to-boost-north-american-sales.html
Poltrona Frau SpA (PFG) , the Italian maker
of Cappellini and Cassina furniture, expects revenue in  North
America  to “increase significantly” this year following a
distribution deal with office specialist Haworth Inc.  Poltrona Frau agreed last month to sell its chairs and
other products in the Holland, Michigan-based furniture
retailer’s dealerships in the U.S. and Canada. The Italian
company, which gets about 7 percent of sales in the Americas,
said at the time the deal would generate at least $20 million of
additional revenue in the next five years  “Even before this agreement, our business in North America
was up 25 percent this year,” Chief Executive Officer Dario Rinero said in a phone interview. “I expect this partnership
will increase significantly this trend.”  Revenue this year at the Turin-based maker of leather and
ash wood desks has risen more than 40 percent in  Asia  and about
7 percent or 8 percent in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa,
its biggest region, Rinero said. Sales in  France , Switzerland
and the U.K. are showing “nice growth” while Italy “is up
about 3 points,” he said.  Poltrona Frau, which gets 98 percent of North American
revenue from residential sales, tends to sell only to the
executive floors of office buildings, Rinero said. By joining
forces with closely held Haworth, whose movable walls, desks,
filing systems, tables and lighting cater to the general
workplace, Poltrona Frau can broaden its reach, he said.
Haworth, meanwhile, will be able to extend its offer to lobbies,
cafeterias and executive areas, CEO Franco Bianchi said.  The companies may expand the deal to other countries and it
could lead to “co-development and licensing” projects in the
future, Bianchi said. “We are very optimistic about the
opportunities that we will discover together,” he said, adding
Haworth doesn’t plan to take a stake in Poltrona Frau.  Haworth reported sales of $1.21 billion in 2010. The
company, which has more than 600 dealers worldwide, is growing
“in line“ with the U.S. furniture market, where sales are
rising about 20 percent, Bianchi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  