-- 
Pound Weakens Versus Dollar as Retail Sales Data Falls More Than Estimated

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-16T15:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/pound-weakens-versus-dollar-euro-before-report-on-u-k-retail-sales-data.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar and gilts rallied after data showed U.K. retail sales
slumped more than economists forecast, adding further weight to
calls for the  Bank of England  to keep  interest rates  on hold.  Short-sterling futures rose, signaling traders cut bets on
an increase in borrowing costs. Governor Mervyn King yesterday
said officials should hold rates at a record low because weak
growth in wages signals the current above-target inflation will
prove temporary. Retail sales fell 1.4 percent from April, the
 Office for National Statistics  said, as sentiment was hurt by
the government’s budget squeeze. The drop exceeded the 0.6
percent median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Most expected that the numbers would be low or bad, but
only a few expected such rubbish numbers,” said  John Hydeskov ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  London . “With private
spending now dropping off the top of a cliff, austerity measures
are really starting to bite.”  The pound fell as much as 0.7 percent to $1.6079, the
lowest since May 24, before trading at $1.6136 as of 4:37 p.m.
in London. Sterling fell 0.2 percent against the euro to 87.75
pence and depreciated 0.7 percent to 130.22 yen.  Investors now expect the central bank to next increase
rates in March next year, forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average show. As recently as February,
traders were betting on an increase as soon as May of this year,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed.  King Speech  The implied yield on the June 2012 short-sterling futures
contract fell four basis points to 1.17 percent.  “Subdued rates of increase in average earnings, as well as
remarkably, some might say disturbingly, low growth rates of
broad money have provided strong signals that inflation will
fall back in due course,” King said in a speech in London late
yesterday. A rate increase “would have meant a weaker recovery,
or even further falls in output” and “a risk of inflation
falling well below the target in the medium term.”  Sterling was supported versus the euro as European
officials failed to reassure investors they are close to
reaching a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  Greek and Portuguese two-year yields climbed to records
today.  Germany  has clashed with the  European Central Bank  this
week over how to engage private investors in the next stage of
rescuing debt-stricken  Greece .  Cabinet Shuffle  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will reshuffle his Cabinet
today and seek a confidence vote, battling to control a
shrinking majority and pass austerity measures demanded by
international lenders to ensure the next tranche of aid.  “I would, under normal circumstances, expect to see a much
bigger rise in euro-sterling on very bad data like this,” said
Hydeskov. “The pound is keeping up against the euro due to the
European debt crisis. If I wasn’t for that I have no doubt that
we would be trading above 90 pence.”  U.K. government bonds advanced, with the yield on 10-year
gilts five basis points lower at 3.19 percent, after earlier
reaching 3.17 percent the lowest since Nov. 12. The yield on
two-year notes was three basis points lower at 0.75 percent.  The Debt Management Office plans to auction 4 billion
pounds ($6.5 billion) of 28-, 91- and 182-day bills tomorrow.  Gilts have returned 2.7 percent this year, compared with a
3.3 gain on Treasuries, according to European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  