-- 
Prada Hong Kong IPO Said to Raise $2.14 Billion, Less Than Maximum Sought

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-17T08:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/prada-said-to-price-shares-at-hk39-50-in-h-k-.html
Prada SpA and its owners raised
about HK$16.7 billion ($2.14 billion) in this year’s biggest
Hong Kong initial public offering after the company sold shares
near the low end of its target amid a global stock-market slump.  The luxury company, the Prada family and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  sold 423.3 million shares for HK$39.50 each, according to
two people familiar with the matter. The sale gives Prada a
market value of about 9 billion euros ($12.7 billion), or 23
times 2011 earnings, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the details aren’t public.  The Milan-based company is the second foreign issuer in a
week, after Samsonite International SA, to scale back its Hong
Kong fundraising plans amid a five-week slump for the  Hang Seng
Index (HSI) , which has lost 6.7 percent since May 13. Prada, which
starts trading in Hong Kong on June 24, sold stock at a higher
valuation than global peers like  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s biggest maker of  luxury goods .  “Market volatility and Prada’s high valuation hurt
demand,” said  Castor Pang , head of research at Hong Kong
brokerage Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd. “Even after
the low pricing, Prada’s stock still looks much more expensive
than peers like LVMH.”  Miuccia’s Stake  President  Miuccia Prada , granddaughter of founder Mario
Prada, her husband, Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli,
and other family members will receive about $1.3 billion from
the sale, before fees and the exercise of overallotment options,
and retain a stake worth $10.7 billion, according to data from
the prospectus. Intesa will receive about $517 million, and the
company about $298 million. About two-thirds of the company’s
proceeds will be used to fund the expansion of Prada’s directly
operated stores as Asian customers increase spending on luxury
goods.  LVMH trades at 18.4 times estimated earnings, according to
Bloomberg data. Smaller rival  PPR (PP)  SA, maker of Gucci, is valued
at about 13.4 times analysts’ estimates and  Cie Financiere
Richemont SA (CFR)  at 17.50 times estimates, the data show.  Prada initially sought to sell the shares at HK$36.50 to
HK$48, according to the IPO prospectus. The company yesterday
narrowed the range to HK$39.50 to HK$42.25 after failing to get
orders for half of the 42.3 million shares offered to retail
investors, two people with knowledge of the matter said. Prada
had enough orders to sell the shares about three times over at
that price, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
About ninety-five percent of the stock was sold to money
managers and the rest went to retail investors.  Diana Footitt, an outside spokeswoman for Prada in  Hong
Kong , declined to comment.  Bohemian Crystal  The share sale by Prada, which began in 1913 as a store
selling leather bags, trunks and Bohemian crystal in Milan, is
the largest for consumer-goods companies in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Samsonite, the
Mansfield, Massachusetts-based luggage maker, dropped 7.7
percent in its first day of trading yesterday after raising
$1.25 billion in its IPO, the bottom of a revised range.  Including Prada, companies have raised $13.2 billion in
Hong Kong IPOs so far in this year, compared with $6.2 billion
at the same point a year ago. Of the 30 companies to price IPOs
this year in Hong Kong and begin trading, 23 have fallen since
their debut and the average decline is about 16 percent, the
data show.  Penetrating  China   Mainland China, which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or
 Taiwan , will remain the fastest-growing market for high-end
goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros
($16.3 billion), Bain & Co. said May 3. The country may become
the world’s third-largest luxury market in five years, the
consulting company predicted.  Prada plans to open about 80 outlets annually over the
next three years, of which as many 12 will be in China and
about 25 in  Asia , Deputy Chairman Carlo Mazzi said June 12. The
company had 319 directly operated stores on Jan. 31, of which
18 were in China. The company plans to expand to northern
 Europe , where it has no retail outlets, as well as other
unexploited markets in the  Middle East  and  Latin America , Mazzi
said.  The company has forecast first-half profit growth of at
least 46 percent as it opens more stores in Asia. Profit more
than doubled to 250.8 million euros last year. Sales in China
grew at a compound annualized rate of about 52 percent in the
three years ended January, according to the prospectus.  Excluding the overallotment of shares, a company
controlled by the Prada family owns 82.5 percent of the company,
down from 94.9 percent, after the sale. Intesa Sanpaolo cut its
stake from 5.1 percent to 1 percent and won’t sell shares in
the overallotment option.  Intesa Sanpaolo,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  unit CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UniCredit SpA managed the
IPO, along with Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  