-- 
Trains, Buses Halted in Nationwide Czech Transportation Strike

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-16T01:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/trains-buses-halted-in-nationwide-czech-transportation-strike.html
Czech transportation workers went on
a one-day strike today to protest against government plans to
overhaul public finances with measures including a value-added
tax increase, snarling railway and road traffic.  The nationwide work stoppage began at midnight and comes a
day after thousands of Greeks rallied against public wage cuts
and tax increases. Czech  air travel  isn’t affected by the
strike, the biggest transportation protest in the country that
shed communism in 1989, according to Lubos Pomajbik, the head of
the Transportation Trade Unions.  “We wanted to, and we want to stop reforms that are unjust
and anti-social,” Pomajbik said.  The unions also oppose a plan to allow people to redirect
part of their compulsory pension payments into personal accounts
as the Cabinet tries to boost private savings for retirement and
are against a plan to raise the  retirement age . The goals, which
are the centerpieces of Prime Minister Petr Necas’s agenda,
helped Czech bonds outperform German debt in the past year.  The  Czech Republic  is the last of the four largest post-
communist economies in the European Union to boost private
savings for retirement as the government expects an ageing
population to reduce the number of workers paying for pensions
of the retired. The Cabinet wants to avoid the difficulties
suffered by Hungary and  Poland , where pension changes widened
budget gaps, forcing a reversal of their overhauls.  The government approved last month a plan to raise the
lower VAT bracket to 14 percent from 10 percent next year, while
the upper bracket will stay at 20 percent. The VAT rate will be
unified at 17.5 percent from 2013.  “The strike will increase political tensions,” Necas told
reporters yesterday. “Economic damage will be in the billions
of koruna.”  The economic impact of the strike should be less than 10
billion koruna ($587 million), depending on the extent of
production restraint and length of the protest, Raiffeisenbank
AS analysts in Prague wrote in a report June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  