-- 
RBC Signs Five-Year Contract to Sponsor PGA Tour’s Hilton Head Tournament

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-16T18:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/rbc-signs-five-year-contract-to-sponsor-pga-tour-s-hilton-head-tournament.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest lender, signed a five-year contract to sponsor the U.S.
PGA Tour’s event in Hilton Head,  South Carolina .  The tournament, which will return to its traditional spot
the week after April’s Masters Tournament in 2012, lost  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  as its sponsor in 2010 and was in danger of
being dropped from the schedule.  Along with Toronto-based RBC, the  Boeing Co. (BA)  will serve as
the tournament’s presenting sponsor through 2016, the PGA Tour
said in a press release. Financial terms of the agreements
weren’t disclosed.  “This is a great day in South Carolina, and we’re going to
celebrate,” Governor Nikki Haley said in a statement. “The
tournament is an opportunity for us to showcase our state. We
shouldn’t rely on taxpayers to foot the bill.”  Hilton Head’s Pete Dye-designed Harbor Town Golf Links has
hosted the tournament since 1969. The course has become a
favorite of many professionals.  “It’s one of the classics,”  Luke Donald , an Englishman
ranked as the world’s No. 1 player, told reporters after today’s
opening round of the U.S. Open in Bethesda, Maryland. “It’s
nice to see RBC getting heavily involved with another
tournament.”  RBC also sponsors the Canadian Open in July, and has naming
rights on the Carolina Hurricanes’ hockey arena in Raleigh,
North Carolina, where its U.S. consumer bank is based.  Donald, 33, is one of several PGA Tour players who have
endorsement agreements with the bank, along with U.S. Open
winners Ernie Els and Jim Furyk.  To contact the reporters on this story: Michael Buteau in
Bethesda, Maryland, at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ; 