-- 
RBC Ranks First in Investor Satisfaction, J.D. Power Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-06-16T15:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/rbc-ranks-first-in-investor-satisfaction-j-d-power-study-says.html
RBC Wealth Management, the unit of
Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  that oversees almost $200
billion for more than 350,000 households, won the highest
satisfaction ranking in a  survey  of full-service investment
firms’ customers, according to J.D. Power & Associates.  RBC earned a score of 814 on a 1,000-point scale this year
compared with 793 in 2010, with strong marks for brokers’
customer service and account information, said the survey of
about 4,200 investors released today. The average score was 772.  Communicating well with customers, including explanations
of  investment performance  and fees, are key contributors to
customer satisfaction, said David Lo, director of investment
services at J.D. Power, a  Westlake Village , California-based
marketing-information company.  “One of the big things coming out of the recession we’ve
seen is the expectation for proactive communication has
increased,” Lo said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“People want more touch, more contact from their adviser.”  The 2011 U.S. Full Service Investor Satisfaction Study
measured companies using seven criteria such as investment
performance, account information, website, offerings and fees.
The report is based on responses in March from investors who
make some or all of their investing decisions with a full-
service broker, according to  J.D. Power , a unit of  New York- 
based McGraw-Hill Cos.  Market Share  Full-service brokers managed about $8.7 trillion in client
assets, or about 70 percent of the $12.4 trillion wealth-
management market, as of the end of 2009, based on the most
recent data from Aite Group.  Charles Schwab & Co., a unit of San Francisco-based  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , was ranked second with a score of 805, jumping
from fourth place last year on higher marks for its website and
range of investment products, Lo said. Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments  rose to third place from seventh in 2010.  Last year’s winner, St. Louis-based Edward Jones slipped to
fifth place as its rating on investment performance declined.  “The competition is catching up with us, and in some
instances have passed us by a little bit,” John Beuerlein, a
general partner at Edward Jones, who is responsible for client
satisfaction, said in a telephone interview.  Last Place  The lowest scoring firm was New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
at No. 13 with a score of 670. Citigroup wasn’t ranked in last
year’s survey.  “We take the feedback we receive from our clients very
seriously,” Will Howle, chief operating officer of North
America Consumer and Commercial Banking for Citigroup, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Our aspiration is to lead in client
satisfaction.”  Chase Investment Services Corp., a unit of New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , was next to last with a score of 704,
after taking the bottom spot in the 2010 survey.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch rose to ninth place
with a score of 758, from its ranking of 11th last year.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wells Fargo
Advisors also scored below the industry average, coming in 10th
and 11th, respectively.  More than half of Americans surveyed said their retirement
portfolios haven’t yet recovered from the 2009 market lows,
according to a study released earlier this week from Edward
Jones.  Managing Expectations  “What we’ve seen is it’s not the dollar-for-dollar
performance, it’s the ability of the adviser to manage the
expectations of the investor,” that contributes more to a
positive rating, said Lo of J.D. Power.  About 40 percent of Americans surveyed are less trusting of
financial planners than they were three years ago, according to
a  report  released today by the Certified Financial Planner Board
of Standards Inc., which administers the Certified Financial
Planner designation.  The J.D. Power report also found that 85 percent of full-
service investors haven’t heard of or don’t understand the
difference between a fiduciary and a suitability standard.
Brokers generally are held to a suitability standard that calls
for advice that meets their clients’ needs when a product is
sold, instead of the fiduciary duty followed by registered
investment advisers to put their clients’ best interests first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 