-- 
Treasuries Advance on Concern Greece Will Struggle to Contain Debt Turmoil

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-16T21:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/treasury-yields-near-2011-low-on-concern-greece-debt-crisis-to-will-worsen.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields on
10-year notes to this year’s low, on speculation  Greece  will
struggle to avoid default even as the  International Monetary
Fund  reiterated its support.  Five-year notes advanced as Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pleaded with his allies in parliament to back his
austerity plans after yesterday’s debt rally pushed yields down
the most in a year. Bonds got a boost as a report showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank.  “With the situation in Greece still unstable, investors
are moving into Treasuries,” said  Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-
income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in Purchase,
New York. “The economic numbers continue to come in a little
bit softer than expected on balance.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 5:00 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.125 percent security due in May 2021 rose 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 21/32.  The 10-year yields fell earlier to 2.88 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 1. Two-year yields were little changed at 0.38
percent after touching 0.34 percent, the lowest level since Nov.
5. The record low of 0.3118 percent was set Nov. 4. Five-year
yields slid two basis points to 1.53 percent after dropping 14
basis points yesterday, the most since June 2010.  Treasury Volatility  Treasury volatility is the highest in two months, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Move index. The gauge,
measuring price swings based on over-the-counter options
maturing in two to 30 years, rose to 87.90, the highest level
since April 8.  Yields on 10-year notes increased 11 basis points two days
ago, the most since Jan. 5, after a government report showed
retail sales fell in May less than economists forecast. The gain
was erased yesterday on Greece’s debt turmoil.  Government bonds  pared gains earlier today as European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels that “close
contact” with the IMF made him confident of an accord at a
weekend crisis meeting to pay out 12 billion euros ($17 billion)
in July as long as Greece enacts new budget cuts.  In an e-mailed statement,  Caroline Atkinson , a spokeswoman
for the IMF in  Washington , said “progress is being made in the
discussions to ensure the full financing of the program, and we
anticipate a positive outcome on this at the next Eurogroup
meeting.”  Greek Politics  Prime Minister Papandreou didn’t give any details of the
government change he announced yesterday after his bid to form a
unity government with the leading opposition party failed.
Police used tear gas to break up protests in  Athens  yesterday.  “We must rise to the occasion and realize how dramatic the
situation is and work with a united spirit to face the crisis,”
Papandreou told lawmakers in the capital today.  The yield on Greece’s two-year notes climbed to more than
30 percent today, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares fell
0.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fluctuated, ending
the day 0.2 percent higher.  The spread between two-year Treasury yields and interest-
rate swaps of similar maturity jumped to as much as 29.8 basis
points, the highest level since Dec. 1, on speculation the
European debt crisis will drive up interbank lending rates. The
swaps exchange a fixed rate for a three-month London interbank
offered rate, or Libor.  ‘Pendulum of Fear’  “Everybody knows that there has to be some sort of
restructuring,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money
manager  in Salem,  Massachusetts , at Cabot Money Management,
which oversees $500 million. “The pendulum of fear, uncertainty
and doubt is rising. It’s feeding on itself.”  Treasuries were supported as the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index dropped to minus 7.7 in
June from 3.9 a month earlier. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion of manufacturing in eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New
Jersey  and  Delaware . The median forecast of 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a gain to 7.  Investors have reduced bets on an increase in the Fed’s
target rate for overnight lending. Futures indicating the
likelihood of higher borrowing costs by March dropped to 21
percent today from 33 percent a month ago. The fed funds target
has been held at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Fed purchased $4.9 billion of Treasuries maturing from
July 2015 to November 2016 today as part of its $600 billion
second round of quantitative easing expiring this month.  Other economic reports showed a drop in applications for
 unemployment insurance  and a bigger gain in housing starts than
economists projected.  “These numbers look a touch stronger than expected, but I
don’t think the market’s going to get too excited,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
SA, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  