-- 
Record Stock Gains for Acquirers Defy Wall Street Selloff Wisdom

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/record-stock-gains-for-buyers-defy-wall-street-wisdom-on-takeover-selloffs.html
As Laurie Brlas, chief financial
officer of  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) , prepared to announce a
deal to buy a rival mining company this year, she was confident
investors would eventually see the wisdom of her company’s plan.  She didn’t expect them to see it so fast. After agreeing to
purchase Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd. for about $5
billion, Cliffs shares gained 4.1 percent, benefiting from an
unprecedented amount of support in the stock market for large
acquisitions. Apparel maker  VF Corp. (VFC)  surged 10 percent June 13,
when it announced a deal to buy Timberland Co. for about $1.8
billion.  “There was a very good chance the immediate next day might
have had a different outcome,” Brlas said in an interview.  The typical takeover announcement pushed a buyer’s shares
more than 1.1 percentage point above its benchmark stock index
both this year and last, the most in at least a decade, based on
a Bloomberg analysis of more than 3,800 transactions worldwide
since 2000. The increases challenge the notion on  Wall Street 
that acquirers should brace for a selloff and show companies are
being rewarded for pursuing growth after exhausting internal
options to cut costs and boost sales.  “Organic growth continues to be a challenge for many
companies,” said Christopher Ventresca, co-head of North
America mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York.  Earnings increases have slowed for members of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index even after companies pared expenses and
reined in spending during the recession. Companies that have
released results since April 11 reported a 20 percent gain in
profits on average, compared with 40 percent in the previous
reporting season, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Betting on Timing’  The market’s support this year is most pronounced for cash
takeovers, in what may be a sign that companies are under
pressure to spend the record cash hoards they amassed during the
recession. Returns are limited, with the yield on a 10-year U.S.
Treasury note hovering near 3 percent. The largest 1,000 non-
financial companies are holding about $3.5 trillion of cash and
equivalents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bullishness on deals may also be a wager on the
economic cycle, said Steven Baronoff, the New York-based head of
M&A at Bank of America Corp., who says he has been pointing out
the phenomenon to clients for about a year now.  “Investors are betting on timing,” he said. “The general
view is that deals done in year one or two of a recovery perform
better.”  Economic Risk  The optimism may prove premature if the economy heads back
into recession after seven straight quarters of growth, or if
access to credit tightens. More than $1 trillion has been erased
from U.S. equity markets since the S&P 500’s peak on April 29,
and domestic manufacturing in May grew at its slowest pace in
more than a year.  Many deals during 2007 and 2008, such as Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc’s purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV and Dow Chemical
Co.’s acquisition of Rohm & Haas Co., later proved to have
overextended the buyers before the onset of the credit crunch.  Buyers’ stocks have beaten their benchmark indexes
following a takeover announcement a majority of the time in 8 of
the past 12 years, the analysis shows. The most recent three
years have set records for gains. The median reaction before
2009 was a 0.2 percentage point advance over the benchmark, the
data show.  The Bloomberg analysis looked at 3,804 takeovers since Jan.
1, 2000, that were worth at least $200 million and in which the
buyer was a public company and was no more than 10 times as
large as the target. For each transaction, it calculated the
stock-market return from the day before to the day after the
announcement, minus the return in a benchmark  stock index .  Keeping Gains  Even deals that don’t work out can boost a stock. Michael Pearson, chief executive officer of  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) , offered $5.7 billion in cash for another
 drug company ,  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  News of the offer in March sent
Valeant’s shares up 13 percent.  While Cephalon eventually found another buyer, Valeant’s
stock has held on to its gains, which Pearson ascribed partly to
the market’s realization that Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant
could strike another big deal.  “There are a lot of other Cephalon-like companies out
there,” he said.  Cephalon, based in Frazer,  Pennsylvania , ended up agreeing
to a deal with  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  in May.
Teva’s stock rose 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 