-- 
Reframing the Broken U.S. Relationship With Pakistan: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/reframing-the-broken-u-s-relationship-with-pakistan-view.html
The events of the past week are a
cold shower for any who hold out hope that the U.S.- Pakistan 
relationship is on the mend. The latest round of bad news
started June 11, when the Washington Post reported that members
of the Pakistani military might have tipped off terrorists that
the U.S. had identified the location of their bomb-making
factories, allowing them to elude capture.  Yesterday brought word of the arrest of several Pakistanis
suspected of helping the Central Intelligence Agency gather
information for the May 1 raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .
These betrayals came only weeks after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral
Mike Mullen, traveled to Islamabad and sought a promise of
urgent action against Islamic extremists targeting American
forces in  Afghanistan . The CIA director, Leon Panetta, dropped
by the Pakistani capital a week later to reinforce the message.  The U.S. has relied on a combination of about $20 billion
in aid and empty threats over the past decade to persuade
Pakistan to end its destructive behavior. This policy hasn’t
been successful because it has been resisted by key Pakistani
military and intelligence leaders. The CIA’s deputy director,
Michael J. Morell, acknowledged as much last week in a closed
briefing of the Senate Intelligence Committee. Asked to rate
Pakistan’s cooperation on counterterrorism operations on a scale
of one to 10, he answered “three,” according to the New York
Times.  Better Terror Cooperation  Americans have every right to expect a much higher score.
The rational conclusion to draw from this failure is that
Pakistan won’t be induced to change course under the existing
policy. Rather than waiting for a breakthrough from Islamabad
that will never come,  Washington  should seriously consider
reframing its approach.  The stakes for U.S. national security couldn’t be higher.
Terrorists in Pakistan are planning attacks against the U.S.,
and Pakistan’s refusal to take steps to shut down the sanctuary
it provides Afghan insurgents will undermine the ability of U.S.
and allied troops to withdraw from Afghanistan. In addition,
Islamabad’s continued support for groups that commit acts of
terrorism against  India  increases the likelihood of a wider war
between two nuclear-armed rivals.  The first step of a new U.S. policy would be to leverage
the relationship Mullen has developed over the past 3 1/2 years
with the commander of Pakistan’s army, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. In a meeting this week with the  editorial board of
Bloomberg View , Mullen said he believes that Kayani is committed
to a good relationship with the U.S.  Mullen to Islamabad  President  Barack Obama  could dispatch Mullen to Islamabad
with a strong message designed to persuade Pakistan to change
course: In exchange for demonstrable efforts by Islamabad to
crack down on terrorists and insurgents on its territory, the
president would fight for additional military and economic aid,
as well as increased access to the U.S. textile market.
Washington also could offer to address Pakistan’s legitimate
security concerns, for example by pressing India to limit its
presence in Afghanistan and by helping to resolve the Indo-
Pakistani dispute over Kashmir.  Mullen would also make clear the inevitable consequences
for Pakistan if it continues to back terrorist groups. This
approach was successful, at least for a while, in the past. Two
days after the Sept. 11 attacks, Deputy Secretary of State
Richard Armitage handed Pakistan’s intelligence chief a non-
negotiable list of seven steps that needed to be carried out
immediately against al-Qaeda and the Taliban. The alternative,
Armitage said, was to be labeled a U.S. enemy. The Pakistanis
quickly agreed. As soon as President  George W. Bush  eased the
pressure, Pakistani support for terrorists resumed.  Crackdown on al Qaeda  Such a stark choice could work again. The U.S. should
insist on a 100 percent effort from Pakistan to end its support
for all terrorist groups. Mullen told Bloomberg View that Kayani
claims to have arrested or captured 248 members of al-Qaeda.
Yet, based on discussions with experts, we estimate that
Pakistan has made an 80 percent effort to defeat terrorists
targeting its government, a 75 percent effort against al-Qaeda,
a 25 percent effort against the Taliban and the Haqqani Network
operating in Afghanistan, and a 10 percent effort against groups
such as Lashkar-e-Taiba that strike India. These judgments are
consistent with the CIA’s assessment of a 30 percent effort.  After 10 years and many broken promises, the Pakistanis
need to understand that, absent a turnaround, the administration
may not have the clout -- or the desire -- to resist growing
demands from the American public and Congress to treat Islamabad
as an adversary rather than a partner. This could result in a
cutoff of military and non-humanitarian civilian assistance, and
perhaps pressure for the  International Monetary Fund  and other
donors to do the same.  Engagement With India  And Pakistan should also be made to understand that a
failure to change paths could lead to closer U.S. engagement
with India. This could include encouraging greater Indian
involvement in sensitive areas in Afghanistan. More importantly,
Mullen could emphasize that intransigence will mean that the
U.S. can no longer treat Islamabad as a friend. Such a change
would have inevitable consequences: First, it would make it
difficult, if not impossible, to dissuade India from retaliating
if it were attacked by Pakistani-backed terrorist groups, as the
U.S. did after the 2008 terror strikes in  Mumbai . Second, should
the U.S. be asked by India for assistance to identify and locate
the perpetrators of a future attack, it would be difficult to
turn down the request. Kayani surely understands that a
successful Indian retaliation, with or without U.S. intelligence
assistance, would humiliate the military and undermine its
privileged role.  Nuclear Arsenal  Some may argue that reframing the policy along these lines
would inflame nationalist anger, possibly leading to a takeover
of Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal by Islamic fanatics. Or that
Islamabad might reduce the access of the U.S. and its allies to
the supply routes into Afghanistan. Such concerns are
overstated: This change would have no effect on Pakistan’s
determination to keep its weapons secure. And while most U.S.
supplies for Afghanistan travel over Pakistani ports and roads,
the percentage is dropping, and closing down supply lines would
further inflame Pakistan’s relations with its major Western aid
donors who also have troops in Afghanistan.  Islamabad could also ask  China  to fill the void left by the
U.S. That is unrealistic: Although China and Pakistan have a
close relationship, the Pakistanis know Beijing isn’t eager to
add their country to its list of pariah client states that
already includes  North Korea  and Myanmar.  This new option, intended to change Pakistan’s approach,
isn’t perfect, but may be less risky than allowing Islamabad to
continue to support insurgents in Afghanistan and groups that
target innocent men, women and children in the U.S.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  