-- 
Rehn Urges Greek Cuts to Unlock Payment, Predicts Bond Deal

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-16T15:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/rehn-sees-consensus-emerging-on-role-of-bondholders-in-support-for-greece.html
Greece  needs to overcome its
political logjam to escape default and clinch an upgraded aid
package partly borne by bondholders, European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  As riots broke out in  Athens  and the Greek government
teetered, Rehn said “close contact” with the  International
Monetary Fund  made him confident of an accord at a weekend
crisis meeting to pay out 12 billion euros ($17 billion) in July
as long as Greece enacts new budget cuts.  “I know it is difficult, but this is the only way of
avoiding a default of Greece,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Brussels today. “I trust that all the
political leaders and responsible politicians realize their
responsibility at this critical juncture.”  Rehn paired the warning to Greece with a message of
reassurance to financial markets, saying Europe will do what it
takes to prevent the Greek crisis from triggering a euro-area
“catastrophe.”  Greek bonds plummeted today, with two-year yields topping
30 percent, as anti-austerity protests and Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s impending cabinet realignment stoked concern that
Greece won’t deliver the savings required as conditions for
further aid.  Bond spreads in  Spain ,  Italy  and  Belgium  also widened,
echoing the tensions that accompanied Greece’s first 110
billion-euro rescue package in May 2010 and led the EU to set up
a 750 billion-euro safety net for fiscally distressed countries.  ‘Certain Misreading’  “There is a certain misreading of the intentions and
future actions of the European leaders,” Rehn said. “We will
not let the euro area face any kind of catastrophe.”  Rehn also said views are converging over a German-led push
to saddle bondholders with some of the costs of Greece’s longer-
term rescue. He predicted an agreement next month on a three-
year aid package including a “voluntary” rescheduling of Greek
debt.  Greece’s immediate concern is to obtain 8.7 billion euros
from Europe and 3.3 billion euros from the IMF in July, promised
as part of last year’s precedent-setting aid package to stave
off the euro area’s first default.  “We have been in very close contact with the IMF,” Rehn
said. “I’m confident we can conclude the review in the coming
days, by Sunday, and we can thus take the decisions on the
disbursement respectively in the two organizations, so this next
disbursement can take place in early July.”  ‘Buys Time’  “It certainly buys time and I think that’s what’s
important,”  Sarah Hewin , a senior economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London , said on Bloomberg Radio. “For the
near term, it’s that 12 billion that counts.”  The IMF said it stands ready to continue supporting Greece
if the economic measures agreed upon are adopted.  “Progress is being made in the discussions to ensure the
full financing of the program, and we anticipate a positive
outcome on this at the next eurogroup meeting,”  Caroline
Atkinson , a spokeswoman for the Washington-based IMF, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The disbursement, the fifth since Greece won relief last
year, hinges on the Greek parliament agreeing to more belt-
tightening measures to whittle away at debt equivalent to 142.8
percent of gross domestic product, the highest in the euro’s 12-
year lifespan.  Papandreou’s proposal for 78 billion euros in budget cuts
and state-asset sales prompted defections from allies and failed
to win opposition backing, leading him to seek fresh faces for
his government.  Confidence Vote  Papandreou plans to announce the new lineup today, then
hold a weekend confidence vote at what Rehn called a “very
serious moment” in the crisis that has tested  Europe ’s economic
management to the breaking point.  “We will be able to avoid any default scenario,” Rehn
said.  European finance ministers meet on June 19 after an
emergency session on June 14 broke up without an accord on the
next loan disbursement or on how to rope in bondholders without
prompting credit-rating companies to declare a Greek default.  Germany  wants to extend Greek bond maturities, a move that
the  European Central Bank  says would constitute a default and
send shockwaves through the financial system.  Germany’s Stance  Without giving details or betraying Germany’s stance, Rehn
said that “we are seeing a convergence on this issue, which is
a positive sign.” Details will be settled at a July 11 meeting
of finance ministers, he said.  “We will have to iron out the remaining differences as
regards the nature of private-sector involvement,” Rehn said.  The euro slid to three-week lows against the dollar and
yen, and stocks fell in Europe and  Asia .  “We have always been concerned of contagion,” Rehn said.
“One of the achievements over the past one-and-a-half years has
been that we have been able to prevent a financial meltdown in
Europe. We have been able to avoid a Lehman Brothers kind of
catastrophe on the European soil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  