-- 
Republic Airways Ties Frontier Brand Fate to Pilots’ ‘Watershed’ Cost Vote

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/republic-airways-ties-frontier-brand-fate-to-pilots-watershed-cost-vote.html
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  is
counting on pilots approving concessions to kick-start a $120
million restructuring plan at its Frontier Airlines unit, 20
months after buying the carrier out of bankruptcy.  About 650 pilots at the unit are voting through midday
tomorrow on whether to delay pay increases and accept cuts in
vacation and company 401(k) contributions in exchange for an
unspecified equity stake in Frontier. Approval would trigger
efforts to seek givebacks from other employees, vendors and
aircraft lessors, and raise $70 million in new capital.  “Ratification will be the watershed event to get other
significant stakeholders across the finish line,” Republic
Chief Executive Officer Bryan Bedford said in a June 10 e-mail
to employees. “It wouldn’t be an overstatement to say that
failure to ratify would likely derail the entire restructuring
effort.”  Republic, based in Indianapolis, may end up owning a
minority stake in Frontier should the restructuring be
completed. As part of the pilots’ pending agreement, Republic
must make a “good-faith effort” to attract equity investors
that would reduce its holdings by the end of 2014. The company
hired a consultant to help with the Frontier plan.  The full $120 million would let Frontier make a profit this
year, Bedford said. In addition to the new capital, the airline
expects $25 million in labor-related cost cuts, on top of at
least $25 million in savings from moving some regional jets from
Frontier to contract flying at Republic.  ‘Very Competitive Position’  If pilots accept the concessions, the plan still depends on
other stakeholders and employees taking part. Republic intends
to seek similar accords with additional Frontier worker groups.  A deal with the pilots would be the “linchpin” for the
Frontier plan, Jim Reichart, Republic’s vice president for
sales, said in an interview.  The agreement with the pilots also calls for the carrier to
order new narrow-body jets and establish a profit-sharing plan.
The current labor contract would be extended by two years.  “Successful execution of the restructuring plan should put
us in a very competitive position,” Jeff Thomas, president of
the  Frontier Airlines Pilots Association , said in an interview.  Bedford took on a new business model when Republic’s $108.8
million bid for Frontier beat  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  in a 2009
bankruptcy auction. Republic has posted losses in three of the
six quarters since, and its shares fell 50 percent from the Oct.
1, 2009, acquisition through yesterday, while the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index rose 29 percent.  ‘Major Distraction’  Frontier “has become a major distraction for management,”
Michael Linenberg, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in  New York , said
in a June 13 report. He recommends buying Republic shares.  Republic operates commuter flights ferrying passengers to
major airports for larger carriers like  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  Under such fixed-fee contracts,
Republic is paid a predetermined amount per flight, then
reimbursed for specified costs, including fuel, and revenue is
driven by the number of planes operated and how much they are
flown. That segment reported $17.6 million in first-quarter
pretax income.  Frontier’s scheduled service is responsible for all its own
costs, and revenue is based on the number of passengers flown
and the fares they pay. Frontier’s first-quarter fuel expense
per gallon rose 24 percent from a year earlier, contributing to
a $55.2 million pretax loss.  ‘High Fuel Prices’  “We’re taking the action necessary to make sure the
Frontier business is sustainable even at very high fuel
prices,” Reichart said of the proposed restructuring.  Republic bought Frontier months after purchasing Midwest
Air Group, in a bid to diversify its sources of revenue by
expanding into branded flying in addition to the fixed-fee
flights, which it operated under the names of other carriers.
Midwest was later absorbed into Frontier.  Republic projected in late 2009 that its branded
businesses, including Midwest and Frontier, would produce
positive earnings and  cash flow  within the final three quarters
of 2010.  In May, Republic blamed fuel prices for its decision to
pare planned capacity growth this year to little changed from
2010, compared with an original plan to expand as much as 5
percent.  Finding investors for Frontier may be difficult as the
industry contends with higher fuel costs and less success in
raising fares, said  Vicki Bryan , a senior bond analyst at Gimme
Credit LLC in New York.  Investor Search  “We can all put things out on the lawn and put a tag on it
for sale, but that doesn’t mean someone is going to drive by and
pick it up,” Bryan said in an interview. “This is a high-
fixed-cost business with a lot of volatility in operating costs,
and you need lots of cash.”  Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst in New York,
said she expects Republic to raise the $70 million in debt
markets with spare parts as collateral. She rates the company’s
shares “hold.”  Reichart said Republic has looked at several options for
raising the money. He declined to give specifics.  Frontier’s operations are focused on Denver, where  United
Airlines  has a hub and Southwest has steadily built service
since resuming flights there in 2006.  “You’re fighting against the world’s largest carrier and
the premier low-cost carrier in the U.S.,” said Jeff Straebler,
an RBS Securities Inc. analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s
tough to go up against that in your home airport.”  Tough Competition  Frontier’s domestic  market share  in Denver, based on paying
passengers, fell to 19 percent in March, the most recent month
for which figures are available, from 24 percent in September
2009, before the Republic purchase. Southwest’s share grew to 23
percent from 15 percent, and United’s excluding regional
partners slipped to 27 percent from 31 percent, according to
Denver International Airport data.  Mike Boyd, president of consultant Boyd Group International
Inc. in Evergreen,  Colorado , said he thinks Frontier can regain
market share and be successful if it focuses on Denver, where it
remains a popular brand and is known for paintings of  animals  on
its aircraft tails.  “Frontier is almost like a religion here in Denver,” he
said. “What they need to do is circle the wagons in Denver and
stop forays out of cities like Omaha and  Kansas City . Nobody can
dislike a bunny on an airplane tail. Southwest can’t compete
with bunnies and bears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner   edufner@bloomberg.net  