-- 
RIM Drops to Four-Year Low After Forecast Misses Estimates

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 
2011-06-17T20:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/rim-forecast-misses-estimates-as-lack-of-new-blackberry-models-hurts-sales.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  dropped to
its lowest level since 2006 after the BlackBerry smartphone
maker said quarterly revenue may drop for the first time in nine
years and unveiled plans to reduce jobs.  Revenue will be $4.2 billion to $4.8 billion in the fiscal
second quarter, RIM said in a statement yesterday. That was less
than the average analysts’ estimate for sales of $5.47 billion,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Profit this quarter will be 75
cents to $1.05 a share. Analysts had predicted $1.40.  RIM is losing market share in the U.S. to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, in
part because it hasn’t introduced a major new BlackBerry model
since August. Cheaper Google phones are also making inroads in
 Latin America ,  Asia  and  Europe , threatening the popularity of
less expensive BlackBerry models like the Curve.  “They are resting on their laurels,” Stephen Jarislowsky,
chairman of Montreal-based Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., said in an
interview today. The firm was RIM’s sixth-biggest investor at
the end of March with 10.2 million shares, and has reduced its
holding by at least half since, he said. “ Steve Jobs  is a much
better marketer than RIM,” he said, referring to Apple’s chief
executive officer.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, plunged $7.58, or 21
percent, to $27.75 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the
lowest level since Sept. 12, 2006. The stock has dropped 52
percent this year.  Dual CEOs  “Its product portfolio is just not up to snuff with its
key competitors,” said  Paul Taylor , chief investment officer at
BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto, who manages about $14.5
billion, including RIM shares.  RIM has come under increasing scrutiny from investors after
its stock slumped, the company lost phone market share, and its
new PlayBook tablet computer, a rival to Apple’s iPad, was
criticized by technology columnists. Last week, investor
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP called for RIM to separate
the roles of chairman and CEO as analysts question whether RIM’s
co-CEO structure is the best way to manage the company.  “With dual CEOs, you have a challenge,” said Brian Modoff, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities in  San Francisco ,
who rates RIM a “sell.” “There are teams that are working on
certain functions, but only reporting to one or the other CEO,
so there is a duplication in structure.”  New Product Delays  The company said yesterday it plans to eliminate an
unspecified number of jobs and make organizational changes to
accelerate product introductions. Benefits from the job cuts
should start to appear in the third quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Brian Bidulka said on the call.  “They definitely have some low-hanging fruit in terms of
cutting costs,” Modoff said. “A streamlined structure would be
beneficial for the company.”  The company unveiled a new version of its Bold phone last
month with both the physical keyboard loved by BlackBerry users
and the touch screen that made the iPhone popular. The Bold and
other new devices will only be available late in the quarter,
Co-CEO  Jim Balsillie  told analysts on a conference call
yesterday.  The forecast “means new devices won’t make it into the
second quarter,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at MKM
Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “This is a quarter they
really needed new devices to get them in there and they won’t.”  Kuittinen today cut his rating on RIM to “neutral” from
“buy.” Robert Cihra at Caris & Co., Scotia Capital Inc.’s Gus Papageorgiou, Rod Hall of JPMorgan Securities Inc. also
downgraded their ratings on the stock today.  Smartphone Market Share  Balsillie reiterated that he and co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis  are
committed to retaining the executive structure. He told analysts
yesterday that “completing the transition and taking the
company to the next level of success is also something neither
of us can do alone.”  Lazaridis added that he and Balsillie have “never been
more committed” to RIM.  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers dropped 4.7
percentage points to 25.7 percent in April from three months
earlier, according to ComScore Inc.  Full-year profit will be $5.25 to $6 a share, excluding
some costs, RIM said, down from a previous forecast of $7.50.
Analysts on average predicted $6.24.  Net income in the first quarter, which ended in May, was
$695 million, or $1.33 a share, compared with $769 million, or
$1.38, a year earlier. Sales rose 16 percent to $4.91 billion.  ‘Cut-Throat Competition’  The company said it shipped 500,000 PlayBooks last quarter
after starting sales on April 19. Analysts predicted sales of
350,000 units, the average of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  RIM shipped 13.2 million BlackBerrys last quarter, compared
with analysts’ estimates of 13.6 million. RIM said it will ship
11 million to 12.5 million phones this quarter, while analysts
had predicted 13.7 million units.  “From my 60 years in the market, I’ve learned you have to
sell your shares before the other guys,” Jarislowsky said.
“All of these products go through the same cycle. First it was
the radio, then it was TV. At a certain point, you get
saturation and cut-throat competition on price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  