-- 
Ringgit Slides to 3-Week Low on U.S., Greece Risk; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-16T08:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ringgit-slides-to-3-week-low-on-u-s-greece-risk-bonds-gain.html
Malaysia’s ringgit weakened for a
second day after talks among European leaders on forging a
bailout for  Greece  stalled, heightening concern over a default
and roiling global stock and commodity markets.  The currency traded near the lowest level this month as
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  prepares to reshuffle his
Cabinet today and seek a confidence vote in efforts to push
through budget austerity measures demanded by international
lenders. A report from the Federal Reserve yesterday showed
manufacturing in the New York area unexpectedly contracted for
the first time in seven months.  “Mounting signs of economic weakness in the U.S. as well
as controversies surrounding Greece’s bailout will erode risk
appetite in Asian currencies,” said Choong Yin Pheng, manager
for economic and fixed-income research at Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “Investors are opting for safer assets.”  The ringgit dropped 0.3 percent to 3.0445 per dollar as of
4:25 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier reached a three-week low of 3.0555. The
currency has depreciated 0.64 percent this quarter, the second-
worst performance among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies after the
 Thai baht .  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks slumped 2
percent, the most in more than three weeks, following a slide in
U.S. equities yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
commodities plunged 3.4 percent yesterday, the biggest drop
since May 11, on concern the global economy is slowing. The
gauge climbed 0.6 percent today.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s manufacturing index
dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November. Separate
data from the Fed showed U.S. industrial production rose 0.1
percent, versus economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg survey for
a 0.2 percent gain.  Malaysia’s three-year bonds advanced. The yield on the
3.434 percent note due August 2014 dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.23 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 