-- 
Romania Has Plan to Aid Greek Units With Funding Needs

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-06-16T14:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/romania-has-plan-to-aid-greek-units-with-funding-needs-1-.html
Romania ’s central bank has a
plan to aid the units of Greek banks operating in the
country, in case the deepening debt crisis in the
Mediterranean country shuts down funding flows from the
parent lenders, Deputy Governor Florin Georgescu said.  “In case one of the Greek owners shows it doesn’t
have the ability to financially support its unit in
Romania, we can apply these measures gradually, in the
appropriate dosage, which is not the case now,’’ Georgescu
told reporters in Bucharest today. “We don’t have the
obligation to act preventively, under the law, and we have
a plan to react, if needed, which includes certain
measures,’’ he said, without disclosing the exact measures.  The eastern European country’s Banca Nationala a
Romaniei is monitoring Greek-owned banks on a weekly basis
because they control about 17 percent of the Romanian
banking industry, at a time when the Greek debt crisis is
sending shockwaves through the currency, stock, and money
markets on growing speculation that  Greece  may default.  The Greek banks’ Romanian units, including  Alpha Bank
AE (ALPHA) ,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and  National Bank of Greece
SA (ETE) , are “well capitalized’’ at this point and have a
solvency ratio of 15.7 percent, one percentage point above
the banking sector’s average, Georgescu also said. The
banks’ portfolios include state treasuries, which they can
use as collateral and resort to the central bank’s
financing lines, according to Georgescu.  Romania’s banking industry is dominated by Austrian
lenders, which control about 38 percent of the market,
followed by Greek banks and French lenders with 15 percent,
according to central bank data. Banca Comerciala Romana SA,
owned by Erste Group Bank AG, is the country’s largest
lender by assets, followed by BRD-Groupe Societe Generale
SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  