-- 
Russian Billionaires Criticize U.S., EU on WTO Delays That Slow Investment

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-17T11:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/russian-billionaires-criticize-wto-delays-that-crimp-investment.html
Billionaires Alexey Mordashov and
 Viktor Vekselberg  criticized the U.S. and European Union for
holding up  Russia ’s bid to join the World Trade Organization,
hindering efforts to attract international investment.  Russia has sought to join the WTO since June 1993 and is
the largest economy outside the Geneva-based arbiter of free
trade. China became a member in 2001.  "It’s time for us to join the WTO, but unfortunately there
are permanently some kind of barriers, some kind of obstacles,"
Mordashov, majority owner of OAO Severstal, Russia’s biggest
steelmaker, said yesterday at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum. "For the long-term development of our country,
WTO entry is critically important."  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who will address the forum
today, has made entering the WTO a key goal in his drive to make
Russia more attractive to foreign investors and boost economic
growth. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said yesterday in Moscow
that Russia should become a member this year.  Vekselberg, who’s in charge of Medvedev’s project to create
a center for technology development in the Moscow suburb of
Skolkovo, said Russia continues to encounter problems “we can’t
fully understand” as it seeks to complete WTO talks.  ‘Seal of Approval’  WTO membership may help win over foreign investors, said
Roland Nash, who helps manage about $150 million of Russian
stocks at Moscow hedge fund Verno Investment Management Ltd.  “The practical implications of Russian WTO membership are
limited, as it won’t bring down tariffs dramatically,” he said.
“But just the seal of approval after 18 years of waiting will
be taken very well.”  China  saw the level of foreign investment rise dramatically
after it joined the WTO, Mordashov said.  “China showed the example of the huge boost to foreign
investment you can get from WTO membership because of greater
certainty for the business climate,” he said.  The U.S. said last year it had resolved most issues
necessary for Russia to join the WTO. The EU said in December it
had concluded a deal settling “key questions” that had held up
Russian membership. The U.S. and EU continue negotiations with
Russia on issues including the country’s investment regime and
health rules for food imports.  ‘Final Set’  The billionaires’ comments, during a session on U.S.-Russia
relations, came after U.S. Ambassador John Beyrle said President
Barack Obama’s administration hoped Russia would complete the
negotiating process this year.  “We in the Obama administration are committed to seeing
Russia in the WTO as soon as possible, hopefully this year,”
Beyrle said, adding that the two sides were in the “final set”
of WTO talks.  A dispute erupted this month over Russia’s decision to
block vegetable imports from the EU, imposed after an E. coli
outbreak that has killed 39 people, mainly in Germany.  The EU sought an immediate end to the ban, arguing that
Russia should follow the “rules and principles” of the WTO
even though it isn’t a member. Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  responded by saying his country wouldn’t “poison” its
citizens to gain entry to the trade body.  ‘Always Supported’  “The European Commission has always supported Russia’s
bid,”  John Clancy , the commission’s trade spokesman, said
yesterday by phone from Brussels. “We hope Russia can meet the
very small number of remaining concerns from WTO members in a
timely fashion to ensure the process can move forward with the
aim for Russia to join the WTO by the end of this year.”  Russian complaints are justified because the U.S. and EU
appear to have used the WTO talks to pressure the government on
other issues, Nash said.  “The WTO has been used as a political carrot to push
Russia in a certain direction,” he said. “Russia has been
disappointed for so long now.”  At the same time, there are real hopes for progress because
 Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K., as well as the U.S., now
support the Russian bid, Nash said.  The “political window of opportunity” for Russia to enter
may “start to close” at the end of this year as the U.S. and
Russia enter election years, Russian Deputy Prime Minister
Sergei Ivanov said in an April interview in Miami, adding that
he is hopeful an agreement will be reached before then.  ‘Lot of Goodwill’  One remaining obstacle is  Georgia , a U.S. ally and WTO
member that Russia defeated in a five-day war over the breakaway
Georgian region of  South Ossetia .  Georgia has withheld approval of Russia’s bid, saying
disputes remain over customs checkpoints in South Ossetia and
Abkhazia, another breakaway region.  “From one side we see a lot of goodwill under the ‘reset’
shown by the U.S. leadership,” Mordashov said, referring to
Obama’s efforts to revive ties with Russia soured by the war
with Georgia. “Despite all these efforts and positive moves, we
can’t enter the WTO.”  Switzerland  started mediating talks between Russia and
Georgia in March. There has been no “substantial” progress,
Georgian Prime Minister Nika Gilauri said in a June 9 interview.  Georgia is willing to compromise for a "mutual and
acceptable solution," Foreign Minister, Grigol Vashadze, said
today after talks in Tbilisi, the capital, with Swedish Foreign
Minister Carl Bildt.  "We all are in favor of Russia being in the  World Trade
Organization ," Bildt said, adding that the disagreement with
Georgia needs to be resolved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  