-- 
Russia’s Carbon Surplus May Let Rich Nations Avoid Emission Cuts

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-16T15:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/russia-s-carbon-surplus-may-let-rich-nations-avoid-emission-cuts.html
The United Nations carbon permits
issued to Russia as an incentive to join the global effort to
limit  climate change  may help rich nations avoid reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, a lobby group said.  UN rules may allow the U.S., the European Union and others
in the so-called Annex 1 group of rich countries to achieve
their 2020 emission reduction commitments made last year by
buying surplus permits from earlier years, Sivan Kartha, a
senior scientist at the Stockholm Environment Institute, said at
a press conference in Bonn today.  Russia and Ukraine “were given targets that were much
greater than any estimate of their emissions as an inducement to
join” the  Kyoto Protocol , Kartha said. “The question is, who
bears the cost of that excess allowances? The Annex 1 countries
who have given it as a gift, or the atmosphere?”  Under the Protocol, 37 Annex 1 countries must achieve
emission reductions averaging 5.2% from 1990 levels over the
period from 2008 to 2012. Each of those countries has been
allocated tradable Assigned Amount Units representing its
targeted reduction, and those countries with surplus AAUs may
sell them to other member states.  Biggest Surplus  Russia  and Ukraine have the biggest AAU surplus of any
Annex 1 nation, after their emissions targets were set at levels
exceeded their actual output as economic growth slumped
following the collapse of the  Soviet Union , Kartha said. Those
countries would likely demand compensation if their excess AAUs
were excluded from a future climate regime, he said.  “If we really are to keep within the 2-degree pathway, it
would mean that Annex 1 countries would need to significantly
deepen their pledges and significantly deepen their commitments
to financing for  developing countries ,” Karth said. The current
talks also aim to establish a  Green Fund  to assist developing
countries achieve low-emissions growth.  Annex 1 countries’ pledges made in Cancun in December are
set to reduce their emissions of  greenhouse gases  by the
equivalent of about 3.8 gigatons of carbon dioxide by 2020,
while loopholes in the UN rules will allow them to emit an extra
3.9 gigatons, Kartha said. Developing countries have pledged to
deliver about 5.2 gigatons of emissions reductions, he said.  Annex 1 countries may also buy credits from developing
world projects that don’t deliver real emission cuts and by
switching emissions into aviation and marine fuels that are
exempt from the rules, Kartha said.  12 Gigatons  World leaders need to reduce emissions from the business-
as-usual forecasts by about 12 gigatons if they are to get on
track to meet their goal of limiting global warming to 2 degree
centigrade on average, Kartha said. Rich countries emitted about
19 gigatons of carbon last year.  A UN spinoff group on  emissions trading  and project-based
mechanisms published a discussion paper yesterday that
recommended Emissions Reduction Units from projects in developed
countries, and AAUs should be used after 2012. Nations haven’t
agreed yet whether the units will be allowed to be used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Bonn at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Airlie in Bonn at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  