-- 
San Francisco Circumcision Referendum Stirs Anti-Semitism Debate

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/san-francisco-circumcision-ban-referendum-stirs-debate-over-anti-semitism.html
Matthew Hess says he decided to wage
a crusade against circumcision after he noticed a decline in
sexual sensation in his late 20s and concluded that the removal
of his foreskin as an infant might be responsible.  “It’s damaged my sexuality and it’s changed my life,”
Hess, 42, said in an interview. “I’ve dedicated my life to
bringing an end to this practice where I might otherwise be
doing something else. It also robbed me of what nature intended
as far as my sexual experiences.”  Hess is behind a referendum in San Francisco that would
make it illegal to circumcise boys under the age of 18. The
November ballot, coming in a city that has previously outlawed
plastic shopping bags and free  toys  in  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s Happy
Meals, worries some Jews and Muslims, who circumcise boys as a
religious rite, and some physicians who point to health benefits
of the procedure.  Acrimony grew when Hess created a comic called  “Foreskin
Man,”  where a blond, square-jawed, caped superhero confronts
Monster Mohel, a grinning, sinister Jew holding scissors over a
baby boy. That changed the debate over the initiative, state
Senator Mark Leno said in an interview.  “The images are blatantly anti-Semitic,” Leno, who is
Jewish and represents part of San Francisco, said June 10.
“They are literally pulled from Nazi literature.”  Hess said that in a different issue of the comic, a doctor
trying to perform a circumcision transforms into a monster. No
anti-Semitism is intended, he said.  “Anyone who circumcises children will not be drawn
favorably in ‘Foreskin Man’ comic books,” Hess said. “It
doesn’t matter whether they’re Jewish or what they are.”  ‘Clear, Compelling, Immediate’  Under Hess’s proposal,  circumcisions  performed for other
than a “clear, compelling and immediate” medical need would be
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of as much as $1,000 and up
to a year in jail.  The penalty would give a circumcised man “more legal
standing to complain and file suit after the fact,” said Lloyd
Schofield, 59, who is spearheading the effort in  San Francisco .  The goal is to extend state and federal laws shielding
girls from genital mutilation to boys, Hess said. “I feel that
boys should be protected from forced genital cutting the same
way that girls are,” he said.  Opponents have formed a coalition called the  Committee for
Parental Choice & Religious Freedom , whose members include
religious groups, doctors and the San Francisco Board of
Supervisors, the equivalent of the city council.  The pro-circumcision group is raising money and planning to
get its message to voters, said Abby Michelson Porth, associate
director of the Jewish Community Relations Council in San
Francisco, in a June 9 telephone interview.  Religious Freedom  “We think the ballot measure, in addition to being
illegal, if passed would deal a significant blow to parental
choice and religious freedom,” Porth said. “The Jewish
community has practiced circumcisions for thousands of years. It
is integral and fundamental to our faith.”  The San Francisco Elections Department certified the
proposal as qualifying for a vote on May 17 after supporters
gathered 12,271 signatures, about 5,100 more than needed, said
Rachel Gosiengfiao, the department’s campaign services manager.  “In San Francisco, you can get 12,000 signatures attesting
the world is flat,” said opponent Edgar Schoen, a clinical
professor of pediatrics emeritus at the University of  California 
in San Francisco.  Schoen questioned Hess’s comparison of male circumcision to
female genital mutilation, saying that procedure requires
removing the clitoris and part of the labia, and sewing the
labia together.  “If you were to do the equivalent operation on a man,
you’d have to cut off the whole penis and part of the scrotum,”
Schoen said in a June 10 telephone interview.  Fewer Newborns  While 79 percent of adult males in the U.S. report being
circumcised, the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s
most recent analysis shows newborn circumcision at 55 percent in
2005, Scott Bryan, a CDC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Research has shown that male circumcision “significantly
reduces” the risk of HIV acquisition by men, the agency  said .  Hess, whose group has waged unsuccessful efforts to advance
his proposal in the Massachusetts Legislature and in  Santa
Monica , California, said that HIV prevention isn’t enough
justification for circumcision. A similar argument could be made
for amputating the breast tissue of infant girls to prevent
 breast cancer , he said.  “If you cut any healthy body part off of someone, that
body part is no longer subject to disease,” he said.  Brian McBeth , a mohel, the term for a person who performs
Jewish circumcisions, said the practice is significant to Jews.  ‘Connection to God’  “It represents a connection to God and a commitment that
God has made to the Jewish people,” said McBeth, an emergency-
room physician from Saratoga, California, who performs
circumcisions in San Francisco. “If it were to pass, you would
find Jews moving outside the city limits to do this procedure.”  Schofield, who said he met Hess last July at the  11th
International Symposium on Circumcision, Genital Integrity and
Human Rights  at the  University of California , Berkeley, said
religious arguments are beside the point.  “Just because you’ve been doing something for a long time
doesn’t make it moral, ethical or even legal,” he said in a
June 13 telephone interview. “We didn’t come at this from a
religious angle whatsoever. We came at this from the angle it’s
the right of the child and human being to have intact
genitals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  