-- 
Saudi Women Called on to Drive Today to Press for an End to Kingdom’s Ban

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-17T16:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/saudi-women-called-on-to-end-driving-ban.html
Women in  Saudi Arabia  got behind the
wheels of their cars today to challenge the world’s only ban on
driving by females.  “It’s my right to drive. I didn’t do anything wrong,”
Maha al-Qahtani, 37, said in a phone interview. “I should have
the choice to drive or not to drive.” She said she drove for
less than an hour in Riyadh with her husband, Mohammed al-
Qahtani, a professor of economics and human-rights activist, and
had a change of clothes in case the police detained her.  The plan to get women with international driving licenses
out in their cars followed a campaign that led to the detention
of one of the activists, Manal al-Sharif. A group of Saudi men
and women, including al-Sharif, began the campaign in May on the
Facebook and Twitter social-networking websites. They insisted
their plan wasn’t a protest. Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s
biggest oil reserves, has avoided the anti-government
demonstrations that have rocked the Arab world this year.  Several women wrote on Twitter to describe driving in the
cities of Mecca and Jeddah. Two Saudi women used YouTube to post
videos of themselves driving in the kingdom. There were no
immediate reports of arrests.  “I was so happy when I saw the online postings,” said
Najla Barasain, 25, by phone from  Riyadh , the capital.
“Yesterday, I didn’t think anyone would actually drive.”  Barasain said it’s “good that even some men are supporting
the move.” She said she’s been trying to persuade her father to
allow her to drive. “If he agrees, then I will drive later
today when it gets dark,” she said. “If he doesn’t, I won’t. I
don’t want to do something he is not convinced of.”  Learned in U.S.  Al-Qahtani, who, like Barasain, learned to drive while
living in the U.S., said that when she was driving in Riyadh she
saw five police cars and one even passed her blue Hummer.  “I told her about possible dangers,” her husband said.
“But I also told her she could advance the cause. I told her if
she wants to have a car and to drive, she should do it.”  Al-Sharif, a 32-year-old computer security consultant, was
arrested last month in the city of al-Khobar, in  Eastern
Province , after she drove on more than one occasion and urged
other women to drive in a video she posted on YouTube, according
to Amnesty International. The human-rights organization said al-
Sharif was forced to sign a pledge that she wouldn’t drive again
and was released 10 days later.  Freed After Pledges  “Since her arrest, several women have reportedly been
arrested on various occasions for driving in different parts of
Saudi Arabia and released shortly after signing pledges not to
drive in future,” Amnesty International said yesterday in a
statement. “Saudi Arabian authorities must stop treating women
as second-class citizens and open the kingdom’s roads to women
drivers.”  Saudi Arabia enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. A woman isn’t allowed to apply
for a driver’s license, though some drive when they’re in desert
areas away from cities. They can’t travel or get an education
without male approval or mix with unrelated men in public
places. They aren’t permitted to vote or run as candidates in
municipal elections, the only balloting the kingdom allows.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops massed in Saudi Arabia
to prepare for a war that would expel Iraqi forces from  Kuwait .  Female Soldiers  The Saudi women were spurred by images of female U.S.
soldiers driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women
driving their children to safety, and they were counting on the
presence of the international media to ensure their story would
reach the world and lessen the repercussions.  The women were briefly detained and lost their jobs for at
least two years.  Some Saudis say the driving ban prevents the spread of
vice. They say if women were allowed to drive, they would be
free to leave home alone whenever they like. The women would
also break the strict rules that limit the mixing of genders by
interacting with male mechanics if their cars break down or with
attendants at gas stations.  King Abdullah  has taken steps this year to ensure that
regional turmoil remains outside his borders, pledging almost
$100 billion of spending on homes, jobs and benefits. He also
has promised to improve the status of women. He opened the
country’s first coeducational university in 2009 and appointed
its first female deputy minister, Nora bint Abdullah al-Fayez,
the same year. He has said he will provide more access to jobs
for women, who make up about 15 percent of the workforce.  Changes in 2008  A change of policy in 2008 allowed women to stay in hotels
without male guardians, and an amendment to the labor law
allowed women to work in all fields “suitable to their
nature.”  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in January that
“reforms to date have involved largely symbolic steps to
improve the visibility of women.”  The Facebook page for the campaign al-Sharif helped to
organize, called “I will drive starting June 17,” is no longer
found on the website.  Amnesty International  said today’s
initiative was led by organizers from “Women2Drive.”  “June 17 is the starting date for seeing women driving
their cars,” Women2Drive said on the group’s Facebook page. “We
want to see women drive their cars to run errands every hour and
every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 