-- 
HSBC, Rasmala Units Among 90% of U.A.E. Brokers With Loss as Volumes Slump

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-06-16T08:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hsbc-rasmala-units-among-90-of-u-a-e-brokers-with-loss-as-volumes-slump.html
Almost 90 percent of brokerages in
the  United Arab Emirates , including units of HSBC Holdings Plc
and Rasmala Holdings Ltd., reported first-quarter losses as
political unrest and debt restructurings pushed trading volumes
to six-year lows.  Of the 64 brokerages listed by the U.A.E.’s Securities &
Commodities Authority as “active,” 56 posted losses in the
quarter, according to  financial statements  on the regulator’s
website. Five brokerages reported declining income, two returned
to profit and one had a yearly loss.  “Brokerages are a function of the market value, and that
value has dropped significantly,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based financial services company
CAPM Investments PJSC. “It’s a constant challenge and it doesn’t
look like things will improve in the second quarter.”  Dubai’s benchmark index slumped 81 percent since reaching a
record in 2005 to 1,601.55 yesterday as the global financial
crisis shut access to credit and forced state-owned companies
like Dubai World to restructure. The volume of shares traded in
Dubai plummeted to a daily average of about 116 million in the
first quarter, the lowest in six years. In  Abu Dhabi  average
trading values were down 27 percent in the first quarter at 117
million dirhams from the year-earlier period.  Trading Slump  Investor sentiment was hurt by the popular unrest in the
 Middle East  that ousted leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . Dubai
World reached an agreement with its lenders in March after
roiling global markets in 2009 with plans to restructure about
$25 billion of debt. Dubai Holding LLC and property developer
Nakheel PJSC are in talks with creditors to restructure a total
of about $20 billion.  “The industry has been suffering for some time now, as
volumes in the U.A.E. continue to decrease year on year,” said
Saad al Chalabi, an institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities
in Abu Dhabi. “Most of these brokerages started out when the
market was trading over 1 billion dirhams ($272 million) on
average, we now average 15 percent of that.”  The U.A.E. has three  stock exchanges  -- the  Dubai Financial
Market (DFM) , Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange and Nasdaq Dubai. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  rose 2.2 percent yesterday and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 1.2 percent on optimism the U.A.E. will
be upgraded to emerging market status from frontier at index
provider MSCI Inc. next week.  MSCI, Stability  “The main catalysts that can turn this around would be a
possible inclusion into the MSCI emerging markets and political
stability across the Middle East and North Africa,” said Al
Chalabi of Al Ramz.  HSBC was the first international bank to win approval to
trade stocks in the U.A.E. in 2007. Its local brokerage, HSBC
Middle East Securities LLC, had a loss of  2.1 million dirhams  in
the quarter. Rasmala, which has a venture with Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc on research, posted a first-quarter  loss  of
618,517 dirhams. The company said last month it closed its
retail brokerage operations to cut costs.  EFG-Hermes Brokerage UAE LLC, Abu Dhabi Islamic Securities,
First Gulf Financial Services, Mashreq Securities and Al Sahel
Shares Center said net income in the quarter fell. Atlas
Financial Services & Brokerage House Securities returned to
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  