-- 
SBI Fund Adding Consumer, Infrastructure Stocks on Valuations

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-16T10:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/sbi-fund-adding-consumer-infrastructure-stocks-on-valuations.html
Navneet Munot, chief investment
officer at Mumbai-based SBI Funds Management Pvt., a unit of
 India ’s biggest lender, comments on the impact of the  Reserve
Bank  of India’s credit policy on Indian stocks.  The central bank increased the repurchase rate to 7.50
percent from 7.25 percent today, extending the longest streak of
monetary tightening in a decade after inflation accelerated.
Nineteen of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted
the decision.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
lost 0.9 percent to 17,973.99 at 3:21 p.m. in Mumbai, set for
its lowest close in three weeks.  On the RBI:  “RBI has continued with its anti-inflationary monetary
policy stance. We expect growth momentum to decelerate further
in view of global uncertainties, the lagged impact of monetary
tightening and the policy standstill. Bond yields are unlikely
to soften much from current levels in the immediate term in view
of the hawkish stance of RBI and continued supply pressure.
However, we believe that RBI is near the end of the tightening
cycle in terms of policy rates, and the global environment is
turning positive for bonds.”  On equities:  “We are looking to add select infrastructure stocks, which
have been beaten down on valuations. We are also adding select
consumer stocks and removing global commodity plays from our
portfolios on the weak outlook for industrial metals and energy.  ‘‘The RBI rate action doesn’t change our fundamental view,
as it is in line with our expectations. Equity markets have been
showing resilience despite global uncertainties, policy
gridlock, inflation, rising rates and a slowdown in earnings
momentum. Valuations are in line with long-term averages and
capture the negative news to a large extent.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘While the near-term pressures are evident, inflation
could moderate in the medium term given that global commodity
prices are showing signs of cooling off and the monsoon seems to
be normal this year.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  