-- 
Scene Last Night: Paltrow, Karan, Avery, Sims, Jessica Seinfeld

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-16T15:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/scene-last-night-paltrow-avery-jessica-seinfeld-karan-glee-tickets.html
Besides her glowing skin and svelte
figure,  Gwyneth Paltrow  offered other reasons for doing yoga
last night.  “It’s an amazing practice that has benefited both me and
my husband,” said Paltrow, wearing a gray Alexander Wang dress.
“It’s such a simple and powerful thing.”  Paltrow was speaking at Donna Karan’s Urban Zen Center as
an honoree of the third annual  Bent on Learning  gala. The
nonprofit, with an annual budget of $425,000, teaches yoga to
children enrolled in 20  New York  City public schools. It also
counts Eddie Stern, Paltrow’s yoga guru, as one of its board
members.  Russell Simmons, the other honoree, gave a specific example
of how yoga comes in handy in the workplace.  “If you can put your foot behind your head and smile and
breathe, then someone can yell at you and you can keep your
composure,” the music and fashion mogul said from his dinner
table, which was decorated with bowls of pink peonies.  “It helps you do your homework,” said Brianna Flores, an
11-year-old who attends P.S. 132 in Williamsburg,  Brooklyn . “If
you do the camel pose, it helps you think more.”  Flores and her classmates then demonstrated the camel pose
on the deck of the Urban Zen Center’s garden, while adults
around them bellied up to the bar for thyme lemonade. The camel
involves bending backward from a kneeling position and touching
your ankles with your hands.  Lacto-Vegetarian Dinner  Later, the students performed their moves inside, on the
mat-covered stage, as New York Rangers winger Sean Avery,  Baby
Buggy  founder Jessica Seinfeld and model Molly Sims settled into
a lacto-vegetarian dinner featuring roasted abalone mushroom
tatin.  The health-minded event also included a live auction
conducted by Lydia Fenet of Christie’s. Among the treats Fenet
sold were a 21-day deep cleanse, a package with Madonna and
Paltrow trainer Tracy Anderson, and a vegan dinner with Stern
and the artist Francesco Clemente.  Paltrow also got into the auction game. “I don’t think we
raised quite enough money,” she said at the end of her brief
acceptance speech. She then offered two tickets to see “Glee
Live! In Concert!” tonight at the Izod Center in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  “Bring your kid, I’ll send a car, and we’ll go
backstage,” Paltrow said. “Where’s that hot auction lady?”  Fenet came back on stage and helped sell the package for
$10,000.  Paltrow also gave the Bent on Learning students hugs and
autographs that included hearts.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 