-- 
Secret Election Financing Surges With Evasion of IRS Scrutiny

-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/secret-election-financing-surges-with-evasion-of-irs-scrutiny.html
Last May, New York lawyer John Cahill filed an application with the  Internal Revenue Service 
for a  tax exemption  for Revere America, a group pushing for the
repeal of President Obama’s health care law.  Asked on the form whether the organization intended to
spend money to influence the election of any candidates, he
checked the “No” box. Four months later, Revere America,
chaired at the time by former Republican New York Governor
George Pataki, started spending $2.6 million, much of it on
television commercials urging voters to defeat Democrats or
elect Republicans.  Revere America is one of at least four nonprofits that have
reported campaign spending to the  Federal Election Commission 
after declaring to the IRS they weren’t planning political
activities, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News
under a Freedom of Information Act request.  One of the nonprofits reported $8 million in campaign ads
to the FEC in 2008 -- while telling the IRS in its tax return
for the year ending four days before the November 2008 election
that it had zero political expenditures.  ”They are challenging the boundaries of campaign finance
restrictions,” said Michael Franz, an associate professor of
government at Bowdoin College in Brunswick,  Maine , who studied
the advertising in last year’s general election. “The
enforcement system is so weak, nonfunctional, that pretty much
anybody can do whatever they want.”  Secret Donors  The nonprofits are social welfare groups, unions or trade
associations that are allowed under U.S. tax laws to keep
donors’ identities secret. They may spend on politics as long as
it isn’t their primary purpose, and they are asked by the IRS
each year to disclose any political spending.  Anonymous-donor groups like Revere America spent $137
million on the 2010 federal elections, 25 times what they did in
2006, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive
Politics. CRP tracks FEC filings and is the source for spending
figures reported to the agency in this story.  The growth of the nonprofits, recent Supreme Court rulings
and declining enforcement activity by the FEC have combined to
increase the level of secrecy in financing U.S. elections.  The FEC has been stymied in recent years by partisan 3-3
votes blocking action on alleged campaign-law violations. The
IRS, which has the authority to audit and impose penalties for
inaccurate filings, said in late 2010 that it would increase its
focus on the political activity of tax-exempt groups.  “We have yet to determine the extent of our activities,”
said Michelle Eldridge, an IRS spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Changing Positions  Eldridge said the agency has taken action in the past
against some nonprofits that engage in “too much” political
activity. She declined to provide details. While tax-exempt
applications are signed under penalty of perjury, the agency
isn’t aware of any prosecutions of politically active nonprofits
for this reason, according to IRS spokesman Grant Williams.  “If you are looking to enforce the disclosure of campaign
finance activity, the IRS is clearly the wrong agency to be
leading the charge,” said Ofer Lion, a Los Angeles attorney
whose clients include tax-exempt organizations.  Revere America  “changed its position” about the kind of
ads it wanted to buy between its IRS filing in May and the ads
it bought in September, spokesman Jeffrey Birnbaum said.  The election-related spending for the group, organized
under section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code  as a social welfare
organization, will be reflected when it files its first public
tax return later this year, he said. “The key is that
everything will be disclosed.”  ‘Vote Against’  A former head of the IRS exempt organizations office was
skeptical. “It strains credulity” for nonprofits “to shift
gears completely to massive political advertising” within a
matter of months, said Marcus Owens, an attorney at the law firm
Caplin & Drysdale in Washington.  American  Future Fund , another 501(c)(4), said in its
February 2008 IRS exemption application that it planned no
election-related spending, and then spent $1.8 million in
political ads in the same year, according to FEC records. Nicole
Schlinger, who signed the IRS document as president of the
group, referred questions to the Des Moines headquarters, which
didn’t return calls.  The fund said in FEC filings that it spent $9.6 million in
the 2010 election cycle, more than $7 million of it urging the
election or defeat of candidates. One of its TV ads criticized
Democratic Representative Rick Larsen of Washington for
supporting then-House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi . A narrator said:
“Vote against Rick Larsen.” Larsen won.  The fund’s 2010 IRS tax return hasn’t been made public yet;
its 2009 return reported no campaign activities.  ‘Grassroots’ Advocacy  At Americans for Job Security, Chief Executive Officer
 David Carney , who was head of the White House political office
under President  George H.W. Bush , signed the group’s 1997 tax-
exempt application saying no political spending was planned. Its
tax returns for the years ended Oct. 31, 2004, through Oct. 31,
2008, stated there were no political expenditures.  In FEC filings in 2008, the group said it spent $8 million
on election ads, including $1.8 million worth targeting Kay Hagan,  North Carolina ’s Democratic Senate candidate. Hagan won.  The $8 million reported to the FEC and the zero reported to
the IRS are both right, said Stephen DeMaura, president of the
nonprofit. The spending disclosed to the FEC didn’t fit the IRS
definition because it was “grassroots and issue advocacy,” he
said. At the time, the IRS required reporting of spending
“attempting to influence” a candidate’s election. The FEC
requires reporting of commercials that clearly identify a
candidate and run within 60 days of a general election.  ‘Yes Man’  In the 2010 elections, Americans for  Job Security  told the
FEC, it spent almost $9 million, about half of it for so-called
“independent expenditure” ads, those that explicitly endorse
the election or defeat of candidates. The group’s IRS return for
the 2010 election period isn’t available yet.  Americans for Prosperity, another nonprofit that has
supported Republicans, said on its 2004 IRS application that it
had no election spending plans. The group’s sister foundation of
the same name is headed by David H. Koch of closely held
refining and chemicals company Koch Industries Inc.  On each annual tax return since it was set up, Americans
for Prosperity has said it made no political expenditures. FEC
records show it reported spending $341,000 on campaign ads in
2008, and $1.3 million in 2010.  In one commercial last October, the group criticized
Representative Chad Causey, an Arkansas Democrat, without
calling explicitly for a vote against him. It described him as a
“ Washington  yes man to higher taxes and more  government
spending .” Causey lost.  American Action  Americans for Prosperity runs only issue ads that don’t
tell viewers which way to vote and don’t fit the IRS definition
of political activity, said John Flynn, an attorney for the
group.  American Action Network, another nonprofit with secret
donors, did tell the IRS about planned political spending. The
group, started last year by Washington financier Fred Malek and
former Senator Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican, said on its
IRS application that a “minor” part of its activities “may be
classified as political campaign intervention.” Such spending
may vary from year to year and is expected to average 20 percent
or less of spending, the filing said.  The group told the FEC it spent $26.1 million in the 2010
elections, second only to the U.S Chamber of Commerce’s $32.9
million among groups that don’t disclose donors.  Patriot Majority  VoteVets Action Fund, a tax-exempt that raised money from
secret donors and favors Democrats, reported $3.2 million in
election spending to the FEC in 2010.  The group told the IRS in its filing covering the 2008
election that it had no political activity, while it reported
$205,000 in ad spending to the FEC for that year. Questioned
about this, Ashwin Madia, the group’s interim chairman, called
it a mistake. VoteVets “should have checked yes under political
activity,” Madia said. “We’re going back to the IRS to correct
that oversight.”  In its latest filing, for the year ended June 30, 2010, the
group told the IRS it had campaign activities and reported a
$200,000 donation to Patriot Majority, a Democratic-leaning
organization whose donors include the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees and the Teamsters union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  