-- 
Sell Turkish Lira, Bonds, Buy Default Swaps on Greece Fall-Out, RBS Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-16T14:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/sell-turkish-lira-bonds-buy-default-swaps-on-greece-fall-out-rbs-says.html
Investors should sell lira and
Turkish debt and buy the country’s credit-default swaps on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread and the country will
struggle to contain its current-account deficit, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The lira fell to the weakest level against the dollar in
more than three months, while bond yields and  default risk  rose,
as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  sought a vote of
confidence amid protests against budget cuts.  Turkey ’s current-
account deficit widened to $7.7 billion in April, the second
highest since records began in 1984, even after the central bank
raised  reserve requirements  for banks to curb loan growth.  “Given that markets are looking for vulnerabilities, it is
probably not opportune for Turkey to be running a record
current-account deficit,” Tim Ash, chief economist for emerging
markets at RBS in  London , wrote in an e-mailed report today. The
central bank and government need to indicate their willingness
to tighten monetary and fiscal policy, he said.  The lira declined 0.2 percent to 1.6116 per dollar at 5:35
p.m. in Istanbul, the weakest since March 2 on a closing basis.
Two-year benchmark bond yields rose 14 basis points, the most in
four weeks, to 9.09 percent. The cost of protecting against
default by Turkey with credit swaps increased five basis points
to 176.  “There’s going to be more volatility,” Ash said by phone.
The lira will probably weaken to 1.7 per dollar before the year-
end and “it could happen much earlier if the current risk-off
environment sustains over the Greek problems,” he said.  Credit-default swaps on  Greece  rose to as high as 1,874
basis points, while those on Ireland climbed to 800 and Portugal
reached 825, according to CMA prices. The Greek swaps imply a 79
percent chance of a default within five years.  Markets are looking at the possibility “of contagion
spreading to other economies,” said Neil Mackinnon, an
economist at VTB Capital in London and a former U.K. Treasury
official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  