-- 
U.S. Senate Votes to Shut Down Tax Break, Tariff for Ethanol

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-16T21:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/senate-votes-to-end-tax-break-for-ethanol.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to eliminate a
tax credit and a tariff that subsidize ethanol production,
providing the strongest signal yet that Congress will curtail
subsidies for corn-based biofuel.  The 73-27 vote exceeded the 60-vote threshold needed to
advance the measure as part of an economic development bill. The
underlying legislation isn’t likely to become law, so the vote
mostly indicated that it will be difficult for ethanol
supporters to extend the 45-cent-a-gallon tax break and the 54-
cent-a-gallon tariff beyond their scheduled Dec. 31 expiration.  “We need to look at ways that we can bring the budget
deficit down,” said Senator Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat who
said poultry producers in the eastern part of his state are
facing higher prices for corn because of ethanol production.
“Repealing unnecessary subsidies should clearly be at the top
of our list.”  The vote broke down largely along regional lines. All of
the senators from Illinois,  Indiana ,  Iowa , Kansas,  Michigan ,
 Minnesota , Mississippi,  Missouri ,  Nebraska ,  North Dakota ,  Ohio ,
and South Dakota voted against the proposal.  The action came two days after the Senate voted 59-40
against advancing a similar proposal from Senator Tom Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican. Democratic leaders, who wanted to assert
their control of the chamber’s proceedings, urged their members
to oppose that proposal in protest of the way Coburn forced a
vote. Today’s vote was free of those procedural issues and
marked a test of senators’ position on the ethanol issue.  Ethanol Subsidies  “There is essentially agreement that this subsidy has to
be phased out and taken away, and the producers of ethanol
agree,” said Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana Republican who voted
against ending the ethanol subsidies.  After the vote, shares of meat companies rose while shares
of agricultural processors, farm-equipment manufacturers,
ethanol producers and fertilizer makers fell.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. poultry producer, rose
after the vote. At the market close, Springdale, Arkansas-based
Tyson was up 49 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $18.08.  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD) , the Smithfield, Virginia-based company that is the
world’s largest pork processor, rose $1.31, or 6.4 percent, for
its biggest one-day increase since Dec. 9, 2010. The company had
also reported its first annual profit since 2008.  Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain
producer, dropped. Decatur, Illinois-based ADM fell 6 cents, or
0.2 percent, to $29.52, after trading as low as $28.98 after the
vote.  Corn Products International Inc. (CPO) , a corn refiner based in
Westchester, Illinois, fell $1.56, or 2.9 percent, to close at
$53.12 for its biggest one-day drop in more than three months.  Market Reaction  St. Louis-based  Monsanto Co. (MON) , which makes agricultural
products, fell $1.30, or 1.9 percent, to close at $66.27.  Corn futures for December delivery slid 13 cents, or 2
percent, to $6.53 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, after
touching $6.50, the lowest for the most-active contract since
March 17. That market closed before the Senate vote concluded.  The price decline occurred on misguided speculation that
the Senate action would reduce demand for the grain to make the
fuel, said  Glenn Hollander , a partner at Chicago-based Hollander
& Feurehaken, a cash grain merchandiser and broker.  Cash corn prices have fallen 11 percent in Chicago from a
record $7.88 on June 10, government data show.  U.S. refiners are required to use 12 billion gallons of
renewable fuels, such as ethanol, this year and 15 billion
gallons by 2015 under a 2007 energy law.  ‘Improve Demand’  “As long as the federal mandates remain, ethanol demand is
not going to collapse,” Hollander said. “The sharp drop in
prices this week only helps to improve demand for corn.”  Leticia Phillips, the Brazilian Sugarcane Industry
Association’s representative in  North America , said in a
statement that the Senate vote to end the credit and tariff on
imported ethanol “will help lower fuel prices and provide
Americans with greater access to clean and affordable fuels like
sugarcane ethanol.”  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack reiterated the Obama
administration’s opposition to ending the ethanol credit now and
said the Senate measure “isn’t the right approach.”  Farm-state lawmakers are supporting a more gradual
reduction in ethanol support proposed by Senator John Thune, a
 South Dakota  Republican, and Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota
Democrat. They are still seeking a vote on that proposal.  Coburn and California Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein
put together a coalition that includes anti-hunger groups
worried about food prices, taxpayer advocates who call the
ethanol program wasteful and animal agricultural processors that
compete with ethanol producers for feed.  McCain Proposal Rejected  The Senate later rejected, 40-59, a proposal from Senator
John McCain, an Arizona Republican, that would have prohibited
federal funding for certain ethanol pumps or storage facilities.  A similar measure in the House offered by Representative
Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, was adopted 283-128.  “Nobody can defend ethanol subsidies anymore,” Flake
said.  The vote also has broader consequences for tax policy.
Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform, who has persuaded
40 of 47 Republican senators to sign his no-tax-increase pledge,
regards the elimination of a tax break as a tax increase.  Coburn, who drew the support of 32 other Republicans on
today’s vote, has been challenging that view. He contends that
some tax breaks look more like spending programs and should be
eliminated without being paired with a tax cut.  He also has said that some tax breaks will have to be
trimmed to get a broader agreement on reducing the federal
 budget deficit .  Norquist’s group said that it wouldn’t consider a vote for
the ethanol proposal a violation of the pledge, provided that
lawmakers also support a proposal from Senator Jim DeMint of
South Carolina that would eliminate the ethanol usage mandate
and the estate tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  