-- 
Sierra Leone to Spend $403 Million to Increase Small Farms’ Production

-- B y   S i l a s   G b a n d i a
-- 
2011-06-16T12:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/sierra-leone-to-spend-403-million-to-increase-small-farms-production.html
Sierra Leone  will spend $403 million
over the next five years to help small-scale farmers boost crop
production, said Sam Sesay, the West African nation’s minister
of agriculture, forestry and food security.  The country is also trying to attract large agricultural
projects, he said in an interview June 14 in Freetown, the
capital.  Sierra Leone is turning to agriculture to help rebuild its
economy after an 11 year-long civil war that ended in 2002.
Farmers are being encouraged to plant crops including rice and
cassava through the government’s program, which has so far
distributed $28 million, Sesay said.  “The combined approach of supporting small-holder farmers
with support from donor partners and encouraging large scale
investment in agriculture will promote economic growth,” he
said.  The World Bank gave two agriculture grants worth $42
million to  Sierra Leone , the Washington-based lender said on its
 website  May 29.  “Success in the sector is within reach, and is vital for
reducing poverty and boosting household incomes,” Vijay Pillai,
the bank’s country manager for Sierra Leone, said in the
statement.  Arable Land  Small-scale farmers are using 12 percent of the country’s
arable land, leaving room for the larger companies the
government hopes to lure, Sesay said.  Geneva-based Addax & Oryx Group Ltd.’s Addax Bioenergy
began a 10,000-hectare sugar-cane plantation in Makeni, 137
kilometers (85 miles) east of Freetown, and expects to begin
producing ethanol by 2013, the company said on its website.  Sierra Leone is one of the poorest countries on the
continent, with gross domestic product per capita of $341,
compared with the sub-Saharan African average of $1,127,
according to the  World Bank .  The government will spend $30.6 million on agriculture in
its budget this year, or 8.9 percent of the state’s total
spending plans, with more than 70 percent of that funding coming
from donors, said Mathew Dinge, the director of budget in the
Ministry of Finance and  Economic Development , by phone June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silas Gbandia in Freetown via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 