-- 
Soft Patch 2, Not QE2, Is Main Influence on Rates: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-06-16T20:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/soft-patch-2-not-qe2-is-main-influence-on-rates-caroline-baum.html
When it began, some thought it might
not run its course. Now that it’s ending, there are those who
think another installment is needed. The “it,” of course, is the
 Federal Reserve ’s second round of large-scale asset purchases,
better known as quantitative easing.  The lender of last resort will single-handedly have
accounted for more than 80 percent of the Treasury’s coupon
issuance from November through the end of June: $773 billion of
an expected $946 billion of new cash raised through note and
bond sales, according to  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  What happens when that big buyer says adios? Prices should
fall, or in this case, yields should rise, right? At least
that’s what happens in a free market.  I suspect yields will rise, but not right away and not
because of the termination of QE2. The economy’s current soft
patch, in an otherwise unremarkable recovery, will be the
driving force. Let me explain.  In a free market, a cutback in demand results in lower
prices in order to allocate the supply.  This isn’t a free market. The Fed is a monopolist holding
sway in the front end of the yield curve. It sets the price of
the overnight rate, currently a range of 0 to 0.25 percent.
Other short-term rates, such as those on Treasury bills and
eurodollars, are priced off the fed funds rate.  Fed’s Long Shadow  The farther out the curve you go, the smaller the Fed’s
influence. But it never totally disappears. That’s because what
the Fed is expected to do with the funds rate has a lot to do
with the determination of the yield on notes and bonds. As long
as investors expect the benchmark interest rate to stay at zero
for “an extended period,” as promised by the Fed, and as long as
they see no risk of higher inflation from holding it there,
long-term  interest rates  are unlikely to move higher, QE2 or no
QE2.  Remember, Treasury yields rose from the inception of the
Fed’s $600 billion asset purchase program in November until
early February amid signs that the economy was improving. Some
Fed district bank presidents, who tend to be inflation hawks,
questioned the necessity and advisability of expanding the
already bloated balance sheet. Soaring food and energy prices
pushed the  consumer price index  higher. Inflation was going to
be the next big worry, which led investors to anticipate a rate
increase later this year, reflected in fed funds futures
contracts.  Fed chief  Ben S. Bernanke  claimed that absent the Fed’s
purchases, the backup in yields from about 2.4 percent to 3.75
percent on the 10-year note would have been greater.  Now Hear This  There’s no way to know that for sure, however, because the
Fed’s intention was to shoo away other investors.  “When you announce you are going to buy a large amount of
Treasuries,” Crandall said, “you are saying to every investment
committee: ‘We’re going to artificially depress returns in this
asset class for six months. Respond accordingly.’”  For traders and investors, that response was to buy
riskier, higher-yielding assets. For the rest of us, Bernanke
laid out the game plan in a Washington Post  op-ed  on Nov. 4, the
day after the central bank officially announced QE2.  The expected decline in Treasury yields, he explained,
would lower both  mortgage rates , making homes more affordable
(though affordability isn’t the problem for the housing market),
and corporate bond rates, encouraging investment (it actually
encouraged companies to issue debt). Higher stock prices would
“boost consumer wealth and increase confidence,” Bernanke said,
and spur spending.  Cycle of Perceptions  That might have worked if consumers hadn’t been bingeing
for decades. As for his other hoped-for outcomes, housing has
entered its sixth year of decline. Corporations are sitting on
about $2 trillion in cash. Banks are holding $1.5 trillion in
their accounts at the Fed.  At least the markets heeded the Fed’s call. Spreads between
corporate bonds and risk-free Treasuries narrowed. Stocks
rallied. Commodities took off.  With the onset of soft patch 2 in the first quarter, the
trends in those markets reversed. Treasury yields plunged as
investors sought safety at a time when  Europe  is struggling to
contain the Greek debt crisis and  China  is trying to rein in
lending and tame inflation. Expectations of a Fed rate increase
were pared back until the second half of 2012. There were
whispers about QE3.  In short, the Treasury market has gone through an entire
 business cycle , and all that’s changed are perceptions about the
economy and the Fed. Growth has averaged 2.8 percent in the
seven quarters since the recession officially ended in June
2009. A percentage point one way or the other shouldn’t be a big
deal, but clearly it is.  Priced for Perfection  Currently, with 10-year yields below 3 percent, Treasuries
are priced for perfection: for gloom and doom everywhere else.  “The level of rates is such that by the end of July, the
numbers will look rather different and yields will go back up,
and it won’t have had anything to do with the timing of QE2,”
Crandall said.  It may have nothing to do with QE2, but the Fed will
welcome higher yields any way it can get them as a sign the
economy is on a path of stronger growth.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 