-- 
Solar Silicon Price Plunges to Six-Year Low, Helping Trina

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-06-17T11:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/solar-panel-raw-material-plunges-to-six-year-low-helping-trina.html
Polysilicon, the main raw material
in solar panels, has plunged more than 33 percent in the  spot
market  during the second quarter, lowering production costs in
the $35 billion global market for the photovoltaic devices.  Prices for immediate delivery fell to an average $50 to $53
a kilogram as demand dropped after European nations slashed
clean-power subsidies, said Rupesh Madlani, a renewable energy
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. The bottom of that range
is the lowest in more than six years, and a drop from $78.90 in
March, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  “People are getting rid of stock that’s been on the floor,
in some cases actually below cost,” Andrew Lee, head of
international sales at Sharp Corp.’s European solar division,
said in an interview from Wrexham, Wales.  Cheaper prices for silicon crystals that turn sunlight into
electricity may benefit Chinese panel-makers JinkoSolar Holding
Co. and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  because they buy mostly on the spot
market and the material makes up more of their costs than at
European and U.S. rivals, Jefferies Group Inc. analysts said.  Unlike its competitors,  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of Tempe,  Arizona ,
the world’s largest maker of thin-film solar panels, shouldn’t
benefit from the drop because it uses cadmium telluride as raw
material instead. First Solar may feel margin pressure,
according to Min Xu, a Jefferies analyst.  Cuts to subsidized power rates in Italy and  Germany  doomed
many solar projects in those nations, provoking developers to
cancel panel orders. That crimped demand for polysilicon, which
is manufactured by putting silica from sand or quartz through a
series of chemical processes.  Italian Subsidy Cuts  Italy  on May 5 approved rate cuts for the second half by 1
percent to 31 percent, depending on the size of the
installation. “There were massive projects in Italy that were
put on hold or canceled because of investor lack of
confidence,” Lee said.  New Energy Finance today said that its June survey of
silicon prices showed a drop in average prices to $53.4 per
kilogram from $74.40 last month. That’s still slightly above the
$52.50 registered in February last year. The energytrend.com
 website , an arm of market researcher Trendforce Corp., yesterday
put this week’s average price at $52.28 per kilogram, down 39
percent since the end of March.  "Overall the industry anticipates further prices declines,"
said Martin Simonek, a New Energy Finance analyst. "Producers
are preparing for a painful consolidation that could see several
players exit the solar industry."  Profit Margins  Profit margins will be squeezed at all polysilicon makers,
though it may benefit the newest competitors, such as Hong Kong-
based GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Inc. and  Korea ’s OCI Co.,
Jefferies’ Xu said in a phone interview from  New York .  “The price declines are tough for everyone, but better for
new entrants such as OCI and GCL, which are expanding capacity
aggressively and will take the opportunity to lower prices to
take market share,” Xu said. Overall margins may decline to a
40 percent to 45 percent range from more than 60 percent, he
said.  Providers regarded as the “highest-quality,” such as
Germany’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  and  Hemlock Semiconductor , majority-
owned by Dow Corning Corp. of the U.S., are more reluctant to
renegotiate contracts, he said. Hemlock, based in Hemlock,
 Michigan , and Wacker of Munich are the world’s largest producers
by factory capacity, New Energy Finance said.  The price for polysilicon, also used in semiconductors,
peaked at about $400 a kilogram during a boom in the Spanish
market in 2008 before collapsing and then edging up again last
year to about $100 as the Italian and German markets heated up  Wacker, Hemlock  Most companies are ramping up production capacity. GCL,
 China ’s biggest polysilicon-maker, said in March it will more
than double manufacturing capacity to 46,000 tons this year. OCI
in April announced plans to build by 2013 a new plant with a
capacity of 24,000 metric tons. Wacker is expanding plants in
Germany as well as constructing a new facility in  Tennessee ,
where Hemlock is also building a $1.2 billion plant.  Wacker spokesman Christof Bachmair said the Munich-based
company “never comments on prices.” He said “well under” 10
percent of its sales are on the spot market.  Jim Stutelberg, Hemlock’s vice president of sales and
marketing, said the company’s business model “is to allocate a
high percentage of our production to long-term agreements with
fixed pricing.” He said in an e-mailed response to questions
that Hemlock “continues to sell all of its polysilicon.”  Big Six  The four manufacturers of the material, which is derived
from tiny silicon crystals, largely share the global market with
No. 5-ranked Renewable Energy Corp. of Norway and St. Peters,
Missouri-based  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)   Smaller “newcomers in  Taiwan  and China have a lot of sales
on the spot market and may suffer more,” said Arthur Hsu, solar
research manager in Taipei at energytrend.com. He declined to
name companies.  Hsu and Madlani at Barclays Capital both said the main
reason for declining polysilicon prices is a drop in Italian
demand for solar panels amid uncertainty about incentives known
as feed-in tariffs. Italy last year became the second-largest
photovoltaic market behind Germany, prompting government subsidy
cuts and a new law to further reduce the burden on consumers for
the above-market rates.  “In the first half of the year, the Italian market has
disappeared, and polysilicon makers are running down their
inventories,” Hsu said in a telephone interview.  German Subsidies  Italy in 2010 installed about 5.9 gigawatts of solar panels
and 2.3 gigawatts of those were connected to the grid, according
to the  grid operator  GSE. New construction may total 4 to 6
gigawatts this year, said Pietro Radoia, an analyst at New
Energy Finance, assuming GSE’s figures are correct. He said
about half the parks GSE said were built last year may not have
been, and may instead be completed this year.  Germany has also announced subsidy cuts this year, as have
 France  and the U.K. The global market for new installations in
2011 may shrink to 13.3 gigawatts after more than doubling last
year to 16.6 gigawatts, according to the  European Photovoltaic
Industry Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  