-- 
Southern Sudan’s Army Reports Clashes With Sudanese Forces in Abyei Region

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-16T11:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/southern-sudan-s-army-reports-clashes-with-sudanese-forces-in-abyei-region.html
Five Sudanese government troops were
killed during a clash with  Southern Sudan ’s forces in the
disputed border region of  Abyei  yesterday, the south’s army
spokesman, Philip Aguer, said.  Seven southern soldiers were wounded in the fighting along
the Kiir River, which is known as Bahr al-Arab in northern
 Sudan , Aguer said today by phone from Juba, the regional
capital. Sudan’s army spokesman, Al-Sawarmi Khaled, said his
forces weren’t involved.  The river has formed a barrier between the two armies since
President Umar al-Bashir’s Sudan Armed Forces occupied Abyei on
May 21 after accusing southern soldiers of attacking them.  The  United Nations Security Council  urged the northern army
to withdraw on concern the action could reignite the two-decade
civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer
that ended in 2005. Southern Sudan is due to become an
independent nation on July 9.  Aguer said the clashes in Abyei started when government
soldiers crossed the river, which marks the historic frontier
between the north and south.  “They crossed and patrolled on the south side of the
river,” Aguer said.  Khaled said his troops hadn’t crossed the river.  “We are not fighting south of Bahr al-Arab,” he told
reporters in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled for January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Kampala,  Uganda  at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 