-- 
Spain to Probe Botin Family Over Taxes

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-06-16T15:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/spain-national-court-to-investigate-botin-family-over-taxes-1-.html
Spain’s National Court plans to
investigate  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chairman Emilio Botin and 11
other members of his family for suspected tax-related crimes
involving funds in Switzerland.  The case, which involves five of his children as well as
his brother, Jaime Botin, and five of his children, is related
to bank accounts at HSBC Private Bank Suisse, the court said in
an e-mailed statement in  Madrid  today. The probe includes Ana Patricia Botin, Botin’s eldest daughter and chief executive
officer of the bank’s U.K. unit.  Spanish  tax officials  received information on clients at
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private bank from French authorities,
prompting Spain’s tax agency to ask for accounts from the family
members going back to 2005. The family presented “huge amounts
of documentation,” that tax officials haven’t been able to
examine, prompting the authorities to ask the court to start an
investigation before a June 30 deadline that would render the
matter too old to pursue.  The move by magistrate Fernando Andreu to investigate
accusations by the anti-corruption prosecutor comes a day before
Santander,  Spain ’s largest bank, holds its annual  shareholders’
meeting . Santander fell as much as 1.6 percent in Madrid
trading, and was down 8 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 7.54 euros by
4:06 p.m.  Met Tax Obligations  If the documentation presented by the family members is
“complete and true,” then the suspects would be “absolutely
exonerated,” the court said in the statement.  The Botin family, in a statement distributed by Santander
today, said it has put its tax affairs in order “voluntarily,”
has met all its tax obligations, and hopes the case will be
cleared up in court soon. The family has helped run the 153-
year-old bank for 116 years.  Spokesmen at Santander and the bank’s U.K. unit declined to
comment, as did a spokesman for HSBC in London.  Emilio Botin ’s father took money to Switzerland when he was
forced to leave Spain in 1936 after the outbreak of the
country’s civil war, Efe newswire reported, citing unidentified
people close to the family. Family members have paid a combined
200 million euros ($283 million) to put their tax affairs in
order, Efe said.  “There is suddenly uncertainty surrounding the management
of a bank that is very closely associated with a single family
and that is clearly a concern,” Mauro Guillen, a professor at
the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia and co-author of a history of the bank, said in a
phone interview.  Bank History  The bank the Botins helped build was founded in 1857 as a
lender to service trade from Santander, a port on Spain’s
northern coast, as the region embarked on an industrial boom
driven by its  mining industry . Rafael Botin Aguirre, brother of
Emilio’s great-grandfather, became the first family member with
a management role at the bank when he was named a managing
director in 1895, according to a  history  the bank published to
mark its 150th anniversary in 2007.  Botin, 76, the third in his family to hold the Santander
chairmanship, joined the bank in 1958 at age 24 and took over in
the top post in 1986 when his father stepped down after 36
years. Ana Patricia Botin, 50, joined the board in 1989 and was
named head of the U.K. unit last November.  “However remote it might be, there is the potential to
disrupt a management that has investor confidence,” said  Peter Hahn , a former Citigroup Inc. banker who lectures on finance at
 London ’s Cass Business School “You have an institution that has
for so long been closely associated with a single family; a fact
that many investors undoubtedly find to be of comfort and adding
stability.”  Stolen Data  The other individuals named in the court documents are:
Paloma Botin, Emilio Botin, Carmen Botin, Francisco Botin, Jaime
Botin, Marcelino Botin, Alfonso Botin, Gonzalo Botin, Marta
Botin and Lucrecia Botin.  London-based HSBC’s Swiss private bank said in March of last
year that Hervé Falciani, a former software technician in
Geneva, stole details on at least 24,000 accounts. The French
government has used the data to search for tax dodgers and
previously shared the information with  Italy ’s prosecutors.  HSBC said it became aware of the theft in the middle of
2008 and Falciani was arrested in  Switzerland  in December of
that year. He later left the country for  France , where, under
police protection, he cooperated with investigators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty in Santander, Spain at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  