-- 
Starwood Expects China to Be Largest Growth Market in 3 Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T02:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/starwood-builds-90-hotels-in-china-more-than-u-s-on-enormous-demand.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , which opened  China ’s first international-branded hotel 26
years ago, expects the nation to be its largest growth market in
the next three to four years as it adds more properties.  About 90 Starwood hotels are under construction in China,
or 30 percent of its pipeline of 300 properties, President and
Chief Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said. North American
locations will account for 20 percent, with the remaining hotels
spread throughout the world, he said.  “The difference between China, more than anything else
right now, is the absolute magnitude of the growth potential
given the size of the economy in its trajectory of
development,” van Paasschen said in a phone interview late
yesterday. “The growth of China’s economy and urbanization
represents an enormous amount of demand.”  Starwood, which operates brands including  St. Regis  and
Westin in China, is expanding as the number of domestic tourists
grew 11 percent to reach 2.1 billion in 2010 and will continue
to increase as incomes and economic growth spur travel,
according to data from Los Angeles-based  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. (CBG)  China is also the world’s third-largest tourism destination,
according to the United Nations Tourism Organization.  Van Paasschen led top executives in a one month
“relocation” of Starwood’s headquarters to  Shanghai  from  White
Plains ,  New York  starting June 8 to July 11 to “better
understand” the market and meet local developers, he said.
China, the hotel operator’s second-largest market after the U.S.,
will have a new Starwood property every two weeks this year.  First Global Operator  The company now has more than 70 hotels in China carrying
eight of its nine brands that also include Le Meridien and
Sheraton. It opened the Great Wall Sheraton Hotel in Beijing in
1985 as the first global operator to enter the market, it said.  Starwood is also entering China’s less affluent or so-
called second- and third-tier cities, which van Paasschen said
offer “tremendous potential of growth.” That includes the
southern Nanhai and Foshan cities in  Guangdong province  and the
eastern coastal city of Qingdao, he said.  “The growth now and in the future is in markets beyond the
first-tier cities,” van Paasschen said.  Starwood is working with Chinese developers including
Greentown China Holdings Ltd. and Dalian Wanda Group Co.,
according to the company. Starwood usually expands by securing
hotel management contracts from property owners.  China’s housing curbs in the past year and plans by
governments of less affluent cities to build business districts
are luring developers away from residential developments,
especially projects in the biggest metropolitan areas including
Shanghai and Beijing. Commercial real estate investment in China
jumped 42 percent last year from 2009, said Cushman & Wakefield
Inc., the biggest closely held property services company.  Oversupply  Van Paasschen said he’s not worried about an oversupply of
hotel rooms as Starwood expands.  “This is a country that will probably see overcapacity in
some markets in some period of time, but that slack will soon be
absorbed by a continuous rise of demand,” van Paasschen said.  Starwood will open 70 to 80 hotels around the world this
year, with about 50 percent of the properties in the Asia-
Pacific region, it said.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , owner of the Holiday Inn
brand, signed an agreement on May 26 with Poly Real Estate Group
Co., China’s second-biggest developer, to build and manage
hotels in China. One in four of the hotel rooms that
InterContinental opens over the next five years will be in China,
it said in the statement.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  