-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Case May Be in Jeopardy as Accuser Said to Lack Credibility

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-01T09:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/strauss-kahn-told-police-he-had-diplomatic-immunity-during-new-york-arrest.html
Questions about the credibility of
the woman who accused former International Monetary Fund chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn of a sexual attack have placed the case
in jeopardy, a person familiar with the matter said.  Prosecutors in  Manhattan  plan to tell a New York state
court judge today that their investigation raised doubts about
the victim’s credibility, said the person, who didn’t want to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. Prosecutors
disclosed the information to Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers, the person
said. The New York Times reported the investigators’
findings late yesterday.  “There will be certain disclosures made about the
credibility of the witness,”  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s
lawyer, said yesterday in a phone interview. A court hearing
scheduled for today will include a request for “substantial
modifications” to Strauss-Kahn’s bail conditions, he said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is awaiting trial on charges of sexually
assaulting and attempting to rape a Manhattan hotel maid on May
14. He pleaded not guilty and is free on bail under security
conditions that include electronic monitoring and an armed
guard.  The  New York  Times reported that investigators found the
French politician’s accuser had repeatedly lied to prosecutors
and had possible links to people involved in criminal activity
such as drug dealing and  money laundering . The woman spoke to an
incarcerated man over the phone within a day of the alleged
assault by Strauss-Kahn and discussed with him the possible
benefits of pursuing charges against him, the newspaper reported
citing two officials it didn’t name.  Townhouse  The former IMF chief is living in a rented townhouse in the
Tribeca section of Manhattan, only blocks from the courthouse.
Since his release from jail on May 20, he has been allowed to
leave home only for legal, medical and religious purposes. He
posted $1 million cash bail and a $5 million bond.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., didn’t immediately return a call after regular
business hours yesterday. Earlier yesterday, she declined to
comment other than to say there was a hearing scheduled.  Kenneth P. Thompson, a lawyer representing the woman,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment after regular business hours yesterday.  Thibault de
Montbrial , a Paris lawyer hired by Thompson to search for other
women Strauss-Kahn may have victimized, declined to comment.  Today’s court hearing is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. before
New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Michael Obus. At Strauss-
Kahn’s arraignment on June 6, Obus had scheduled the next court
hearing for July 18.  Midtown Sofitel  Strauss-Kahn is accused of attacking a housekeeper, a 32-
year-old from  Guinea , at the Midtown Manhattan Sofitel on May
14, grabbing her breasts and trying to pull down her pantyhose,
prosecutors have said in court papers. The former IMF chief
attempted to rape her and forced her to engage in oral sex,
according to the indictment.  In a May 25 letter to the Manhattan district attorney
complaining about media leaks in the case, Brafman and co-
counsel William Taylor III said that, if they wanted to feed the
media frenzy, they could release information that would
“gravely undermine the credibility” of the woman.  The prosecutor’s office responded in a letter May 26 saying
it was “troubled” by the defense lawyers’ claims they
possessed information that might negatively affect the case and
the woman’s credibility.  Forward Immediately  “We are aware of no such information,” Manhattan
Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon wrote. “If you
really do possess the kind of information that you suggest that
you do, we trust you will forward it immediately.”  Strauss-Kahn was indicted on seven counts, including
criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted of the top
charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison.  Polls had shown Strauss-Kahn as the potential candidate
with the best chance of beating French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in next May’s general election. Socialist Party hopefuls have
until July 13 to register for their primary, which is scheduled
for October.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, Supreme Court
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 