-- 
Structured Notes Average Offering Size Jumps 26% as Distribution Expands

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T15:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/structured-notes-average-offering-size-jumps-26-as-distribution-expands.html
The size of the average structured
note offering in the U.S. grew 26 percent this year as issuers
expand distribution channels and investors favor simpler notes.  The average sale was $7.82 million through the first five
months of 2011, compared with $6.21 million a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from prospectuses filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission. New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s average more than tripled to $27.2 million from
$8.87 million.  Issuers now offer notes through more distributors, and
investors are diversifying their credit risk with less complex
notes that often sell in larger amounts, both of which may have
helped increase deal sizes, said Randy Pegg, head of
distribution of structured products at Advisors Asset Management
Inc.  “You have a more plain-vanilla type approach,” Pegg said
in a telephone interview. “Issuers want to make sure when they
bring something to market it’s going to be relevant and serve an
investment purpose, whereas a couple of years ago, you had more
of the quant people coming up with creative ideas.”  The average structured note issued by the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  jumped to $3.02 million from $433,092,
Bloomberg data show. The Edinburgh-based bank has been offering
more products to larger broker-dealers, said Michael Nelskyla,
head of investor products for the Americas, who focuses on
structured notes for individual investors.  Narrowed Focus  “Historically, we were offering products to distributors
who were primarily interested in reverse convertibles,”
Nelskyla said in a telephone interview, “We have narrowed our
focus on the broker-dealers we work with, and that has resulted
in us growing relationships with bigger distributors.”  Low  interest rates  may have helped bolster the size of new
issues as investors look for higher fixed coupons, said Glenn
Lotenberg, managing director at Incapital LLC. Sales of callable
step-up notes, which pay fixed rates that increase after a
predetermined time, have risen 26 percent.  “Callable step-up notes are in vogue, and the deal sizes
are quite large,” Lotenberg said in a telephone interview from
his office in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . Fixed-income products are
selling better than equity-, commodity- and currency-linked
notes, he said.  The average callable step-up note offering from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. has increased almost fourfold to $39.5 million
from $10.6 million in the first five months of 2011, Bloomberg
data show.  Banks sold $3.76 billion of structured notes last month, up
from $3.13 billion in April, the data show. Sales have risen
more than 19 percent to $21.6 billion this year, up from $18.2
billion a year earlier.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 