-- 
Freshfields Loses Hong Kong Head as Wall Street Law Firms Expand in China

-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-16T22:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/sullivan-cromwell-expands-hong-kong-office-with-hires-from-freshfields.html
Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP hired Ng Kay Ian and Gwen Wong from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP,
making it the seventh New York law firm to expand in the Chinese
city of Hong Kong since late 2009.  Ng, who had been the Hong Kong managing partner of London-
based Freshfields, is the third partner from the firm to leave
for a Wall Street rival after its Beijing managing partner moved
to Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and the head of its China corporate
practice joined Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP in the past year.  “Sullivan & Cromwell has been deeply committed to the
Asia-Pacific region for many decades,” Chairman Joseph C. Shenker said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Kay Ian’s
outstanding reputation in the  Hong Kong  capital markets and M&A
practice areas makes him a natural fit to expand our practice in
Greater China. We are equally pleased that Gwen will be joining
us in Beijing to strengthen our presence there.”  Law firms from the U.S. and China have been expanding in
Hong Kong, home to the world’s largest market for initial share
sales, and as mergers and acquisitions involving Chinese
companies listed there gather pace. That has challenged the
traditional dominance of London-based firms in the former
British colony.  ‘Major Shift’  “International capital markets tend to follow U.S.
practices and disclosure standards so it makes sense that the New
York firms should be the leading firms in this area in  Asia  as
well,” said Antony Dapiran, who joined Davis Polk from
Freshfields. “This is just the latest move in what has been a
major shift in the legal landscape here in Hong Kong.”  Sullivan & Cromwell opened its Hong Kong office in 1992 and
its Beijing office in 1999, according to the statement. The firm
said it now plans to start a practice offering advice on Hong
Kong law. Sullivan & Cromwell, founded in 1879, is the second-
ranked legal adviser on mergers and acquisitions this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Ng had advised on more than 25 IPOs and securities
offerings of companies including  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , Air China
Ltd. and China Telecom Corp., according to his profile on
Freshfields’  website.  Ng, who is fluent in Mandarin and
Cantonese, is qualified to practice law in Hong Kong,  England 
and  Wales , and Malaysia, Sullivan & Cromwell said.  Wong was promoted to counsel last year by Freshfields. She
has advised on Hong Kong IPOs and listings on the International
Board of the Shanghai Stock Exchange and on spinoff listings on
the Australian Stock Exchange, according to the statement.  Freshfields announced June 10 it would relocate its global
co-head of international capital markets, Stephen Revell, to
Hong Kong from  London .  ‘Strong Team’  “He will add additional capacity to the strong local team
which has already acted on several significant IPOs this year
including MGM, Samsonite, Shanghai Pharma and Hutchison Port
Holdings,” the firm said in a statement. Senior associate David
Cotton also will relocate, it said.  Freshfields also said last month it was hiring Howard Lam
from London-based Linklaters LLP in Hong Kong.  Freshfields has offices in  Hanoi ,  Ho Chi Minh City , Hong
Kong, Beijing,  Shanghai  and  Tokyo  with a combined 238 lawyers,
or 8.4 percent of its total, as of the end of April.  “The U.S. firms have realized that Asia in general, and
China in particular, is a key center,” said Rob Ashworth,
Freshfields Asia managing partner.  “To some extent these firms are playing catch up and are
now aggressively targeting individuals at long established firms
in the region,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Freshfields has a well-developed practice and a deep pipeline of
talented people in China, he said.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, Shearman & Sterling LLP,
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP and  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  are the other New York firms that have expanded in
Hong Kong to tap legal work related to  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  