-- 
Swedes Steer Clear of Greek Morass by Staying Out of Euro: Brendan Greeley

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-16T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/swedes-steer-clear-of-greek-morass-by-staying-out-of-euro-brendan-greeley.html
They are taking to the streets in
 Stockholm , but not with demands. Swedes, this month, ask for no
more than a spare patch of grass or dockside granite to bask in
the midsummer. The country has never really gone in for protest
anyway, and right now there’s nothing to protest about.  The economy grew at an annual rate of 6.4 percent in the
first quarter, after 5.7 percent last year, the strongest
recovery in the European Union. And Sweden still has its krona.  Though it joined the union in 1995, Sweden never adopted
the euro. It still enjoys the advantages of a tariff-free common
market. It sends ministers, commissioners, and members of
parliament to Brussels and Strasbourg. And right now, Swedes are
looking south with relief. While  Sweden  enjoys monetary
independence, Germany -- another strong exporter with high-end
manufacturing and solid growth -- shoulders responsibility for
saving Greece and preventing a wider financial collapse among
the 16 other countries that use the euro.  On June 13,  Standard & Poor’s  gave Greece the world’s
lowest credit rating, while Greece’s debt load reached 143
percent of gross domestic product, the highest in Europe.
Sweden’s krona has joined the Swiss franc as a favored currency
for traders looking to profit from Germany’s expansion while
avoiding the European debt crisis.  “If you are buying the Swedish krona,” says Nick Parsons,
head of markets strategy in  London  at National Australia Bank
Ltd., “you are getting European growth without Greek politics.”  Less Integration Works  Sweden’s doing fine. The EU should find this only slightly
less distressing than the chaos in  Athens . The European project
has always fed off of the momentum of ever more integration. Now
Sweden’s success offers a counterargument: Less integration
works, too. It turns out that sovereignty matters, not just to
the euroskeptical fringe but to the Swedes, the people who gave
the world ABBA, Ikea, and benign  socialism .  Sweden cherishes its modern tradition of neutrality, and
the  Baltic Sea  serves the same function as the  English Channel :
Sweden keeps a cold, English distance from Europe and has a
comfortable sense of its place in the world. Swedes lean on an
untranslatable word, Lagom, to describe the fairness, comity,
and reserve they practice in public life. They believe their
system works, and suspect that continental  Europe ’s doesn’t.  Sweden has stayed out of the euro through an elegant legal
dance. Denmark and the U.K. negotiated in the early 1990s to opt
out of a monetary union, if they chose to. (They did.) When
Sweden joined the EU in 1995, it theoretically agreed to the
union’s goal of a single currency. But the country’s economy was
still recovering from a domestic banking crisis earlier that
decade, and public opinion in Sweden turned against the EU after
accession. When the euro launched in 1999, Sweden deliberately
failed to fulfill all of the common currency’s membership
criteria, and held on to its krona.  2003 Referendum  In 2003, Sweden scheduled a referendum on joining the euro.
Swedish industrial organizations and large companies supported
monetary union; it would reduce transaction costs and  currency
risk , and increase the competitiveness of Swedish companies on
the Continent. Trade unions opposed the euro, worrying about its
effects on wages and, more generally, Sweden’s unique social
contract.  Figures in the country’s major political parties were
divided on the euro, but Sweden’s voters were clear. 56 percent
voted against the common currency, with a turnout of 83 percent,
higher than the previous year’s parliamentary elections.
Brussels reacted with paternalism.  Wisdom in Fear  The European Commission released a statement showing
confidence that “the Swedish Government will choose the way
forward to keep the euro project alive in Sweden.” Romano Prodi,
then head of the commission, told the Italian newspaper la
Repubblica that Sweden’s influence in the union would fade, and
that “Sweden was afraid.”  If so, there was wisdom in fear. From 2004 to 2007, Sweden
averaged annual growth of 3.7 percent, compared with about
2.4 percent for the  euro-zone  countries. Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt’s government, which won a second four-year term last
September, has cut income taxes four times since 2006 and has
said it may do so again next year.  In the wake of debt crises in Ireland,  Greece ,  Portugal ,
and now Greece again, support for joining the euro has plummeted
further. In May 2010 it stood at 28 percent. One year later it’s
at 24 percent, and few Swedish politicians are inclined to test
the anti-euro mood.  Hakan Juholt, the current leader of Sweden’s perennially
ruling  Social Democrats , still supports the unified currency,
but with less enthusiasm than in 2003, when he campaigned for a
“yes.” More important, he knows it’s a nonstarter, politically.
He told Bloomberg Businessweek on June 9 that there are no plans
for a referendum this parliamentary term.  Independent Monetary policy  An independent monetary policy, meanwhile, is looking like
a pretty good idea. Like the Fed and the  European Central Bank ,
Sweden dropped rates during the crisis, but can tune them now to
its expansion, avoiding a housing bubble.  The ECB, meanwhile, is stuck trying to cool off  Germany 
without smothering Greece. In a way, Sweden played a dirty trick
on Europe. It sends 40 percent of its exports to euro countries
and benefits from the reduced transaction costs and increased
trade and competition within the euro zone. Dependent on
exports, Sweden isn’t entirely immune from the rest of the
Continent’s ills. And yet it stands apart, holding on to its
options.
Lars Calmfors, a prominent Swedish economist who advocated
for the common currency in 2003, believes the economic arguments
for the euro balance out the economic arguments against it. He
says that the “yes” camp focused too much on the economic
arguments for a common currency, and not enough on the political
arguments.  Self-Selection for Enthusiasts  But maybe the political arguments just weren’t that
compelling. Europe lacks effective anti-federalists. The
European Commission, which has the sole right to write
legislation, self-selects for European enthusiasts. The European
Parliament contains euroskeptics, but they’re voted in through
nationalist parties, which by definition don’t like to work
together.  The European Council, composed of ministers from each of
the states, often works in the national interest of individual
member states but cloaks its decisions in praise for the
European project. The institutions of the EU often ask whether
it’s more important to make the union wider (by bringing in more
countries) or deeper (by strengthening treaties and
institutions). Few voices in Brussels push for narrower or
shallower. To understand that city, imagine  Washington  with no
Republican party.  Divide on Federalism  The divide on federalism tends to put political leaders of
major parties on one side, and voters on another. The only
effective brake on integration comes from national referendums.
Europe rumbles ahead, and when voters get the chance to say “no”
they often take it, as they did more recently in  France , the
Netherlands, and Ireland when asked to adopt the European
constitution. Sovereignty is more an instinct than a policy, but
it’s not just for knuckle-draggers. In 2003, a simple “no” -- an
urge to hold on to Swedish money, Swedish choices, and the
Swedish model -- turned out to be a sophisticated monetary
strategy for the next decade.  In the ’90s, European leaders wondered if it was possible
to have monetary union without political union. It seemed an
abstract question then, but now the answer looks painfully
obvious. When the EU is done with Greece, Portugal, and maybe
 Spain , it will have to take another look at political union.  Sweden’s euroskepticism wasn’t wrong back in 2003. The real
trouble is that Europe’s “no” votes happen in referendums, when
it’s too late to fix what the vote is about. Rather than wish
the next referendum result away as an inconvenience to be
corrected later, the EU will have to figure out how to get
people to say “no” more often in Brussels, too.  (Brendan Greeley’s Opening Remarks will appear in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s June 20 issue. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  