-- 
Syrians Flee Second Northern Town as Fear of Government Crackdown Spread

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-16T21:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/syrians-flee-second-northern-town-as-fear-of-government-crackdown-spreads.html
Syrians are fleeing a second town
and nearby villages in the north of the country, fearing
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces are preparing to widen their
crackdown on anti-government protesters in the region, according
to human-rights activists.  The people of Ma’arrat an Nu’man “have information that
the army will surround the villages, and they are leaving before
the army comes,”  Ammar Qurabi , head of  Syria ’s National
Organization for Human Rights, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We are scared now of a repeat of Jisr al-
Shughour.”  People leaving Ma’arrat an Nu’man are unlikely to head to
Turkey, as it isn’t as close to the border as Jisr al-Shughour,
whose population has largely fled since the army began a
crackdown there in response to the death of 120 security
personnel, Qurabi said. Instead they may go east to the
countryside or to Aleppo, Syria’s second-largest city, he said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the Syrian government
attacks on protesters are “totally unacceptable” and called on
Assad to “stop killing people.”  “I have discussed and talked to President Assad several
times, I have strongly urged him to listen to the wishes and
aspirations of the people,” Ban told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday. “I again strongly urge president Assad and his
authorities, his regime’s authorities, to stop killing people,
and to engage in inclusive dialogue and to take decisive and
bold measures before it is too late.”  ‘Fire for Change’  Efforts by Britain, France, Germany and  Portugal  in support
of a UN Security Council resolution condemning the Syrian
crackdown have run into the prospect of Russian and Chinese
vetoes.  In Washington, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
criticized Assad’s “barbaric attacks” on protesters and said
that the U.S. is “increasing contacts” with Syrian dissidents
inside and outside the country.  “Assad’s repression has only served to pour gasoline on
the fire for change,” Nuland told reporters yesterday.  “Several weeks ago, President Obama echoed repeatedly by
the secretary, gave Assad a choice: Reform or get out of the
way,” she said. “And increasingly, he appears to have made his
choice. Rather than playing a positive role, under Assad, Syria
has increasingly become a source of instability in the region.”  Protests against Assad’s rule began in mid-March, part of
a wave of demonstrations across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that have unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . A
total of 1,289 civilians and 332 security forces have been
killed, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on June 12.  Refugees  About 500 more people have crossed into Turkey, the Turkish
state-run Anatolia news agency said, bringing the total number
of refugees in the southeastern province of Hatay to 8,904. The
influx started on June 8 after Syria’s army began an offensive
in Jisr al-Shughour to root out what the regime described as
“armed gangs.”  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, speaking after a
four-hour meeting with Syrian envoy Hassan Ali Turkmani in
Ankara, reiterated  Turkey ’s promise to keep its borders open and
said it will also provide humanitarian aid to more than 10,000
people in makeshift camps across the border. Davutoglu said
Assad is determined to enact reforms and the Syrian government
is working to control the violence.  “I saw fear in the eyes of these people,” Davutoglu said,
referring to his visit to tent cities in the province of Hatay
June 15. “We want a strong, stable, prosperous Syria and for
that to happen wide-ranging reforms need to be enacted as per
Assad’s commitment to democratization.”  ‘Crackdown’  The Syrian military said its forces were attacked by armed
rebels in Jisr al-Shughour, while opposition supporters and
local residents have said those who died there were executed
after refusing to fire on pro-democracy protesters.  Andrew Tabler, a Syria specialist at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy, said he doubts that Assad will
make political changes that would weaken his own faction of
Alawites, an offshoot of Shiite Islam, and give more power to
the majority Sunnis.  “The regime will continue its crackdown on people and
might make some changes while trying to convince the world that
everything is normal, but it won’t stop the brutality of Assad’s
regime,” he said in a telephone interview from Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  