-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Drop More Than Forecast on Fuel, Job Fears

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-16T09:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-k-retail-sales-decline-more-than-forecast-amid-concerns-on-fuel-jobs.html
U.K. retail sales dropped more than
economists forecast in May as higher fuel costs and concern
about employment prospects restrained  consumer spending .  Sales fell 1.4 percent from April, when they rose 1.1
percent, boosted by warm weather and an extra public holiday,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The
median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a
0.6 percent decline. On the year, sales increased 0.2 percent.  The pound dropped and bonds extended their gain after the
report. U.K. consumers are being squeezed by inflation that’s
outpacing wage growth, while sentiment is being undermined by
the government’s budget squeeze.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the economy is undergoing a rebalancing that
will take several years and defended the bank’s decision to
leave  interest rates  at a record low to aid the recovery.  “Consumers immediately retrenched after being encouraged
to spend in April by warm weather and the royal wedding,” said
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London.
“Spending is going to remain very weak for the rest of this
year as inflation accelerates and wage growth remains weak.
Consumers have an awful lot to worry about.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.6119 as of 10:13 a.m. in London,
down 0.5 percent since yesterday. The yield on the 10-year gilt
was down 3 basis points at 3.20 percent.  Food Sales Plunge  The monthly drop in retail sales in May was the biggest
since January 2010. Food sales fell 3.7 percent from April, the
most since June 2008, the statistics office said. Sales at
household-goods stores slipped 0.9 percent and clothing and
footwear sales declined 0.8 percent.  Excluding fuel, retail sales fell 1.6 percent on the month
in May and were unchanged on the year. The statistics office
said retailers cited fuel costs and unemployment fears as
factors restraining spending.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s No.1 grocer, said on June 14 that U.K.
same-store sales rose only 1 percent in the first quarter amid
“constrained demand” for general-merchandise items such as
electronics. Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee said many
Britons “are shopping on a smaller budget due to fuel prices”
and “sentiment has not really improved at all.”  While a Nationwide Building Society report yesterday showed
 consumer confidence  rose in May, it said “underlying”
sentiment remains “cautious.”  King Defense  The Bank of England held its key interest rate at 0.5
percent this month as policy makers prioritized aiding the
recovery over tackling inflation that’s more than twice their 2
percent target. U.K. jobless claims surged at their fastest pace
in almost two years in May, data showed yesterday. In the three
months through April, wage growth was an annual 1.8 percent,
compared with a May inflation rate of 4.5 percent.  King said in his Mansion House speech yesterday that while
the bank could have raised its benchmark rate to cool inflation,
this would have led to a weaker recovery. He also said it
wouldn’t have insulated consumers from the surge in  oil prices .  A rate increase “would have meant a weaker recovery, or
even further falls in output” and “a risk of inflation falling
well below the target in the medium term,” he said.  Investors pushed back bets on the next Bank of England
rate-increase to beyond May of next year, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average. A week
ago, traders were betting on an increase in April, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc showed.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose to 3.8 percent in May from 3.7 percent in April,
the statistics office said. Excluding auto fuel, the deflator
eased to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent. The deflator for food
sales jumped to 5.3 percent from 4.6 percent.  Internet sales  accounted for 9.4 percent of all retail
sales, compared with 7 percent a year earlier. Average weekly
internet sales in May amounted to 527 million pounds ($851
million), the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  