-- 
U.K. Treasury Minister Attacks Public-Sector Strike Threats Over Pensions

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-k-treasury-minister-attacks-public-sector-strike-threats-over-pensions.html
U.K. Treasury Minister  Danny Alexander  will today attack strike plans by unions representing
public-sector employees, saying they’re premature and not in the
interests of workers.  Alexander will tell an audience in  London  that the strikes
protesting pension curbs for state workers are “unjustifiable”
because they ask taxpayers to work longer so that union members
can retire sooner and on more generous pensions.  “It is disappointing that there are a minority of unions
who seem hell-bent on premature strike action before discussions
are even complete” on pension changes, Alexander will say,
according to prepared remarks released by his office. “This
government will reform public-service pensions, and this is the
time to shape that change, not try to block it.”  The Conservative-led coalition, which is seeking to
eliminate the biggest  budget deficit  since World War II, has
said government workers will have to retire later, pay more into
pension funds and expect lower payouts to trim costs. More than
750,000 public-sector staff are set to join the strike to
protest the changes on June 30.  Alexander, a member of the Liberal Democrats, the junior
coalition party, said the plans will protect the poorest workers
from increased payments. The government plans to save 2.8
billion pounds ($4.5 billion) a year from the changes.  The strikes are being coordinated by the  Public and
Commercial Services Union , the  National Union of Teachers , the
 Association of Teachers and Lecturers  and the University and
College Union.  Business Secretary Vince Cable is among ministers who’ve
told unions this month that a wave of  strike action  would
increase pressure to tighten industrial-relations laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  