-- 
U.S. Backs UN Business Guidelines, Steps to Safeguard Workers

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-16T20:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-backs-un-business-guidelines-steps-to-safeguard-workers.html
The Obama administration today
backed steps by  United Nations  human rights and labor bodies to
protect as many as 100 million domestic workers and prevent
human rights abuses by transnational corporations.  The U.S. joined 46 other nations on the UN  Human Rights
Council  in Geneva in endorsing the first global standards
detailing government duties to regulate business activities and
corporate responsibilities to respect human rights. The council
created a working group to monitor implementation of the
voluntary guidelines and asked Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to
report on how the UN and related agencies can assist.  The International Labor Organization, holding its 100th
annual conference in Geneva, set the first standards for
treatment of domestic workers, including reasonable hours of
labor and rest, limits to in-kind payments, clear conditions of
employment and the right to collective bargaining. The standards
“promote the notion that they deserve the same protection as
all other workers,” Robert Shepard, the U.S. Department Labor’s
director of international affairs, said after the vote.  The ILO said domestic work performed in a household is
often “hidden and unregistered,” and often involves underage
migrant workers.  The business guidelines on human rights, drafted by Harvard
University Professor John Ruggie, have been endorsed by
companies including Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  Similar standards, based
on Ruggie’s work, were adopted last week by the 34-nation
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Business Guidelines  The guidelines will “help businesses operationalize their
respective approaches to human rights” GE Vice President Bob Corcoran said in a letter backing the resolution adopted by
unanimously by the  Human Rights Council .  Speaking after adoption of the resolution, U.S. envoy
Daniel Baer said it was “important for states to govern justly
and effectively, such that individuals are protected not only
from misconduct by the state but also from non-state actors,
including business enterprises.” He said the guidelines would
“create environments in which businesses are less likely to
take actions that might undermine the enjoyment of human
rights.”  The human rights guidelines indicate the general regulatory
and policy measures governments should take to encourage
corporate respect for human rights, and how they can prevent
abuses in conflict areas such as the eastern  Democratic Republic
of Congo , where illegal mining has supported rebel militias.
Businesses are instructed on how to assess the impact of their
activities on human rights and what to do with the findings.  The resolution says that “transnational corporations and
other business enterprises have a responsibility to protect
human rights” and that “weak national legislation and
implementation cannot effectively mitigate the negative impact
of globalization.”  There is no “dedicated mechanism in the  United Nations  for
providing systematic advice and on-the-ground assistance on
business and human rights,” Ruggie said. “These are the first
authoritative standards ever adopted by the UN.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  