-- 
U.S. House Passes Bill to Cut Funding for Derivatives Regulator

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-16T18:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-house-passes-bill-to-cut-funding-for-derivatives-regulator.html
The budget of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission would be cut by 15 percent, or $30 million,
under a measure passed by the U.S. House.  The Republican spending  bill  approved today would reduce
the agency’s budget to $172 million from its current level of
$202 million. The CFTC is responsible for writing most of the
new rules to govern derivatives trades made by banks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “I understand that those in the Big Government circles of
 Washington  love more regulations, more government growth, but to
say to the taxpayers that funding CFTC at a higher,
unprecedented level is going to avoid the need for bailouts is
ridiculous,” Representative Jack Kingston of  Georgia , the
chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on agriculture said
June 14 on the House floor.  The budget measure passed by a party-line vote of 217-203.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican,
successfully attached an amendment to delay for at least a year
rules governing how large trades would be transacted in the
swaps market.  The amendment is designed to require regulators to have
rules for data collection in place for at least a year before
the CFTC can complete regulations for large, so-called block
trades.  “I do this because numerous market participants of all
shapes and sizes have sent to us public comment letters warning
of the dangers of getting block trades and real-time rules
wrong,” Garrett said on the House floor.  Dodd-Frank  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are writing
regulations, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, for the $601
trillion swaps market after largely unregulated transactions
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The CFTC voted June 14 to
propose a delay of many rules until as late as the end of 2011
in order to complete its duties under the law.  The cuts to the agency’s funding would “significantly
curtail the timely, effective implementation” of the new
derivatives rules, the Obama administration said in a statement.  “The bill’s funding level basically takes the cops off the
beat,” Representative Marcy Kaptur, an Ohio Democrat, said.
“It takes the watchdogs away and one might say, the bill gives
a green light for  Wall Street  to harm America again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ; Silla Brush in Washington at 
   sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  