-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Press Regulators on Bank Capital, Derivatives

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-16T20:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-lawmakers-press-regulators-on-capital-derivatives-rules.html
U.S. financial regulators sought to
reassure lawmakers that they can achieve global coordination and
maintain industry competitiveness as they implement the biggest
rewrite of Wall Street oversight since the Great Depression.  Harmonization has been a top consideration in international
talks on capital buffers for the biggest banks and methods for
orderly wind-downs of systemically important firms, officials
including Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo and Treasury
undersecretary  Lael Brainard  told the House Financial Services
Committee today at a hearing in Washington.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the Financial Services Committee, conducted the hearing
amid complaints from bankers that U.S. regulations being imposed
under the Dodd-Frank Act may slow economic recovery from the
2008 financial crisis and drive business overseas. Lawmakers
sought assurances that regulators were looking out for U.S.
interests in dealing with their international counterparts.  “Dodd-Frank was not passed in the EU, and it was not
passed in the G-20, so our regulators must take great care,”
Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who serves
as Financial Services vice chairman, said at the hearing.  The six regulators who appeared before the panel offered
general agreement that maintaining a level playing field in
areas such as resolution authority and rules for the $601
trillion global swaps market is essential to creating proper
safeguards against a repeat of the market tumult that followed
the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ‘Best National Regime’  “The best national regime in the world is not going to be
adequate if other countries do not adopt robust resolution tool
kits and complementary authorities,” said Brainard, Treasury’s
undersecretary for International Affairs.  She and Tarullo were joined at the hearing by Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  and acting Comptroller
of the Currency  John Walsh .  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed last year
to raise the minimum common equity requirement for banks to 4.5
percent from 2 percent, with an added buffer of 2.5 percent, for
a total of 7 percent of assets weighted for risk.  Basel members are also proposing that so-called global
systemically important financial institutions, or global SIFIs,
hold additional capital equivalent to as much as three
percentage points, a stance Fed officials haven’t opposed, a
person familiar with the discussions said last week.  Bank Surcharge  “What is important is not to lose sight of the costs of
not acting,” Tarullo said today. The surcharge based on some
studies may range as high as 7 percentage points above the Basel
requirement, he said, adding that the final figure, now under
consideration by regulators, may not reach that level.  U.S. regulators have yet to align themselves on the issue,
with Bair pushing higher capital levels for the largest banks
and Walsh, who oversees national banks, urging caution as talks
over new rules continue.  “I’m concerned with how much further we can turn up the
dial without negative effects on lending capacity,” Walsh told
lawmakers. “A very real risk is that lending will fall, will
become more expensive and will again move from the regulated
banking sector into the less-regulated shadow banking sector.”  JPMorgan, Harvard  The committee also heard testimony from a second panel
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director Stephen O’Connor,
Timothy Ryan, CEO of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, Harvard Law School professor  Hal Scott  and
Damon Silvers, associate general counsel of the American
Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations.  O’Connor and Ryan argued that certain derivative rules will
push business outside of the U.S., while Zubrow maintained that
higher equity capital requirements for the largest U.S. lenders
are “unnecessary.”  Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the senior
Democrat on the Financial Services panel, told regulators they
shouldn’t let concerns over bank profits affect their decisions.  “They are the means to a sound financial system, they are
not the end,” said Frank, who co-sponsored the financial-
regulation law that bears his name. “Their profitability in and
of itself is not important to anyone other than themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  