-- 
U.S. Solar Capacity Jumps 66% in First Quarter on Incentives, Low Prices

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-06-16T17:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-solar-jumps-66-in-first-quarter-on-incentives-low-prices.html
The amount of solar energy capacity
installed in the U.S. increased 66 percent in the first quarter
as panel prices fell and developers took advantage of expiring
government incentives, a trade group said.  Developers installed 252 megawatts of photovoltaic power
systems in the first quarter, compared with 152 megawatts a year
earlier, according to a report released today by the Washington-
based  Solar Energy Industries Association  and GTM Research.  “Strong demand continues to make solar one of the fastest-
growing industries in the  United States ,” Rhone Resch, SEIA’s
president, said in a statement.  Commercial and government projects accounted for 59 percent
of the installations, compared with 44 percent a year earlier.
Residential projects were 28 percent and the remaining 13
percent came from utility-scale plants.  The cost of installing solar power is falling, driven by
lower costs for components, greater economies of scale and
streamlined development and installation, the report said.
Prices of solar panels in the first quarter fell about 7 percent
from a year earlier.  First-quarter installation volume also increased after
developers rushed to break ground on projects before the end of
2010 when a  U.S. Treasury grant incentive program  was set to
expire. That program, which reimburses 30 percent of the costs
of building solar systems, was extended in December until the
end of 2011.  Top Solar Markets  New Jersey  was the strongest market for solar, with 42
megawatts of new capacity installed, up 49 percent. The state
has a total of 330 megawatts in operation. California is the
largest market with 1.1 gigawatts. Installed capacity in the top
seven states accounted for 88 percent of all new capacity in the
quarter, up from 82 percent.  SEIA estimates that the U.S. solar energy industry now
employs about about 100,000 people.  Growth is expected to accelerate during the year. “First
quarter in the U.S. is always low,” said Shayle Kann, managing
director of solar research at Boston-based GTM Research, which
conducted the study. “First quarter 2010’s number was only 17
percent of the total annual number.”  A total of 878 megawatts of photovoltaic systems and 78
megawatts of solar thermal power projects were installed in
2010, according a report issued by SEIA in March. The total
value was $6 billion, up 67 percent from 2009.  Installed capacity of residential, commercial and utility-
scale plants may increase by as much as 1.8 gigawatts this year,
Kann said.  SEIA represents about 1,000 companies involved in the solar
 energy industry , including installers, manufacturers, developers
and financial companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  