-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance on Better-Than-Estimated Economic Reports

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-16T20:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-s-p-may-stay-near-three-month-low.html
U.S. stocks rebounded, a day after
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined to a three-month low,
as better-than-estimated housing starts and jobless claims
reports tempered concern about a slowdown in the economy.  A gauge of 12 homebuilders in S&P indexes rallied 1.6
percent.  Kroger Co. (KR)  advanced 4.5 percent after the largest U.S.
grocery chain raised its full-year profit forecast.  Southern
Union Co. (SUG)  soared 18 percent as Energy Transfer Equity LP agreed
to buy it for $4.2 billion in the largest purchase of a pipeline
company this year. Benchmark indexes erased gains earlier today
amid concern big banks will face larger capital increases to
comply with proposed international regulations.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,267.64 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The benchmark gauge for American equities is still up 0.8
percent this year. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced
64.25 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,961.52 today.  “We’re bullish,” said Linda Duessel, the Pittsburgh-based
equity market strategist at Federated Investors, which oversees
$354.9 billion. “The market doesn’t believe that we’re going
into a recession. It’s a soft patch. We should bounce back up.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 7 percent from this year’s high at
the end of April amid concern about an economic slowdown.
Equities slumped as reports showed business activity cooled more
than forecast, sales of existing homes unexpectedly declined and
growth in industrial production stopped. The S&P 500 yesterday
traded at 12.7 times forecast 2011 earnings, the lowest multiple
in almost a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Really Oversold’  “We’re really oversold,” Steven Leuthold, founder of
Leuthold Group LLC, said in an interview with Betty Liu on “In
the Loop” on Bloomberg Television. “We’ve gone too far, too
fast. There’s going to be some kind of a shift in confidence
here. We’re probably close to an area where we’re going to get
some significant bounce.”  Stocks rose after a report showed that jobless claims
declined by 16,000 to 414,000 in the week ended June 11.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 420,000 filings,
according to the median forecast.  Work began on 560,000 houses at an annual pace, up 3.5
percent from the prior month and exceeding the 545,000 median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from
the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . Building
permits, a sign of future construction, also increased.  Factory Production  Stocks briefly erased gains after a report showed that
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank in
June for the first time in nine months, raising the risk that
factory production may contribute less to the expansion.  Homebuilders advanced. D.R. Horton Inc. rose 1.6 percent to
$10.96.  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  climbed 2.1 percent to $17.24. Home
improvement retailers also gained.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  increased 1.8
percent to $34.50.  Kroger rose 4.5 percent to $23.99. Earnings will be as much
as $1.95 a share, Cincinnati-based Kroger said today. That
compares with a previous forecast of up to $1.92. Analysts on
average anticipate $1.90, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Southern Union soared 18 percent to $33.21. Shareholders of
Houston-based Southern Union will get new units worth $33 each,
representing a 17 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price.
Energy Transfer also will assume $3.7 billion of debt.  Stocks also erased gains earlier today after people
familiar with the matter said international financial
supervisors are considering capital surcharges of as much as 3.5
percentage points on the largest banks if they grow bigger.  Basel Committee  Draft plans circulated before a meeting next week of the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  would subject banks to a
sliding scale depending on their size and links to other
lenders, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the proposals aren’t public. Banks wouldn’t initially face the
highest surcharge, which is intended as a deterrent to
expansion, one person said. The largest banks may face a 3
percentage point levy at their current sizes, the person said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  retreated 1 percent to $37.63.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  declined 0.8 percent to $40.36.  “We need the banks for the economy to recover,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington, New York. “If the  capital requirements 
are too restrictive, some banks may have to raise more capital.
If restrictions are more severe than expected, that may also
prevent banks from lending as much as people want them to do.”  Finisar Corp. (FNSR)  slumped 16 percent to $14.84. The maker of
fiber-optic transmission gear reported fourth-quarter revenue of
$236.9 million, missing the average analyst estimate of $243
million. Rivals  JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU)  declined 5.8 percent to
$15.57, while  Ciena Corp. (CIEN)  dropped 4.7 percent to $17.26.  Pandora Tumbles  Pandora Media Inc. tumbled 24 percent to $13.26, erasing
yesterday’s gain, amid concern that competition may stymie
efforts by the online-radio company to reach profitability.  Individual investors and newsletter writers are the most
bearish on U.S. stocks since at least August, a sign the six-
week slump may be nearing an end, according to analysts who use
charts to predict markets.  The 7.2 percent drop in the S&P 500 since its April high
through yesterday has turned more investors pessimistic as
economic reports stoked concern the economy is slowing. A survey
from the  American Association  of Individual Investors showed
bears outnumbering bulls by the biggest margin since August. The
ratio of bullish-to-bearish publications in Investors
Intelligence’s survey was the lowest since September.  “We have some fear in the market,”  Katie Stockton , MKM
Partners’ chief market technician, said in an interview from
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “It’s a good thing from a contrarian
perspective in that a market low typically is established when
there is fear in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  