-- 
U.S. Appeals Decison Overturning Ban on Corporate Donations to Candidates

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-16T15:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-appeals-decison-overturning-ban-on-corporate-donations-to-candidates.html
A federal judge’s ruling that
corporations have a constitutional right to contribute money
directly to candidates’ campaigns was appealed by U.S.
prosecutors.  The Justice Department today filed a notice of appeal in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond, Virginia, seeking review
of Judge James Cacheris’s dismissal of the part of an indictment
of two fund raisers for  Hillary Clinton ’s campaigns that
involved corporate funds.  Cacheris upheld his May 26 decision ruling on June 7,
saying in light of the  Supreme Court ’s decision last year in
Citizens United v. Federal Elections Commission, the ban on
corporate contributions to campaigns is unconstitutional. In
Citizens United the high court said companies have the same
rights as individuals to spend money independently to support
candidates.  The fundraisers, William P. Danielczyk Jr., chairman of
McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital, and Eugene R. Biagi, its
secretary and treasurer, were indicted for improperly
reimbursing $186,600 to donors in Clinton’s 2008 presidential
campaign. Cacheris threw out the charge that they illegally
funneled money from Galen Capital Group LLC to the campaign.  The indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2006 Senate run as
well, also charged the defendants with conspiracy, obstruction
of justice and causing false statements. A trial is scheduled to
begin on July 6, according to court papers.  Bans on direct corporate donations to candidates go back to
the Tillman Act of 1905. The 2002 campaign finance law
prohibited contributions known as “soft money” from corporate
and union treasuries to the political parties.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 1:11-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 