-- 
U.S. Homeowners Shift to 15-Year Loan Refinancing to Add Equity

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-homeowners-shift-to-15-year-loan-refinancing-to-add-equity.html
While millions of U.S. homeowners
have negotiated lower monthly mortgage bills in an effort to
avoid foreclosure, Cecelia Kirchman happily added $250 to her
payment when she refinanced last August.  Kirchman took out the new loan to reduce her interest rate
to 4.5 percent from 7 percent, and slice the term in half to 15
years. She said she has paid down more principal in the past 10
months than in the previous six years of owning her home in the
suburbs of Washington, D.C.  “It’s unbelievable,” said Kirchman, a marketing director
for a financial-planning firm who lives in a ranch-style house
in Frederick,  Maryland , with her husband, Mark. “For very
little more each month, I’m paying it off much more quickly.”  The couple are among the growing number of “equity
builders” -- creditworthy homeowners with steady jobs and
enough cash to lock in near record-low interest rates and
shorten the length of their loans, said Stuart Feldstein,
president of SMR Research Corp., a market-research firm in
Hackettstown, N.J., that focuses on financial services. Others
are opting for what’s known as a cash-in refinancing, in which
borrowers write a check at the closing to shrink the amount they
owe on the property.  The rationale for equity building when foreclosure isn’t a
threat is simple. The future interest payments homeowners can
forgo by reducing the length of their loan or pumping cash into
the deal is greater than what they’d otherwise earn in safe
investments such as a bank account or money-market fund, SMR’s
Feldstein said. As an added incentive, the 15-year fixed
mortgage is the cheapest relative to the 30-year loan than it’s
ever been.  15-Year Loans  The portion of borrowers refinancing in January who took
15-year mortgages rose to 29 percent from 11 percent two years
earlier, according to the most recent data available from
 CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , a real estate information firm in  Santa Ana ,
 California . Mortgages with 30-year terms accounted for 52
percent of refinancings in January, down from 80 percent in
January 2009.  The share of cash-in refinancings reached a record 44
percent in the fourth quarter, according to data from Freddie
Mac dating to 1985. While the share fell to 21 percent in the
first quarter as  mortgage rates  climbed, it was almost double
the quarterly average over the past 26 years.  “They are people who -- rather than waiting for home
values to rise -- are taking matters into their own hands,”
Feldstein said. “They are building equity on their own.”  Refinancing applications have increased 36 percent since
the start of the year, according to a Mortgage Bankers
Association index. The average weekly rate is about a third
below last year’s pace as millions of Americans can’t qualify
for a new loan.  Underwater Homeowners  Falling  home prices  reduced average homeowner equity to 38
percent of property value in the first quarter, close to the
lowest level since World War II, according to a June 9 report by
the  Federal Reserve . More than 28 percent of homeowners with
mortgages were underwater in the first quarter, meaning they owe
more than their properties are worth, Zillow Inc., a Seattle-
based real estate data company, said on May 9.  “Refinancing is apt to be subdued,” Don Brownstein, whose
Stamford, Connecticut-based mortgage hedge fund was at the top
of Bloomberg Markets’ list of 100 best-performing funds in 2010,
said yesterday in an interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television.  The Treasury Department’s main foreclosure-prevention plan
produced about 600,000 permanent loan modifications, short of
its goal of up to 4 million. Lenders have completed 3.85 million
private modifications, according to the department.  Tight Credit  Borrowers have complained that modifications are being
delayed by banks losing paperwork, and that foreclosures move
forward even as homeowners believe talks to lower payments
continue. Some modifications result in higher monthly bills
because borrowers must catch up on missed payments and fees.  Mortgages remain hard to get and borrowers’ credit ratings
have been damaged by mounting foreclosures and job losses.
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac in October will be required to lower
the maximum limit on conforming loans that they insure to
$625,500 from $729,750, which will make it more expensive for
some borrowers in the priciest markets to secure government-
backed mortgages. The government-sponsored entities temporarily
raised the ceiling from $417,000 in 2008 for high-cost areas
such as  New York City  as the jumbo mortgage market collapsed.  Buying Conformity  Some borrowers who don’t meet minimum equity requirements
to refinance are making up the difference with money from their
 savings accounts , said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH
Associates, a loan-data firm in Pompton Plains,  New Jersey .
Others are completing cash-in refinance deals to avoid  mortgage
insurance .  One New York photographer whose business was especially
strong used more than $250,000 in cash this month to bring his
balance to the conforming limit. That enabled him to qualify for
a slightly lower rate, said Michael Moskowitz, president of
Equity Now, a New York-based mortgage lender.  “For some borrowers, this is the only way to have access
to today’s rock bottom  interest rates ,” Gumbinger said.  Cash-in deals are the flip side of cash-out refinancings,
in which borrowers pull equity of their homes, money they can
use for home renovations, tuitions or vacations. The volume of
cash-out deals tumbled during the real estate bust as borrowers
were left with little or no equity.  The median price of a home has declined by almost one-third
nationally since peaking in 2006. Cash-out deals accounted for
25 percent of refinancing in the first quarter, compared with 88
percent four years earlier.  Spread Widens  Falling rates are making shorter-term loans more appealing
to middle-age borrowers who can afford higher payments,
Gumbinger said.  The spread between 15-year and 30-year fixed rates widened
last month to a record of 0.82 percentage point, according to
 Freddie Mac  data going back to 1971. Last week, it was 0.81
percentage point, with the 15-year rate at 3.68 percent and the
30-year rate at 4.49 percent.  The spread has grown because of increased investor demand
for 15-year loans, which tend to be given to older, less-risky
borrowers, Gumbinger said.  Switching to a 15-year term made sense for Kirchman, 55,
who has no plans of moving anytime soon and is looking ahead to
retirement.  Kirchman, whose monthly payment increased to $1,350 from
about $1,100, would have taken a 10-year loan if she had
qualified for it, she said. She owes $112,000 on the four-
bedroom house.  “I’ll be retiring in 10 to 12 years,” Kirchman said. “I
don’t like the thought of still having that as an expense. I’d
rather be taking trips.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 