-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending June 14 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-06-16T12:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-june-14-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The Northeast and Mid Atlantic: Most of  New England  saw above-
normal precipitation for the week and temperatures that were at
or slightly above normal.  Much of the Mid Atlantic was dry
outside of central  Virginia .  Concerns are starting to develop
as short-term dryness starts to impact the Mid Atlantic, coupled
with temperatures 6-8 degrees Fahrenheit above normal.  D0 was
expanded to include more of northern Virginia,  Maryland  and the
Washington, D.C., area.  Southeast: A week that had temperatures well above normal and
only scattered precipitation led to further intensification of
the drought conditions.  D4 was expanded to include all of
southwest Georgia, northern  Florida  and more of southeast
Alabama.  D0 was expanded to include most of northern  Alabama 
and extreme southern Tennessee as agricultural impacts are
becoming quite common with the heat and lack of normal
precipitation. Streamflows for this time of year are worse than
they were in 2007 when the same portions of Alabama and Georgia
were being impacted by a significant drought event.  In the
panhandle of Florida, a categorical intensification took place
where D0 was replaced with D1, and D2 and D3 conditions also
expanded.  In central Florida, D3 was expanded northward while
D0 and D1 were expanded to the west.  A continued slow start to
the wet season in Florida continues to prolong and intensify the
drought conditions.  The Plains: Conditions were fairly wet over much of the northern
plains, with scattered precipitation in the central plains. Dry
conditions continued in the southern plains.  The heaviest rains
were in the Dakotas and along the Kansas and  Oklahoma  border.
With all the precipitation, the northern plains were 4-6 degrees
Fahrenheit below normal this last week while the southern plains
were 6-8 degrees Fahrenheit above normal.  In central Oklahoma,
D1 was improved to D0 with some stations recording more than
2.50 inches of rain over the last week and close to 8 inches
over the last month.  Other locations that did receive decent
rains were left unchanged this week as the mounting deficits and
heat quickly diminished any relief they brought.  In central
 Texas , D1 was intensified to D2, while D2, D3 and D4 were all
expanded as well.   In the Texas Panhandle, D4 was expanded in
the northern sections and along the southern coast; D3 was
expanded along the coastline.  An area along the  Gulf Coast  of
Texas and Louisiana was also intensified from D3 to D4 this week
as more indicators were bringing this region in line with
current D4 classifications.  Midwest: The region remained unchanged this week as ample
precipitation was recorded over much of the area.  Some portions
of central and northern Wisconsin as well as the upper peninsula
of  Michigan  are showing some signs of dryness over the last 30-
60 days and should be monitored closely.  The West: The ample snowpack is still replenishing the water
storage of the region, with the melt off taking place even more
rapidly with warmer temperatures.  Montana  continues to stay very
wet with more than 200 percent of normal precipitation over the
last 30 days for the entire state.  Intensification of drought
conditions in  Colorado  included the expansion of D2 and D3 over
eastern Colorado while the area of abnormally dry conditions
along the western slopes was pushed to the west.  With several
locations in southeast  Arizona  recording the driest January to
June period of record, D4 was expanded to include more of
southeast Arizona along the New Mexico border.  Hawaii, Alaska and  Puerto Rico : Some improvements were made in
Hawaii on the Big Island this week as recovery from drought is
taking place slowly.  D2 was improved to D1 in Pohakuloa and D0
and D1 conditions were also improved on the Kau slopes and South
Kona.  No changes were made in Alaska or Puerto Rico this week.  Looking Ahead: Over the next 5 days (June 15-19), a ridge of
high pressure will set up over the southeastern  United States ,
bringing with it warm temperatures.  Temperatures will range
from 6-9 degrees Fahrenheit above normal from the southern
plains to the Carolinas.  Dry conditions are expected over much
of the southwest, southern plains and west coast, with the
wettest areas to the north of the ridge. Precipitation maxima of
3-4 inches could be recorded from  Iowa  to  Ohio  during this time.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (June 20-24) continues to show the
ridge over the southeastern United States, bringing above-normal
temperatures through much of the region, with the warmest
temperatures expected over Alabama,  Georgia  and the Carolinas.
Temperatures are expected to be below normal over the northern
 Rocky Mountains , Plains and Midwest as well as the Pacific coast.
Above-normal temperatures are likely over most of Alaska as well.
Precipitation will continue to ride along the northern extent of
the ridge over the southeast, with the best chances for above-
normal precipitation over the Midwest and northern plains. Dry
conditions are likely over the central and southern plains,
southeast, Alaska, and the Great Basin.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  