-- 
U.S. Banks’ Greek Risk ‘Lot Less’ Than $33 Billion, Schorr Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-16T18:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/u-s-banks-greek-risk-is-whole-lot-less-than-33-billion-nomura-says.html
U.S. banks face “a whole lot less”
risk to a Greek debt restructuring or default than implied by
the almost $33 billion in “guarantees extended” listed in a
recent report by the  Bank for International Settlements ,
according to Glenn Schorr, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The $32.7 billion figure, which made up the majority of
“other potential exposures” of U.S. banks to  Greece  listed by
the BIS as of Dec. 31, doesn’t include hedges or collateral U.S.
banks have in place on those guarantees, Schorr wrote today in a
note to investors.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou today called on his
allies in parliament to back his austerity plans that aim to
stave off the euro region’s first default. His bid to form a
unity government with the leading opposition party failed, and
European Union talks on forging a new bailout stalled.  “We think the U.S. banks and brokers have largely hedged
their Greek exposure,” Schorr wrote. “We think more legitimate
concerns related to a potential Greek restructuring or default
concern the possible drag on economic activity or the potential
widening of the  risk premium  in general.”  U.S. banks had overall Greek claims of $7.32 billion, the
 data  showed. About $1.51 billion of the total is public-sector
debt, while $1.50 billion is bank debt and $4.32 billion is non-
bank private sector debt, the data show. The lenders also had
$34.1 billion in other “exposures,” including the guarantees,
$1.13 billion in derivative contracts and $320 million in credit
commitments, according to the data.  U.S. banks’ “guarantees extended” almost tripled the
$11.6 billion extended by all European banks, the data show.  JPMorgan Cuts Risk  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said earlier this month that his bank had cut its “net
exposure” to Greece,  Portugal ,  Italy , Ireland and  Spain  to
“$15 billion or less,” down from about $20 billion as of March
31.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  had $677 million at risk related to
Greece through loans, leases, other financing, derivatives,
securities and other investments as of March 31, according to a
regulatory filing. About $16 million was from sovereign
securities, and the bank purchased $31 million of credit-default
protection against its Greek risks, according to the filing.  The yield on Greece’s 2-year bond topped 30 percent for the
first time and the cost of protecting Greece against default
climbed 280 basis points to a record 2,050 basis points,
according to prices compiled by CMA. The euro fell to a three-
week low earlier in the day after sliding the most in more than
a month yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  