-- 
UBS, Credit Suisse Must Bolster ‘Thin’ Capital Buffers, Central Bank Says

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-06-16T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ubs-credit-suisse-must-boost-thin-capital-buffers-snb-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest banks, should bolster their capital
buffers as soon as possible to guard against the risk of a
deteriorating economy, the Swiss central bank said.  “The big banks should build up an adequate base of loss-
absorbing capital as swiftly as possible,” the  Swiss National
Bank  said in its 2011 Financial Stability Report published today
on its website. “Risks in the economic environment remain
considerable and, in relation to past losses, the big banks’
loss-absorbing capital buffers are still thin.”  Global regulators are working on stricter rules to curb
risk-taking by banks and avoid a repeat of the 2008 failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that threatened to derail the
world economy.  Switzerland ’s Parliament is debating government
proposals that require Credit Suisse and UBS to build up capital
in line with Basel III rules.  While UBS didn’t pay dividends for 2010 and Credit Suisse 
sold $2 billion of so-called contingent convertible bonds in
February, the SNB said both banks must take further steps to
boost capital.  “The leverage of Switzerland’s two big banks remains high,
leaving correspondingly little margin for error in the
assessment of risk,” the SNB said in the report.  Without the “assumption of an implicit state guarantee,”
Moody’s Investors Service’s long-term  credit rating  for UBS
would be three steps lower, the central bank said. Credit
Suisse’s rating would drop two steps, it said.  ‘Potential Contagion’  The Swiss government has proposed requiring Credit Suisse
and larger rival UBS to hold capital equal to at least 19
percent of their assets, weighted according to risk. The banks
can use CoCos, which automatically become equity when capital
falls below preset levels, to satisfy almost half that
requirement.  The central bank highlighted the threat of  Europe ’s debt
crisis affecting Switzerland’s two biggest banks.  “Credit and market risk, amplified by potential contagion
effects from the sovereign debt crisis in the peripheral euro
area, would constitute the most important source of risk for
these banks under the adverse scenario,” the SNB said. “The
potential losses under this scenario would be substantial.”  While conditions for the Swiss banking industry have
improved in the past year, the SNB cautioned against a real-
estate bubble that would put the country’s cantonal and
Raiffeisen banks at particular risk.  ‘Signs of Overheating’  “Over the past years, the growth rate of Swiss real estate
prices has been higher than fundamentals would justify,” the
central bank said. “At the regional level, there are already
clear signs of overheating.”  Swiss  interest rates , the lowest among major global
economies after  Japan  and the U.S., are fueling housing demand.
Over the past two years, real prices for single-family houses
rose by 8 percent and those for owner-occupied apartments by 10
percent, according to the report. Mortgage lending by
domestically focused banks climbed 6.1 percent in 2010, higher
than the long-term average, the SNB said.  “Developments in the real estate and mortgage markets
could represent a considerable credit risk and pose a potential
threat to financial stability in the medium term,” the central
bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  