-- 
Uganda Central Bank Sells $20 Million to Stabilize Shilling

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-16T11:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/uganda-sells-20-million-to-stabilize-shilling-vows-to-curb-speculation.html
Uganda ’s central bank sold $20
million in the domestic foreign-exchange market yesterday to
stabilize the shilling and said it would act again to curb
speculation in the domestic currency.  The Bank of Uganda acted after the East African nation
recorded an outflow of $30 million because of speculation,
Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today in
Kampala, the capital.  “We shall not hesitate to enter the market to stem
speculation,” Tumusiime-Mutebile said. “I have the capacity to
burn their fingers.”  Uganda’s shilling has weakened 5.1 percent since the start
Jan. 1 to 2,433 against the dollar and is  Africa ’s fourth-worst
performing currency so far this year, after the Kenyan shilling,
the Sudanese pound and the Tanzanian shilling, according to
Bloomberg data. Inflation in the East African country surged to
a 17-year high of 16 percent in May as food and fuel prices
increased.  Price growth may slow to 6 percent by the end of this year
because “the drivers have started to dissipate,” Tumusiime-
Mutebile said.  Uganda is scheduled to become an oil producer next year
when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  is expected to start pumping crude and gas
from the Lake Albert Basin. The country has an estimated 2.5
billion barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels in proven
reserves, according to Tullow.  Proceeds from oil should be saved to invest in
infrastructure and agriculture in order to prepare the economy
for when the resource is exhausted, Tumusiime-Mutebile said.  Uganda’s economy will expand about 7 percent in the
financial year though June 2012, up from 6.3 percent in the
current fiscal year, the central bank forecast in a statement
handed to reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  