-- 
Luke Donald Struggles in First Major as Golf’s No. 1 Player at U.S. Open

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-17T00:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/luke-donald-struggles-in-first-major-as-golf-s-no-1-player-at-u-s-open.html
Luke Donald’s first major tournament
as golf’s No. 1 player got off to a rough start.  Donald, who moved into the top spot in the  Official World
Golf Ranking  on May 30 after capturing the European Tour’s
British PGA Championship, shot 3-over-par 74 in his opening
round today at the  U.S. Open .  The 33-year-old Englishman is nine shots behind tournament
leader  Rory McIlroy  of Northern Ireland, who shot a 6-under 65,
after the first-round at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,
Maryland.  Playing in a group with No. 2-ranked  Lee Westwood , also of
England, and No. 3  Martin Kaymer  of Germany, Donald had birdies
on his opening two holes, the par-3 10th and par-4 11th.  “I was loving the start,” Donald told reporters. “It was
perfect.”  After a par on the 12th, his day began to unravel with a
three-putt bogey on the 13th, followed by bogeys on three of his
next four holes. He closed out his opening nine holes with a
double-bogey on the 18th.  “It was a struggle,” Donald said. “It’s not what I had
envisioned, but hopefully I can find a little better ball
control tomorrow.”  Donald gained a shot back when he rolled in a 25-foot
birdie putt on the first hole, his 10th of the day. He bogeyed
the seventh and birdied the eighth, where he hit a 9-iron within
8 feet of the cup.  “It was untidy,” Donald said of his day. “I didn’t hit
enough fairways.”  Arizona  Victory  The winner of seven events worldwide in his career, Donald
has posted 10 top-10 finishes since missing the 36-hole cut at
the U.S. PGA Tour’s Northern Trust Open in February. Along with
his win two weeks ago at Wentworth, southwest of  London , Donald
captured the World Golf Championships Match Play event in
Arizona this season.  Donald’s rise to the No. 1 spot came three years after he
tore a tendon in his wrist at the U.S. Open, requiring surgery.
His best finish in seven previous U.S. Open appearances was a
tie for 12th in 2006 at  New York ’s Winged Foot Golf Club.  The U.S. Golf Association, which organizes the tournament,
grouped the game’s top three players together for the first two
rounds.  Westwood, who lost to Donald in a playoff at last month’s
British  PGA Championship , shot a 4-over 75 today, while Kaymer
matched Donald’s 74 score.  “All three of us struggled a bit,” Donald said. “There
were no fireworks. It was a solemn group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Bethesda, Maryland, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  