-- 
Ukraine Should Not Sell Farmland to Foreigners, Minister Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-06-16T16:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/ukraine-should-not-sell-farmland-to-foreigners-minister-says.html
Ukraine should not sell farmland to
foreigners so local producers can improve agricultural output,
Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said.  “People who cultivate land and feed the country must
become full-fledged participants in the farmland market,”
Prysyazhnyuk said in a statement on the ministry’s  website 
today. Farmers will be able to use land “efficiently” and
“make production attractive for investments,” he said.  A moratorium on farmland sales is a “correct and
strategically important decision,” according to the minister.  The sale of agricultural land is now banned in Ukraine.
Companies lease plots from individual owners and there are
around 6.5 million plots in the country. Ukraine has 41.6
million hectares (103 million acres) of agricultural land
covering 69 percent of its territory. Arable land accounts for
32.5 million hectares. President  Viktor Yanukovych , who came
into power after 2010 elections, wants to start a farmland
market as of Jan. 1. Foreigners should be temporarily banned
from buying farmland, he said yesterday.  Parliament probably will vote on legislation on a farmland
market in September, Yanukovych also said yesterday. His office
is putting together a bill.  Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’s Cabinet seeks to about
double the price farmers get for leasing land, agriculture
consultancy APK-Inform said on its website yesterday, citing
Mykola Kalyuzhnyi, head of the state agency for land resources.
The state sets a nominal price for land plots and also leasing
prices.  “Companies that lease land for production will be very
much affected by the increase,” said Nikolay Vernitsky,
director of Kiev-based researcher ProAgro. “Small family farms
may not be able to pay higher lease and will be taken over by
larger companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  