-- 
Mulberry Net Profit Surges as International Sales Increase

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-16T08:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/mulberry-full-year-profit-surges-as-international-sales-increase.html
Mulberry Group Plc (MUL) , an English
luxury-fashion company, said full-year profit rose more than
fivefold as U.K. sales and exports surged. The shares rose the
most in three weeks in London trading.  Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31 rose to 17.1
million pounds ($27.6 million), or 29.1 pence a share, from 2.97
million pounds, or 5.2 pence, a year earlier, the Bath, western
England-based company said in a statement today. Revenue rose 69
percent to 121.6 million pounds.  Mulberry, which makes Bayswater handbags, increased the
proportion of its revenue from outside the U.K. to a third as it
sought to lessen its dependence on any one market. Sales in its
Paris and New York stores more than doubled.  “This could be just the beginning the Mulberry story given
the limited footprint held in many of the largest luxury good
markets outside the U.K.,” Altium Capital Ltd. analyst John
Cummins said in a note to clients today.  The shares rose as much as 9 percent, the most since May
27, and were up 86 pence, or 6.4 percent, at 1,421 pence at 9:17
a.m., lifting the company’s market value to about 841 million
pounds.  “Strong demand in all markets has continued into the new
financial year and the outlook for the Mulberry brand is
positive,” Chairman Godfrey Davis said in the statement.
“While we remain cautious about the global economic
environment, we are focused on accelerating our international
expansion.”  Same-store retail sales increased 42 percent in the 10
weeks to June 4, Mulberry said.  Cummins, who rates the stock “buy,” raised his estimate
for pretax profit this fiscal year by 9.5 percent and by 7.5
percent next year. Mulberry raised its profit forecast for last
year four times between October and March.  The shares have risen 57 percent so far this year after
surging 12-fold in the previous two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 