-- 
Asia Housing Boom Stalls as Tightening Puts Brake on Prices

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-17T04:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/mumbai-to-melbourne-home-boom-stalls-as-tightenings-put-brakes-on-prices.html
From Mumbai to Melbourne, Asia’s
property boom is stalling as the world’s highest  interest rates 
and government efforts to curb prices take hold.  In China’s biggest cities, growth slowed in April after the
government stepped up property measures. In India and  Australia ,
prices are falling after the steepest interest rate increases
among major economies. In the financial hubs of Hong Kong and
 Singapore , price growth is moderating after increased deposit
requirements and land releases. In  Japan , the worst earthquake
on record snuffed out signs of a recovery, while South Korean
banks remain weighed by soured property loans.  “Across Asia-Pacific, you have seen a policy induced
pullback,” said Rod Cornish, head of real estate strategy at
Macquarie Capital Advisers in Sydney. “It’s a required pullback
because if some of these markets had been allowed to continue,
you would have had more overbuilding, more overvaluation, and a
bigger correction down the track.”  Asia ’s recovery from the credit crisis turned into a boom
for many of the region’s property markets as surging economic
growth and low interest rates threatened to create an asset
bubble jeopardizing the world’s fastest economic expansion. The
signs of moderation in prices may reduce the need for further
tightening measures and bring Asia closer in line with Europe
and the U.S., where housing markets remain weak almost three
years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, showing housing remains mired in a
slump almost two years into the economic recovery. Prices in
Ireland, among the worst hit nations by the global recession,
fell 1 percent in April from March and have now tumbled 40
percent since peaking in 2007.  Cooling Momentum  “Central banks are raising rates and that is certainly
helping to cool the momentum along with the different macro-
prudential measures,” said Tai Hui, the Singapore-based head of
Southeast Asian economic research for Standard Chartered Plc.
“We are still expecting more rate increases which will continue
to be helpful in containing any exuberance in the property
markets.”  Asia’s developing economies will grow 8.4 percent this year,
compared with 1.6 percent in the euro region and 2.8 percent in
the U.S., according to International Monetary Fund projections.
 China ’s economy is forecast by the IMF to expand 9.6 percent
this year.  A record $2.7 trillion of loans extended over two years
helped fuel China’s property prices to record levels even as
authorities set price ceilings, demanded higher deposits, and
limited second-home purchases. China’s fixed-asset investment
excluding rural households expanded 25.8 percent in the first
five months of the year, up from 25.4 percent in January-
through-April.  Wen’s Pledge  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said on May 1 that the nation is
“determined” to bring down housing prices in some cities to a
“reasonable” level. The government raised the minimum down
payment for second-home purchases this year and introduced
residential taxes in Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and
Guangzhou also imposed restrictions on housing purchases.  The measures may have had some effect. China’s home prices
rose at a slower pace in major cities in April even as they
quickened in smaller ones. The government last month said it
won’t ease property curbs and ordered local officials to
continue to implement measures to control prices.  Negative Outlook  “Most speculators have been weeded out of the bigger
first-tier cities and we can see a significant slowdown there as
they move on to smaller cities with fewer restrictions,” said
Liu Li-gang, who formerly worked for the  World Bank  and is chief
China economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Hong Kong . “Underlying demand for property is still strong but
we aren’t likely to see rapid price increases as we have seen
previously.”  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 cut the ratings outlook on
Chinese developers to “negative” from “stable,” saying
tighter credit and further government curbs may lead to rating
downgrades in the next year. Property sales may start to slow as
the government’s policy “starts to bite,” leading to price
cuts that may drive home prices 10 percent lower in the next 12
months, the credit rating company said.  China’s central bank this week increased banks’ reserve
requirements to drain cash from the economy after consumer
prices rose 5.5 percent in May, the biggest gain since 2008. The
national statistics bureau is scheduled to report May’s home
price data on June 18.  ‘Bubble’ Warning  Hong Kong, which Savills Plc says is the world’s most
expensive place to buy an apartment, reported the number of
home-sale transactions fell for a fifth straight month in May
amid rising mortgage rates. Home prices have surged about 70
percent since the start of 2009 on record-low borrowing costs
and an influx of buyers from other Chinese cities.  The city’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang said in an
interview in  Melbourne  today that home prices are “quite
frightening” as growing wealth in China fuels increases of 2
percent a month.  HSBC Holdings Plc and other lenders raised mortgage rates
in Hong Kong after the central bank in April warned of the risk
of a “credit-fueled property bubble.” Hong Kong home prices
could fall as much as 20 percent in 2012 because of higher
mortgage rates, according to Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has tightened rules on
mortgage lending four times since October 2009, most recently on
June 10 when it raised down payments for homes costing more than
HK$6 million ($771,000) and increased deposits for foreign
buyers. HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said property curbs
introduced by the government have reduced speculation.  “Credit conditions have become more onerous and that has
helped take some steam out of the property market across Asia,”
said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at  Capital Economics  (Asia)
Pte in Singapore. “Gains in property markets around the region
have slowed but they haven’t decisively peaked.”  Singapore Curbs  In Singapore, where demand for private homes and mortgages
has boosted earnings for companies including lender DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and real-estate developer City Developments Ltd.,
measures to curb property speculation have resulted in slower
price gains for six consecutive quarters.  The government in January raised the down payment on second
mortgages and extended the sales tax for home sales to four
years from three as it added more rules to curb speculation.
Sales transactions are still rising as foreigners increase
purchases in the city-state, even as price gains slow.  “As long as the low interest rate environment prevails,
the risk of further asset inflation in the property sector is
still pretty real” in Singapore and Hong Kong, Standard
Chartered’s Hui said. “For these two economies, rates are still
very accommodative and will remain so until the  Federal Reserve 
starts to hike. Foreign participation in Hong Kong and Singapore
are also very large and that skews things a bit.”  Faster Cycles  Property cycles in the two cities are much shorter than in
other parts of Asia, at about three to four years from trough to
peak, said Macquarie’s Cornish. Authorities in both centers are
aiming to achieve  price stability  rather than declines, Cornish
said, with Hong Kong’s measures constrained by the currency’s
peg to the  U.S. dollar .  “They have an economy tied to China and rates tied to the
U.S.,” Cornish said. “In Hong Kong, you’ll see a more sizable
impact on prices when rates start to pick up in the U.S.”  In  India , where the central bank has raised rates 10 times
since March last year, Mumbai home prices have declined 20
percent from their 2010 peak. Lower sales, higher land values
and increased borrowing costs are forcing developers to reduce
prices, according to Jones Lang LaSalle India. Prices in the
city may decline as much as 35 percent over the next two years,
according to Liases Foras Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Still Hawkish  Australia, the first Group of 20 nation to start raising
rates after the global financial crisis, boosted borrowing costs
in part to contain house prices. Demand for mortgages grew at
the slowest pace since at least 1977 in April.  After seven increases since October 2009, Australia now has
the highest benchmark rate in the developed world and home
prices are falling at the fastest pace since the crisis. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia on June 7 cited softening house prices
and modest credit growth in a statement explaining its decision
to keep interest rates on hold this month.  “The central bank’s base case is that the housing market
is subdued and the consumer remains on the sidelines,” said
Kieran Davies, a Sydney-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Still, an expected pick-up in inflation
means “there is still a tightening bias.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  on June 15 reiterated that
policy makers may need to raise interest rates at some stage.  Policy Caution  Japan land values declined at more than two-thirds of the
country’s land sites in the three months ended April 1 after
March 11’s record earthquake and tsunami slowed a recovery in
the property market, according to a quarterly land ministry
survey on May 27. The bad-loan ratio for South Korean bank
lending for real-estate projects rose to 18.35 percent in the
first quarter as builders sought  bankruptcy protection  or debt
rescheduling, the Financial Supervisory Service said on May 20.  As a struggling U.S. economy, European debt woes and a
Japanese recession weigh on global growth, Asia’s policy makers
may be reluctant to impose more measures to damp home prices.  “Property markets react with a much longer lag than the
rest of the economy and insofar that we continue to see the rate
of transactions ease and slower price gains, that may be cue
enough for policy makers to back away a bit,” Varathan of
Capital Economics said. “They won’t want to overact and see the
whole market crashing down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  