-- 
UN Urges Sudan to Open Airspace in Southern Kordofan State for Aid Effort

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-16T16:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/un-urges-sudan-to-open-airspace-in-southern-kordofan-state-for-aid-effort.html
The  United Nations  urged  Sudan  to
open the airspace in Southern Kordofan state where fighting
between government troops and units of Southern Sudan’s army has
displaced more than 60,000 people in the past 11 days.  The closure in the border state “is dangerously hampering”
the aid effort for thousands of displaced people “in urgent
need of emergency assistance,” UN spokesman Kouider Zerrouk
said today by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.  Clashes along the north-south border have raised concern
about a resumption of the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that ended with a 2005  peace
agreement . Government forces have carried out air strikes in the
past two weeks, including in the mountainous areas around the
state capital, Kadugli, the UN said.  President Umar al-Bashir’s army will continue to bomb areas
in the state where a rebellion is under way by members of
 Southern Sudan ’s armed forces, army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled
told reporters today in Khartoum.  “Military operations are continuing until this moment,”
Khaled said. “The operations will continue until we completely
end this rebellion.”  Oil Production  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent next month. The crude is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  The clashes may have broken out when northern forces tried
to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic group who fought on the
side of Southern Sudan in the civil war, according to the
south’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer. The fighting doesn’t
involve the Southern Sudanese army based in the regional
capital, Juba, he said on June 5.  Al-Bashir asked the authorities in the south to disarm more
than 40,000 troops in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states
that are in their army, Deng Alor Kuol, the Southern Sudan
minister of regional cooperation, told reporters yesterday in
the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa .  “We told him there’s no way we can disarm more than
40,000; The best thing is for you to integrate them into your
army and the security organs,” Kuol said. “He said ‘no, send
them to me without arms’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 