-- 
Music Massacre, Jeanne Moreau, Basketball Love: Brussels Weekend

-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 
2011-06-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/music-carnage-jeanne-moreau-sporting-love-street-art-brussels-weekend.html
Religious fanatics, forbidden love,
bloodbaths... “Les Huguenots” by Giacomo Meyerbeer is rarely
staged nowadays, though it once was so popular it racked up more
than 1,000 performances at the Paris Opera.  Olivier Py directs a new production of the 19th-century
French opera at  La Monnaie/De Munt  that aims to draw out the
relevance of this neglected masterwork, based on the 1572
massacre of some 3,000 Protestants in Catholic  France . The
energetic Marc Minkowski conducts and the cast features Marlis
Petersen, Mireille Delunsch and Eric Cutler.  The opera runs about 5 hours with two intermissions, so
you’ll need to be at the theater by 6 p.m. on Friday. Food and
drink will be available. The last act contains one of the great
love duets ever so it’s worth staying for.  Information:  http://www.lamonnaie.be .  For those with less patience and yearning more bucolic
fare, U.S. New Folk band Vetiver is giving a concert in  Le
Botanique ’s intimate Rotonde.  Check out the  Sarah Moon  retrospective, “Coincidences,”
in the exhibition space, which stays open until 8 p.m. when the
concert starts. The show offers a mix of her imaginative early
fashion shots and recent black-and-white images of fragile
circus animals and poetic beach scenes.  The overly designed  Hotel Bloom  next door offers fusion
dishes such as grilled bass with asparagus and anisette sauce at
its Smoods restaurant-lounge. Information:
 http://www.botanique.be/ ,  http://www.smoods.net/ .  Saturday  Bozar  has an attractive all-day program. Canadian
photographer Jeff Wall has selected 25 of his large, painterly
pictures to be exhibited alongside works by masters including
Atget, Arbus and Struth.  Wall’s carefully composed studies of ordinary scenes --
young people mingling in front of a night club, hurried
travelers dragging suitcases -- are displayed in luminous
boxlike frames. They resemble glowing altarpieces of the banal.
“The Crooked Path” runs through Sept. 11.  Saturday Night  Actress Jeanne Moreau and pop star Etienne Daho have
concocted a performance -- at 9 p.m. -- based on Jean Genet’s
“Le Condamne a Mort.” She recites and he sings the author’s
scabrous ode to a handsome guillotined murderer.  The  Cinematek , also housed in the Art Deco culture center,
is showing several of her films with Moreau present in the
afternoon. Information:  http://www.bozar.be  and
 http://www.cinematek.be .  Bozar Brasserie serves contemporary variations on classic
dishes such as creamy mashed potatoes and beef braised with
carrots served “by the spoonful.” Information and
reservations: call 32-2-503-0000.  The Place du Palais, between the Royal Park and the king’s
palace just behind Bozar, hosts  La Fete de la Musique  until late
in the night. While the annual free music feast features
concerts across the city, the main event here has a seductive
mix of artists, with the singing duo Amadou & Mariam from  Mali ,
French chanteur  Gaetan Roussel  and Jamaican ska band the
 Skatalites .  Sunday  The  Musee d’Ixelles , located in an uptown bohemian
district, just opened “Explosition,” a show celebrating
Brussels graffiti art.  The city is famous for its comic-strip stars such as Herge
and cool murals by many of them adorn the downtown area.  Graffiti is everywhere and not always pleasing to the eye,
yet this brash show is full of fun works as well as more
polished pieces by artists such as Arne Quinze and Jean-Luc
Moerman. Information:  http://www.museedixelles.irisnet.be .  Sunday Night  The Brussels dance scene is vibrant, fueled by the draw of
Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker’s school  P.A.R.T.S.  and relatively
cheap rents for big spaces.  Working Title  stages a series of new pieces by promising
choreographers at the  Brigittines , a Baroque chapel converted
into a performance space. Pathosformel’s “An Afternoon Love”
is about a guy’s infatuation with a basketball. Information:
 http://www.brigittines.be .  Lola, a few blocks away on the Place du Grand Sablon, is a
sleek, lively bistro. Try the weekend special -- roast Landes
chicken with fries and a tomato-and-herb salad. Information:
 http://www.restolola.be .  (Jim Ruane is an editor-at-large for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane at   jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 