-- 
Hutchison’s Nordic Mobile-Phone Unit Will Remain Independent, Ramel Says

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-17T07:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hutchison-s-nordic-mobile-phone-unit-will-remain-independent-ramel-says.html
3 Scandinavia,  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s mobile-phone operations in Sweden and Denmark, will
remain independent even as rivals merge their networks, its
chief executive officer said.  3, which has about 10 percent of customers in each country,
competes with former Nordic monopolies  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , TDC A/S
and  Telenor ASA (TEL) , as well as newer entrant  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , all of which
also have fixed-line businesses. While TeliaSonera and Telenor
said this week they will merge their Danish mobile-phone
networks, consolidation in the market can be avoided and 3 isn’t
looking for a network-sharing deal, Peder Ramel said.  “We must have a market share of at least 20 percent,”
Ramel, 55, said in an interview in  Stockholm . “I have to make
sure the company can stand on its own, that we continue to have
positive  cash flow  and the owners get a return on their
investment.”  Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Hutchison, based in Hong Kong,
started 3 in 2003 to offer faster third-generation services at a
time when few customers had handsets that could surf the Web. 3
Group, which operates in European markets including the U.K. and
 Italy  as well as  Australia , reported its first profit in March.
Ramel’s division is  40 percent owned  by Investor AB, the
Wallenberg family’s investment company.  ‘Difficult Position’  “The Telia-Telenor network announcement puts 3 in a
difficult position since they don’t have scale compared to the
others,” said John Strand, owner of Copenhagen-based
telecommunications adviser Strand Consult.  Hutchison fell 0.9 percent to HK$83.75 at 2:53 p.m. in  Hong
Kong  trading. The shares have jumped 75 percent in the past
year, valuing the company at HK$356 billion ($46 billion).  3, with about 1.1 million customers in Sweden and 800,000
in Denmark, targets higher-spending customers who use mobile
data and sign up for add-on services such as music streaming and
recorded books. The company is now rolling out faster fourth-
generation services.  “We’re building 4G and we will launch it after summer when
we believe we have good enough coverage,” Ramel said. “Our
competitors have spent an awful lot of money on the marketing of
4G and for the employees in those companies it’s been very
interesting but there hasn’t been that much of a reaction from
consumers.”  Customer Spending  Last year, Onfone ApS, a virtual mobile-phone operator,
started a price war in  Denmark  with flat-rate packages with
limits on usage. Ramel reacted by lowering prices on 3’s side
brand Oister. TDC, Denmark’s biggest phone company, bought
Onfone in May.  Onfone’s most popular package now  costs  149 kroner ($28) a
month for five hours of talk, free texting and 500 megabytes of
data while Oister, which  charges  129 kroner for a 5-hour package
with 5 gigabytes of data, will raise the price to match Onfone’s
at the end of the month.  In its 2010 report, the most recently available, 3 said its
average revenue per user for Sweden and Denmark declined 5
percent to 329 kronor ($51). In the first quarter, Telenor’s
 Danish  ARPU fell 4 percent to 189 Norwegian kroner ($34), while
TDC’s blended ARPU for mobile voice contracts in Denmark dropped
2.4 percent to 161 kroner ($31). TeliaSonera, Telenor and TDC
cited increased price competition and lower interconnection fees
for the declines.  In  Sweden , 3 aims to win more subscriptions from
competitions with its service where a family’s fixed-line number
can be assigned or forwarded to mobile devices, Ramel said.  “In Sweden 90 percent of households still had a fixed line
connection until quite recently,” he said. “I think we will go
down to 50 percent in maybe three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  