-- 
Vancouver Hockey Fans Riot, Leading to About 100 Arrests

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-16T18:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/vancouver-hockey-fans-clash-with-police-after-stanley-cup-loss-to-bruins.html
Police arrested close to 100 people
after  Vancouver  Canucks fans broke windows and started fires
following their team’s home loss to the  Boston Bruins  in the
deciding game of the Stanley Cup Final last night.  Four people are in hospital with serious injuries,
including two stabbing victims, while nine police officers were
injured,  Canadian Press  and the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.
reported, citing Police Chief Jim Chu. Some Canucks supporters
looted shops and set fire to cars, including at least two police
vehicles in downtown Vancouver.  About 140 people were treated for injuries including
stabbings and exposure to tear gas and pepper spray, Vancouver
Coastal Health, the regional hospital authority, said on its
website, adding one patient was in critical condition.  “It’s absolutely disgraceful,” Mayor Gregor Robertson
told reporters last night, adding that police were brought in
from outside the city to quell the violence. “We will deal with
the troublemakers.”  The Canucks failed to win the cup after finishing with the
best regular-season record. No Canadian team has won the title
since the  Montreal Canadiens  in 1993.  ‘Infuriating’  “It’s upsetting, it’s frustrating, it’s infuriating to
watch a team with less sportsmanlike conduct take it home,”
 Andrew Smith , 20, a criminology student from Coquitlam, British
Columbia, said in an interview. “If you are a real Vancouver
fan, you won’t lose hope. You will stick by the team.”  Vancouver also lost the 1982 championship series and was
defeated in Game 7 of the 1994 final by the  New York Rangers .  Last night’s violence stirred memories of a riot in the
city after the loss to the Rangers at Madison Square Garden in
 New York  17 years ago.  Vancouver fans “are going to take it pretty bad,” said
Glen Fuentes, a 21-year-old student from Coquitlam. “Vancouver
has got pride.”  Local television reports showed people overturning a police
car and stomping on the roof of another, a man being treated for
bleeding from his face and police beating a man with batons
after he screamed at them for several minutes.  The downtown Hudson’s Bay Co. and Sears Canada Inc.
department stores were broken into, and windows at the Fairmont
Hotel Vancouver smashed.  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  were
outside a Foot Locker store on Robson Street with guard dogs and
ordering people away.  ‘Always Idiots’  Just before 11:30 p.m. local time, four hours after the
violence began, a line of riot police marched along Howe Street
near Robson Street to clear the area, firing tear gas ahead of
them. Hundreds of people danced and hollered on the steps of the
Vancouver Art Gallery.  “You’ve got 100,000 people who are very unhappy,”
Fernando Nagleo, 40, a health care worker who was also in
Vancouver for the 1994 rioting, said in an interview. “There
are always idiots who don’t have respect for the city.”  Staff inside a Chapters bookstore restacked copies of
Mordecai Richler’s “Barney’s Version” and  Michael Lewis ’ “The
Big Short” as a crew outside prepared to install new windows
today. The front window of the Canucks Team Store, with the
motto “This Is What We Live For” was untouched.  The riots were about a year after hundreds of arrests were
made in Toronto tied to riots coinciding with the Group of 20
summit in Canada’s most populous city.  Boston Well-Behaved  Before the game, Canucks fans lined up for a city block to
get into a fenced off area to watch on jumbo-screen televisions.
Some supporters hung teddy bears off the end of hockey sticks,
in a reference to killing off the Bruins, or carried homemade
Stanley Cups covered in tin foil.  Conversely, Boston police arrested seven people of the
hundreds who gathered in the post-game street celebrations, all
for disorderly conduct, according to Officer James Kenneally,
department spokesman.  “By and large, we would describe the crowd as well-
behaved,” Kenneally said.  The Canucks loss was about 16 months after  Sidney Crosby ’s
overtime goal on the last day of the Vancouver 2010 Winter
Olympics lifted  Canada  to a 3-2 victory over the U.S. and the
gold medal at the same hockey venue.  “We gotta wait one more year,” said Matt Macris, 19, a
restaurant worker from Linden,  Washington , as other dejected
fans cleared out of the downtown.  Between 60,000 and 70,000 people gathered to watch the
decisive game, according to a “conservative” estimate by
McGuinness.  “This is a rowdy crowd,” she said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Vancouver at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  