-- 
Visteon in China Means Earnings Are Free in Auto-Parts Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-06-16T20:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/visteon-in-china-means-earnings-are-free-in-auto-parts-takeover-real-m-a.html
Visteon Corp. is so cheap that the
auto-parts supplier is offering potential acquirers its earnings
for free.  Visteon fell 16 percent this year through yesterday,
leaving the  Van Buren Township , Michigan-based company with
$3.17 billion in market capitalization. That’s now less than the
combined value of its stakes including  Halla Climate Control
Corp. (018880)  and Yanfeng Visteon Automotive Trim Systems Co., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its 50 percent holding in Yanfeng
alone may sell for $1.4 billion, based on the median earnings
multiple for comparable auto-parts producers, the data show.  While Visteon exited bankruptcy in October and has the
lowest operating margin of any auto-parts maker in the world, it
may attract  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  and  Valeo SA (FR) , UBS AG said. A
buyer would gain Visteon’s venture in China, the world’s biggest
auto market, and earnings that analysts project will increase 25
percent in 2013. Based on the value of all its businesses,
Visteon is worth $90 a share, or 45 percent more than its price
yesterday, according to Westwood Holdings Group Inc.  “If Visteon could get a competitive situation going, they
could do very well,” said  Kirk Ludtke , an automotive analyst at
Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC. “Just about
all the major suppliers are trying to boost their exposure to
China. Assets of the scale and quality of Yanfeng and Halla
rarely change hands.”  Sum of Parts  Jim Fisher, a spokesman for Visteon, declined to comment,
as did Paul Mason at Johnson Controls. Fabienne de Brebisson, a
spokeswoman at Valeo, said today that Visteon is “absolutely
not on the agenda.”  Visteon, spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in June 2000, makes
heating and air-conditioning systems, instrument panels and
clusters. It counts  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  of Seoul and Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford among its biggest customers.  While Visteon has gained 25 percent since returning as a
publicly traded company last year, the shares have slumped since
reaching a high of $75.75 in January. After falling to an eight-
month low last week, Visteon has rallied in the past three days
as speculation increased it may become a takeover target. The
stock closed at $62.06 yesterday.  At that level, Visteon is now cheaper than the sum of its
parts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Visteon’s 70
percent stake in Halla Climate, the Daejeon, South Korea-based
maker of air conditioning systems in cars, is valued at $1.63
billion, or about $32 a share, the data show.  ‘Left for Dead’  Visteon also owns half of Shanghai-based Yanfeng, which
earned $218 million in net income last year. Based on the median
price-earnings ratio of 12.7 times for auto-parts suppliers with
market values over $1 billion, Visteon’s venture with  China ’s
largest carmaker, SAIC Motor Corp., may be worth as much as $27
a share, the data show.  Together with its other non-consolidated affiliates, the
stakes are valued at about $68 a share, or $6 more than
Visteon’s price yesterday. That means investors are undervaluing
the business as a whole, according to Grant Taber, a Dallas-
based  money manager  at Westwood Holdings, which manages $13.9
billion. Using his own sum-of-the-parts calculation, Taber
estimates that Visteon could be worth as much as $90 a share.  “You’ve got an opportunity to potentially loosen things up
by selling parts or the whole or breaking it up,” said Taber,
whose firm was among Visteon’s 10 biggest shareholders as of
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Based on the
sum of the parts, it could be a reason they would want to sell.
It’s being left for dead right now on a valuation basis.”  Financial Analysis  Today, shares of Visteon rose 4.2 percent to $64.68, the
biggest advance in three months.  Taber says Visteon can cut more costs to boost its profits.
The company earned less than a penny in operating income for
each dollar of sales in the past 12 months, the lowest among
auto-parts makers with more than $1 billion in value, the data
show. The median supplier had a margin of 7.22 percent.  Profitability will also increase as Visteon wins back more
customers, he said. Once the second-largest U.S. maker of auto
parts, Visteon emerged from bankruptcy last October after filing
for protection from creditors in May 2009.  The former division of Ford was hobbled by its labor costs,
the faltering economy and slowing auto sales.  There’s an “opportunity for Visteon to expand margins to
peer levels as management begins to run the company for growth
rather than with the goal of bankruptcy,” Colin Langan, a New
York-based analyst at UBS, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
Visteon is a “solid takeout candidate,” he said.  Clean Slate  While the company once relied on sales to Ford, Visteon now
gets about 40 percent of its revenue from  Asia , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Including results from unconsolidated joint
ventures, Visteon gets 56 percent of its sales from the region.  Bankruptcy also helped rid Visteon of most of its debt. The
company now has more net cash than any U.S. auto-parts supplier
except Southfield, Michigan-based Lear Corp., the data show.  “This company is in far better shape balance sheet-wise
coming out of bankruptcy,” said  Dan Veru , chief investment
officer at  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Palisade Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3.8 billion. “They are
addressing the emerging markets. That’s where the big growth is.
There’s clearly value there.”  Visteon’s businesses in Asia may entice buyers that want a
larger foothold in China. Almost 16 million vehicles were sold
in China last year, more than double the number in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. In the U.S.,
unit sales fell by 28 percent over the same period.  Potential Buyers  Johnson Controls, the largest U.S. auto supplier, is the
most likely candidate to buy Visteon, said Jeff Bencik, a New
York-based analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP. Milwaukee-based Johnson
Controls could take advantage of Visteon’s presence in Asia,
while adding products it doesn’t currently sell, he said.  “It’s a natural augmentation of what they do already,”
Bencik said. “This would expand their reach into the automotive
supplying of the business. It certainly makes a lot of sense.”  Visteon’s Yanfeng venture more than doubled sales in the
last two years and tripled profit, according to the company’s
 annual report .  Johnson Controls has already tried to buy Visteon’s
interiors and electronics businesses while the company was in
 bankruptcy protection  last year. Visteon turned down the
unsolicited $1.25 billion bid, it said in June 2010.  Valeo,  France ’s second largest car-parts supplier, could
look to purchase Visteon for its Halla Climate business,
according to UBS’s Langan. Paris-based Valeo said in March that
it was ready to make acquisitions to boost growth and sees
opportunities to win more Asian business.  “We’re seeing suppliers looking at strategic
acquisitions,” said Mike Wall, an analyst for IHS Automotive.
In emerging markets, “they’re really looking to take advantage
of those growth rates” in economies such as China, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 