-- 
Vodafone, U.K. Operators, Form Mobile Payment Joint Venture

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-16T15:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/vodafone-telefonica-everything-everywhere-form-payment-venture.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other
wireless operators agreed to create a common platform for mobile
payment systems to speed up the development of additional
services in the U.K.  Vodafone,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , and Everything Everywhere, the
partnership between  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
will form a joint venture to help banks and advertisers access
the service, which will let people buy items from groceries to
clothes with a swipe of their smartphone, they said in a
statement today.  The operators, who lost the battle for online application
stores to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , are scrambling to drive
revenue from additional services and boost smartphone sales.
Near-field communications payments may account for one-third of
the $1.13 trillion global market in mobile transactions by 2014,
according to IE Market Research.  “The mobile marketing and payments market is extremely
fragmented,” Telefonica U.K. Chief Executive Officer Ronan Dunne said in the statement. “By creating this new business we
will underpin this nascent market, providing real size and
scale.”  Companies using the service will be able to provide coupons
and other offers to consumers, according to the statement.
Orange last month started the first national NFC service in the
U.K. and is considering offering film tickets through the
service as well as loyalty points from retailers.  Swipe Handsets  The venture may accelerate the introduction of handsets
with near-field communications swipe technology, according to
Vodafone U.K. CEO Guy Laurence. Handset manufacturers “have
been looking for somebody to put their hand up and say yes we do
want to embrace NFC in a big way.” The number of handsets with
the standard currently available is still low, he said on a
conference call.  In the U.S. Google is competing with operators including
AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless  with a rival mobile-payment
system. The company plans to roll out the system in five U.S.
cities including New York and San Francisco.  The U.K. operators will need to set out the smartphone
standard used for mobile payments and SIM cards after gaining
regulatory clearance. The new company is scheduled to start at
the end of this year.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three unit said it was “more than
a little concerned that -- as a core competitor -- we have been
excluded from this joint venture.”  Vodafone said the service will be open to all parties.  “Not everybody needs to be a shareholder to take advantage
of the services,” Laurence said. “It’s open to everyone. If
Google wants to take advantage of these services they can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  