-- 
Vodafone Expands in German TV to Challenge Deutsche Telekom

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-06-16T09:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/vodafone-puts-size-in-german-tv-before-profit-joussen-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone operator, will focus on building television
customer numbers in Germany, its biggest market by revenue,
rather than profit for the service as it competes for viewers
with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and cable network providers.  “It’s more important initially that TV gets really big
than that we make a lot of money from it,” said Friedrich Joussen, who heads Vodafone’s German operations. The Vodafone TV
service, which started in the country in February, has about
25,000 users and is adding about 300 to 400 new subscriptions a
day, with more than 1,000 “easily achievable,” he said at a
briefing with reporters in Dusseldorf.  Vodafone’s German unit generated 20 percent of total
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
and 17 percent of  sales  in the 12 months through March. The
division is rolling out a fourth-generation wireless network to
support increasing demand for data traffic as more people use
smartphones. It’s also trying to lure and retain customers by
packaging TV with other services.  Vodafone TV uses cable, satellite and Internet
infrastructure and its marketing will start “in earnest” in
the fiscal third quarter, Joussen said. The Newbury, England-
based company has to be quick to avoid falling behind Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom, which is starting to offer satellite access to
its Internet-based Entertain TV product, he said.  Vodafone fell  0.9 percent to 158.30 pence at 10:32 a.m. in
London trading.  Deutsche Telekom Growth  Deutsche Telekom increased subscriptions for its TV service
in  Germany  by more than 100,000 to 1.3 million in the quarter
ended March 31, according to a May 6  statement .  Vodafone offers a TV service packaged with a broadband
connection in Germany for 34.95 euros ($49.90) a month. Deutsche
Telekom bundles a TV service with broadband and unlimited fixed-
line phone calls in the country for 36.32 euros, according to
its website.  For wireless service, Vodafone’s average revenue per user
in the country is starting to rise among contract customers as
growing data and messaging revenue makes up for a decline in the
traditional voice business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  