-- 
Volkswagen Plans China ABS Program as Vehicle Sales Soar

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-06-16T14:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/volkswagen-plans-china-abs-program-as-vehicle-sales-soar-1-.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, plans to sell asset-backed securities in  China  when
government rules allow issuance of the debt amid soaring vehicle
sales in the country.  “We are getting ready, it’s an internal project at the
moment,” said Stefan Rolf, head of securitization at Volkswagen
Financial Services AG, the carmaker’s financing unit. The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company may be ready to issue car loan-
backed bonds in China by the end of 2012, if government
legislation is ready, he said.  Asset securitization is favored by People’s Bank of China
officials including Deputy Governor Liu Shiyu, who say it can
help banks manage balance sheets and will ensure China’s markets
keep pace with its economic development. Volkswagen is planning
the securities as its vehicle sales in China jumped 20 percent
in the first quarter, outpacing industry growth of 8.1 percent,
the carmaker said in April.  Banks create asset-backed securities by pooling loans into
notes that are sold to investors, allowing lenders to raise
capital more cheaply than by issuing unsecured debt. Sales of
the bonds in  Europe  evaporated in 2008 when losses from subprime
mortgage bonds in the U.S. caused investors to shun hard-to-
value assets. Offerings have picked up since 2009.  China hasn’t set rules for asset-backed debt, though some
of the country’s lenders arrange private transactions known as
informal securitizations to reduce the loans on their balance
sheets, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Brazil,  Japan   Volkswagen is also working on securitizations in Australia
and  France  that may be ready within the next two years, Rolf
said. He also plans to issue local currency deals in Brazil and
Japan.  “Our business is growing on the auto side quite
significantly, which comes alongside growth in financial
services,” Rolf said in a June 14 interview on the sidelines of
the Global ABS 2011 conference in Brussels.  Volkswagen Finance originated five asset-backed bonds this
year in Europe, including the first public sale of securities
pooling Spanish  car loans  since 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Securitization makes up about 13 percent of VW’s
outstanding funding and “is going to increase a little
further,” Rolf said.  Yields on top-rated two-year bonds backed by European car
loans have dropped to 68 basis points more than interbank
lending rates from as high as 510 basis points in May 2009,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  