-- 
Wal-Mart Cuts Costs, Joins Suppliers to Avoid Price Rises

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-16T11:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/wal-mart-offsets-commodity-gains-by-cutting-costs-mcmillon-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is cutting costs and working with suppliers to
delay or avoid raising prices as commodity expenses increase,
the head of the company’s international unit said.  “We find creative ways to work around it,” Doug McMillon,
president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart International,
said in an interview at a consumer goods forum in Barcelona
today. “First we try to keep our costs as low as we can,
secondly work with our supply chain as best we can,” said the
executive, who joined the retailer at the age of 17.  Wal-Mart is “innovating” with transport and packaging to
reduce costs, he said, without being more specific. The retailer
has posted eight straight quarters of sales declines at U.S.
stores open at least a year. U.S. Walmart stores account for
almost two-thirds of total revenue.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer operates in 14
countries outside the U.S. and had international sales exceeding
$100 billion in the most recent fiscal year ended Jan. 2011.  “We’re experiencing economies in emerging markets that are
growing quickly and are very robust,” McMillon said. “The
developed markets are more challenging.”  McMillon wouldn’t comment on speculation of a possible bid
for  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  following reports in the Daily Mail
newspaper. Asda, Wal-Mart’s U.K. chain, aims to be the largest
non-food retailer in its domestic market. McMillon said the
grocer is looking at its e-commerce multi-channel offer, where
customers order online and collect in-store or deliver to their
homes, and the new Netto stores for non-food growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Ermakova at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net  