-- 
Water Resources Entering Agenda of UN Climate Talks, Mexico Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-16T08:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/water-resources-entering-agenda-of-un-climate-talks-mexico-says.html
Water resources have been explicitly
highlighted in a  United Nations  draft text that may shape a
future  climate-change  treaty, according to a Mexican official.  A UN panel known as the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and
Technological Advice has “agreed to discuss the impacts of
climate change on water resources,” Elias Freig, manager of
carbon finance and economics of climate change of  Mexico ´s
National Water Commission, said in an interview yesterday.  Freig is among delegates from almost 200 countries meeting
in Bonn this week to advance negotiations over a global climate
treaty to succeed the  Kyoto Protocol . Nations agreed in Cancun,
Mexico, last December to set up the so-called  Green Fund  to
channel climate aid to developing nations. This year, envoys are
devising a governance structure and rules for how it will
collect and disburse payments.  “This will bring attention to water issues and the hope
that, in the future, when the Green Fund has been established
and the rules on how it will work are decided on, funds can be
directed towards water-related projects linked to climate
change,” he said. Such projects could include desalination
plants, coastal defenses and hydro-power stations, he said.  Ecuador put the issue of water on the radar of UN climate
negotiations during the COP-16 meeting in Cancun last December,
Freig said.  “Climate change expresses itself as water through droughts
and floods,” Freig said. “Climate change is about water
change. Water has to be brought into the climate-change agenda;
it must come under the UNFCCC.”  This week’s talks in Bonn will pave the way for a meeting
of the annual  Conference of Parties , the official decision-
making body of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It
meets from Nov. 28 to Dec. 9 in Durban,  South Africa .  The Bonn talks cover issues such as mandatory commitments
to cut emissions by developed countries, voluntary actions by
 developing countries , financial aid to poorer countries and the
development of new markets to reduce  carbon emissions .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in Bonn at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  