-- 
Weiner’s Departure Removes Distraction for U.S. Congressional Democrats

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/weiner-quits-house-after-admitting-lewd-messages.html
Anthony Weiner’s decision to resign
from the U.S. House of Representatives following revelations
that he had sent lewd photos of himself to women over the
Internet lifts a distraction that has muddled the political
message of House Democrats.  His departure will help Democrats focus on the Republican
proposal to privatize Medicare, the government health-care
program for older Americans, and the talks over increasing the
government’s borrowing authority, according to one of the
party’s House leaders.  “Our ability to communicate on motivational issues” such
as the Republican plan for “the end of Medicare has been
impaired by Mr. Weiner’s behavior,” Representative Steve  Israel ,
who heads the House Democrats’ campaign effort, told reporters
yesterday as word began to circulate of Weiner’s decision.  Israel was referring to the proposal, included in the
House-passed budget plan for fiscal year 2012, that would
provide subsidies for purchasing private health insurance to
people who turn 65 starting in 2022. Democrats say that the plan
would short-change future Medicare beneficiaries.  The revelations about Weiner began surfacing just days
after voter opposition to the Medicare plan helped a Democrat
win a May 24 special election for an open House seat in a
reliably Republican district in western New York.  Israel, one of those who had privately urged Weiner to quit,
told reporters yesterday that Democrats couldn’t get voters to
hear their message above the buzz created over his fellow  New
Yorker .  Focused on Scandal  “Last week the Republicans introduced a bill to privatize
Social Security,” yet it drew scant attention because the
public was “so focused on Congressman Weiner’s issues,” Israel
told reporters yesterday. That legislation, introduced by Texas
Republican Pete Sessions, who heads the House Republicans’
campaign effort, would let workers opt out of Social Security by
setting up private retirement accounts.  Yesterday, Weiner, who is married, acknowledged that the
stream of revelations about the photos and suggestive messages
he had sent to women using Facebook, Twitter and e-mail had
become a distraction for his House colleagues.  Reading from a statement, he said he had decided to resign
“so my colleagues can get back to work.”  Weiner made his announcement at a  Brooklyn  senior citizens
center where he had begun his political career in 1991 as a
candidate for City Council in  New York City .  ‘Distraction I Created’  “I had hoped to be able to continue the work that the
citizens of  my district  elected me to do,” Weiner said.
“Unfortunately the distraction that I created has made that
impossible.”  Weiner, who first won election to his House seat in 1998,
was one of the most vocal Democratic critics of Republican
policies. His attacks and frequent cable news interviews made
him a hero to some Democratic activists.  At a June 6 news conference in New York City, he admitted
that he had engaged in “inappropriate conversations” with six
women over the last three years, including on Facebook, e-mail,
Twitter and, with one of the women, on the telephone.  During the previous week, Weiner, 46, had publicly denied
sending a racy photograph to a Seattle woman on Twitter and said
his account had been hacked. The photo showed a man from the
waist down in gray boxer briefs.  In his comments June 6, he said he wouldn’t resign from
Congress, while acknowledging “terrible mistakes.”  Calls for Resignation  Pressure on Weiner to quit built among fellow House
Democrats, culminating June 11 -- two days before the House
returned from a one-week recess -- with Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ’s public appeal for him to resign.  Pelosi, a California Democrat, said in a statement after
Weiner’s announcement yesterday that he had “exercised poor
judgment in his actions and poor judgment in his reaction to the
revelations. Today he made the right judgment in resigning.”  Along with making public calls for his resignation,
colleagues had been urging him to do so in private conversations.
Adding to the pressure, President  Barack Obama  said in a
television interview earlier this week that if he were faced
with the same situation, he would resign.  In an interview yesterday afternoon with ABC News, Obama
said he wished Weiner and his wife well.  “It’s been a tough incident for him, but I’m confident
that they’ll refocus and he’ll refocus, and they’ll end up being
able to bounce back,” ABC quoted Obama as saying in the
interview, set to run today on “Good Morning America.”  Told the Truth  The scandal that enveloped Weiner “could have ended
differently” had the lawmaker told the truth from the start,
said Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat. Still,
he said, resigning was the right decision.  Asked by reporters why he thought pressure built on Weiner
to quit when Representative Charles Rangel, another  New York 
Democrat, didn’t face similar demands when he was officially
censured by the House last December for ethics violations
involving his finances, Pascrell said, “There is always
something more mysterious about the flesh than about cash.”  Big Government , a conservative website, sparked the scandal
when it published the boxer-briefs photo. It later published
 photographs  and e-mails that it said had been sent by Weiner to
unidentified women. One of the  photos  showed a man sitting bare-
chested. The subject’s face wasn’t visible, though photos on a
cabinet in the background showed Weiner.  Apology to Wife  At his June 6 news conference, Weiner said that he never
met any of the women in person and that he had never had
extramarital sex. He married Huma Abedin, a top aide to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , last year in a ceremony
officiated by former President  Bill Clinton . His wife is
pregnant, the New York Times reported June 8, citing three
people it didn’t identify.  As he did June 6, Weiner apologized yesterday to his wife,
“to whom I owe so very much.” Abedin didn’t attend the news
conference, though she was seen leaving the couple’s home with
Weiner about 30 minutes before it began.  Weiner’s district encompasses parts of Queens and Brooklyn
in New York City. In 2005, he came in second in a multicandidate
Democratic mayoral primary. He was re-elected to Congress in
2010 with 61 percent of the vote, and had expressed interest in
running for mayor in 2013.  “It’s really a tragedy for him, a tragedy for
constituents,” said Pat Dolan, president of the Kew Gardens
Hills Civic Association and a resident of Weiner’s district.
“He was a big supporter of Israel, which is very important to
this community, and a voice for progressive politics for the
country,”  Right Step  Weiner’s resignation is “good for the country, for
Democrats, for his privacy and his family,” said Mergim Zeqiraj,
41, a waiter who lives a couple of blocks from Weiner’s Kew
Gardens office. “He exits out of the attention, and the country
can focus on more important things.”  “I could see chatting with one woman, but so many?” asked
Henny Wallitsch, a 76-year-old retired steamfitter and boxer who
said he once owned a topless club on Queens Boulevard.  Some constituents were mystified by Weiner’s decision to
resign.  “If it’s virtual sex, is it really sex?” asked Michael
King, 55, a retired postal worker. “It’s bizarre but I don’t
think it’s a crime. If I had a computer, that’s what I’d do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  