-- 
Weiner Said to Plan to Resign From House

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-16T17:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/weiner-said-planning-to-resign-from-congress-in-wake-of-online-sex-scandal.html
U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner
plans to resign from Congress after earlier admitting he sent
inappropriate messages and photos of himself to women on the
Internet, according to a Democratic Party official.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
Weiner, a  New York  Democrat, called Representative Steve  Israel ,
chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
last evening to say he would resign. Weiner’s office said he
will make a statement at 2 p.m. today in  Brooklyn .  Israel, a New York Democrat, said today Weiner “has the
right and responsibility to talk to his constituents before I
can comment on his decision.”  Weiner, a married New York Democrat, admitted June 6 that
he engaged in “inappropriate conversations” with six women
over the last three years, including on Facebook, e-mail,
Twitter and on the phone with one of the women.  Weiner, 46, said at a news conference that day in New York
that he wouldn’t resign, even as he acknowledged making
“terrible mistakes.” During the previous week, he had denied
sending a racy photograph of himself to a Seattle woman via
Twitter and claimed that his account was hacked. The photo
showed a man from the waist down in gray boxer briefs.  Weiner, first elected to his House seat in 1998, said he
didn’t use government resources in sending the photos and
messages.  Calls for Resignation  Last weekend, House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat, and several other top House Democrats
called on Weiner to resign. President  Barack Obama  said that if
he were faced with the same situation, he would resign. Pelosi
said today she wouldn’t comment until after Weiner’s statement.  Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat who
said he has spoken to Weiner since the scandal surfaced, said
today that of his colleague had told the truth from the start,
“it could have ended differently.”  Still, he said resignation is the right decision for
Weiner. “He’s got to be caught up in making amends” to his
wife instead of worrying about his political future, said
Pascrell. “If he’s not, he’s more stupid than the things he
did.”  ‘Something More Mysterious’  Asked by reporters why he thought pressure built on Weiner
to resign when Representative Charles Rangel, another New York
Democrat, didn’t face similar demands when he was officially
censured by the House last December for ethics violations
involving his finances, Pascrell said, “there is always
something more mysterious about the flesh than about cash.”  Big Government , a conservative website, published
 photographs  and e-mails that it said had been sent by Weiner to
unidentified women. One of the  photos  showed a man sitting bare-
chested. The subject’s face wasn’t visible, though photos on a
cabinet in the background showed Weiner.  The blogger, Andrew Breitbart, said the photos were sent
from the e-mail address  AnthonyWeiner@aol.com  via BlackBerry
last month.  Weiner said he never met any of the women in person and
that he had never had sex outside his marriage. Weiner married
Huma Abedin, a top aide to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
last year in a ceremony officiated by former President  Bill Clinton . His wife is pregnant, the New York Times reported June
8, quoting three people it didn’t identify.  Mayoral Prospects  Weiner’s district encompasses parts of Queens and Brooklyn
in  New York City . In 2005, he came in second in a three-way
Democratic mayoral primary. He was re-elected to Congress in
2010 with 61 percent of the vote and had expressed interest in
running for mayor in 2013.  Democrats in Congress refused to defend Weiner’s behavior.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  told reporters his advice to
the congressman, if he called, would be “call someone else.”  Weiner, who first won election to his House seat in 1998,
was one of the loudest Democratic critics of Republican
policies. His attacks and frequent cable news interviews made
him a hero to some Democratic activists.  In February 2010, he called the  Republican Party  a “wholly
owned subsidiary of the  insurance industry ” for opposing the
health-care overhaul enacted by Democrats.  Over the last five years, sex scandals led to the
resignation of four members of the  House of Representatives  and
ruined the careers of a former vice presidential nominee and
presidential candidate, two governors of New York, a governor of
 South Carolina  and two U.S. senators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  