-- 
Wells Fargo Lures Neglected Rich in New York Private-Bank Push

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/wells-fargo-lures-neglected-rich-in-new-york-private-bank-push.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the U.S. lender
with the largest branch network, is aiming to build its private
bank in  New York  by attracting affluent customers neglected by
some other competitors.  Wells Fargo may increase the number of private bankers to
77 from 67 in the New York area to manage money for clients with
at least $5 million in investable assets, according to Jennifer Lee, a regional managing director. More established rivals like
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in New York, target private-banking
services to most clients with more than $25 million in assets,
according to Robert Testa, senior analyst at Boston-based
Cerulli Associates.  “Since the credit crisis, high-net-worth clients have come
to value the services of a private bank more,” Testa said.
“Wells Fargo will definitely compete with the JPMorgans and
Citigroups, but since those guys have such higher minimums, they
will be serving this other population.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, who called the
wealth, brokerage and retirement business “sub-optimized” in
December, is seeking assets in a region where Wells Fargo had
little or no presence before its 2008 purchase of Wachovia Corp.
and recent rebranding of those offices. High-net-worth
individuals have $6.2 trillion in investable assets, the San
Francisco-based lender estimated in a May 2010  presentation .  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, confirmed the
bank’s targeting of clients with $25 million.  Doug Morris , a
spokesman for New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the
lender has historically sought ultra-high-net-worth clients but
in recent years has offered private-banking services for a wider
range of customers.  Brand Building  “When you are a national firm as we are now, having a
meaningful presence in New York City is incredibly important,”
Lee said in a phone interview. “If you overlay opportunity with
relative newness to the market, it’s incredibly important for us
to have the right team here and build the brand.”  Wells Fargo recently hired Thomas Belden from  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Susan Bennett from  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
and Belkis Knudsvig from  Barclays Plc (BARC) , for the New York region,
Vince Scanlon, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Wells Fargo’s goal is to increase the number of wealth-
management clients by 6 percent each year, Jay Welker, who heads
the unit, said in the May 2010 presentation. The private bank
managed $210 billion in client assets at the end of March,
Scanlon said in a separate e-mail.  ‘Sweet Spot’  Earlier this year, Wells Fargo shuffled regional managers
and broadened oversight to streamline the wealth-management
unit. The lender cut its regional managers from 12 to seven,
Scanlon said in a May 6 e-mailed statement. Wells Fargo had
6,314 retail branches at the end of 2010, followed by Bank of
America with 5,856 and JPMorgan with 5,268, according to year-
end filings.  Wells Fargo may offer too many services as it seeks to
meet client needs, Testa said. The lender will also compete with
rivals including Bank of America that require a similar amount
of assets, Testa said. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender requires a minimum of $1 million of assets, he said.  “Five million dollars is a sweet spot, but you need more
services and more personnel to service that client,” Testa
said. “Once you start appealing to such a high-net-worth
individual, that’s when you have to start offering all these
ancillary services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 