-- 
Wheat Drops for a Fourth Day as European Rainfall Eases Production Concern

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-16T09:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/wheat-drops-for-a-fourth-day-as-european-rainfall-eases-production-concern.html
Wheat fell for the fourth straight
day as favorable weather eases production concerns and speeds
harvesting of U.S. winter crops.  Rain in  France  will stop drought-stricken wheat from
deteriorating further, according to farm adviser Offre et
Demande. The harvest of winter varieties is in “full swing” in
 Kansas , the biggest producer of the grain, according to Kansas
Wheat, an grower’s group in the state. Corn planting is 99
percent complete in the U.S.  “Besides the general bearish market environment, prices
are also being knocked by the better weather conditions,”
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said
in a report today. “Due to rainfall in the major growing
regions of the U.S. and Europe, the crop outlook has improved
for corn and wheat.”  England, northern France, the Benelux region and western
Germany will see rapid weather changes during the next seven
days, including episodes of scattered showers preceded by
warm temperatures and followed by some fairly cool conditions,
forecaster DTN Televent said in a report yesterday.  Wheat for September delivery fell 5.25 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $7.34 a bushel by 10:17 a.m.  London  time on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. Milling wheat for November delivery in
Paris declined 25 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 215 euros a metric
ton ($303.43), a fifth consecutive slide.  December-delivery corn fell 4 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$6.62 a bushel in Chicago, the fifth straight drop. The price is
down 11 percent this month.  November-delivery soybeans fell 17 cents, or 1.2 percent,
to $13.4975 a bushel in Chicago. The price has declined 1.9
percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 