-- 
Wisconsin Public Employees Sue to Stop Bill Curbing Collective Bargaining

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/wisconsin-public-employees-sue-to-stop-budget-repair-bill-.html
A group of Wisconsin state and
municipal workers’ unions filed a federal lawsuit in a bid to
block implementation of a bill backed by Governor  Scott Walker 
curbing collective-bargaining rights.  The state law violates the U.S. constitution by creating a
“disfavored” class of public employees and a “favored” class
consisting of firefighters and law enforcement officials, the
unions representing teachers, health-care workers and other
public workers, said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Madison.  “The distinctions the act makes between ‘public safety’
and other employees not only lack any rational connection to a
legitimate governmental objective, they bear a remarkably close
connection to the illegitimate objective of punishing the
political opponents and rewarding the political supporters of
the governor,” the unions said in the complaint.  The unions seek a court ruling that parts of the law are
unconstitutional and an order preventing the state from
implementing those parts.  Wisconsin ’s  Supreme Court  on June 14 rejected a county
judge’s ruling invalidating the measure.  A first-term Republican, Walker signed the legislation on
March 11. It requires annual recertification votes for public
employees’ union representation and makes their payment of
membership dues voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are
exempt.  Pension Contributions  Under the law, state workers would contribute 5.8 percent
of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent of their
health-insurance costs. Democrats and organized labor opposed
the legislation as an attack on workers’ rights. Opponents
protested inside and outside the state capitol for almost four
weeks.  Fourteen Wisconsin Senate Democrats left the state Feb. 17
and spent more than three weeks in  Illinois  in an attempt to
block the law by denying the chamber a quorum. Republicans were
able to vote on collective bargaining after they stripped the
bill of some fiscal measures allowing them by law to vote
without the Democrats present.  Representatives of Walker didn’t immediately return a call
to the governor’s press office after regular business hours
yesterday.  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
Scott Walker, 11-428, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  