-- 
Women Lose Out on U.S. Boards as Europeans Get Quota Help

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-06-16T20:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/women-losing-out-on-u-s-boards-as-europe-gets-help-from-quotas.html
At a time when European companies
are filling board seats with women, U.S. female directors are
losing out.  Representation of women on boards of Standard & Poor’s 500
companies declined to 16 percent in 2011 from 16.6 percent in
2010, according to the Bloomberg Rankings annual analysis, which
gathered data from public company information.  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , co-owner of Oprah Winfrey’s
OWN cable channel, and retailer  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  were among
47 companies, or 9.4 percent of the  S&P 500 , with no female
directors, the data showed. U.S. companies are lagging gains in
European countries such as Norway and Spain, where female
membership is expanding to meet regulatory mandates and
corporate governance codes.  “Diversity in the boardroom is becoming an increasingly
important trend, globally, and it’s growing elsewhere while it’s
flat here,” said  George Davis , who heads the director-placement
practice at search company Egon Zehnder International in Boston.
“We’re standing still and there’s a freight train coming at
us.”  U.S. companies are under pressure from shareholders such as
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and executive
women’s groups to increase diversity of corporate boards
voluntarily. While Norway,  Spain  and France are imposing legal
quotas at the largest companies, there is no such regulation
planned in the U.S.  Consumer Companies  Non-cyclical consumer companies in the S&P 500 have the
highest penetration of women directors, at 19.3 percent, and the
oil and gas sector has the lowest, with 9.6 percent, the
Bloomberg Rankings data show. A similar study by Rockville,
Maryland-based  Institutional Shareholder Services , a proxy
advisory firm, found penetration was 15 percent from 2006 to
2009.  Among S&P 500 with no woman on the board is also  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  Hector Marinez, a spokesman at the Santa Clara-based maker
of graphic chips, declined to comment. Michelle Russo, a
spokeswoman at  Silver Spring , Maryland-based Discovery, also had
no comment. Oona McCullough, director of  investor relations  at
Philadelphia-based Urban Outfitters, didn’t return a phone call
seeking comment.  Norway  led European nations in 2003 in legislating that at
least 40 percent of corporate board seats be filled by women.
Spain followed in 2007 with a law requiring 40 percent of female
representation on large company boards by 2015, and France plans
to impose a 20 percent quota by 2014 and 40 percent by 2017 for
companies with at least 500 employees and annual sales of 50
million euros ($71 million). Six other countries have corporate
governance codes, according to the  European Professional Women’s
Network .  Norway Example  In Norway, 37.9 percent of directors at the country’s
largest companies are women. They represent 11.7 percent of
directors among 4,875 board seats at 334 of the biggest European
companies, an increase of 21 percent since 2008, according to an
October 2010 study from the European Professional Women’s
Network conducted with Russell Reynolds Associates, a
headhunting company.  Having women on boards, particularly three or more, adds a
diversity of opinion that isn’t found in an all-male board, said
Susan Stautberg, co-founder of  Women Corporate Directors  in  New
York , which promotes women membership on boards.  The demographics of U.S. board members should work in favor
of more women directors, she said. About 10 percent of directors
are more than 70 years old and 17 percent have served 15 years
or more, suggesting they soon may need to be replaced.  “Last year, half of the women going onto a new board were
also going on the  audit committee ,” Stautberg said. “The
momentum is there, I think by the end of the year you’ll start
to see the numbers improving again.”  Replacing Directors  Companies replaced fewer board members during the recession
as they “hunkered down” to deal with the business crisis,
according to Stautberg. From 2009 through 2011, 55 percent of
companies replaced none of their board members, compared with 47
percent in the previous three years, according to data collected
by the National Association of Corporate Directors.  As boards begin to return to pre-recession replacement
rates, the percentage of women will probably rise faster,
Stautberg said.  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , Estee Lauder Cos. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  were
the only three companies in the S&P 500 with more than 40
percent of women directors, Bloomberg Rankings said. They were
among 21 companies where at least one third of the directors
were women.  Women make up 7.6 percent of the highest-paid executives at
the S&P 500 companies, compared with 7.1 percent in 2010, and
they are chief executive officers at 3 percent of the index
members, Bloomberg Rankings found. There were 29 companies where
women weren’t on the board, among the highest paid or in top
executive positions, Bloomberg rankings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 Jgreen16@bloomberg.net  