-- 
Woods-Less American Golf Seeks to End Major Slump at U.S. Open Competition

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-16T11:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/woods-less-american-golf-seeks-to-end-major-slump-at-u-s-open-competition.html
American golf’s effort to avoid a
historic losing streak at the U.S. Open is led by a 44-year-old
from  Wisconsin  who cries on the victory stand and spends winters
hitting practice balls out of a heated trailer.  Steve Stricker, at No. 4 in the Official World Golf
Ranking, is the highest-placed U.S. player coming into today’s
opening round at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,
Maryland.  Tiger Woods , a three-time winner of the season’s
second major championship, is on crutches with leg injuries, and
 Phil Mickelson , who turns 41 today, has two wins in the past 14
months.  Englishmen Luke Donald and Lee Westwood are 1-2 in the
world and co-favorites of Las Vegas oddsmakers with Mickelson at
12-1. Stricker is 15-1. As the field begins play about 10 miles
(16 kilometers) west of the White House, all four of golf’s
major titles are held by non-Americans, and a loss this week
would mark the first time five straight majors were won by non-
U.S. players.  “America right now is struggling to find its identity,”
former European Tour player Frank Nobilo from  New Zealand  said
on a media conference call yesterday. “The fact that a lot of
the U.S. domination has been Tiger and Phil for the past 10
years, the youth hasn’t developed. They have big shoes to
fill.”  The tournament started this morning, with Harrison Frazar,
a  University of Texas  graduate, leading the field at 1-under
after two holes.  World Order  A year ago, American players controlled the sport. Woods,
who has slipped to No. 15, was still No. 1 in the world.
Mickelson was the reigning Masters Tournament champion.  Lucas Glover  was preparing to defend his U.S. Open title at  Pebble
Beach  and Stewart Cink had the Claret Jug as the British Open
winner.  Now,  South Africans  hold two major titles -- Charl Schwartzel from the Masters and  Louis Oosthuizen  from the
British Open. Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland won the  U.S.
Open  in 2010, with  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany  taking the PGA.  The slide was foreshadowed in U.S. Open results over the
past decade. Since 2000, when Woods’s 15-shot win at Pebble
Beach set the record for the largest margin of victory at a
major championship, six of the 10 winners have come from outside
the U.S.  Dustin Johnson , 26, who lost last year’s PGA Championship
after a final-hole bunker penalty at Wisconsin’s Whistling
Straits and the U.S. Open after holding a three-shot lead coming
into the final round at Pebble Beach, had to be told about the
major slump he and his fellow Americans are in.  “The only reason I know is because I think about three
different people have asked me,” he said during a pre-
tournament press conference this week. “But I had no idea. It’s
not like we’re not trying.”  Try Harder  They’re not trying hard enough, according to 1973 U.S. Open
champion Johnny Miller, now a golf analyst for Comcast Corp.’s
NBC.  “We’ve got of case of Top Ten-itis,” Miller, 64, said on
a conference call. “They think when you win it’s like a fluke.
I wish guys were a little more expectant on winning instead of
just trying to have a good finish. We just don’t seem to have
that many confident, cocky players.”  Woods stared down opponents as he won 14 major
championships. Stricker, never a major winner, cried on two
occasions after his one-shot win at the Memorial Tournament in
Dublin,  Ohio , two weeks ago. He shed tears after winning the
Northern Trust Open in  Los Angeles  on Feb. 7.  While world rankings and recent history points to golf’s
European domination, not everybody is ready to give up on U.S.
players, including Mickelson, the last American to win a major
at the 2010 Masters.  ‘Good Shape’  “Although international golf has really taken off,
American golf is still in very good shape,” he said in a press
conference two days ago. “We have a plethora of great players
coming up.”  Golf’s global growth has led to recent discussion among
players and officials about a possible world tour, Kaymer said.  “Eventually it will come,” Kaymer, the No. 3-ranked
player in the world, said in a June 6 interview at Atlanta
Athletic Club, site of this year’s  PGA Championship  in August.  Such plans would only occur if agreements between the U.S.,
European and Asian professional tours can be reached, something
that would likely take years to achieve.  World Tour  “If they get along and if they find a way to sit down
maybe at one table with the Asian guys and maybe the guys from
Dubai, then I think they can do something huge,” Kaymer said.  For now, the attention remains focused on Congressional,
where players are contending with a 7,574-yard, par-71 course
that has been slightly modified since 1997, when  South Africa ’s
Ernie Els captured his second U.S. Open title.  While Americans are struggling for major wins, staging the
tournament at an 87-year-old club that has been the home course
of U.S. presidents and served as a training ground for U.S.
spies during World War II is fitting.  “Playing the U.S. Open in the nation’s capital, I think
that’s why it’s special,” said Els. “It’s a unique venue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  