-- 
Workers Stuck in Jobs May Decide 2012 Election

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-16T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/workers-stuck-in-jobs-they-can-t-leave-may-decide-2012-election.html
In 20 years of recruiting
executives,  William Rowe  says he has never had such a hard time
persuading the inhabitants of corporate suites to swap corner
offices.  “There’s more hesitancy,” said Rowe, vice chairman of the
search firm Pearson Partners International. “You know how to
play the game of chess in the platform you’re on. You can’t be
sure of that in a new place, no matter how good you are.”  From the factory floor to the boardroom, few Americans
these days are willing to tell the boss to shove it, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its June 20 issue. Many of those who
have weathered the recession with their jobs intact are now
sheltering in place, either fearful of risking a change or
simply lacking the opportunity.  Since January 2009, an average 1 million fewer Americans
per month have quit their jobs than in previous years. Through
April, the most recent data available, that adds up to 28
million Americans stuck in jobs they would have left in ordinary
times.  That’s a lot of careers slowed and dreams deferred. At
double the number of the 14 million unemployed Americans, it’s
also a huge swath of voters who may be in search of a
presidential candidate who they believe understands their
discontent.  “It absolutely could be the swing group who decides the
election, and it could be the group who responds to a third-
party candidate,” said Democratic political strategist Joe Trippi, who managed former Vermont Governor Howard Dean’s
insurgent 2004 presidential bid.  Republican Candidates  Among the Republican hopefuls, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an
economic policy adviser to the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee, Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , “it’s a race to see
who is going to be first to reach a group this big with a clear
reason to be dissatisfied with the president.”  President  Barack Obama  and his advisers know the danger he
faces: No U.S. president since World War II has been re-elected
with unemployment above 7.2 percent. The rate in May stood at
9.1 percent.  Yet that daunting figure alone doesn’t fully capture what
Obama is up against. The attention given to the unemployment
numbers obscures a subtler but persistent sluggishness in
opportunity, one that breeds skepticism about the recovery even
among those who are grateful to be working. If the president
wants to keep his job, Americans may first have to feel more
confident about quitting theirs.  Switching Jobs  In good times and bad, there is usually a great deal of
movement in the labor market. Statistics showing the economy’s
job losses or gains come from comparing the millions of new
hires businesses make every month against the millions who 
lose their jobs or quit. The job gains in the current recovery
have come during a period of unusually low turnover.  In October 2001, when monthly job losses in the prior
recession reached their worst, at 325,000, businesses still
hired 5.1 million new employees. Compare that with May 2010,
when job gains in the current recovery reached a high of
458,000. That month, businesses hired only 4.3 million new
employees.  The willingness of employees to quit their jobs “is
probably the best single indicator of how confident workers
are,” said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard University labor economics
professor. “When people are unwilling to quit, they don’t have
the leverage to press for wage increases.”  Right now, the buying power of paychecks is slipping. After
inflation, average hourly earnings for U.S. workers fell 1.6
percent over the past year through May. For the first year and a
half of the Obama administration, real hourly wages had been
flat.  Younger Workers  Among those likely to bear the greatest burden of the
stagnant job market are younger Americans, who were some of
Obama’s most enthusiastic supporters in the 2008 campaign.
Between 30 percent and 50 percent of wage growth in the first 10
years of employment comes from switching jobs, Katz said. The
lost opportunities for early career advancement are likely to
slow this generation’s progress for years, even decades, to
come, he added.  “You’re cutting off an important avenue of upward mobility
for young people,” said Harry Holzer, an economist at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington  and the  Urban Institute , a
Washington policy center examining social and economic issues.  In 2010, young people’s ardor for Democrats cooled. Among
voters under 30,  exit polls  showed 55 percent backed Democratic
House candidates in the midterm elections, down from  66 percent 
who supported Obama in 2008.  Setback for Obama  Disillusionment among the young would be a serious setback
for the Obama re-election campaign. In 2008 young supporters
filled the ranks of his tech-savvy field organization and turned
out to vote for him in unusually large numbers. They were
critical to helping him win traditionally Republican states such
as  Virginia  and  North Carolina , said Democratic strategist Tad Devine.  The backlog of workers trapped in jobs they are ready to
leave and their eroded wages underscore how difficult it will be
to translate the slow economic recovery into progress ordinary
Americans can feel in the 17 months remaining before the
presidential election, said Stan Greenberg, a former pollster
for  Bill Clinton . It’s why public opinion about the economy
hasn’t improved much despite seven quarters of economic growth
and progress on the  unemployment rate , he said.  Political leaders need to respond by acknowledging what
people are going through in the “real economy,” he said. It’s
not just mundane advancement that people are putting off. It may
be a new life in a new place, or an escape from a tyrannical
boss.  “You’ve got 28 million people whose aspirations are being
contained,” Greenberg said. “There’s real emotion and real
poignancy in this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  