-- 
Hynix, Micron Lose Document Evidence Ruling in Rambus Case

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-16T18:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/hynix-micron-lose-document-evidence-ruling-in-rambus-case.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  lost a ruling in a California antitrust lawsuit
by memory-chip designer  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  that would have allowed the
companies to present privileged documents as evidence at trial.  Superior Court Judge James McBride in San Francisco today
rejected the chipmakers’ contention that the documents should be
made available under the “crime-fraud” exception. Micron and
Hynix can still seek to get the documents admitted on a case-by-
case basis.  The argument relied on a federal appeals court ruling last
month that Rambus destroyed documents relevant to patent-
infringement claims it planned to pursue against the chipmakers.
Rambus “committed or intended to commit a fraud or crime” by
destroying documents that would have had to be produced in
litigation, Hynix and Micron said in court papers.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale,  California , is seeking as much
as $4.3 billion from Hynix and Micron over claims they drove
Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips
out of the computer-memory market. The damages would be
automatically tripled to $12.9 billion under California law if
Rambus wins the case, Rambus claims.  McBride issued his ruling from the bench at a hearing today
without explanation.  Sean Eskovitz , a lawyer representing Rambus
from Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP in Los Angeles, argued at the
hearing that there is a “different legal standard” for the
crime-fraud exception in California than in federal court.  ‘Ample Evidence’  Patrick Shields , a lawyer for Micron with Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in  Los Angeles , told McBride that the
federal appeals court “found that Rambus willfully destroyed
documents,” and that there was “ample evidence” that those
documents would need to be produced in litigation.  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron,
declined to comment on today’s ruling.  A jury is being selected in the case, with opening
arguments scheduled for next week. Earlier this week, Micron and
Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix lost their request to have
McBride instruct jurors that Rambus’s document destruction in
anticipation of litigation is proven. They are still permitted
to present document destruction arguments at trial.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
431105, California Superior Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 