-- 
ThyssenKrupp, Stephens Media, Puerto 80, CafePress: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-16T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-16/thyssenkrupp-stephens-media-puerto-80-cafepress-intellectual-property.html
Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) , the world’s
second-largest maker of elevators, won an appeals court ruling
that revives a patent-infringement lawsuit brought by its
Inventio unit against competitor  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   A federal judge erred when he said two Inventio patents
covering a process of upgrading elevators were invalid because
they didn’t adequately define the invention, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said yesterday in
an opinion posted on its website. The panel sent the case back
to the trial court in Wilmington,  Delaware , for further review.  The dispute is over patents involving a way to add new
functions to existing controls in an elevator. Schindler, based
in Hergiswil,  Switzerland , got about 66 percent of its revenue
last year from its elevator and escalator unit.  At issue are U.S. patents 6,892,861, issued in May 2005;
and 6,935,465, issued in August 2005.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, said in May
that its elevator production and servicing division had sales of
1.28 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in the quarter ended in March.
Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger said last month that
the Essen, Germany-based company is looking to buy “smaller and
medium-sized” elevator service providers to expand the
business.  On the appeal, Inventio’s case was argued by  Pierre R.
Yanney  of New York’s Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP.
ThssenKrupp’s argument was made by  David E. Schmit  of
Cincinnati, Ohio’s Frost Brown Todd LLC.  The case is Inventio AG v. ThyssenKrupp Elevator Americas
Corp., 2010-1525, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Inventio AG v.
ThyssenKrupp Elevator Americas Corp., 08CV874, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Dolby Sues Research In Motion Over Audio-Quality Patents  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  said it filed infringement lawsuits
in the U.S. and Germany against  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
claiming the BlackBerry maker refused to pay royalties on
patents related to audio quality.  Dolby is seeking an order that would halt sales of RIM’s
BlackBerry smartphones and PlayBook tablet computer, as well as
cash compensation, according to a statement from the company
yesterday. Complaints were filed in district court in  San
Francisco  and in Mannheim, Germany, Dolby said.  The patents cover ways to compress digital audio files in a
way that uses less storage capacity while maintaining quality,
San Francisco-based Dolby said. The technology has been
incorporated into an industry standard for audio coding that
“all other major smartphone makers have agreed to license”
except Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, Dolby said.  “Litigation was regrettably our last resort after RIM
declined to pay for the use of Dolby’s technology,” Dolby
General Counsel Andy Sherman said in the statement. “We have a
duty to protect our intellectual property.”  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, said the company
doesn’t comment on litigation.  According to the complaint filed yesterday in San
Francisco, Dolby invented technology known as “spectral band
replication” and “parametric stereo” that “represented a
quantum leap forward in compression efficiency, and which were
perfected only after years of research and development.”  The companies licensing the patents include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  HTC
Corp. (2498) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  and Samsung Electronics
Co., Dolby said. Via Licensing Corp., a company designated to
handle licensing of the Dolby patents, first contacted RIM in
November 2006 and again in 2007. Talks continued through the
early part of this year, Dolby said in complaint.  The RIM products targeted by the complaint include the
BlackBerry Storm, Tour, Pearl, Curve and Torch models, as well
as the PlayBook, which was introduced in April to challenge
Apple’s market-leading iPad.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Stephens’ Righthaven Suit Against Democratic Underground Ends  Stephens Media Group’s copyright suit against the
Democratic Underground pursued by Righthaven LLC, the alleged
owner of the copyright in dispute, was thrown out of court June
14 by a federal district judge.  Righthaven LLC, the  Las Vegas  entity that has filed more
than 200 copyright-infringement cases involving Stephens’s
newspapers in the past year, doesn’t have standing to pursue
this case, U.S. District Judge Roger L. Hunt said in his ruling.  The Democratic Underground was sued Aug. 10, with
Righthaven claiming copyright infringement occurred when an
article from the Las Vegas Review-Journal about the effect of
the Tea Party on a political campaign was posted on the
Democratic Underground website.  Hunt said a document outlining the agreement between
Stephens and Righthaven “went to great lengths” to specify
that the only right obtained by Righthaven was “the bare right
to sue.” As such, the judge said the agreement wasn’t ambiguous
and Righthaven lacks standing because it doesn’t truly own the
copyright it claims was infringed.  Hunt said he wasn’t persuaded by any supplemental documents
filed by Righthaven, and called Righthaven’s arguments about its
standing to file the case “disingenuous.” He also said that
adding Stephens as a plaintiff “would not cure the
jurisdictional defect” as far as Righthaven was concerned
because “only the owner of an exclusive right under a copyright
may bring suit.”  The Democratic Underground’s motion for an award of
attorney fees is still alive. Judge Hunt gave Righthaven two
weeks to show why it shouldn’t be sanctioned “for this flagrant
misrepresentation” about its ownership of the Stephens
copyrights.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Democratic Underground LLC,
2:10-cv-01356-RLH-GWF, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada
(Las Vegas).  Puerto 80 Fights Government Domain-Name Seizure With IP Experts  Puerto 80 Projects SLU, a Spanish owner of an Internet
domain name seized by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
has turned to some powerful IP lawyers in its efforts to get the
government to release the seized property.  Mark Lemley ,  Ragesh Tangri ,  Johanna Calabria  and  Genevieve
P. Rosloff  of  Durie Tangri LLP  joined  David Spears  and  Charlita
Mays  of  New York ’s  Spears & Imes LLP  in their representation of
Puerto 80.  Lemley is the director  of Stanford University Law School’s
 Stanford Program in Law, Science & Technology . He’s also taught
IP law at the University of  California , Berkeley, School of Law,
and at the University of Texas School of Law. He and Tangri are
two of the founders of Durie Tangri, a San Francisco litigation
boutique founded in 2009.  When the domain was seized, an ICE agent said Puerto 80’s
and other domain names were subject to seizure and forfeiture
under a section of federal law relating to criminal copyright
infringement.  In their June 13 filing in federal court in  Manhattan ,
lawyers for Puerto 80 said their Rojadirecta.org and
rojadirecta.com sites don’t host copyrighted videos or streams
of sporting videos. Puerto 80 said it has undertaken
“substantial efforts” to petition the government for return of
the domain name.  It claims to be “incurring substantial hardship” because
of both the seizure and what it says the government’s “failure
to initiate formal forfeiture proceedings or take action on
Puerto 80’s request” for the domain name’s return.  In their court filing, lawyers for Puerto 80 note there’s
no risk that a domain name won’t be available for trial. There
is “no risk that a domain name can be hidden, destroyed or
otherwise made unavailable” they said in their pleading.  They asked the court to order ICE to return the domain
names, and to set a hearing for no later than June 30 on their
petition. They also requested that the court permit friend-of-
the-court submissions with respect to the legal issues they are
raising.  The case is Puerto 80 Projects SLU v. U.S.A., 1:11-cv-
03983-PAC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Fonterra Unit Only Partially Successful in Trademark Dispute  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s NZ Milk Brands lost part
of a trademark battle with an Indonesian cigarette maker, New
Zealand’s National Business Review  reported .  Indonesia ’s Sumatra applied in 2005 to used “Angkor” as a
trademark in New Zealand for dairy products, cereal cookies and
candy, according to the National Business Review.  Auckland, New Zealand-based Fonterra’s NZ Milk Brand
opposed the application, claiming the public would be confused
by the similarity between its “Anchor” brand” and Sumatra’s
“Angkor,” the newspaper reported.  A New Zealand appeals court said that Sumatra would be
permitted to use the mark for cereal, chocolates and candy and
barred from using it on merchandise similar to that covered by
NZ Milk Brand’s Anchor trademark, according to the National
Business Review.  Palm Oil With ‘Sustainable’ Trademark Not Finding Big Demand  The new trademark developed by the Roundtable on
Sustainable Paul Oil isn’t finding universal acceptance among
the palm oil producers and plantation owners of Indonesia and
Malaysia, the Malaysia Star  reported .  The mark, which is to be used to indicate the palm oil that
is derived from reliable and sustainable sources, isn’t finding
that much demand from the consuming nations, the Star reported.  Some members of the Indonesian Palm Oil Producers
Association told the Star that the premium consuming nations
were willing to pay for the certified-sustainable palm oil
indicated by the mark has sunk to $9 to $10 a ton from $40 to
$50 a ton.  World demand for certified palm oil has “turned sluggish”
compared with the demand for the non-certified oil, according to
the Star.  Martin Registered Guitar Headstock Configuration as Trademark  C.F. Martin & Co , whose guitars have been played by Johnny
Cash, Pete Seeger, Paul Simon and Jimmy Buffett, has registered
a trademark on the headstock configuration of its guitars, the
Nazareth, Pennsylvania-based company said in a  statement .  The headstock has become “one of the primary identifying
brand and design elements of our guitars,” Gregory Paul,
Martin’s vice president of corporate operations, said in the
statement.  Martin has been making acoustical guitars for more than 175
years. The headstock design has been in use since 1850,
according to the statement.  In February,  WFMZ-TV reported  that fake Martin guitars are
being made and sold in  China  under a Martin trademark registered
to a Chinese company.  C.F. Martin, the guitar company’s chief executive, told
WFMX-TV that “it appears that the Chinese government has
sanctioned the counterfeiting.”  North Dakota School District Hired Licensing Agency for Marks  A school district in West Fargo, North Dakota, has
contracted with a licensing agency to protect its trademarks,
the West Fargo Pioneer newspaper reported.  U.S. Licensing Co. of Fargo will handle all licensing
issued for the district, typically charging vendors a one-time
fee of $50 and a 7 percent royalty, of which 5 percent will go
to the school district, according to the Pioneer.  The district’s redesigned logo, featuring a snorting bull,
will be available for use in the fall, the newspaper reported.  Vendors will be given a cutoff date by which to sell
merchandise marked with the district’s old logo without paying
the licensing fee, according to the Pioneer.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 