-- Beijing Auto’s Acquisition Push Abroad to Begin in Europe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-22T06:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/beijing-auto-s-acquisition-push-abroad-to-begin-in-europe.html
Beijing Automotive Group Co., which
manufactures vehicles with Daimler AG and Hyundai Motor Co. in
 China , started a unit today to spearhead acquisitions abroad,
starting with  Europe .  “We will do everything in our power to explore overseas
markets,” Beijing Auto Chairman Xu Heyi said today in Beijing.
“Establishment of this unit puts us at a new historical
threshold.”  The carmaker plans to have 2.5 billion  yuan  ($408 million)
of profit from abroad with a vehicle-sales target of 400,000
units by 2020. Newly established BAIC International Development
Co. will be in charge of overseas acquisitions and investment as
well as boosting international vehicle and parts sales,
according to Dong Haiyang, president of the unit.  BAIC International is seeking targets in Europe, and
investment banks have found three medium-size automakers with
“good brand image,” Dong said at a press conference. “We want
to acquire such mid-sized brands in Europe while the economy is
sluggish, so we can use their facilities as a production base to
expand there.”  State-owned Beijing Auto, the maker of the Senova sedan,
joins  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  and Great Wall Motor Co. in seeking new
markets as competition intensifies at home.  Beijing Auto is seeking an initial public offering in  Hong
Kong  as early as this year to help expand vehicle sales more
than 70 percent by 2015 from a target of 2.1 million units this
year, Chairman Xu said in March.  The Beijing-based carmaker has also said it plans to make
“world-class” vehicles by 2025 and hired Ferrari designer
Leonardo Fioravanti to improve its brand appeal. The company’s
Senova was developed using technology bought from Saab
Automobile AB in 2009.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  