-- HTC Said to Hire Robert Downey Jr. to Promote Smartphones
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-06-22T01:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/htc-said-to-hire-robert-downey-jr-to-promote-smartphones.html
(Corrects publicist’s affiliation with Downey in fifth
paragraph.)  HTC Corp. (2498)  has enlisted actor Robert Downey Jr. to promote the Taiwanese company’s smartphone brand
in a two-year global marketing deal worth about $12 million,
said two people with knowledge of the plans.  Downey, who starred as  Iron Man  and  Sherlock Holmes  in hit
movies, will have final say over creative elements, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t
public. The maker of the HTC One handset will probably feature
Downey in television, print and billboard advertisements, the
people said, Bloomberg.com’s  Global Tech blog  reported today.  HTC, once the top-selling smartphone vendor in the U.S.,
has faced a plunge in market share amid product missteps and
stiffer competition from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Hiring one of
Hollywood’s  top celebrities  is part of HTC’s attempt to remain
relevant among consumers after dropping to ninth place in global
smartphone shipments in the first quarter.  “We have nothing to announce today on a new marketing
campaign,” Sally Julien, a spokeswoman for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, wrote in an e-mail. The HTC One smartphone’s “all-metal design has drawn overwhelmingly positive feedback from
media and consumers alike. Anyone with a penchant for metal
should be able to appreciate its appeal,” she said.  Alan Nierob, a spokesman for Downey at Rogers & Cowan,
declined to comment.  Invest in Marketing  “Our marketing hasn’t been good enough,” HTC Chief
Executive Officer Peter Chou told shareholders at the company’s
annual general meeting today, pointing out that competitors
outspend the Taiwanese company on promotion. “If you don’t
invest in marketing, you can’t get a good result.”  HTC’s marketing budget of $1 billion last year was dwarfed
by Samsung which spent about $10 billion to promote its line of
TVs, smartphones, tablets and other appliances.  The company’s global smartphone share dropped to 2.4
percent in the first quarter when it posted record-low profit,
from 10.3 percent in the third quarter of 2011, according to
researcher IDC.  A battle with drugs over a decade ago resulted in Downey
leaving the TV series “Ally McBeal.” The 48-year-old Golden
Globe Winner has since rebuilt himself and his image to star in
“Marvel’s The Avengers” and “Iron Man 3,” which were both
successful films for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Downey has signed on to return as Iron Man in two
“Avengers” sequels, Disney announced yesterday, keeping the
actor in the spotlight through his HTC contract. He’s also the
voice for some of Nissan Motor Co.’s  commercials  in the U.S.  Singer  Alicia Keys  was hired by  BlackBerry (BBRY)  earlier this
year as global creative director, part of a marketing campaign
for the company’s revamped smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  