-- Canadian Dollar Falls to Two-Year Low as Recovery Trails U.S.
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/canadian-dollar-falls-to-two-year-low-as-recovery-trails-u-s-.html
The Canadian dollar fell to an
almost two-year low as data pointing to tepid economic growth
collided with a show of confidence by the Federal Reserve in the
U.S. recovery.  The currency declined the most in 21 months as Canada’s
inflation accelerated at a slower rate than economists forecast
and retail sales rose less than projected after Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz, in his first public speech, said that
the recovery needs “patience.” Oil, the nation’s largest
export, plunged and government bond yields rose the most in 12
years. Canada’s gross domestic product growth slowed in April, a
June 28 report is forecast to show.  “Canada is certainly underperforming,”  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto,
said by phone yesterday. “Soft retail sales is likely to weigh
on GDP, and currencies are reacting to that.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, fell 2.8
percent on the week to C$1.0457 per U.S. dollar in Toronto. It
touched C$1.0489, the weakest level since Nov. 25, 2011. One
loonie buys 95.63 U.S. cents.  The currency has declined six straight days and the weekly
drop was steepest since a 5.1 percent tumble in the five days
ending Sept. 23, 2011.  Oil, Bonds  Crude oil, the country’s biggest export, ended the week 4
percent lower at $93.94 per barrel in New York. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks dropped 2.1 percent.  Canadian government bonds fell the most since November
2001, pushing 10-year note yields up 33 basis points, or 0.33
percentage point, to 2.45 percent, the highest level since
October 2011.  The U.S. dollar gained against all 16 of its most-traded
peers this week, while global stocks and commodities plunged, as
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he may begin phasing out four
years of unprecedented asset buying this year should risks to
the U.S. economy continue to decrease.  U.S. growth will outpace  Canada ’s for the next two years,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg and Moody’s
Analytics Inc. The Canadian economy will expand by 1.7 percent
this year while the U.S. accelerates to 1.9 percent. By 2014,
the U.S. will attain growth of 2.7 percent to 3 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey and Moody’s. Canada’s economy
will accelerate to 2.4 percent.  Data Watching  “Part of what the Fed’s done is really shifted the market
into data-watching mode,” Sutton said. “The important piece is
what transpires in the broader markets -- the emerging-market
shift into developed economies and further commentary from any
central-bank official.”  Canada’s growth is slowing as the consumers who led it out
of recession pare spending and exporters facing a shaky global
economy look increasingly unlikely to offset the decline.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.7 percent in May from a
year ago, after a 0.4 percent April gain that was the slowest
since October 2009, Statistics Canada said yesterday. A separate
report showed  retail sales  rose 0.1 percent in April to C$39.5
billion ($38.1 billion). Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain
in a Bloomberg survey with 23 responses.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.1 percent in April,
according to the median forecast of 14 economists, after a 0.2
percent increase in output in March.  Weaker Profile  “I see nothing in the recent Canadian data that suggests
anything other than sub-2 percent growth in 2013 as support from
business investments and consumer spending fail to materialize
as some have predicted or hoped,” Adrian Miller, director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Canada’s dollar fell after Poloz, who took office June 3,
said on June 19 that a pick-up in foreign demand for Canada’s
exports, particularly in the U.S., is critical to bolstering
confidence. The U.S. and  China  are Canada’s largest trading
partners.  While the Bank of Canada has been alone in the Group of
Seven in signaling that its next move may be to raise  interest
rates , economists are anticipating Poloz won’t tighten policy
until the second quarter of next year at the earliest.  “We have a weaker Canadian profile than we had before due
to China and lower commodity prices,” Andrew Grantham, an
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto, said
by phone yesterday. CIBC lowered its forecast yesterday to
C$1.05 by the fourth quarter from C$1.03 previously.  The loonie will end the year at C$1.03 according to the
median forecast of 59 economists in a Bloomberg survey, up from
C$1.02 at the end of May.  ‘Complete Collapse’  “Unlike the Aussie dollar, we don’t see a complete
collapse in the Canadian dollar,” Grantham said, due to
reliance on U.S. growth.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the loonie will
decline against the U.S. dollar, June 18 figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the Canadian
dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  --
was 26,087, compared with net shorts of 35,907 a week earlier.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 1.3 percent over the past
month against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. It trails only the
currencies of fellow commodities exporters  Australia , New
Zealand and  Norway , down 5.7 percent, 4.9 percent and 4.5
percent. The U.S. dollar gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  