-- Dollar Rallies Most Since 2009 as Fed Levels Financial Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/dollar-rallies-most-since-2009-as-fed-levels-financial-markets.html
The dollar surged the most versus
the yen since December 2009 as the  Federal Reserve  signaled a
shift in monetary policy that sparked deepening global losses in
everything from gold to emerging-market assets.  The U.S. currency strengthened versus all 16 of its most-traded counterparts after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June
19 that policy makers, pending improved economic growth, may
begin trimming unprecedented bond-buying this year and end it
next year. An equally weighted basket of seven so-called
commodity currencies from  Chile ’s peso to  Norway ’s krone dropped
4 percent against the greenback this week, the most since
September 2011. The Commerce Department may confirm June 26 that
the  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, a Bloomberg survey shows.  “We’ve been pretty positive the dollar for quite a long
time and that’s coming to fruition,” Ken Dickson, an Edinburgh-based director for foreign exchange at Standard Life Investments
Ltd., which oversees about $273 billion, said June 20 in a phone
interview. “If you have an economic recovery and funding costs
are potentially a bit higher, we think the  U.S. dollar  is not
the most appropriate funding vehicle now.”  The greenback rose 3.8 percent to 97.90 yen this week in
 New York , the most since the five days ended Dec. 4, 2009. The
U.S. currency added 1.7 percent to $1.3122 per euro, touching
the strongest level since June 6. The yen lost 2.3 percent to
128.45 per euro.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, increased 2.2 percent to 82.410. It rose 1
percent on June 19 when the  Federal Open Market Committee  left
the monthly pace of bond purchases at $85 billion, saying
“downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor
market” have diminished.  The gauge may climb to 85.7 by the end of the year,
according to the median forecast of economists and strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Norwegian krone was the biggest loser versus the dollar
among major currencies compiled by Bloomberg this week, down 5.6
percent, followed by Mexico’s peso, off 4.5 percent. The  Taiwan
dollar  had the smallest loss, minus 0.9 percent, followed by
Switzerland’s franc, which was down 1.4 percent  The krone had the biggest weekly decline since October 2008
and weakened beyond 8 per euro for the first time since December
2010 after the central bank predicted June 20 that its benchmark
 interest rate  may be lower in the year ahead.  Nordic Currencies  Norway’s currency fell 4.2 percent to 7.9500 per euro. The
Swedish krona slipped 3.7 percent to 6.6712 to the greenback.  The dollar has strengthened 3.1 percent in the past week,
the best performer among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  New Zealand ’s dollar
fell 1.2 percent while Australia’s dollar weakened 1.1 percent.  “Talk of tapering meant the dollar was entering a position
of strength,” Matt Eagan, co-manager of the Loomis Sayles Bond
Fund and the Strategic Alpha Fund in Boston, said June 20 in a
telephone interview, referring to the Fed’s signaling that it
may reduce asset purchases. “When you have a move like that in
rates, it really upsets the carry trade in particular. So we saw
a lot of investors taking that off.”  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark Treasuries rose the most this week
since the Iraqi war and touched 2.55 percent, the highest since
August 2011. Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell
to 112.27 on June 20, the lowest level since September.  Fed Activity  The U.S. currency is gaining even as the Fed hasn’t yet
slowed the addition of securities to its $3.47 trillion  balance
sheet . The central bank has been buying government debt as it
seeks to stimulate the economy by driving down borrowing costs
and boosting assets from stocks to homes.  Those monetary-policy measures have driven investors into
higher-yielding assets such as emerging-market debt and precious
metals as a hedge against inflation, and now those trades are
beginning to unwind, said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of
10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG.  “The world was working in one way, very clearly, in terms
of very easy U.S. money and the BRIC and emerging market growth
perceived as a strong structural outperformance,” Ruskin said
in a phone interview. “That world view has been rocked on both
sides. The Fed is obviously only going to tighten very, very
slowly, but none the less you can see two years out they’re very
likely to be tightening.”  Former Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill 
coined the term BRIC in 2001 to describe  Brazil , Russia, India
and China -- the four emerging powers he estimated would equal
the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020. Those nations invited
 South Africa  to join their ranks in December 2010.  BRICs Growth  The BRIC economies may expand 5.9 percent this year,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with 5.6 percent in 2012 and 7 percent
the previous year. A separate survey shows China’s gross
domestic product increasing 7.7 percent this year after
expanding 7.8 percent in 2012.  “China was obviously seen as a big source of commodity
demand and that’s on the wane,” Ruskin said. “When you add the
pieces together, the end of QE investment component, the
stronger dollar component and the China story, a lot of people
are putting these pieces together and saying this is the turn of
the commodity super cycle.”  An equally weighted basket of currencies from South Africa,
Chile, Australia, Brazil, New Zealand,  Canada  and Norway versus
the dollar fell to the lowest level since November 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commodity currencies
are those of countries that tend to benefit from raw materials
exports.  Gold Slump  Gold this week slumped below $1,300 an ounce for the first
time since September 2010. The JPMorgan EMBI Global Index of
developing-nation dollar bonds has slipped 4.3 percent this
week, the worst returns since October 2008.  “The key takeaway this week is the fact that we’ve got
bond yields” above 2.5 percent,  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with Sara Eisen. “It
looks like they’re essentially here to stay and that’s putting
the recovery of those commodity and emerging currencies very
much at risk.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators shifted their bets
to an advance for the euro against the dollar for the first time
since February, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. They also trimmed wagers the
yen will decline against the greenback.  The difference in the number of wagers by on an advance in
the euro compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs --
 was  20,030 on June 18, compared with net shorts of 7,533 a week
earlier. Futures traders were last net long the euro on Feb. 22.  Net yen shorts  totaled  61,890 on June 18, compared with
net shorts of 72,906 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  