-- Medtronic Insulin Pump Cuts Deadly Night Blood Sugar Lows
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-22T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/medtronic-insulin-pump-cuts-deadly-night-blood-sugar-lows.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s advanced insulin
pump can safely shut itself off when a patient’s blood sugar
gets too low, according to a study hailed as breakthrough in the
effort to automate insulin delivery for  Type 1 diabetics .  The feature known as “threshold suspend” stops insulin
delivery for two hours after blood sugar drops to a dangerous
level. The study presented at the  American Diabetes
Association ’s annual  meeting  in  Chicago  found insulin pumps with
the suspend function slashed low blood-sugar levels at night by
32 percent compared with those that didn’t have it.  Researchers have been working for a decade to integrate
insulin pumps with continuous glucose monitors. The technology
is designed to replace the pancreas, the organ that when healthy
produces insulin needed to convert blood sugar to energy. The
three-month study funded by Minneapolis-based Medtronic is the
first rigorous trial to show the device can independently sense
low blood-sugar levels and adjust insulin delivery accordingly.  “This technology promises to be valuable to patients today
and is a key step in the development of a fully automated
artificial pancreas for people with diabetes,” said Rich Bergenstal, executive director of the International Diabetes
Center at Park Nicollet in  St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota .  The company and investigators now are working on a more
sophisticated program to anticipate blood-sugar levels and
ensure they stay in the ideal range, including the ability to
increase insulin delivery when blood sugar is too high, he said
in a statement. Eventually they hope to craft a pump that can
supply other hormones that affect blood-sugar levels and adjust
for factors such as exercise and diet, he said.  FDA Filing  Medtronic has filed for U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
approval of its MiniMed 530 G system that includes the threshold
suspend technology. It has been sold outside of the U.S. since
2009 as the MiniMed Veo System.  The study, also published today in the  New England Journal
of Medicine , shows the novel pump doesn’t cause harm by turning
off the insulin temporarily. An alarm sounds when the low blood-sugar level is hit, and the patient can take other action, like
eating or drinking, to correct the problem. About half the time
the insulin was stopped for just 10 minutes.  Sometimes, however, patients sleep through the alarm. Ten
percent of the time the insulin remained halted for the entire
two hours. Low blood sugar, called  hypoglycemia , is particularly
dangerous at night because lack of treatment can cause seizures,
a coma and death.  Patient Win  “Automating any insulin delivery can be a win for the
patient,” said Francine Kaufman, vice president of global
medical affairs in Medtronic’s diabetes business, in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t take much more than intuition to know
that stopping insulin when someone is on their way to being too
low is a good thing,” she said.  The feature is just the first of many steps that will be
needed to fully automate insulin delivery and create a closed-loop artificial pancreas, she said.  Checks showed the suspensions didn’t lead to excessively
high blood sugar two to four hours later. Overall, the patients’
glucose control didn’t suffer, the researchers said. Episodes of
hypoglycemia that did occur were shorter and less severe. There
were four cases of severe hypoglycemia in the study, all in
patients with insulin pumps that didn’t have the suspend
feature.  The reduction in the number and severity of hypoglycemic
episodes with the pump may have future benefits. Previous
studies suggested hypoglycemia may predispose patients to more
severe, future low blood-sugar episodes, the researchers said.  About 5 percent of the 25.8 million Americans with diabetes
have the Type 1 form, where the body doesn’t produce insulin.
The condition is typically diagnosed in children and young
adults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  