-- Glaxo Diabetes Drug Shows Gastrointestinal Side Effects
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-22T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/glaxo-diabetes-drug-shows-gastrointestinal-side-effects.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s (GSK)  experimental
diabetes medicine albiglutide lowered blood sugar better than
Merck & Co.’s Januvia or Sanofi’s Amaryl, while more patients
reported gastrointestinal side effects, in a study.  About 10 percent of patients taking albiglutide reported
nausea, compared with 7 percent of those taking Januvia and 6
percent on Amaryl, according to an  summary  of the 104-week study
dubbed Harmony 3 to be presented tomorrow at the  American
Diabetes Association ’s annual meeting in  Chicago . Vomiting and
diarrhea were also more frequent among those taking albiglutide,
the abstract said. All patients took the drugs with metformin.  The findings add to mixed results released so far by Glaxo,
which has conducted eight late-stage studies on albiglutide.
Analysts have said the Glaxo drug may be able to differentiate
itself from other diabetes drugs on its side effects profile
even after it failed to help diabetics control their blood sugar
as well as  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Victoza in another trial.  Albiglutide’s once-weekly dosing would make the drug more
convenient for patients compared with existing once-daily
treatments. Still, it will face challenges as it enters a
“crowded area,” Patrick Vallance, Glaxo’s head of
pharmaceuticals research and development, said in an interview.  Glaxo submitted albiglutide to U.S. regulators in January
and to European regulators in March. The company has said it’s
seeking a partner to help market the drug.  It’s unlikely that sales of albiglutide will reach levels
of Avandia, which was once the world’s best-selling diabetes
pill with peak annual sales of of about $3 billion for Glaxo.
That drug was withdrawn from the market in  Europe  in 2010 and
sales were limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of
heart attacks.  Sales of albiglutide may reach  $301 million  in 2016,
according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  