-- Lilly’s Experimental Diabetes Drug Helps Reduce Weight
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-23T14:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/lilly-s-experimental-diabetes-drug-helps-reduce-weight.html
(Corrects information on weekly injection in ninth
paragraph in story published yesterday.)  Patients taking  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s
experimental diabetes drug dulaglutide lost weight and had side
effects that were manageable, the company said today after
releasing more data from three final-stage clinical trials.  Lilly released top-line results from the company-sponsored
trials last year, when it reported more patients taking the
therapy had blood glucose levels indicating their disease was
under control than those given  Merck (MRK)  & Co.’s top-selling drug
Januvia and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Byetta. The data released
today had details of those results, as well as side effect and
weight-loss information.  “We look at the space and we feel we have an opportunity
to offer a significant new product,” said Sherry Martin, senior
medical director for diabetes development at Indianapolis-based
Lilly. The company plans to submit the drug to U.S. regulators
for approval by the end of this year, she said. The studies were
presented as part of the American Diabetes Association meeting
in  Chicago .  Lilly’s drug, if approved, may be a significant competitor
to  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Victoza, which generated $1.64 billion in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A clinical trial
comparing the drugs may report results by the end of the year.  “Dulaglutide data suggests a profile that may be
sufficient to demonstrate superiority versus Victoza in the
head-to-head study,” said Sachin Jain, an analyst with Bank of
America Corp. In a June 17 note to clients, he cut his rating on
Novo shares to neutral from buy because of the Lilly data. The
drug “represents a significant threat to Victoza market
share,” Jain said.  Diabetes Drugs  Merck, Bristol-Myers, and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  also have
competing diabetes therapies on the market. Dulaglutide is in a
class known as GLP-1 receptor agonists. The injection mimics the
function of a digestive hormone that stimulates the pancreas to
produce insulin after meals.  The class of drugs, along with another group called DPP-4
that includes Januvia, are under scrutiny by U.S. regulators
over whether they may cause cancer. The Food and Drug
Administration has asked companies to gather more data on the
safety of the therapies.  Diabetes occurs when a person’s blood sugar gets too high
and the body doesn’t produce enough insulin or doesn’t use
insulin effectively to control the level. An estimated 347
million people worldwide, including about  25.8 million 
Americans, have the disease according to global health
authorities. The condition can lead to heart disease, stroke and
blindness.  Sales Estimates  Dulaglutide is  projected  to sell $835 million in 2018,
according to the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Martin said the drug would be the only weekly
injection in the class that doesn’t require patients to prepare
the dose for administration.  In about 900 patients taking dulaglutide, 54 percent of
those on the higher dose had hemoglobin A1c scores under 7
percent, a measure of whether the disease is in check. That
compared with 31 percent on Merck’s Januvia.  In another trial of about 1,000 patients taking dulaglutide
or Bristol-Myers’s Byetta, along with two other diabetes drugs,
71 percent of patients on dulaglutide had hemoglobin A1c under 7
percent after a year, compared with 59 percent on Byetta.  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group LLC in New
York, was less positive about the results. Dulaglutide looks
“undifferentiated from J&J’s Invokana and Bristol-Myer’s
Bydureon,” Schoenebaum said in a June 17 note to clients, after
the trial results became available online but before they were
released for publication by news outlets. “This is in-line or
slightly better than investors’ expectations.”  Weight Loss  Patients also lost more weight on dulaglutide than on the
other two medications. Those on the highest dose of Lilly’s drug
lost 2.9 kilograms after two years, compared with 1.8 kilograms
for patients on Merck’s Januvia. In the other trial, they lost 1
kilogram after one year on the dulaglutide compared with 0.7
kilograms with  Bristol-Myers (BMY) ’s drug.  “The modest weight loss is important,” Martin said.
“Other medications that can deliver this glycemic control do
that with weight gain.”  Lilly also reported side effect data from the trials. Drugs
such dulaglutide can cause gastrointestinal upset while patients
get adjusted to the medication, though it usually goes away
after a few days, Martin said. Less than 3 percent of patients
quit taking Lilly’s drug because of the side effect, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  