-- Indian Troops Seek Stranded Thousands as Flood Deaths Top 550
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-06-22T05:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/indian-troops-seek-stranded-thousands-as-flood-deaths-top-550.html
India ’s military is working to
evacuate thousands still stranded in the foothills of the
Himalayas after torrential rains triggered flash floods that
have killed more than 500 people.  Narrow valleys in mountainous northern India, where shrines
had lured tens of thousands of Sikh and Hindu pilgrims, remained
cut off five days after torrents surged through rocky canyons.
Helicopters continued to drop supplies in Uttarakhand state
after roads were swept away.  As many as 556 dead bodies have been recovered and more may
be buried under debris, CNN-IBN television channel reported
yesterday citing Vijay Bahuguna, chief minister of Uttarakhand.  “I have come here to review the situation,” Home Minister
Sushil Kumar Shinde told reporters today as he visited the
region. “We are having regular meeting over the crisis
situation. Our paramilitary forces are carrying out relief
operation.”  So far, about 34,000 people have been evacuated and efforts
are continuing to rescue those still stranded, he said yesterday
in  New Delhi .  While the monsoon causes destruction across India every
year, the rains moved over the country with record speed in 2013.
Downpours channeled by steep-sided and deforested valleys have
generated especially violent floods, washing away homes,
vehicles and mobile-phone towers. Television networks have
broadcast footage of buildings collapsing into raging rivers and
village streets filled with debris and rocks.  Donations Sought  Sonia Gandhi , president of the ruling Congress party,
called on all national and state lawmakers in her party to
donate a month’s salary to help those affected by the floods,
Ajay Maken, a senior Congress leader, wrote on his Twitter page.  The  Indian Air Force  has deployed 43 aircraft, federal
Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish Tewari, told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Shashidhar Reddy, vice
chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority, said
June 20 that as many as 1,000 people may have died.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said June 19 the
number of casualties is expected to rise as he announced a 10
billion rupee ($167 million) relief package.  Religious shrines in Uttarakhand, which abuts India’s
border with  China  to the west of  Nepal , attract Hindu and Sikh
pilgrims each summer. With a population of about 10 million, the
state has received almost four times the usual rainfall this
month, causing rivers to burst their banks.  The nation’s army and air force have deployed more than
8,000 troops, including medical teams and engineers, to clear
roads blocked by landslides and construct temporary bridges to
help reach survivors.  Vital to Farms  India’s monsoon accounts for about 70 percent of the
rainfall vital to the country’s agriculture-driven economy.
Rains since the monsoon began  June 1  have been 42 percent above
average, helping to ease water shortages in some regions and
promising to boost crop production in the world’s second-most
populous country.  In 2007, more than 2,800 people were killed by monsoon
rains during India’s June-September wet season. As many as 50
million people were affected by floods that destroyed 1.6
million homes in the four-month monsoon period. The  United
Nations  described the flood as the “worst in living memory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  