-- Lions Hold Off Injury-Hit Wallabies 23-21 in Opening Rugby Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-22T14:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/lions-beats-wallabies-23-21-in-series-opening-rugby-union-test.html
The British and Irish Lions moved to
within one win of their first rugby series victory in 16 years
by beating  Australia  23-21 as Kurtley Beale missed a last-minute
penalty that would have won the opener for the Wallabies.  Welsh wingers  George North  and Alex Cuthbert ran in tries
for the Lions at Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium last night, while
Leigh Halfpenny kicked 13 points. Israel Folau touched down
twice on debut for Australia, for whom  James O’Connor  and Beale
added the other points. Beale slipped as he attempted to snatch
victory with seconds remaining, sending his kick low and wide.  “That was way too close for comfort,” Lions captain Sam Warburton said in a televised interview. “It’s out of your
control when there’s a kick to the other team in the last
minute. There’s massive delight to get the first win and get
some momentum, and to get the ball rolling. We’ll look forward
to next week now.”  The combined team from the U.K. and Ireland haven’t won a
series since a 2-1 triumph in  South Africa  in 1997. The Lions
led Australia 1-0 when the teams last met in 2001 before the
Wallabies rallied for a 2-1 victory. The second Test is June 29
in  Melbourne  with the finale a week later in Sydney.  Australia, which had three backline players stretchered off
injured and finished the game with a forward playing in the
backs and replacement scrum-half  Nick Phipps  on the wing, missed
a total of four penalties and one conversion. As well as his
last-minute miss, Beale also pushed an effort wide with six
minutes left that would have put the Wallabies a point ahead.  ‘Trying Circumstances’  “The boys under very trying circumstances did well,”
Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said. “To work their way into a
position where they could have won the game was a good effort.
We didn’t get there, so we go to Melbourne needing to win.”  The Lions had entered the first match of the series four
days after losing their 100 percent tour record with a 14-12
loss to the ACT Brumbies in Canberra. They face the Melbourne
Rebels on June 25 before wrapping up their 10-match trip with
back-to-back Tests against Australia.  The home team had two chances to take the lead in the first
seven minutes last night after Ireland center  Brian O’Driscoll 
was twice penalized for breakdown infringements. O’Connor,
assuming goal-kicking duties after debutant Christian
Leali’ifano got knocked out in the first minute when making a
tackle, missed with both attempts.  With the Lions deep in Australian territory after the
referee played a penalty advantage, they gave away a penalty of
their own by failing to release the ball. From the resulting
penalty, Australia scrum-half Will Genia took a quick tap inside
his own 22 and ran 40 meters before kicking the ball ahead for
Folau to score. O’Connor converted to make it 7-0.  North Try  Halfpenny made it 7-3 with a penalty before North returned
the ball 60 meters off Berrick Barnes’s high kick, breaking
through two tackles on a run to the corner. Halfpenny added the
extras from near the touchline and then kicked another penalty
to put the Lions 13-7 up after North had a try disallowed by the
television match official. Replays showed that Folau had done
enough to prevent North from touching down cleanly.  Folau, who was picked on the right wing after playing 14
Super Rugby games at full-back since joining the  New South Wales
Waratahs  in December following stints in rugby league and
Australian Rules football, was again at the center of the action
with six minutes of the first half remaining. He took a pass
from fellow Test debutant Ben Mowen 30 meters out, stepped
inside Lions fly-half Jonny Sexton, held off prop Alex
Corbisiero and ran around Halfpenny to score out wide. O’Connor
missed the conversion.  Backline Injuries  Barnes became the second Wallabies back to leave the game
just before half time after colliding with Folau when under
pressure from North. Halfpenny had a chance to put the Lions
16-12 up on the stroke of half time but sliced wide.  Australia lost its third back six minutes after the break
when inside center  Pat McCabe , an earlier replacement for
Leali’ifano, injured his neck. With Deans having used all of his
backline reserves, flanker Liam Gill came on at open-side and
Michael Hooper switched into the centers.  Cuthbert then sliced through O’Connor and Hooper to go over
for the Lions second try. O’Connor and Beale, who had replaced
Barnes, booted penalties to make it 20-18 before Halfpenny and
Beale traded kicks to keep the deficit at two points.  After pushing a 74th-minute effort to the right of the
posts, Beale had a chance to win it after the Lions’ scrum
collapsed. He slipped as he went to strike the ball and his 46-meter effort missed the target before going dead.  “We knew it was going to be tight, there’s not a lot of
difference between the two sides,” said Lions coach Warren Gatland. “Like a sparring match, the teams were finding out a
bit about each other in the first Test. Both teams will get
better after that hit out. It wasn’t the prettiest performance,
but it was the victory we deserved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  