-- Japan’s Ruling LDP Set to Win Tokyo Vote Ahead of National Poll
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-06-22T23:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/japan-s-ruling-ldp-set-to-win-tokyo-vote-ahead-of-national-poll.html
     June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Japan ’s capital goes to the polls
today for an election that surveys indicate Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s ruling coalition will win, reflecting his strong
support ahead of a national upper house election next month.  In a survey published in the regional Tokyo Shimbun
newspaper June 19, about 34 percent of respondents who had
decided on a party said they would vote for Abe’s Liberal
 Democratic Party , compared with 11 percent for the Democratic
Party of Japan.  While the 13-million strong city is one of the few places
in Japan where the population is growing, Tokyo faces problems
common to the whole country, including aging infrastructure and
a dearth of children.  Tokyo  Governor Naoki Inose is spearheading
the city’s bid to host the 2020 Olympics, setting aside $4.5
billion to fund the event.  The Nikkei newspaper said June 20 its calculations indicate
the LDP and its coalition partner New Komeito will win more than
half the 127 Tokyo assembly seats up for grabs, giving the
parties outright control of an assembly that features a number
of regional and smaller parties.  The LDP itself is likely to take more than 50 seats,
replacing the DPJ as the largest party, the paper said. The DPJ
held 43 seats heading into the poll, while the LDP and New
Komeito had 62 between them.  About 36.5 percent of respondents to the Tokyo Shimbun
survey said the most important issues in the election were
health, welfare and measures to deal with the falling birthrate
and aging population. Employment and economic steps were the
second-most cited, at 22 percent. The paper polled 1,538 people
by phone on June 14 and 15 and did not give a margin of error.  Economic Strategy  Abe and his cabinet ministers say his three-pronged
economic strategy, consisting of unprecedented monetary easing,
fiscal stimulus and a plan to stimulate private investment, is
working. Gross domestic product was up 4.1 percent on an
annualized basis in January-March, compared with 1.2 percent in
the previous quarter.  A survey published by the Yomiuri newspaper on June 11
found 44 percent of respondents planned to vote for the LDP in
the proportional representation section of the national upper
house election on July 21, compared with 7 percent for the DPJ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  