-- King Signs Pound-Renminbi Swap Accord With Zhou to Aid Stability
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-06-22T20:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/king-signs-pound-renminbi-swap-accord-with-zhou-to-aid-stability.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
and his Chinese counterpart  Zhou Xiaochuan  agreed to a three-year currency swap line to promote financial stability and aid
trade between  China  and Britain.  The maximum value of the arrangement is 200 billion yuan
($33 billion), according to a statement published by the U.K.
central bank on its website in London today. A yuan is a unit of
 renminbi , the name of China’s official currency.  “The establishment of a sterling/renminbi swap line will
support U.K. domestic financial stability,” King said in the
news release. “In the unlikely event that a generalized
shortage of offshore renminbi liquidity emerges, the bank will
have the capability to facilitate renminbi liquidity to eligible
institutions in the U.K.”  The agreement puts the Bank of England first in a race
among European central banks to establish swap facilities with
China, allowing London to expand its ties with the world’s
second-biggest economy. The U.K. capital is the center of the
world’s $4 trillion-a-day market for foreign-exchange trading.  China already has currency-swap agreements with countries
including Australia, South Korea and Malaysia. The Bank of
England’s chief cashier, Chris Salmon, said in January that the
idea of London as a major  yuan  center “carries much force.”  The accord is one of the final legacies of King, who will
leave the central bank at the end of this month. It is also the
culmination of a flurry of economic diplomacy with China at a
time when rival European centers are also jostling for a role in
trading yuan. King had met Zhou in February and agreed to
“facilitate” discussions.  Working Relationship  “It is a testament to the outstanding working
relationships between the Bank of England and the People’s Bank
of China that this swap line has now been signed,” King said
today. “I am grateful to Governor Zhou and the staff at the
PBOC, with whom it has been a pleasure to work.”  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in an
interview last month he’s seeking agreement among euro-area
central banks for ways of providing liquidity support in Chinese
yuan. Paris is competing with London and Zurich to become the
center for yuan trading in Europe as China makes its currency
more widely used around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  