-- New York Lawmakers Set Aside Bill Threatening Tesla Sales
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-22T02:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/new-york-lawmakers-set-aside-bill-threatening-tesla-sales.html
New York ’s Assembly set aside a bill
that  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of electric cars run by  Elon Musk , had said would shut down its Empire State operations.  The lower chamber adjourned its legislative session late
yesterday without acting on the measure. Lawmakers in the
Assembly aren’t scheduled to reconvene until January.  The bill introduced in the legislature this month would
have prevented car manufacturers from selling directly to
consumers, as Tesla does. It also would’ve blocked registrations
of new vehicles bought out of state. The  Palo Alto , California-based manufacturer said a ban on selling cars directly rather
than through dealers would have forced it out of New York.  “Tesla’s goal has been to catalyze the market for electric
vehicles and selling through intermediaries at this stage of the
company will not work,” Diarmuid O’Connell, a Tesla vice
president, said yesterday in a statement while the bill was
pending. “It forestalls progress and defeats innovation.”  Opposition to Tesla’s direct-sales business model has grown
from auto dealers across the country. Since last year, lawsuits
brought in New York and Massachusetts have sought to block the
company’s practice, while legislation to ban it also has been
pursued in  Texas . The company has operations in  New York City 
and its northern suburbs.  Tesla Exception  Senator Lee Zeldin, the Long Island Republican who
sponsored the bill in the upper chamber, proposed a separate
measure to carve out an exception for Tesla. Had both measures
passed, the company wouldn’t have been affected, he said.  “Our goal is not to adversely impact any business
operating in the state of New York,” Zeldin said in an
interview in Albany.  Tesla’s sales methods threaten to undermine an industry
that employs 90,000 workers statewide, trade groups such as the
Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association said yesterday
in a letter to lawmakers. “Tesla’s investment in New York has
been to rent store fronts in malls with a handful of
employees,” the letter said.  Tesla fell 1.1 percent to $99.55 at the close yesterday in
New York. The shares have almost tripled this year, compared
with a 12 percent price  gain  for the  Russell 1000 Index. (RIY)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 