-- Neymar Scores as Brazil Beats Italy 4-2 in World Cup Warmup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-22T22:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/neymar-scores-again-as-brazil-beats-italy-in-confederations-cup.html
Neymar scored in his third straight
Confederations Cup match and Fred got two goals for  Brazil  in
its 4-2 defeat of Italy last night that ensures the host the top
spot in its pool in the warmup tournament for soccer’s  World
Cup .  Neymar put Brazil ahead after Emanuele Giaccherini tied the
match following Dante’s first half opener. Fred got a third for
Brazil before Giorgio Chiellini’s goal made for a tense finale
at Salvador’s Arena Fonte Nova. Fred’s second goal settled the
match.  “Neymar is an idol of all Brazilians,” Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolarisaid. “Only those who have a great qualities,
those we can call geniuses, those who have a notion of what’s
happening in matches can make a difference, and he’s been making
a difference for us.”  A third straight victory for Brazil means the hosts head to
Belo Horizonte to meet Group B’s runner up, while  Italy  goes to
Fortaleza where it will likely meet world and European champion
 Spain . Brazil and Italy were guaranteed places in the semifinals
after winning their two opening games against Japan and  Mexico .
Mexico beat Japan 2-1 in the evening’s other match.  The tournament, an eight-team test event for next summer’s
World Cup, has been played against growing protests by
Brazilians in as many as 100 cities. They’re demanding better
public services and complaining about the escalating costs of
staging sport’s most-watched event.  Earlier this week, protesters in Salvador targeted
vehicles, including two belonging to soccer’s governing body
FIFA, increasing concerns over last night’s game. Italy coach
Cesare Prandelli yesterday said his team had been confined to
its hotel because of the deteriorating security situation.  Demonstrations  While the match went without incident, the situation in
 Belo Horizonte , where the already-eliminated Japan and Mexico
played, was different. Globo television reported police fired
tear gas as some demonstrators tried to storm the stadium.  Brazil looked like going into the halftime break without a
goal to show for its dominance after playing the majority of the
first 45 minutes in Italy’s half. Dante, who came on as a
substitute, put the hosts in front in injury time. The defender
reacted quickest to shoot past  Gianluigi Buffon  after the
Italian goalkeeper had blocked Fred’s header off Neymar’s
freekick.  Neymar, who completed a 57 million euro ($75 million) move
to Spanish champion Barcelona before the tournament, has been
Brazil’s top performer, and he gave the hosts the lead for good
after Giaccherini latched on to  Mario Balotelli ’s flick to bring
Italy level.  Neymar was fouled outside the area and slammed the
resulting free-kick past Buffon to continue his record of
scoring in every game of the tournament. Fireworks went off
outside the arena as Neymar danced in celebration and the crowd
of 48,874 chanted his name.  Fred Gets Two  Neymar’s strike partner Fred made sure of the victory in
the 66th minute by powering past Chiellini and driving a shot
into the roof of the net. Coach Luiz Felipe Scolari brought
Neymar off with 20 minutes remaining.  His exit was the cue for Italy to launch a late assault on
the Brazil goal. Chiellini pulled one back for Italy by slotting
a shot into the corner following a scramble in Brazil’s penalty
area and Christian Maggio drew gasps as his header cannoned back
off the crossbar.  “We found in the first half a very strong Brazil, it
didn’t let us play the way we wanted to,” Prandelli said. “In
the second half, we had the courage to move forward and the team
played really well.”  Fred got his second of the game shortly before fulltime
when he followed by Marcelo’s shot which was parried by Buffon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Arena Fonte Nova in  Salvador  at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  