-- Obama Said to Announce Emission Curbs on Power Plants Next Week
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-06-22T23:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/obama-to-announce-plan-to-curb-climate-change-next-week.html
The initiatives to curb  climate
change  that President Barack Obama plans to unveil will include
the first limits of carbon emissions from existing  power plants ,
according to a person familiar with the plans.  “I’ll lay out my vision for where I believe we need to go:
a national plan to reduce carbon pollution, prepare our country
for the impacts of climate change, and lead global efforts to
fight it,” Obama said yesterday on the social media outlets
 YouTube  and Twitter. “This is a serious challenge, but it’s one
uniquely suited to America’s strengths.”  Obama didn’t offer further details of his plan, which marks
an attempt by the president to fulfill promises he made at the
start of his second term to tackle the pollution blamed for
global warming. The president said he’ll make the announcement
June 25 at  Georgetown University .  The measures will include limits on carbon emissions from
existing power plants, according to a person familiar with the
White House’s plans who spoke on the condition of anonymity in
advance of the address.  The administration has proposed limits on  greenhouse gases 
for new plants. Seeking bolder action, environmentalists have
lobbied the administration to also place restrictions on the
plants already burning fossil fuels that account for about 40
percent of the annual release of carbon emissions in the U.S.  Coal Plants  “Combating climate change means curbing carbon pollution -
- for the first time ever -- from the biggest single source of
such dangerous gases: our coal-fired power plants,” said
 Frances Beinecke , president of the Natural Resources Defense
Council, in an e-mail yesterday. “We stand ready to help
President Obama in every way we can.”  Restrictions on carbon emissions will probably be opposed
by coal producers including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  in St. Louis as
they would probably lead more utilities to switch to cleaner
sources of power, including natural gas and wind power. Coal
users including  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , which is based in
Columbus, Ohio, and  Southern Co. (SO)  in Atlanta have argued
regulations limiting coal use could raise consumer energy costs.  Environmentalists, many of whom have expressed
disappointment with Obama’s record so far on climate change,
said they would be watching closely on Tuesday.  “The world desperately needs climate leadership, and today
Barack Obama showed he might turn out to be the guy who provided
it,” said  Bill McKibben , a co-founder of 350.org, a group that
advocates for steps to combat global warming.  ‘Big News’  Word of Tuesday’s address is “very big news, and we are
eager to hear what the president has to say,”  Fred Krupp ,
president of the Environmental Defense Fund, said in an e-mail.
“He knows that addressing climate change is not only an
obligation we have to the next generation, but something we owe
ourselves.”  Heather Zichal , Obama’s top energy adviser, said June 19
that the administration’s plans would include measures that
don’t require congressional action, such as setting energy-efficiency standards for appliances, clean-energy production on
public lands and regulations to curb carbon-dioxide emissions
from power plants.  The administration will also pursue more solar and wind
installations on public lands, Zichal said.  Obama is facing increasing pressure from environmentalists,
former staff members and Democratic donors to reject the
proposed  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  Keystone XL pipeline, a $5.3 billion
pipeline that would carry oil from Canada’s tar sands to
refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico . Opponents say the proposal
would increase greenhouse-gas emissions.  Market System  Obama is prepared to take action if Congress doesn’t,
according to spokesman  Jay Carney . Obama has directed his
cabinet to come up with executive actions to reduce pollution
and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy,
Carney said during a White House briefing June 21.  An administration-backed effort to pass a market-based
system to price carbon dioxide failed in the Senate during
Obama’s first term, after the White House made votes on the
health care law a priority. The collapse of that bill
disappointed environmentalists, who’d pushed the president to
take up the issue sooner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  