-- Protests Sink Rousseff Bid to Buff Brazil Image With Soccer
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-22T23:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/protests-sink-rousseff-bid-to-buff-brazil-image-with-world-cup.html
Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff 
planned to use this month’s Confederations Cup soccer tournament
to showcase her country’s readiness to stage the  World Cup  next
year. Instead, it’s become the venue for mass protests on
whether the Cup is worth the cost.  Two died and hundreds were injured as 1 million took to the
streets throughout Brazil earlier this week to demand cheaper
bus fare, better schools and more hospitals, while criticizing
the 30 billion reais ($13 billion) spent to prepare stadiums and
cities for the world’s most watched sporting event. Thousands
have been demonstrating in cities throughout Brazil today as the
national squad beat  Italy  in its third Cup match. Protesters in
Belo Horizonte where Mexico defeated Japan clashed with police.  Brazil is spending three times more than initially planned
to prepare for the 2014 games, which the government said would
allow the nation to showcase its hospitality and reflect its
growing economic prowess. Instead Rousseff was jeered in the
opening Confederations event as images of violence in the
streets of major cities overshadow the soccer matches. She
pledged in a televised address to the nation last night to meet
with protesters and improve public services while condemning the
week’s violence in her first public appearance in three days.  “I have both the obligation to hear the voice of the
streets and to dialog with all segments within the confines of
law and order,” Rousseff, 65, said. “If we let violence take
us off our path, we will not only be wasting a big historic
opportunity, but also will be running the risk of losing a
lot.”  Lower Approval  While 40 million Brazilians emerged from poverty in the
past decade, faster  inflation  and inadequate public services
have eroded Rousseff’s approval rating for the first time since
taking office in January 2011.  Protesters this weekend fielded a range of grievances, from
teachers marching for better pay to gay rights activists last
night opposing a bill to let psychologists recommend medical
treatment for homosexuality. Protesters in Rio de Janeiro today
lined up hundreds of soccer balls on the beach to represent the
country’s murder victims.  Riot police in  Belo Horizonte  struggled to contain rock-hurling crowds as an estimated 66,000 people protested,
according to Globo TV. Local police say there were two protests
in  Salvador  where Brazil played that attracted roughly 5,200
people. The game was carried out peacefully.  Stocks Battered  Brazil’s stocks, bonds and currency are being battered by
an emerging markets sell-off after economic growth missed
estimates made by analysts for a fifth straight time in the
first quarter. The world’s second-biggest emerging market in
2012 posted its second-worst economic performance in 13 years
while inflation this month breached the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the government target range.  The  Ibovespa stock index  yesterday fell 4.6 percent this
week, completing its fourth straight weekly drop, as investors
abandon  emerging markets  on expectations the  Federal Reserve 
will begin tapering a bond-buying program that has flooded
emerging markets with cash in recent years. The index has fallen
23 percent this year, the worst performer among 18 major equity
markets.  Rousseff’s approval rating dropped eight percentage points
to 71 percent in June from March, according to a poll
commissioned by the National Industrial Confederation and
published June 19. The survey of 2,002 people from June 8-11 had
a margin of error of two percentage points.  Public Discontent  Public discontent overflowed into the streets June 6 when
students in Sao Paulo marched against a 7 percent increase in
bus fares. The demonstrations have mushroomed, peaking on June
20 as nearly one million protesters marched throughout Brazil,
according to estimates by newspaper Folha de S.Paulo.  Marches that started out peacefully that night erupted in
violence as police clashed with mobs trying to storm government
buildings and vandals looting banks and shopping centers. An 18-year-old was killed when a vehicle ran over protesters in the
city of Ribeirao Preto and a 54-year-old street cleaner died
after having a heart attack during the protests in the northern
city of Belem.  “The government and society cannot allow a violent and
authoritative minority to destroy public and private property,
attack temples, torch cars, stone buses and try and create
chaos,” Rousseff said.  Marxist Guerrilla  A former Marxist guerrilla once imprisoned by the country’s
1964-1985 military dictatorship, Rousseff last night vowed to
ensure order while promising to spend oil royalties on education
and improve health care services. Authorities in Rio and  Sao
Paulo  earlier in the week revoked the bus fare increases that
originally sparked the unrest.  Demonstrators last night blocked the highway to Sao Paulo’s
international airport, while 4,000 took to the streets of the
city today to demand an end to government corruption, according
to Folha newspaper. Tens of thousands protested in the southern
city of  Santa Maria  today, Globo said.  Protests are beginning to sour what was supposed to be the
height of the tourism season with the Confederations Cup and
next month’s visit by Pope Francis, according to Krys
Denisieski, operations director at Receptivo Rio, a Rio tour
operator.  “When they see those images on TV, they become
terrified,” Denisieski said about tourists, adding that she has
received 26 cancellations since the protests began. “As a
citizen I think it’s great. As an entrepreneur I think it’s
terrible.”  FIFA Departs  Amid the unrest Sepp Blatter, head of soccer’s governing
body FIFA, departed the South American nation, surprising
Brazilian officials who had expected him to remain for the
length of the two-week Confederations Cup. FIFA said Blatter
will return to Brazil June 26 for the semi-finals.  The tournament so far provides a contrast to Rousseff’s
ambition of hosting a competition that she said in a speech last
month would allow Brazil to “shine” on and off the pitch as a
“joyful” and “peaceful” country.  Even former and current members of Brazil’s national squad
have been critical of  government spending  on the World Cup.
Rivaldo Ferreira, a member of the team that won the 2002
tournament, said on his Twitter account that the expenditure was
“shameful.” Neymar da Silva Santos Jr., who has been named man
of the match in his three appearances so far in the tournament,
wrote on his Facebook page before taking the field this week the
protest movement had inspired him to play.  ‘People United’  Fans inside Rio’s Maracana stadium during world champion
 Spain ’s record 10-0 win over Tahiti on June 20 chanted “the
people united will never be beaten” as some held up a banner
reading “We don’t need the World Cup.”  The fans are critical of World Cup spending in a country
where health care is lacking and education infrastructure is
crumbling. Brazil has 1.8 doctors on average per 100,000
inhabitants compared to 3.2 in  Argentina , while in Brasilia,
more than 80 percent of public schools have inadequate
facilities such as leaky roofs, according to a watchdog
organization known as the Federal District Court of Auditors.  Meanwhile the stadium in Brasilia is forecast to cost
14,300 reais per seat, compared with 10,000 reais per seat for
the Cape Town arena, the costliest of the 2010 World Cup. Costs
for the arenas more than tripled since Brazil’s proposal to FIFA
in 2007, according to a Senate report.  “For the government it was a marketing disaster,” said
Carlos Manhanelli, head of Sao Paulo-based communications and
marketing company Manhanelli Asociados. “They wanted to sell an
image abroad of a modern country with new stadiums but they
ignored the needs at home, people dying in hospitals.”  Rousseff has defended the spending, saying it will improve
public infrastructure and the investments will stimulate
economic growth. Last night she called on Brazilians to
reciprocate the kind of hospitality the Brazilian soccer squad
for decades received abroad in the World Cup.  “We can’t live with this violence that embarrasses
Brazil,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  