-- Zimmerman Jury Won’t Hear Prosecution Experts on Voices
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/trayvon-martin-judge-says-call-with-screams-can-be-used.html
Florida  prosecutors lost their bid
to have experts tell jurors that Trayvon Martin, an unarmed
black teenager killed by a Neighborhood Watch volunteer, was
captured on an audio recording begging for his life seconds
before he was shot.  George Zimmerman, 29, is charged with second-degree murder
in the February 2012 shooting on a Sanford, Florida, street that
he maintains was an act of self-defense.  Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson yesterday said
that the recording of a bystander’s 911 call made during the
incident still can be played for the jury of six women, who are
scheduled to hear opening statements tomorrow. Nelson ruled that
the methods used by the prosecutions’s acoustics experts to
assert that the voice pleading for his life is Martin’s aren’t
reliable enough to be used in the trial.  “This order does not prevent the parties from playing the
tapes at trial or from calling witnesses familiar with the voice
of the defendant or Martin to testify regarding the identity of
the person(s) making the screams,” Nelson wrote.  The recorded screams and shouts, ending with the sound of a
gunshot, may still be pivotal to prosecutors’ efforts to prove
Zimmerman was the aggressor in the incident, which triggered
charges of racism and protests by civil rights groups across the
country.  Conflicting Opinions  Nelson, in a hearing that spanned four days, heard
witnesses for the defense and prosecution offer conflicting
opinions on whether the voices on the recording could be
positively identified.  The underlying call was made to police by a female resident
of the condominium complex where Martin was staying. The woman
called to report what she said sounded like a fight outside her
apartment.  The defense used a legal procedure known as a Frye hearing
to successfully argue methods used by prosecutors’ proffered
experts, Alan Reich and Thomas Owen, failed to meet the “widely
accepted” standard required for presenting scientific evidence
at trial and had to be barred.  Prosecutors countered that the techniques the men employed
were neither new, nor novel and that their opinions and
conclusions should be admissible at trial.  Reich said in a report that the person screaming in the
background of that call was Martin. Zimmerman, he said, could be
heard saying “these shall be” in a low-pitch voice
“reminiscent of an evangelical preacher or carnival barker.”  ‘Begging You’  Reich’s four-page May 9 report said Martin yelled on in a
high-pitched, trembling voice, “I’m begging you,” and then
“Stop,” moments before Zimmerman fired his Kel-Tec PF-9 9mm
pistol at him.  Hirotaka Nakasone, an FBI voice analyst called by
Zimmerman’s lawyers to testify at the hearing, said it was
impossible to determine who was speaking on the recording.  Voice characteristics change because of location,
situation, emotion and acoustics, Nakasone said. A minimum of 16
seconds of speech is needed for a proper analysis, while the
recording offered just three seconds of the two men’s voices
without interruption by the caller or operator.  “I don’t think anybody has a system right now that can
compare a short segment of a screaming voice against reasonable,
natural speech and can come up with the right answers,”
Nakasone said.  Mark O’Mara, Zimmerman’s lawyer, said the jury will listen
to the 911 call. Including testimony from Reich and Owen would
have confused jurors and added a week to 10 days to the trial,
he said yesterday in a phone interview.  ‘Junk Science’  “I’m glad she didn’t allow into trial this junk science
with experts who could hear things that nobody else could
hear,” O’Mara said. “The recordings will come in. They are
important pieces of evidence.”  Jackelyn Barnard, a spokeswoman for prosecutors, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message yesterday seeking comment
on the ruling.  The Feb. 26, 2012, shooting triggered protests in several
U.S. cities and caused President  Barack Obama  to call for a full
investigation.  Local officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman,
saying it appeared he acted within the bounds of the state’s
Stand Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Prosecutors say Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother
Hispanic, profiled, pursued and then murdered Martin, who was
carrying a can of iced tea, a bag of Skittles and $40 in cash at
the time of his death.  Zimmerman maintains he acted in self-defense after Martin
punched him in face, knocked him to the ground and threatened to
kill him.  There were no independent eyewitnesses to the incident.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  