-- Sanofi’s New Insulin Shows ‘Next-Generation’ Potential in Study
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-06-22T18:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/sanofi-s-new-insulin-shows-next-generation-potential-in-study.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s experimental diabetes drug
U300 helped control glucose with fewer patients experiencing
incidents of dangerously low blood-sugar levels at night than
the company’s Lantus in two clinical trials.  The findings suggest U300 is potentially a “next-generation insulin” that improves on the drugmaker’s top-selling Lantus, Pierre Chancel, head of Sanofi’s diabetes
division, said. Paris-based Sanofi announced results in a
statement today from two late-stage studies, one of which is
being presented at the  American Diabetes Association ’s meeting
in  Chicago .  The prospects of U300 are critical for Sanofi to maintain
its lead in the $35-billion-a-year diabetes market. Lantus, also
known as insulin glargine, which last year garnered 4.96 billion
euros ($6.51 billion) in sales, will lose patent protection in
2015. Sanofi needs a successor to the medicine and is also
testing Lantus in combination with Lyxumia, another diabetes
treatment belonging to a class of drugs known as GLP-1
analogues.  If such results are confirmed, U300 will be “a better
tool” than Lantus, Chancel said in a telephone interview. It’s
“a tool that would retain the value of glargine,” including
its safety profile, while offering “other interesting
features,” such as a lower risk of night-time hypoglycemia.
“It’s a great opportunity,” he said.  Full results from the trial dubbed EDITION 1 were presented
at the medical meeting. In its statement today, Sanofi also
announced an analysis of results from a second late-stage trial
on U300 dubbed EDITION 2. Results from both studies were
consistent, Riccardo Perfetti, vice president of global medical
affairs for diabetes at Sanofi, said during an interview.  ‘Good News’  U300 “should allow Sanofi to defend its position in the
diabetes space,” Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas in Paris, said in a June 20 telephone interview. “It’s
good news for them.”  The new formulation has a different pharmacokinetic and
pharmacodynamic profile compared to Lantus, meaning that it
works differently once inside the body, Perfetti said.  U-300 has a “super-flat profile,” with the insulin
released more evenly and no accumulation problems, he said. This
is probably the reason why fewer people experienced hypoglycemia
events, a common side effect among diabetics, said Perfetti.  The new product is a “significant milestone” for Sanofi
and “if positive trends emerge in both efficacy and safety
terms, then Sanofi would be in a position to switch old
formulation to the new,” Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan
Garnier & Co. in Paris who has a “buy” recommendation on
Sanofi, said in a note to clients on June 17. U-300 “has to be
seen as the first line of defense for Lantus,” he said. Lyxumia
“is Sanofi’s second-line of defense for Lantus.”  Diabetes Market  A surge in obesity and sedentary lifestyles around the
globe have kindled a surge in diabetes cases. The market is
likely to grow to more than $58 billion in 2018 from $35 billion
in 2012, Standard & Poor’s wrote in an October report.  Sanofi is still seeking ways to bolster its diabetes
pipeline beyond insulins and Lyxumia, Chancel said during the
interview.  “We are still interested in the pre-injection space,”
Chancel said. “We are looking at potential opportunities.”  Sanofi will be holding a conference call with investors on
June 24 at 2 p.m. Paris time to discuss U300 and its diabetes
strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  