-- Saudi Shares Little Changed After Federal Reserve Comments
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-06-22T14:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/saudi-shares-little-changed-after-federal-reserve-comments.html
Saudi Arabia’s  stock index  closed
little changed on the first day of trading since the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it was prepared to begin phasing out its
economic stimulus program.  Declines in petrochemical stocks kept the market lower
until the final hour of trading as finance and real estate
shares rallied.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN)  matched
the highest level in almost a year and  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) 
closed at the most since June 8. Mobile Telecommunications Co.
of Saudi Arabia, known as  Zain Saudi Arabia (ZAINKSA) , climbed to the most
since June 12.  “Shares on the Saudi stock index were volatile today with
negative pressure coming from the petrochemical sector,” said
Turki Fadaak, head of research and consultancy at Albilad
Investment Co. in Riyadh.  The  Tadawul All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained less than 0.1 percent to
7,527.36 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The Arab world’s
biggest bourse has gained 11 percent this year.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, known as Sabic, led laggers, dropping 0.8
percent to 92.25 riyals, the biggest drop in a week.  “The sell-off in global markets and commodities over the
past week, driven by the Fed’s comments, is causing pressure on
Sabic and Saudi petrochemicals,” Ankit Gupta, Dubai-based
equity analyst and assistant vice president of research at NBK
Capital, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We
consider Sabic as a proxy to global risk trade.”  Stocks and Treasuries slid after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the bank may end its program of
quantitative easing that has fueled a rally in financial markets
and helped keep the world’s largest economy expanding in the
face of federal budget cuts, a slowdown in China and a recession
in the euro area.  Dar Al Arkan climbed 3.4 percent to 10.55 riyals, while
Samba shares increased 1 percent to 50.5 riyals. Zain rose 3
percent to 10.2 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  