-- Stalin’s War Loot Should Return to Germany, Merkel Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-06-22T09:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/stalin-s-world-war-ii-loot-should-return-to-germany-merkel-says.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged
 Russia  to return art and antiquities looted from eastern Germany
in World War II by  Josef Stalin ’s Soviet Trophy Commission and
said she’s optimistic a solution can be found.  Merkel spoke at the opening of an exhibition on the Bronze
Age at the State Hermitage Museum in  St. Petersburg , which
includes 600 objects seized from Germany during or after World
War II.  “We believe these exhibits should return to Germany and
the owners or their legal heirs should have access to them,”
Merkel told guests at the opening yesterday, according to a
transcript of her speech. “It is an important step that they
can be shown here,” she said. “For us, or at least for me,
this is encouragement for further discussions, also on difficult
topics.”  Germany has been pressuring Russia for the return of the
missing art ever since German reunification in 1990. Russia has
rebuffed those demands, and many Russians, including museum
directors, view the booty as legitimate compensation for Soviet
treasures looted or destroyed by  Adolf Hitler ’s troops. Under
Russian law, German art taken by the Soviet Trophy Commission is
Russian state property.  Merkel, who is running for re-election on Sept. 22, hasn’t
pushed Russia on looted art in the past. Her spokesman announced
earlier yesterday that her speech at the Hermitage opening was
canceled amid disagreements with Russian President  Vladimir
Putin  over the timing and wording of her address. Merkel and
Putin told reporters later in the day those issues were resolved
and their joint appearance would go ahead as planned.  The exhibition “Bronze Age --  Europe  Without Borders,”
shows at the Hermitage from June 21 to Sept. 8, and then moves
on to Moscow. It is the result of cooperation between German and
Russian museums and scholars.  Empty Museums  After the war, museums in Soviet-occupied eastern Germany
were left with almost nothing. About 2.5 million items were
packed up and sent to the  Soviet Union . In an act of friendship
to communist East Germany in 1958, 300 train cars from Moscow
and St. Petersburg brought back art treasures including the
Pergamon Altar, now in Berlin’s Pergamon Museum.  Yet 1 million artworks are still missing, including the
Bronze-Age gold treasure of Eberswalde, which is exhibited at
the Hermitage show for the first time since the war ended in
1945, alongside treasures from Werder, Sonnewalde, Weissagk and
Dieskau, all in eastern Germany.  A replica of the Eberswalde gold, one of the most important
prehistoric archaeological finds in Germany, is on display in
the Neues Museum on Berlin’s Museum Island. A label next to it
explains that the original is still in the Pushkin Museum in
Moscow.  “If we look at where relations between the Soviet Union
and  Germany  were in 1945 and where we stand now, then we have
achieved so much,” Merkel said. “I am optimistic that we can
solve these problems too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 