-- Lions’ Paul O’Connell, Australia Pair Ruled Out of Rugby Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-24T14:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/wallabies-captain-horwill-cited-for-stamping-in-lions-rugby-test.html
British and Irish Lions lock Paul O’Connell was ruled out of the remaining two matches of the Test
rugby series against Australia with a broken arm. Wallabies
backs  Digby Ioane  and  Pat McCabe  are also out as the teams
assess the fallout from the opening game.  O’Connell, who’s played 85 times for Ireland and captained
the Lions on their 2009 tour of  South Africa , sustained an
undisplaced fracture of his lower right arm during the Lions’
23-21 win in Brisbane on June 22, the combined team said.  He’ll miss the second match in  Melbourne  on June 29 and the
final Test in Sydney a week later as the Lions seek to secure
their first series victory since 1997. Alun Wyn Jones, Geoff
Parling, Richie Gray and Ian Evans are the remaining locks in
the Lions squad. There are no plans at this stage to call up a
replacement for O’Connell, according to the team’s website.  England’s Parling, who came on as a second-half replacement
for Wyn Jones in  Brisbane , had been selected to captain the
Lions today in their final midweek match against the Melbourne
Rebels. He was withdrawn from that team and Evans was moved up
from the bench to partner Gray in the second row.  Australia winger Ioane sustained a shoulder injury and
center McCabe picked up a neck problem in the Brisbane match and
are also out of the series, the Australian Rugby Union said.
Fullback Berrick Barnes will miss the Melbourne game after being
concussed.  Christian Leali’ifano, who also had concussion, is expected
to be fit for that game, as is fellow center Adam Ashley-Cooper,
who had scans on his shoulder.  Horwill Cleared  Australia  captain James Horwill, meantime, is free to play
in Melbourne after being found not guilty of stamping on Wyn
Jones in the third minute of the series opener.  Horwill, 28, faced a disciplinary hearing two days ago
after the Lions referred the incident to the citing
commissioner. Horwill, who was making his first appearance for
the Wallabies since December 2011 after 10 months out with a
hamstring injury, had been cited under Law 10.4 b, which states
that “a player must not stamp or trample on an opponent.”  Judicial Officer Nigel Hampton found that “on the balance
of probabilities he could not find an intentional or deliberate
action of stamping or trampling,” the Australian Rugby Union
said in a statement.  “I could not find that when  James Horwill ’s right foot
came into glancing contact with Alun Wyn Jones’s face, that he
was acting recklessly,” Hampton said. “I found that I could
not reject as being implausible or improbable Horwill’s
explanation that, as he was driving forward with his right leg
raised, he was spun off balance through the impact of Lions
players entering the ruck from the opposite side.”  Wallabies Reinforcements  The Wallabies called up three players including flanker
George Smith to bolster their squad after the five backs were
injured in Brisbane.  The 32-year-old Smith, who featured in Australia’s 2-1
series win against the Lions 12 years ago and played his most
recent Test for the Wallabies in 2009, was joined by his ACT
Brumbies teammate Jesse Mogg and  Queensland Reds  center Ben
Tapuai in being added to the squad.  Smith’s availability for the match in Melbourne will be
determined later this week, the Wallabies added.  The Lions called up Ireland prop Tom Court, who was
visiting his hometown of Brisbane, following a calf injury to
Alex Corbisiero that will continue to be treated and assessed.
Court goes straight on to the replacements’ bench for the game
against the Rebels in place of Mako Vunipola.  England center Manu Tuilagi, who’s been out since injuring
a shoulder in the 22-12 win over the Queensland Reds on June 8,
will return to face the Rebels. Wales flanker Dan Lydiate will
lead the team in place of Parling, the Lions said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  