-- Zafgen Says Obesity Drug Spurs Weight Loss in Study
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-22T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-22/zafgen-says-obesity-drug-spurs-weight-loss-in-study.html
Zafgen Inc., a closely held
developer of an experimental drug for obesity, said its therapy
yielded weight loss of as much as 10 kilograms (22 pounds) in
three months, an early look at study results showed.  Patients taking the drug, called beloranib, also showed
lower levels of triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein, or
LDL, cholesterol, and felt less hunger after 12 weeks, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
statement. The data on the first 19 patients to complete the
148-person study were presented today at the American Diabetes
Association meeting in  Chicago .  Zafgen’s drug, in the second trial phase of three generally
required for regulatory approval, works differently from obesity
therapies that have recently entered the market from  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) 
and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) , which aim to control appetite
through the brain. Beloranib targets an enzyme, MetAP2, that
regulates fatty acids. By inhibiting MetAP2, the drug helps to
convert stored fats into energy.  “Our hope is beloranib will have the ability to eliminate
all excess weight in people,” Zafgen Chief Executive Officer
Tom Hughes said in a telephone interview. “These remain to be
early data, but still we’re pretty pleased with what we’re
seeing overall.”  The drug is designed to be given twice weekly by injection
for severe obesity, and Zafgen aims to treat patients who may
otherwise consider bariatric surgery, Hughes said.  Interim Results  In the interim results presented today, patients on 2.4
milligrams of beloranib had average  weight loss  of 9.9 kilograms
over 12 weeks. Those on 1.2 milligrams lost an average 6.1
kilograms, while those on 0.6 milligram lost an average 3.8
kilograms. Patients on placebo, on average, gained 1.8
kilograms.  Patients were allowed to eat normally and weren’t guided to
change their exercise habits. The drugs on the market from Vivus
and Arena, called Qsymia and Belviq, are approved for weight
loss on top of a lower-calorie diet and exercise plan.  “We’re still trying to isolate the drug effect,” Hughes
said.  Side effects associated with the drug were trouble falling
asleep, nausea and vomiting. There were no serious adverse
events.  Zafgen is planning to raise money later this year and may
consider an initial public offering in 2014, Hughes said.  “Based on the data we’ve generated and our cash position,
which is quite good right now, we’re working from a position of
strength,” Hughes said. The company has enough cash on hand to
carry out its current plans, and will raise more to fund larger
studies. “We’re just trying to essentially maximize the value
of the program and to keep moving as efficiently as we can in
the meantime.”  Full data from the study are expected before October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  