-- M&A Encumbered Risks Damping Hot Money Bond Party: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-02-18T15:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/m-a-encumbered-risks-damping-hot-money-bond-party-turkey-credit.html
Turkish company valuations at double
those of peers augur another challenging year for mergers and
acquisitions, leaving the country more dependent on so-called
hot money to finance its current-account shortfall.  M&A deals, which last year fell to 30 percent of their pre-
financial crisis average, may struggle to overcome an increase
in prices, according to Istanbul-based buyout firms  Unlu & Co .
and Turkven Private Equity. The enterprise value of listed
Turkish companies is 9.5 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, more than double Russia and
Poland, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI
Emerging Markets  Index  multiple is 7.4.  A dearth of takeovers is contributing to a drop in foreign-
direct investment that’s leaving  Turkey  dependent on other
capital flows to balance its current-account deficit. The gap
will probably widen to $60.8 billion this year from $48.9
billion last year, according to a central bank survey published
Feb. 15. Outflows from Turkey’s bond market were $1.1 billion in
the week ended Feb. 8, the most in eight months and a signal the
biggest rally among major emerging markets may be at risk.  “The M&A drop has to do with the valuation of Turkish
companies,” Isik Okte, a strategist at the investment unit of
state-run lender Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed
comments from Istanbul on Feb. 15. “Turkish companies compared
to European counterparts are simply not that cheap anymore.”  Denizbank Deal  Mergers and acquisitions in Turkey totaled $7 billion in
2012, with half of that coming from a single deal when Russia’s
 OAO Sberbank  bought lender  Denizbank AS  for $3.54 billion in
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That made it the
worst year for M&A since the global financial crisis of 2009,
and compares with an annual average of $23.4 billion in M&A in
the three years preceding the crisis, the data show.  Turkey may get about $15 billion in foreign-direct
investment this year “provided we don’t make any political or
other kinds of mistakes,”  Adnan Nas , deputy chief of the
International Capital Association of Turkey, or Yased, which
monitors foreign direct investment inflows, said by phone from
Istanbul on Feb. 15. “Our current-account balance still needs
large amounts of short-term portfolio investments and borrowings
against the deficit.”  Turkish Assets  The current-account deficit was $77.1 billion in 2011, the
biggest in the world behind the U.S. Investor concern about the
widening gap led to a sell-off in Turkish assets that year,
sending yields on two-year benchmark debt as high as 11.5
percent and the lira plunging 18 percent against the dollar, the
biggest drop worldwide.  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark  two-year notes  fell 483 basis
points last year, the most among 19 major emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg, as the current-account deficit narrowed to
$48.9 billion. The yield rose one point to 5.78 percent today,
below the rates on debt issued by higher-rated Russia, India and
Brazil.  “Only about 25 percent of Turkey’s current-account deficit
is financed through FDI and the remainder should come from
borrowings, which means the country is more open to external
shocks,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by e-mail on Feb. 15. “But even at
the peak of the crisis Turkish firms could borrow from
international markets,” he said, predicting “a smaller
probability of running into trouble” this year as the global
economic outlook improves.  Growth Story  Turkey’s ratio of enterprise value to Ebitda at 9.5
compares with a multiple of 4.2 for Russia and 4.4 for Poland.
Stocks in the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are valued at 9.6
and 8.3 for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  “The multiples on Turkish assets are higher than their
European and U.S. peers, which may be a concern, but most
investors are ready to pay the price because they believe in the
Turkish growth story,”  Mahmut Unlu , chairman of Unlu & Co., an
investment banking and asset management firm in Istanbul, said
by phone on Feb. 15. Foreign direct investment may rise to more
than $10 billion this year from $8.3 billion last year, he said.  CarrefourSa , a supermarket joint venture between  Carrefour
SA  and  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS ,  Migros Ticaret AS , another
retailer owned by BC Partners Ltd., and  Finansbank AS , a lender
owned by  National Bank of Greece , are among potential targets
for whole or partial acquisitions this year, Unlu said.  Higher Multiples  “Ebitda multiples on some assets in Turkey are 50 percent
higher than those in other emerging countries,” Seymur Tari,
managing director and co-founder of  Turkven Private Equity , said
by phone on Feb. 15. “But because Turkey grows faster than many
other markets investors are attracted.” Turkven is an Istanbul-
based buyout firm that has about $1.5 billion of assets under
management, including a minority stake in Migros.  Turkish growth may accelerate to 4 percent this year,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
The economy probably expanded about 2.5 percent last year,
Economy Minister  Zafer Caglayan  was quoted as saying by the
state-run Anatolia news agency on Feb. 13. That’s the slowest
pace since a contraction in 2009, as the central bank tightened
monetary policy to try and rein in the current account.  The U.S. economy will probably grow 1.9 percent in 2013
year while the euro area shrinks 0.1 percent, Bloomberg surveys
show.  Yield Spread  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 195, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. Turkey’s spread is 80
basis points below the average for emerging markets, compared
with a discount of 89 basis points at the end of last year.  The lira was little changed at 1.7671 per dollar at 4:46
p.m. in Istanbul, extending this year’s gain to one percent.  Net foreign direct investment fell to $8.3 billion last
year from $13.7 billion in 2011 while “portfolio investments,”
including stock and bond inflows, reached a record $40.8
billion, according to central bank data.  “The reduction in FDI leaves Turkey much more vulnerable
on hot money inflows, with these now covering 80% of the current
account deficit, a record high,”  Timothy Ash , chief emerging-
market economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by e-mail on
Feb. 15. “The risk is that if global risk appetite changes, if
the market begins to price out quantitative easing, the move out
of lira assets will be brutal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  