-- ’New Morality’ at Barclays Is Same Old Wall Street
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-02-18T23:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/-new-morality-at-barclays-is-same-old-wall-street.html
Is there suddenly a “new morality”
on Wall Street? There is, if you believe  Antony Jenkins , the
chief executive officer of  Barclays Plc.   It’s tempting to trust this sweet-talking British banking
executive, still in the flush of his new appointment to run the
scandal-ridden institution. He is understandably anxious to
distance himself and his bank from the atrocious behavior
rampant at Barclays during the absolute monarchy of his
predecessor,  Robert Diamond .  On Feb. 12, Jenkins announced a $1.3 billion fourth-quarter
loss (replete with the requisite mention of “one-time” losses
that have become a staple of bank earnings these days) and “a
major reorganization” that would cut 3,700 jobs, including
1,800 employees in the bank’s Asian and non-British European
investment-banking units.  Yet he had more on his mind than balance sheets and head
counts. “There will be no going back to the old way of doing
things,” Jenkins said. “We will never be in a position again
of rewarding people for activities inconsistent with our values.
. . . The old ways weren’t the right way to behave, nor did they
deliver the right results.” He then mentioned one of my
favorite credos: “Individuals must take responsibility for
their own behavior.”  The source of Jenkins’s religious conversion is not clear.
It’s not like he parachuted into Barclays from a Tibetan
monastery to enlighten the masses. He has been at Barclays since
1983 (with a period away at Citigroup Inc.) and in 2009 became a
member of the bank’s executive committee and CEO of its retail
and business banking division.  Shredded Reports  During that time, among other indiscretions, the good folks
at Barclays manipulated the London interbank offered rate,
 shredded unflattering reports  about the U.S. wealth-management
division and, according to British authorities, may have
fraudulently loaned money to Qatar to invest back in the bank to
help Barclays avoid a government bailout in 2008.  One of the core businesses Jenkins plans to build the new
Barclays around just happens to be something that Diamond picked
up for a song in September 2008: the carcass of Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.’s U.S. investment-banking business. Last October,
Hugh “Skip” McGee III, who as a Lehman employee negotiated
that sale with Diamond after Lehman filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008, was promoted to chief executive of Barclays’s
corporate and investment banking in the Americas. Helping McGee
run the business is another former Lehman executive,  Gerald Donini . McGee was a top and trusted aide to former Lehman CEO
Richard Fuld, who ran the bank into the ground.  In a somewhat esoteric but illuminating side drama, McGee
was also the author of an  infamous November 2009 letter  to the
board of trustees of the Kinkaid School, a private academy in
Houston where his son, John Edward, was a student and football
player. It turned out that John Edward, along with his buddies,
wanted to perform a skit at a pep rally while wearing girls’
cheerleader outfits.  McGee was furious that, because of a desire to be
“politically correct,” the pep rally was canceled. He wanted
the teacher who led the anti-rally effort fired, incensed by her
“leftist agenda” and criticisms of investment banking. And he
had some charmingly regressive thoughts on sexual identity.
“Why is a married, heterosexual coach considered an oddity at
Kinkaid?” he asked. “Why is a gay female coach telling high
school girls on her team that she was disappointed in them for
belonging to the spirit club (SOK) and that by doing so they are
just pandering to the football team?”  Accountability Key  What kind of message does it send to the troops when, in
one of his first acts, Jenkins promotes a  Skip McGee ? Expecting
such people to change their behavior because the boss decreed it
in a public-relations blitz is like asking a scorpion to stop
stinging. The only way people on Wall Street will change is if
it’s in their self-interest to do so, which means holding them
financially accountable, up to their entire net worth, when
things go wrong.  There hasn’t been that kind of accountability on Wall
Street in more than a generation. And there certainly has been
nothing like it at Barclays since Jenkins took over from Diamond
last August. Far from taking responsibility for wrongdoing, last
month a group of employees (unsuccessfully) petitioned a British
judge to keep their names secret in advance of the first trial
over the interbank-rate manipulation scheme.  In an  interview  with the British Broadcasting Corp. on Feb.
12, just after he rolled out his morality tale, Jenkins was
asked how he expected to change the culture at Barclays. “You
do it by really embedding a sense of purpose and values that we
live by every day,” he said. He then rattled off his list of
five core values -- “respect, integrity, service, excellence
and stewardship” -- and then, sensing the interviewer’s
incredulity, he said, “People could be cynical about that.”
And with very good reason, he might have added.  ( William D. Cohan , the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 