-- ‘Parsifal’ Glows in New Met Show With Star Tenor: Review
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/-parsifal-glows-in-new-met-show-with-star-tenor-review.html
In performances of Wagner’s 5-hours-
plus “Parsifal,” the suffering on stage is so often shared by
the audience.  Amfortas, wounded by a lustful misadventure, groans as he
presides over the community of knights harboring the Holy Grail.
Eventually, Parsifal will heal him with a sacred spear.  Along the way -- across three acts in which he acquires
compassion and understanding -- Parsifal ogles flower maidens,
vanquishes an evil eunuch and blesses a bizarre woman named
Kundry, who once laughed at the crucified Christ. She definitely
needs redemption.  At the Wagner Festival in Bayreuth, where the summers are
hot and under-air-conditioned, I once sat next to an
insufficiently hardy music pilgrim who collapsed and spent the
second act at the Red Cross station. I felt his pain.  At the  Metropolitan Opera  on Friday night, however, I fell
under a spell. Time moved on and yet stood still. The ethereal
music suffused us all. Sitting in our seats, we traveled far.  In the mysterious words of Gurnemanz, a somber knight: Time
becomes space.  Booing Verboten  Wagner finished Parsifal in 1882, grandly calling it “ein
Buhnenweihfestspiel” (“stage consecrating festival play”) to
encourage a devotional attitude and discourage booing.  As always, he wrote his own libretto, which is why the
opera isn’t shorter.  The composer liked his stories so much that he repeated
many several times until you are ready to pull your ears off and
cry, “But I know Parsifal’s mutti is dead! She was dead in the
first act hours ago!”  And yet when the components are superbly connected, there
is nothing more hypnotizing in the operatic repertoire. And so
it was at the Met.  The Met fielded a starry cast headlined by tenor  Jonas Kaufmann , conductor Daniele Gatti and a director of magical
powers, Francois Girard.  In close communion with the splendidly inventive  Michael
Levine  (sets), Thibault Vancraenenbroeck (costumes), David Finn
(lights), Peter Flaherty (video) and Carolyn Choa
(choreography), the French-Canadian director created a new
pictorial world. Remote from reality -- and Wagner’s stage
descriptions -- it was stirringly believable, starting with the
prelude.  Unsettling Gash  We witnessed -- dimly -- the ritual disrobing of the
Grail’s knights. Slowly they removed jackets, ties, shoes, and
formed a circle at stage left, sitting on simple chairs.  Opposite, shrouded women clustered, separated from the men
by an unsettling gash in the ground that morphed into a stream
of blood, a chasm, a festering wound and finally a brook of
purifying waters.  The second-act set was queasily spectacular and had
provoked a lot of chat. Instead of the traditional garden,
Klingsor lives in a blood-soaked realm dominated by two towering
cliffs and separated by a seeping chasm. The blood puddled on
the stage, soiling the white shifts worn by the ninja-like
maidens guarding the sorcerer.  With not much help from Drs. Freud and Jung, you could also
see the bloody slit as the place where Amfortas once plunged his
own spear. But that does get to the heart of the story. Wagner
just beat around the bush in his garlanded libretto. While he
liked women in his own bed, his operas invariably feature them
as sacrificing souls or contaminating witches.  Kaufmann is astonishing as Parsifal, singing effortlessly
and with the radiant tone so rare in Wagner tenors. He moves
convincingly from a forest-dwelling idiot who murders swans to a
suffering wanderer with graying hair. He’s become an affecting
actor.  World-Class Design  I don’t think better singers exist anywhere in the world,
especially Peter Mattei as Amfortas. Unusually tall and thin for
a part typically inhabited by well-fed baritones, he seemed to
waste away before our eyes.  Gurnemanz, so often a droning dullard, was given rare
presence by Rene Pape; Evgeny Nikitin exuded angry madness as
Klingsor. Katarina Dalayman was always interesting as the
harried Kundry, who shuttles between the two realms (and through
the centuries).  Gatti’s Understanding  Then there was Gatti, whose deep understanding emanated
palpably from the pit. Even the first act’s slow tempos were
compellingly arched. Breathing with the singers, always in eye
contact, he evoked memories of  James Levine  in his prime as he
led the huge orchestra through this stupendous marathon.  Even the chorus was inspired to sing and move with
astonishing certitude. Bravo to chorus master Donald Palumbo --
and everyone else involved in this unforgettable evening. The
response from a full house (I saw no one leave in a show that
started at 6 p.m. and finished shortly before midnight) was
thunderously positive with a few boos from more tradition-
seeking Wagnerians.  Judging by program bios, Girard spends too much time in
Lyon and Gatti in Zurich. Move closer, gents. We need you here
in  New York .  The live telecast is on March 2. Kaufmann’s splendid new
Wagner album is available on Decca.  Funding came from the Gramma Fisher Foundation, Rolex,
Marina Kellen French and the Edgar Foster Daniels Foundation.  “Parsifal,” coproduced with the Opera National de Lyon
and the Canadian Opera Company, runs in repertory through March
8 at the  Metropolitan Opera  House,  Lincoln Center . Information:
+1-212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and entertainment section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 