-- ‘Spamalot’ Knight Teaches Mike Nichols Forgiveness: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/-spamalot-knight-teaches-mike-nichols-forgiveness-stage.html
As a perennially youthful Broadway
song-and-dance man, Martin Moran clomped across the stage as a
knight in “Spamalot,” went down with the ship in “Titanic” and
donned a swastika-emblazoned armband in “Cabaret.”  In his powerful -- and funny -- solo show “All the Rage,”
the disarming actor sets his life as a New York actor with anger
issues in a larger canvas that includes confronting the man who
violated him as a teenager, translating the testimony of a
Chadian torture survivor and taking hilarious comfort in the
explosive anger of a pedestrian confronting an SUV near  Lincoln
Center .  We met at Vicky’s Diner, near the home he shares in
Manhattan’s Washington Heights with Henry Stram, also an actor.  Gerard: Why does such a personal show seem to work for a
wide audience?  Moran: I’m always terrified that people won’t come, or
think, “What is this?” I wanted it to be fun and entertaining
even though I was dealing with these deep questions.  My collaborator [director] Seth Barrish and I workshopped
the show in La Jolla, then up at Dartmouth and in Vermont.
Having older, Republican crowds outside of New York was a bit of
a breakthrough.  Gerard: What were people telling you?  Deeper Reality  Moran: Entirely different things resonate with different
people. Some said, “Oh you’re still a Catholic, aren’t you?”
This surely came out of my Catholic upbringing. I asked my great
aunt, who was always wearing a veil, why, and she said, “As a
constant statement of a deeper reality. We need to transcend
this physical life.” Well no, I like it here! I like being in my
body.  Gerard:  Mike Nichols , who directed you in “Spamalot,” came
to the show.  Moran: Yes, Mike said, “This thing about anger and
forgiveness, it eludes me. I’m getting closer but it’s an
ongoing thing, isn’t it?” It’s not like you open a magic door.
It’s more like a fluid movement.  Gerard: How does all this connect with your other life?  Moran: I toured in “ Wicked ,” and being in towns where
people sometimes drove for four hours to see a Broadway show, I
thought, “Oh, yeah, that’s why we do it." Actors have been
trouping for thousands of years.  Gerard: And next?  Moran: When this ends next week, I have no idea what I’ll
be doing. My friend said, “Just be where your feet are.” And
that’s what I’m doing. Being where my feet are.  “All the Rage” runs through Feb. 24 at the Peter Jay Sharp
Theater, 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.ticketcentral.com .  ( Jeremy Gerard  is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 