-- AgBank to Add Traders as Dim Sum Sales Seen Rising: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-18T04:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/agbank-to-add-traders-as-dim-sum-sales-seen-rising-china-credit.html
ABC International Holdings Ltd., a
unit of China’s third-largest bank, plans to hire more traders
for yuan bonds in Hong Kong, betting issuance will rise further
after tripling in two years to a record in 2012.  The overseas investment banking arm of Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. is seeking a bigger share of the Dim Sum debt market
after climbing to the fifth rank among underwriters this year
from No. 10 in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yuan debt sales, excluding certificates of deposits, are set to
surpass last year’s 112 billion yuan ($18 billion), with more
state-owned companies tapping the offshore market, the Chinese
lender predicts.  “Our primary market business has pretty good momentum now,
so we wish to build up our secondary trading capability,” said
 Richard Zhang , executive director of global capital markets at
ABC International in Hong Kong. “The pipeline is pretty good
for us. We’ll have a number of deals in the first half. Those
are state-owned enterprises with backing from the National
Development and Reform Committee.”  China appointed yuan clearing banks in Taiwan and Singapore
in the past two months for promoting the currency usage in
global trade, as it seeks to stop growing its $3.3 trillion
foreign reserves, the world’s largest. The  average yield  for Dim
Sum company debt was 4.12 percent, compared with 5.01 percent in
onshore market and 2.72 percent for global corporates selling
debt in dollars, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  Bullish Bets  Investors have stepped up bets on yuan appreciation as
China’s economy recovers, boosting the appeal of holdings in the
currency. Exports from the world’s second-largest economy rose
25 percent in January from a year earlier, the most since April
2011, official data showed Feb. 8. Manufacturing industries
expanded for a fourth month, according to a Feb. 1 report.  The yuan will strengthen 2.2 percent this year to 6.1 per
dollar, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of analysts. That would be more than twice the appreciation in
2012. The currency fell 0.15 percent today to 6.2417 per dollar
in Shanghai as trading resumed after last week’s closure for the
Lunar New Year. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the spot slipped
0.14 percent to 6.2275 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards fell 0.18 percent to 6.3240 per dollar, a 1.3 percent
discount to the onshore rate.  The pool of yuan  savings  in Hong Kong jumped 32 billion
yuan in December, the biggest increase since August 2011, Hong
Kong Monetary Authority data show. The holdings totaled 603
billion yuan at the end of last year, compared with a record 627
billion yuan in November 2011.  Driving Demand  “The return of yuan-gain expectations drives demand for
yuan-related assets,”  Kelvin Lau , a Hong Kong-based economist
at Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone on Feb. 15. “An
appreciating yuan will also attract more companies to settle
trade in the currency.”  Corporate Dim Sum yields fell 91 basis points in the past
year, Bank of America data show. Sales have risen from 36
billion yuan in 2010, according to the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority.  Chinese Vice Premier Li Keqiang pledged in August 2011 to
allow domestic companies to directly sell yuan bonds in Hong
Kong without setting up offshore vehicles. The National
Development and Reform Committee, a planning body, holds the
right to approve fundraising plans of state-owned enterprises.
The NDRC allowed 10 banks to sell 25 billion yuan of Dim Sum
notes in January 2012 and four non-financial companies to issue
in April 2012.  ‘Adjust Strategy’  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Holdings Co. sold 1.5 billion
yuan of bonds in Hong Kong at 3.75 percent on Jan. 7. The yield
on the notes due 2015 was 3.54 percent today. ABC International
was one of the underwriters of this deal.  “This year’s sales are likely to surpass last year’s,”
Zhang said in a Feb. 6 interview. “NDRC, which has the right to
allocate issuance quota, will adjust their strategy to be more
in line with the market. From this year onward, it’s likely that
NDRC will allow state-owned enterprises at local levels or even
private enterprises to sell.”  Worldwide yuan usage is increasing, according to a Standard
Chartered  Renminbi Globalization Index . The gauge reached a
record 748 in December, a 50 percent jump from 498 a year ago,
with London, Taiwan and Singapore set to join Hong Kong as
offshore trading hubs for the Chinese currency.  Global Yuan  The Chinese central bank approved Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.’s Singapore branch as the yuan clearing bank
in the city-state, according to a statement on Feb. 8. That
broke the grip on offshore yuan settlements of Bank of China
Ltd., the designated agent in Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.  Taiwan started accepting deposits and conducting interbank
trading in the Chinese currency on Feb. 6. The island’s yuan
savings, including those at offshore banking units, will
increase to at least 100 billion yuan by the end of 2013,
according to Standard Chartered estimates. Taiwan had 1.3
billion yuan of deposits as of Feb. 6, official data showed.  “Having clearing banks in Singapore and Taiwan will bring
more users on board,” said Lau. “We are positive on yuan
liquidity growth this year, which will help boost Dim Sum bond
issuance.”  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign bonds has rebounded
from a two-year low. Five-year credit-default swaps protecting
the nation’s debt were at 65 basis points on Feb. 15 in New
York, from 56 on Nov. 30, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  ‘More Selective’  “As big waves wash the sands, investors have become more
selective on credits now,” Zhang said. “If the renminbi’s
exchange rate isn’t stable or depreciates, that’s going to hurt
the Dim Sum bond market.”  ABC International is planning to expand its trading team as
global banks including Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.
look to trim staff to rein in costs. Job cuts at Morgan Stanley
would involve 55 to 60 bankers in the Asia-Pacific region
excluding Japan, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. The reductions are across fixed-income and equity sales
and trading, research and investment banking, one of the people
said. Bank of America pared staff by 14,601 employees last year.  The Chinese lender aims to start underwriting dollar-
denominated bonds for mainland companies in the second quarter,
Zhang said. Chinese and Hong Kong borrowers sold almost seven
times more undated or unrated debt in January than a month
earlier.  “In terms of fixed-income platform, we have hiring plans
for sales and trading,” Zhang said. “We aren’t looking for
drastic expansion for deal origination for now, but I don’t rule
out more headcount if business gets better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  