-- Thai Growth Beating Estimates Signals Asian Resilience: Economy
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-02-18T04:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/thai-growth-quickens-on-local-demand-reducing-rate-cut-pressure.html
Thailand’s fourth-quarter growth
accelerated more than economists estimated, joining Asian
nations from Indonesia to the Philippines in showing resilience
to the faltering global economy as local demand rises.  Gross domestic product increased 18.9 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, after expanding a
revised 3.1 percent in the previous quarter, the National
Economic and Social Development Board said in Bangkok today.
That beat the median estimate of 15.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey and is the fastest since Thailand began compiling
data in 1993. The  economy  grew 6.4 percent in 2012 from 0.1
percent in 2011, when floods swamped most of the country.  Asian leaders from Thai Prime Minister  Yingluck Shinawatra 
to Malaysia’s  Najib Razak  and Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  have boosted government spending to support growth as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hurt exports. Recoveries in China
and the U.S. have improved the outlook for the region, with
economies including Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia estimated to
report faster GDP growth for the fourth quarter later this week.  “We have stronger consumer power, we have minimum-wage
hikes across the Southeast Asian region which is supportive of
consumer demand and investment is picking up,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “The positive growth momentum is likely to
continue in 2013 and if exports recovery comes much sooner, the
outlook is brighter in this region.”  Thai growth surged last quarter after a slump in the
corresponding period in 2011 when the worst floods in almost 70
years disrupted output by manufacturers from Western Digital
Corp. to Honda Motor Co. The economy is predicted to expand 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent this year, the agency said today, keeping
its earlier forecast.  Export growth  may be 11 percent, it said.  Political Pressure  The Bank of Thailand last month raised its 2013 GDP
forecast to 4.9 percent from an earlier prediction of 4.6
percent, while maintaining its projection for export growth at 9
percent. Overseas sales increased for a fourth month in December,
and the  manufacturing index  climbed for a third straight month.  Thai car sales by all producers reached a record 1.44
million in 2012, Toyota Motor (Thailand) said last month, helped
by a tax incentive for first-time buyers. Bank loans grew 13.7
percent last year as companies rebuilt businesses that were
devastated by floods at the end of 2011, with  Bangkok Bank Pcl ,
the biggest lender, reporting full-year profit rose 21 percent.  The monetary authority last month held borrowing costs for
a second meeting and Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said he was
under no pressure even after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-
Ranong renewed calls for easing to cool the baht’s gains.  Sufficiently Robust  Asian stocks rose toward an 18-month high, with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index adding 0.5 percent as of 11:54 a.m. in Tokyo.
The yen fell after Group of 20 nations refrained from censuring
the nation’s currency policy, while the Thai baht was little
changed at 29.87 per dollar as of 11:15 a.m. in Bangkok. It is
the biggest gainer in the past six months among 11 widely-traded
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Malaysia’s  growth  probably accelerated to 5.5 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, after expanding 5.2 percent the
previous three months, according to the median estimate in a 
Bloomberg survey ahead of a Feb. 20 report. Taiwan and  Singapore  
will release final fourth-quarter data two days later, and both 
are forecast by economists to report growth that is in line with 
initial estimates.  “We’re not looking for any more interest-rate cuts from
Thailand,” Malaysia, Indonesia or the Philippines, said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “Growth is sufficiently robust now to mean that the
chances of policy-rate reductions are pretty low, and indeed the
chances of interest-rate hikes in some of these countries before
the end of the year are higher.”  Asset Bubbles  Keeping rates low for a long time may lead to asset bubbles,
Prasarn has said. Kittiratt, who has repeatedly called for lower
borrowing costs, said this month he wrote a letter to central
bank Chairman  Virabongsa Ramangkura , reiterating his view that
the rate is luring capital inflows. Prasarn last week said the
rate differential is not the primary reason for rising inflows.  Thailand needs to reduce money supply, which is the main
cause of asset bubbles, and not just low interest rates,
Kittiratt said today after the data release. The central bank
plans to remove limits on overseas investments by small and
medium enterprises, and allow exporters to keep deposits in U.S.
dollars to help ease pressure on the baht, he said.  The  Philippine  central bank has said it is considering more
measures to counter the impact of capital inflows on the peso,
which has recently strengthened to a record.  The Thai monetary authority will leave its  one-day bond
repurchase rate  unchanged when policy makers meet on Feb. 20,
according to 16 of 18 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Two
expect a 25 basis-point reduction.  Singapore Exports  Thailand’s economy grew a seasonally adjusted 3.6 percent
last quarter from the three months through September, when it
expanded a revised 1.5 percent, the agency said today.  Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore’s  exports  rose less than
economists estimated in January. Non-oil domestic exports gained
0.5 percent from a year earlier, a report showed today, compared
with the 3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  In South Korea, producer prices fell by the most in more
than three years, tumbling 1.6 percent in January from a year
earlier, a report showed today. In Europe, Spain is scheduled to
report bad loans data for December, while the European Central
Bank will release current-account data for the same month. U.S.
financial markets are closed for Presidents’ Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  