-- Akzo CEO to Appease Investors Kept Waiting for Savings Blueprint
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/akzo-ceo-to-appease-investors-kept-waiting-for-savings-blueprint.html
Akzo Nobel NV  Chief Executive
Officer  Ton Buechner  will tomorrow deliver his long-awaited
strategy that investors and unions say should provide the gel to
patch the chemical and paint-maker together.  The Dutch supplier of Dulux paint, Jozo table salt and
Amaze hair mousse polymers continues to operate as a disparate
group of businesses, said  Corne van Zeijl , a fund manager at SNS
Asset Management, who oversees $1.3 billion in investments,
including Akzo Nobel. Buechner, scheduled to address the
investor community at a capital markets day in London tomorrow,
needs to outline how he will cut costs, the fundmanager said.  “What we should get from Buechner is a strategy that tries
to make Akzo operate as one company instead of a group of small
businesses,” said van Zeijl. “There are still a lot of
synergies to win.”  Buechner, 48, has kept investors waiting four months for
his vision. Upon taking over in April, Buechner threw himself
into a strategic review with such zeal that he needed three
months of leave for exhaustion. After selling the struggling
Glidden brand to  PPG Industries Inc . for $1.1 billion, the CEO’s
focus will be on streamlining Akzo Nobel’s European business.
For a start, he could combine purchasing units and human-
resources departments, van Zeijl said.  The view is echoed by  Chris van Loon , a Unie union
official, who says divisions are under pressure and more cost
cuts are “inevitable,” especially at the corporate level. Akzo
Nobel has the potential to cut European paint costs by 15
percent by 2014, adding 150 million euros ($200 million) to
earnings, according to  JP Morgan  analysts  Neil Tyler  and  Martin Evans .  Keeping Up  Buechner played down the prospect for grandiose change when
he arrived and undertook a whirlwind tour of operations from
China to Brazil, a schedule that contributed to his leave. Yet
he surprised investors with the U.S. paint exit on Dec. 14.  Tomorrow’s strategy announcement will be accompanied by
fourth-quarter figures, against the backdrop of improving
earnings at rival paintmakers PPG Industries Inc.,  Valspar Corp .
and  Sherwin-Williams Co ., as well as specialty chemical peers
such as  BASF SE  and  Clariant AG .  While total sales at the Amsterdam-based company may have
risen about 3 percent to 16.11 billion euros last year, paint 
revenue in Europe probably fell about 3 percent, according to 
JP Morgan. Akzo Nobel’s earnings before interest, taxes, 
deprecation and amortization probably increased about 7 percent 
to 1.92 billion euros in 2012, according to an average of 
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Strong Signal’  Buechner is poised to update the savings program initiated
in 2011 by predecessor  Hans Wijers , who was criticized for not
doing enough to bond the different pieces. Wijers set a goal of
boosting earnings by 500 million euros.  “Buechner’s decision to exit North American paints sends a
strong signal that sacred cows will not be spared in his
strategic overhaul,” said JP Morgan’s Tyler . “We believe
signifant scope remains to scale back the cost base of the
European decorative paints business.”  “My feeling is that they will increase the cost savings
target by at least 100 million euros,” said  Jaideep Pandya , an
analyst at Berenberg.  Akzo Nobel shares gained 33 percent in 2012, while  Valspar 
increased 60 percent, PPG surged 62 percent and  Sherwin-Williams
 added 72 percent.  Fewer Factories  Akzo Nobel’s European deco paints business will take the
brunt of any downsizing measures as it’s one of the primary
causes of underperformance, Pandya said. The number of factories
in Europe could be slimmed down from the current 20, given rival
PPG operates from 12 plants, and some warehouses may close, he
said. Akzo Nobel’s stock is up 16 percent since the CEO’s Dec. 7
return., giving the company a market value of 12.5 billion euros.  “Akzo did do cost cutting in that area, but they didn’t do
a proper integration for Europe’s deco businesses as a region,”
the analyst said, adding there’s potential for a 7 percent chop
to the workforce, equal to 1,500 jobs.  Buechner last week replaced the head of decorative paints,
with  Ruud Joosten  given a mandate to review operations in mature
markets and bring them in line with the current market
situation, following a 2.5 billion-euro writedown last year.  Joosten, who takes over from  Tex Gunning , said he will be
looking to tackle the challenge “pretty quickly.” Demand has
weakened since Wijers unveiled his blueprint, and the latest
forecasts from PPG and Valspar point to subdued markets in
Europe. Equally important will be to push growth in China, India
and Brazil and together “those will be my top priorities,”
Joosten said in an interview on Feb. 14.  Joosten said his two years leading the pulp-chemicals
division will provide valuable expertise in the retail-
orientated environment of paint, where advertising and
distribution are key.  “Chemicals is a completely different world,” said
Joosten. “Chemicals is much more capital intensive and focused
on filling factories and making good use of investments. That is
an important experience I’m bringing with me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  