-- Aldar, Sorouh Rally Before EGM Vote on Merger: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-18T12:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/aldar-sorouh-rally-before-egm-vote-on-merger-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Sorouh Real Estate Co.  surged to the
highest level in more than two years and  Aldar Properties PJSC 
rallied before shareholders vote this week on a potential merger
between the developers.  Sorouh climbed 6.3 percent to 1.87 dirhams, the highest
since June 2010, at the close in Abu Dhabi while Aldar advanced
4.8 percent to 1.54 dirhams, the strongest since Jan. 17. The
stocks were the most traded by value on the benchmark  ADX
General Index , which rose 0.1 percent. The companies will hold
separate shareholder meetings on Feb. 21.  Aldar’s board last month approved a plan to offer 1.288
shares for each Sorouh stock in a government-backed acquisition
to create the Middle East’s third-largest publicly traded
developer. Sorouh’s stock has advanced 15 percent since the
announcement as investors deemed the terms of the merger to
favor the smaller of the two, while Aldar’s has declined 5.5
percent.  “It seems something very positive is expected at the
meeting,” said  Nabil Rantisi , managing director of brokerage at
Abu Dhabi-based Menacorp. “The expectations seem to be beyond
the terms as the movement is strong.”  About 55 million Sorouh shares were traded, more than three
times the three-month daily average, compared with 129 million
for Aldar, more than six times the average for the same time
period.  Abu Dhabi, which bailed out Aldar in 2011, is seeking to
revive its property market after prices fell more than 50
percent during a crash in the United Arab Emirates. Sorouh
rallied 41 percent in January while Aldar gained 13 percent in
the period.  Sorouh’s 50 -day volatility , a measure of price swings,
 advanced to 48  today, while Aldar’s rose to 55, the strongest
levels since May. Sorouh’s 2012 net income climbed  32 percent 
and Aldar said  profit  more than doubled.  Six analysts  recommend investors buy Sorouh while two say
hold and two say sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with  three holds , four buys and two sells for
Aldar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  