-- Man Group Combines Hedge Fund Units, Names Ellis as President
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-18T13:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/man-group-combines-hedge-fund-units-names-ellis-as-president.html
Man Group Plc , the biggest publicly
traded hedge fund manager, combined two computer-driven hedge
fund units and made management changes in recent weeks before
 Emmanuel Roman  takes over as chief executive officer next week.  Luke Ellis , who has been head of the FRM fund of hedge
funds unit, was named president of London-based Man Group,  David Waller , a company spokesman, said today. Ellis has oversight of
the investment operations of Man’s three main investment
divisions -- FRM, GLG Partners and ALM, which runs the firm’s
largest hedge fund, AHL.  AHL, which has underperformed its peers and lost assets to
client withdrawals, is being combined with the Man Systematic
Strategies group, Waller said. AHL’s assets under management
fell to $16.3 billion in the third quarter of last year, from
$16.7 billion three months earlier and from $19.5 billion as of
March 31.  Other recent senior-level changes include  Sandy Rattray ,
named CEO of AHL. He replaced  Tim Wong , who is now executive
chairman of AHL.  Mark Jones  and  Teun Johnston  were named co-CEOs
of GLG. Jones had been the chief operating officer of that unit.  Man Group announced the changes in internal memos over the
past few weeks, Waller said. Roman, 49, is scheduled to take
over as CEO from  Peter Clarke , 53, on Feb. 28, the same day Man
Group reports its year-end earnings.  Man Group’s share price is rebounding after declining to
63.25 pence, a 13-year low, in July. It was up 2.4 percent to
110 pence at 12:57 p.m. today, giving it a market value of 2
billion pounds ($3.1 billion).  The Financial Times reported the changes yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  