-- Manchester City, Chelsea, Wigan Rout Lower-League Teams in Cup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/manchester-city-chelsea-wigan-rout-lower-league-teams-in-cup.html
Manchester City, Chelsea and Wigan
scored a total of 12 goals as Premier League teams swept aside
lower-division opposition in English soccer’s F.A. Cup.  City had a 4-0 win against Leeds United and Wigan won 4-1
at Huddersfield in fifth-round games against second-tier clubs
yesterday. Chelsea routed third-division Brentford 4-0 in a
fourth-round replay.  City was up 2-0 within 15 minutes.  Yaya Toure  opened the
scoring in the fifth minute after playing a return pass to
 Carlos Tevez , and  Sergio Aguero  converted a penalty kick after
he was pulled back in the area. Tevez got City’s third from
close range early in the second half before Aguero completed the
scoring 16 minutes from the end.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said the Cup victory may help
lay the foundation for a recovery in the league. Defending
champion City trails leader Manchester United by 12 points
following a 3-1 loss at Southampton in its last game.  “In Italy we say that this game is a soup, a starter,”
Mancini told reporters. “I hope it can help us to start to win
in the Premier League.”  At Stamford Bridge,  Branislav Ivanovic  and  Frank Lampard 
had first-half chances for defending Cup champion Chelsea, while
Oscar hit a post for the Blues after the chance was set up by
 Juan Mata .  Marcello Trotta put the ball in the net for Brentford only
for referee Neil Swarbrick to call back play for a foul by
Chelsea. Visiting players protested that he should have played
the advantage rule.  Second-Half Goals  Mata got the breakthrough for Chelsea in the 54th minute,
slamming a left-foot shot in from just outside the penalty area.  In the 68th minute, Oscar flicked the ball into the net
from close range after Ivanovic’s cut-back from the by-line.
Three minutes later, Lampard made it 3-0 and captain  John Terry ,
returning after a knee injury, headed the fourth goal in the
81st minute.  “We couldn’t score in the first half, which would have
been even better for us, but I am pleased to score four goals
and create chances,” said Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez .  Chelsea would face record 11-time Cup champion Manchester
United in the quarterfinals if both clubs win their fifth-round
matches. United hosts Reading tonight and Chelsea faces
Middlesbrough on Feb. 27.  Wing Play  Callum McManaman’s wing play for Wigan was a constant
problem for Huddersfield. He opened the scoring for the visiting
team in the 31st minute after cutting in from the left. Arouna
Kone made it 2-0 after 40 minutes.  James McArthur added to the visitors’ tally in the 56th
minute before Lee Novak got a goal back for Huddersfield. Kone
closed the scoring with a right-foot shot just before the end.  Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  said he told McManaman he
wouldn’t be playing to prevent him from getting too excited
before the match.  “Callum is such a talented young man, he loves the game
and loves playing football and when he started to guess that he
was going to be starting he was getting too hyped up,” Martinez
said.  Two days ago, second-tier Blackburn upset Arsenal 1-0 in
the fifth round. Millwall won 3-0 at non-league Luton, Barnsley
won 3-1 at MK Dons and third-division Oldham drew 2-2 with
Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 