-- Nani Lifts Manchester United Into F.A. Cup Soccer Quarterfinals
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-19T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/manchester-united-beats-reading-to-reach-f-a-cup-quarterfinals.html
Nani  scored one goal and set up
another after coming on as a substitute as Manchester United
beat Reading 2-1 to reach the F.A. Cup soccer quarterfinals.  The Portuguese winger, who replaced the injured Phil Jones
in the first half at Old Trafford last night, opened the scoring
in the 69th minute before crossing for  Javier Hernandez  to
double the lead with header. Jobi McAnuff got Reading’s goal
with nine minutes left.  United, which won the last of its record 11 F.A. Cup titles
in 2004, will host the winner of the Feb. 27 fifth-round matchup
between Chelsea and Middlesbrough in the last eight.  “Nani deserved his goal, his contribution was terrific,”
United manager  Alex Ferguson  told ESPN. “I had a feeling he
would win the match for us.”  Nani entered the game three minutes before halftime after
Jones injured his ankle in a tackle with McAnuff. The winger
struck a post with a 20-yard volley before forcing Reading
goalkeeper Adam Federici into a save with a swerving shot.  In the second half, Federici denied Anderson with another
stop before Nani got the breakthrough, driving the ball into the
net from 12 yards after collecting  Antonio Valencia ’s pass.  Three minutes later, Nani whipped a cross into the near
post and Hernandez headed home for his 15th goal of the season.
McAnuff wriggled through United’s defense to make it 2-1 in the
81st minute and Adam Le Fondre went close to tying the match in
stoppage time.  “It is always difficult to play against this team because
they have a very good motivation to play against us,” Nani said
of Reading. “The last minutes were difficult for us.”  Ferguson said the extent of Jones’s ankle injury will be
assessed today. Premier League leader United visits last-place
Queens Park Rangers in four days before facing Norwich a week
later. The Red Devils then host Real Madrid in the return game
of their Champions League round of 16 matchup on March 5.  “It’s an ankle injury obviously so I’d imagine he’ll not
be ready for Saturday,” Ferguson said. “But we’ll see what
he’s like after that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  