-- Armenians Vote in Presidential Election Overshadowed by Shooting
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-02-18T11:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/armenians-vote-in-presidential-election-overshadowed-by-shooting.html
Armenians are voting today in an
election and will probably reaffirm the dominance of President
 Serzh Sargsyan  after a campaign that’s been dominated by one
candidate’s attempted assassination and another’s hunger strike.  Sargsyan, 59, had 69 percent support, compared with 11
percent for his nearest challenger, Raffi Hovhannisyan, a former
foreign minister, according to a Gallup poll published Feb. 9.
Voting stations close at 8 p.m. in the capital, Yerevan, with
exit polls due right after.  Armenia, which borders Iran and Turkey and fought a war
with neighboring Azerbaijan over a disputed region two decades
ago, is choosing a leader for the sixth time since independence
from the Soviet Union in 1991, with a Sargsyan win set to
bolster last year’s parliamentary victory for his Republican
Party. While the president failed to alleviate poverty that
afflicts a third of the country’s three million people, the $10
billion economy is forecast to grow more than 4 percent in 2013.  “Experience shows that Armenians prefer leaving the
country instead of voicing their protest,” said Tatul Hakobyan,
a political analyst at Civilitas Foundation in Yerevan. “People
have grown indifferent about elections after seeing over the
past 20 years elections that were neither free nor fair.”  GDP will jump 6.2 percent this year after rising 7.2
percent in 2011, the government predicts. That’s more optimistic
than the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the  World Bank , which estimate growth of 5 percent and 4.3
percent, respectively. Armenia, whose exports include zinc,
copper and semi-precious stones, relies on its far-flung
diaspora to support the economy, with remittances accounting for
about 20 percent of its economic output, according to
Commerzbank AG.  Dram, Lari  Armenia’s dram has lost 4.4 percent against the dollar over
the past year compared with a 0.2 percent drop for the lari in
neighboring Georgia and an advance of 0.2 percent for the Azeri
manat, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Voters are choosing between seven candidates, with three
including former Prime Minister Hrant Bagratyan, forecast to get
no more than 5 percent support each according to Gallup’s Jan.
25-Feb. 2 survey of 1,017 adults. It had a margin of error of
3.1 percentage points.  Paruyr Hayrikyan, a former dissident who was shot and
wounded in a Jan. 31 incident, has 5 percent backing, while
Andrias Ghukasyan, who hasn’t eaten in 29 days and calls the
ballot “fake,” has 1 percent, the Gallup survey showed.  2008 Election  Sargsyan grew up in Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous region
that broke free of Azerbaijan’s control after the Soviet
collapse and is a frequent source of tension between the two
nations. His 2008 election win triggered bloody scenes as 10
people died amid clashes between opposition protesters and
police.  The Armenian leader, whose party won 68 of Parliament’s 131
seats at elections last May, has had to overcome a 14 percent
plunge in gross domestic product in 2009 after Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.’s collapse triggered a global recession. The
proportion of people living below the poverty line has grown to
35 percent from 23.5 percent in 2008, while unemployment was 5.9
percent at the end of 2012, official data show.  Two suspects have been arrested after Hayrkyan was wounded
in a shooting near his home late on Jan. 31. After having bullet
fragments removed from his shoulder, he declined to seek a delay
in the presidential vote.  Ghukasyan, a lawyer and radio station head, has refused to
call off his hunger strike unless he’s visited by Health
Minister Derenik Dumanyan.  Another three hopefuls decided against standing at all. The
absence of challengers among the opposition will probably stem
the possibility of violence after the elections, according to
Richard Giragosian, director of the Regional Studies Center in
Yerevan.  “Conflict is lingering but will be deferred until a
political transition after Sargsyan’s second term,” he said.
“Post-election conflict or unrest is unlikely next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  