-- Armenia’s President Sargsyan Elected to Second Term With 59%
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-02-19T18:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/armenian-president-sargsyan-wins-re-election-exit-poll-shows.html
Armenian President  Serzh Sargsyan 
was re-elected to a second five-year term, beating his chief
rival by more than 20 percentage points after a campaign that’s
been overshadowed by one candidate’s attempted assassination.  Sargsyan won with 59 percent of the vote to 37 percent for
Raffi Hovhannisyan, his closest rival, with all ballots counted,
Hermine Harutyunyan, a spokeswoman for the Central Electoral
Commission in the capital, Yerevan, said by phone. While
 observers  from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe noted an improvement in the vote’s conduct, Hovhannisyan
said the results don’t “reflect the will of the people.”  Sargsyan’s victory solidifies his standing after his
Republican Party won a parliamentary ballot last year in the
landlocked country that borders Iran and Turkey and fought a war
with neighbor Azerbaijan over a disputed region two decades ago.
While the president failed to alleviate poverty that afflicts a
third of Armenia’s three million people, the $10 billion economy
is forecast to grow more than 4 percent in 2013.  “The authorities wouldn’t allow the opposition to have
success,” Manvel Sargsyan, director of the Armenian Center for
National and International Studies, said by phone. “That’s the
reality this time again. We need to see what the opposition and
society will do.”  Currency Losses  Armenia’s dram was little changed at 406.67 per dollar late
in Yerevan. The currency has lost 4.4 percent against the dollar
over the past year compared with no change for the lari in
neighboring Georgia and an advance of 0.2 percent for the Azeri
manat, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Local election observers and non-government organizations
registered more than 400 violations as of 5 p.m. yesterday in
Yerevan. The infringements included ballot stuffing and attempts
to vote more than once, they said.  “The Feb. 18 Armenian presidential election demonstrated
improvements over previous presidential elections but the
limited field of candidates meant the elections weren’t
genuinely competitive,”  Tonino Picula , head of the  OSCE 
observer mission, told reporters today.  Addressing about 2,000 people in Liberty Square in Yerevan
today, Hovhannisyan accused the Central Electoral Commission of
making a “false calculation.” Ten activists laid flowers in
front of the commission’s building, describing it as a
“corpse.”  Gunshot Wound  Paruyr Hayrikyan, a former dissident who was shot and
wounded in a Jan. 31 incident, had 1.2 percent backing, trailing
former Prime Minister Hrant Bagratyan’s 2.2 percent tally, the
Central Electoral Commission said. Andrias Ghukasyan, who hasn’t
eaten in about a month and questioned the legitimacy of the
ballot, calling it “fake,” got 0.6 percent.  Final election results are scheduled for later this week.  Gross domestic product will jump 6.2 percent this year
after rising 7.2 percent in 2011, the government predicts.
That’s more optimistic than the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the World Bank, which estimate growth of 5
percent and 4.3 percent, respectively.  The South Caucasus country, whose exports include zinc,
copper and semi-precious stones, relies on its far-flung
diaspora to support the economy, with remittances accounting for
about 20 percent of its economic output, according to
Commerzbank AG.  Disputed Region  Sargsyan grew up in Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous region
that broke free of Azerbaijan’s control after the 1991 Soviet
collapse and is a frequent source of tension between the two
nations. His 2008 election win triggered bloody scenes as 10
people died amid clashes between opposition protesters and
police.  The Armenian leader, whose party won 68 of Parliament’s 131
seats at elections last May, has had to overcome a 14 percent
plunge in gross domestic product in 2009 after Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.’s collapse triggered a global recession. The
proportion of people living below the poverty line has grown to
35 percent from 23.5 percent in 2008, while unemployment was 5.9
percent at the end of 2012, official data show.  Two suspects have been arrested after Hayrkyan was wounded
in a shooting near his home late on Jan. 31. After having bullet
fragments removed from his shoulder, he declined to seek a delay
in the presidential vote.  Hunger Strike  Ghukasyan, a lawyer and radio station head, has refused to
call off his hunger strike unless he’s visited by Health
Minister Derenik Dumanyan. In a show of solidarity, nine people
began a sit-in protest behind the National Academy of Science
yesterday.  Another three hopefuls decided against standing at all. The
absence of challengers among the opposition will probably stem
the possibility of violence after the elections, according to
Richard Giragosian, director of the Regional Studies Center in
Yerevan.  “Experience shows that Armenians prefer leaving the
country instead of voicing their protest,” said Tatul Hakobyan,
a political analyst at Civilitas Foundation in Yerevan. “People
have grown indifferent about elections after seeing over the
past 20 years elections that were neither free nor fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  