-- Asian Dollar Bonds to Get M&A Boost as Citic Telecom Plans Notes
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-18T08:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/asian-dollar-bonds-to-get-m-a-boost-as-citic-telecom-plans-notes.html
Citic Telecom International Holdings
Ltd. is planning a U.S. dollar-denominated bond sale to help pay
for a stake in Macau’s monopoly landline operator.  Citic Telecom, a unit of China’s largest state-owned
investment firm, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered Plc
and UBS AG to arrange the offering, according to a regulatory
filing today. The Hong Kong-based borrower is buying a 79
percent stake in  Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau,
S.A.R.L.  from Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA, according to a Jan. 13 statement.  Sales of notes denominated in the U.S. currency in Asia may
receive a boost in 2013 as more companies seek financing for
acquisitions, according to Credit Agricole CIB. Dealmaking
globally surged this year to $290 billion led by H.J. Heinz
Co.’s $23 billion takeover by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G
Capital Inc., a 19 percent jump from the same period of 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Conditions are ripe for a mergers and acquisitions
boom,” said  Mark Reade , a Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst
at Credit Agricole. “If that trend continues globally, we’re
sure to see more M&A involving Asian corporates and M&A-driven
bond issuance will surely follow.”  China’s Cnooc Ltd. may sell debt to refinance a bridge loan
used to pay for its $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen Inc.,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. analyst Owen
Gallimore said in December.  Bond Risk  Citic Telecom plans to meet bond investors in Singapore
tomorrow, Hong Kong on Feb. 20 and London on Feb. 21, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan slid to 110 basis points as of 4:08 p.m.
in Hong Kong, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices. The benchmark has fallen for the last two weeks,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell two basis points to 122
as of 4:58 p.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
measure ended last month at 135.2, according to CMA data.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 1.5 basis
points to 115 as of 11:33 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The gauge is headed for its second
straight daily rise after falling to its lowest in more than a
month at 112.5 on Feb. 14, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  