-- Aussie Near 2 1/2-Year Low Versus Kiwi Before RBA Minutes
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-02-18T06:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/aussie-near-2-1-2-year-low-versus-kiwi-before-rba-minutes.html
The Australian dollar traded 0.4
percent from a 2 1/2-year low versus its New Zealand peer before
minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia’s meeting this month
are released tomorrow amid prospects of lower borrowing costs.  The so-called Aussie slid for a third day against its U.S.
peer as interest-rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders are predicting RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut his
nation’s key rate to a record low this year. New Zealand’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed versus the yen after a report
showed the nation’s service industries expanded at a faster
pace. Demand for both South Pacific currencies was damped after
growth slowed in Chinese New Year holiday retail sales.  “The Aussie has been in a downtrend since January,” said
 Greg Gibbs , a Singapore-based senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The market is looking more
at fundamentals now, and the Australian economy is weakening.”  Australia’s dollar bought NZ$1.2198 as of 5:07 p.m. in
Sydney after it touched NZ$1.2143 on Feb. 15, the weakest since
July 2010. It slid 0.1 percent to $1.0294 and gained 0.4 percent
to 96.73 yen. New Zealand’s currency bought 84.39 U.S. cents
from 84.51 at the end of last week. It rose 0.4 percent to 79.30
yen.  Australia’s inflation outlook “would afford scope to ease
policy further, should that be necessary to support demand,”
Stevens said in a statement on Feb. 5 after he and his board
kept the cash rate target at 3 percent.  Record Low  Swaps data show traders see a 75 percent chance the RBA
will reduce the rate to at least 2.75 percent by the June 4
policy meeting, which would take it to the lowest level in the
central bank’s 53-year history.  The difference in the number of wagers on a rise in the
Australian dollar compared with those on a decline -- so-called
 net longs  -- dropped to 54,114 in the week through Feb. 12,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed. That’s the least since the period through
Oct. 30.  Shop and restaurant sales during the week-long Lunar New
Year festival in China, Australia’s largest trading partner and
New Zealand’s second-biggest export destination, increased at
the slowest pace in four years, according to a statement posted
Feb. 15 on the Ministry of Commerce’s website.  In New Zealand, the Performance of Services Index rose to
52.6 in January from 51.5 the previous month, according to a
report today by Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business NZ.  G-20 Effect  The Aussie and kiwi offer the best trading opportunity
against the yen, according to  Todd Elmer , head of Group of 10
foreign-exchange strategy for Asia excluding Japan at Citigroup
Inc. in Singapore. “It’s very tough for governments like
Australia, for New Zealand to keep pace” with the Bank of
Japan, he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
“They’re not going to be comfortable with the domestic impact
of easier policy.”  The yen weakened against all its major counterparts after
Japan escaped censure from Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers. Two days of talks ended in Moscow Feb. 16 with
a statement pledging not to “target our exchange rates for
competitive purposes,” without singling out Japan. Japanese
officials denied driving down their currency, saying its decline
was a byproduct of their effort to revive the economy.  Australia’s 10-year yield climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.56 percent. New Zealand’s two-year
swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates that
are sensitive to expectations for borrowing costs, added two
basis points to 3.05 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  