-- Bachoco Falls as Bird-Flu Outbreak Confirmed: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-18T18:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bachoco-falls-as-bird-flu-outbreak-confirmed-mexico-city-mover.html
Industrias Bachoco SAB , Mexico’s
biggest chicken producer, fell for a second day after the
nation’s Agriculture Ministry said bird flu cases were confirmed
on seven of the company’s farms.  Bachoco fell 1.7 percent to 30.45 pesos at 11:02 a.m. in
Mexico City, bringing the two-day drop to 3.8 percent. That
would be the worst such retreat since Dec. 21 on a closing
basis. The benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican companies was
little changed today.  The government’s Feb. 15 confirmation of Celaya-based
Bachoco’s warnings the prior day fueled concern that the company
will have to kill chickens to contain the threat. As many as
582,000 birds may have been exposed to the flu on the farms in
the central Mexican state of Guanajuato, the government said in
an e-mail.  “You have to be cautious, because we don’t yet know the
magnitude of the damage from this outbreak,”  Gerardo Copca , an
analyst at Metanalisis SA, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “That’s what’s affecting the shares.”  Bird flu in the Mexican state of Jalisco last year helped
fuel a pickup in inflation across Latin America’s second-biggest
economy as the slaughter of birds drove up egg and chicken
prices.  Bachoco had said in a Feb. 14 statement that it would take
the necessary actions if the cases were confirmed.  The Agriculture Ministry as of last week hadn’t determined
whether the flu is the same strain that infected poultry farms
in Jalisco state last year.  Diversified Production  Guanajuato has 2.4 percent of Mexico’s egg-laying chickens,
the ministry said.  Bachoco’s risks are contained because the company has
diversified its production into about 100 poultry farms,  Gustavo Teran , an analyst with Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver SAB,
said in a telephone interview before the government’s
announcement. He rates the stock a buy.  Bachoco investor relations official Claudia Cabrera didn’t
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking an update on the
outbreak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  