-- Bajnai Wants to Scrap Flat Tax, Sign Hungary Bank Pact
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-02-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bajnai-wants-to-scrap-flat-tax-sign-hungary-bank-pact.html
Gordon Bajnai , the Hungarian ex-
premier seeking to unite opposition groups to challenge Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  in a 2014 election, wants to scrap the
flat personal-income tax and sign a “growth pact” with banks.  The measures, along with steps to strengthen the rule of
law, would be part of a plan to revive investments and ignite
growth, Bajnai, 45, said in an interview. His fledgling movement
has a sixth of the support of Orban’s ruling Fidesz.  Orban has relied on extraordinary industry taxes to close
budget holes, including Europe’s highest bank levy, which helped
plunge the economy into its second recession in four years.
Bajnai’s policies focused on spending cuts during his yearlong
stint as premier until 2010. By the end of his term, the economy
was growing and the European Union’s most indebted eastern
country returned to market financing after a 2008 bailout.  “We believe we can set off a positive spiral by rebuilding
the trust of both domestic and foreign investors,” Bajnai said
Feb. 15 in Budapest. “Hungary has to go the extra mile to
regain investors’ confidence.”  The forint has gained 0.5 percent against the euro over the
past month, the fourth-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Hungary last
week raised $3.25 billion in its first sale of foreign bonds in
21 months. The government said it received $12 billion in bids
as investors disregarded the debt’s junk rating.  Investment Drop  While Orban’s focus on reducing the  budget deficit  and
public debt helped attract buyers on financial markets, the
policies he used to achieve that consolidation contributed to
dwindling investment as Europe struggles with its debt crisis
and the government restrains spending. Investment will be 17.6
percent of gross domestic product this year, the lowest since
1992, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  The “primary reason” for Hungary’s economic predicament
is the “lack of an environment that ensures the security and
profitability of investments and leads to a sustainable growth
path,” the Joint Venture Association, an lobby group for
investors in Hungary, said in a Dec. 11 statement.  Bajnai said his measures would include the introduction of
a “moderately-progressive” personal-income levy and limiting
tax changes to once a year to make policy more predictable. He
said his administration would aim to boost the country’s
potential growth rate to at least 2 percent after a first term,
from the current zero.  “The flat personal income tax has been an utter failure,”
Bajnai said, adding that it didn’t boost growth while widening
social inequality.  Tax Effects  Orban introduced the flat tax in 2011 to simplify tax
administration, boost growth and reward higher-income earners.
The measure contributed to a decline in government revenue and
forced the Cabinet to plug budget holes with industry levies
that damaged investment and growth.  A pact with lenders would be aimed at a “gradual”
reduction of the bank tax to the average European level in
exchange for a boost in lending, he said. Any agreement would
also be tied to strengthened consumer-protection laws for
borrowers.  Extraordinary taxes levied on energy and telecommunication 
companies would also be reduced gradually to the European level 
as part of agreements with companies to boost investments, 
Bajnai said.  The government wants to provide “aggressive incentives”
to commercial banks to boost lending, Gyula Pleschinger, an
Economy Ministry state secretary, told state radio MR1 over the
weekend. “Informal” talks with banks that are under way may
end with a deal in the spring, he said.  Euro Adoption  Adopting the euro is “useful” only if the economy is
competitive and if Hungary can join at a “competitive exchange
rate,” Bajnai said, adding that he would adhere to keeping the
budget gap below 3 percent of output.  Hungary, along with the other former communist countries of
Europe, agreed to eventually adopt the euro when it joined the
27-nation bloc in 2004.  Slovenia, Slovakia and Estonia have switched currencies,
while Latvia plans to join the euro area next year and
Lithuania’s government on Jan. 25 pledged to seek entry in 2015.
Polish President  Bronislaw Komorowski  will meet with government
members tomorrow to discuss Poland’s currency path.  Bajnai is competing with Socialist Party President  Attila Mesterhazy  to unite disparate opposition parties to challenge
Orban in elections scheduled for the second quarter of 2014.  Orban’s Fidesz party leads in polls, with 18 percent
support, versus 13 percent for the Socialists, 8 percent for the
radical Jobbik party and 3 percent for Bajnai’s Egyutt 2014
group, according to a February Ipsos poll, state-owned MTI news
service reported today, without providing the sample size or the
margin of error.  Bajnai, who joined the political fray in October, has said
he is targeting undecided voters, an estimated 55 percent of
eligible voters in the Ipsos poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  