-- Bancolombia Drops After Semana Report of HSBC Panama Bid
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-02-18T23:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bancolombia-drops-after-semana-report-of-hsbc-panama-bid.html
Bancolombia SA , Colombia’s largest
bank, dropped after a report from Semana magazine that the
lender is in talks with  HSBC Holdings Plc  to buy the London-
based bank’s unit in Panama.  The Colombian bank’s preferred shares, which are more
actively traded than the common stock, dropped 0.4 percent to
30,680 pesos at the close in Bogota after earlier falling as
much as 1.1 percent. The benchmark  Colcap Index  rose 0.2
percent.  Bancolombia  is in talks to buy HSBC’s Panamanian operations
in a deal that may be valued at about $1.9 billion, Semana said
on its website without saying where it got the information. The
bank on Feb. 8 said it would propose to raise money through a
preferred share sale at an annual meeting in March. That
disclosure sent the stock tumbling 3.2 percent on the next
trading day.  “The market may be seeing greater odds of a share sale if
this deal goes through,” said  Valeria Marconi , an analyst at
Correval SA brokerage in Bogota.  HSBC reached agreements last year with two other Colombian
banks to sell units in Latin America. In January 2012 Bogota-
based Banco Davivienda SA agreed to buy HSBC’s operations in
Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras for $801 million. Then in
May, Bogota-based Banco GNB Sudameris SA agreed to pay about
$400 million in cash for HSBC’s businesses in Colombia, Peru,
Uruguay and Paraguay.  Heidi Ashley, a spokeswoman at HSBC in London, and Martha
Acosta, a spokeswoman for Medellin-based Bancolombia, separately
declined to comment.  In 2006 HSBC agreed to pay $1.77 billion in cash for
Panama-based Grupo Banistmo SA, which at the time was the owner
of Panama’s largest bank and insurance company. Banistmo also
had branches in Costa Rica, Honduras, Colombia and Nicaragua,
according to HSBC’s July 2006  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  