-- Bangladesh Islamists Warn of Anarchy After War Crime Changes
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-02-18T10:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bangladesh-islamists-warn-of-anarchy-after-war-tribunal-changes.html
The biggest Islamic party in
Bangladesh said the government’s decision to strengthen the
powers of a war crimes tribunal risked plunging the country into
anarchy and vowed to enforce a nationwide strike.  Prime Minister  Sheikh Hasina Wajed  yesterday enabled the
International Crimes Tribunal to punish any organization whose
members carried out crimes during Bangladesh’s fight for
independence. The move sparked  reports  the government was
preparing to ban Jamaat-e-Islami, an extremist group which sided
with Pakistan during the 1971 war and whose members account for
nine of the dozen people facing the tribunal.  Previously judges could only put individuals on trial. In
another change, prosecutors can now appeal any of the panel’s
verdicts. The amendments came as protests continued in central
Dhaka’s  Shahbag Square  to demand the death sentence for a senior
Jamaat official sent to jail for life for his offenses.  The weekend amendments are a “plot to push the country
into severe anarchy,” Rafiqul Islam Khan, acting secretary
general of Jamaat, said in a statement yesterday published on
the party’s website. The government is set on “gaining
political revenge.”  As British colonial rule ended in South Asia in 1947, East
and West Pakistan were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241
miles) of Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted
to quell a nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered
by the jailing of Hasina’s father,  Sheikh Mujibur Rahman , who
had led his Awami League to victory in elections. The war ended
nine months later with the creation of Bangladesh after Indian
forces helped defeat Pakistan’s army.  War Crimes  In a sign of the widespread anger the alleged mass murders,
rapes and abductions four decades ago can still provoke, the
Dhaka protest site has drawn bloggers, writers, singers,
teachers, students, and the country’s cricket team over the last
two weeks. Police say the gathering has at times swelled to
100,000 people. Demonstrators continued to gather today, holding
black flags to protest the attempted strike.  At least three people died in separate incidents today
during clashes related to the shutdown, the Daily Star reported.  While the prime minister says the tribunal is about
righting an historic wrong, opponents have called the trials
politically motivated. Jamaat is an ally of Hasina’s main rival,
the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, and won nearly 5 percent of
votes cast in the nation’s parliamentary election in 2008,
according to the Bangladesh Election Commission.  Jail Term  With the toughened powers of the tribunal, “it is possible
to ban Jamaat-e-Islami,” said Ahsan H. Mansur, executive
director of the Dhaka-based  Policy Research Institute . “The
amendment has opened an option to ban the party if it is found
guilty by the war crimes tribunal. But pro-Jamaat people will
still be there and reemerge in a different form. And there will
be voters for them,” he said.  The protests, which began after the tribunal Feb. 5 gave a
jail term to Jamaat leader Abdul Quader Mollah, put pressure on
the government to amend the war crimes law by plugging
loopholes, said Shantanu Majumder, a teacher of political
science at Dhaka University.  “All credit goes to the Shahbag movement. It boosted
confidence in the government in amending the law. Changes were
long overdue,” Majumder said.  The protesters defend their call for the death penalty for
the guilty by saying that people like Mollah would be freed from
jail if Jamaat once again has a role in government. A former
Jamaat leader was sentenced to death in absentia in the
tribunal’s first ruling.  “Jamaat doesn’t believe in democracy,” Hasina told
reporters on Feb. 16 in the capital. “The party that believes
in terrorism has no right to politics in an independent
Bangladesh.” She was speaking after  Ahmed Rajib Haider , a
blogger and co-organizer of the Shahbag movement, was found dead
near his house. Activists blamed Jamaat for his killing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  