-- Berlusconi ’Scare’ Victory May Best for Italy: Mediobanca
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-18T13:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/berlusconi-scare-victory-may-best-for-italy-mediobanca.html
Victory by Silvio Berlusconi may be
the best outcome from Italian elections this week as it “would
scare the market,” prompting Europe’s fourth-biggest economy to
get a bailout to lower borrowing costs,  Mediobanca SpA  said.  A Berlusconi win in Feb. 24-25 parliamentary elections
would lead to higher Italian bond yields,  Antonio Guglielmi , an
analyst at Mediobanca in London, said in a report today. Higher
borrowing costs would offer “the perfect excuse” to apply for
a rescue led by the European Central Bank, which is “the best
way out” of Italy’s unsustainable debt levels, he wrote.  Italy sidestepped asking for an ECB-led bailout last year
as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s tax increases helped reduce
borrowing costs, shielding the nation from the worst of the
sovereign debt crisis. Berlusconi, a three-time premier, has
vowed to reverse Monti’s austerity policies if re-elected.  “Paradoxically, the worst-case scenario could become the
best case to us,” Guglielmi said of a possible Berlusconi win
and subsequent bailout request. Mediobanca is Italy’s largest
publicly-traded investment bank.  Italian borrowing costs, which reached euro-era records in
November 2011, have declined sharply since ECB President Mario
Draghi pledged in July to do “whatever it takes” to save the
euro. Italy’s 10-year bond yield was 4.416 percent at 2:37 p.m.
in Rome, compared with a record 7.261 percent on Nov. 25, 2011.  Anti-Austerity Crusader  Berlusconi is seeking a comeback 15 months after his
inability to contain the debt crisis forced him to resign as
premier. His parliamentary forces supported Monti’s budget rigor
for 13 months before Berlusconi began the election campaign by
reinventing himself as an anti-austerity crusader.  “The austerity recipe applied to all of Europe produced a
general crisis,” Berlusconi said today at an event in Monza
organized by business lobby Confindustria and televised by Sky.  Berlusconi has promised to repeal the property tax on
primary residences and lower corporate levies if his coalition
wins the election. The 76-year-old billionaire, who is appealing
an October tax fraud conviction, has also vowed to refund more
than $5 billion of 2012 property tax payments if he is returned
to power.  Berlusconi was running second in opinion surveys 10 days
ago before a two-week polling black out began. His coalition had
27.8 percent in a Feb. 8 SWG Institute poll, compared with 33.8
percent for the forces of Pier Luigi Bersani. Monti had 13.4
percent support and comic Beppe Grillo had 18.8 percent,
according to SWG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 