-- Billabong’s New Bids Leave Traders Shunning Risky Bet
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-02-19T22:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/billabong-s-new-bids-leave-traders-shunning-risky-bet.html
Not even two competing bids for
 Billabong International Ltd.  are enough to convince traders the
Australian surfwear maker will be able to seal a deal.  The retailer has opened its books to two groups of suitors
with preliminary offers of A$527 million ($544 million). Two
other buyers abandoned higher proposals last year, and traders
are doubtful either A$1.10-a-share bid will be consummated.
Billabong closed yesterday 12 percent below the latest offers,
the third-widest gap among similar-sized deals in developed
Asia-Pacific nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “After all the failed attempts and the lack of confidence
in management, there’s no confidence in the due diligence
process,”  Stan Shamu , market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in a phone interview. “The discount is pricing
in the potential for the due diligence process to reveal some
cobwebs. A lot of investors aren’t willing to take that risk.”  While the bids rank as the cheapest versus sales among
apparel deals since 2007, Commonwealth Bank of Australia says
the two groups -- one featuring Altamont Capital Partners and VF
Corp., and the other including director  Paul Naude  and Sycamore
Partners -- may pull their offers after evaluating Billabong.
There’s also a risk that Billabong’s largest shareholder,
founder  Gordon Merchant , won’t sell, after he shunned a sweeter
proposal last year, Elevation LLC said.  Billabong today fell  2.1 percent , the most in almost three
weeks, to 94.5 cents in Sydney. The decline cut the company’s
market value to A$453 million.  Fortune Reversal  Chris Fogarty , a spokesman for Gold Coast, Australia-based
Billabong, declined to comment on the prospects for a takeover
or the plans of Merchant, who is also a Billabong director.
Michael Freitag, a spokesman for Sycamore in New York, said the
firm and its bidding group had no comment.  Altamont also had no comment, Aman Battish, a
representative for the Palo Alto, California-based private-
equity firm, said in an e-mail. VF is pursuing Billabong as part
of its expansion of brands affiliated with sports and outdoor
activities, Chief Executive Officer  Eric Wiseman  said last week.  “When you look at the surf space and think about iconic
brands in the space, Billabong has to hit your radar,” Wiseman
said in phone interview Feb. 15. He declined to elaborate on the
due diligence VF has carried out on Billabong.  Formed in 1973 when Merchant started making surf shorts on
Australia’s east coast, Billabong’s  market value  reached A$3.84
billion in May 2007, while its sales reached a peak of A$1.7
billion in the year ending June 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The fortunes  reversed  as big clothing store chains
introduced new surfwear brands and consumer spending slumped
during the world’s debt crisis.  Closing Stores  Early in 2012, Billabong said it would close as many as 150
of its 677 stores worldwide, cut jobs and sell control of
accessory-maker Nixon, considered at the time to be its most
lucrative unit. Meanwhile, sales are  expected  by analysts to
fall to A$1.3 billion this year, the lowest since 2007 and down
8 percent from a year earlier.  Billabong, whose  biggest market  is the U.S., last year
reported its first annual loss since a 2000 initial public
offering. The company has cut its profit forecasts at least 10
times since the year ended June 2008, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. On Dec. 19, Billabong reduced earnings estimates for
the year ending June 30 by as much as 49 percent. Chief
Financial Officer  Craig White  left the next day.  “The earnings have been so poor, and trending worse, that
it’s hard to justify a price much higher than what has been
proposed,”  John Maysles , an event-driven senior analyst at
Elevation in Los Angeles, said by e-mail. Investors are
concerned about “any buyer’s willingness to make a higher
offer, if any offer at all, after combing through the data.”  Cheapest Company  The two A$527 million bids, excluding Billabong’s debt,
represent a 63 percent discount to the company’s sales through
last June. That’s a lower revenue multiple than any purchase of
an apparel manufacturer worth more than $100 million since the
September 2007 takeover of Kellwood Co. by Sun Capital Partners
Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as the list of suitors interested in Billabong grows,
investors are reluctant to bet on a deal because Australia’s
stock market has offered more certain profits in  recent weeks ,
said  Peter Esho , chief market analyst in Sydney at City Index
Ltd., a London-based provider of trading services in bonds,
stocks and commodities.  “When the market’s going up, nobody wants to be caught
with another loser, another possible takeover which didn’t occur
from a serial offender,” he said in a phone interview. “There
are probably easier places in the market to make money.”  Other Suitors  Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index  has risen 16
percent in the past six months compared with a 2.5 percent gain
in the previous half year. The Standard and Poor’s 500 index, by
comparison, is up 7.2 percent in the past six months.  Billabong ended trading yesterday at 96.5 Australian cents,
or 12 percent blow the A$1.10-a-share bids. Only Perth-based
iron ore miner Sundance Resources Ltd. and Brisbane-based coal-
seam gas explorer Westside Corp. are trading further below their
pending takeover offers, among deals worth more than $100
million in the developed Asia-Pacific region, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Another potential barrier to a deal is Billabong’s founder
Merchant, said Maysles at Elevation. Merchant owns more than 14
percent of the company,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  TPG Capital, the Texas-based buyout firm owned by David
Bonderman, pitched four different offers to Billabong last year,
ranging from A$3.30 for each share down to A$1.45. After
Merchant’s lawyers said in February last year he wouldn’t sell
for less than A$4 a share, TPG’s lowest bid five months later
included an offer to Merchant to ringfence his own stake.  TPG walked away in October without giving any reasons.  Stake Builders  An unnamed bidder, which people familiar with the matter
identified as Bain Capital LLC, dropped an offer in September
after carrying out due diligence.  “What are investors supposed to think?” said Shamu at IG
Markets. “Is there something preventing all these bids from
going through? No one really knows what’s in these books.
There’s definitely a lot of skepticism.”  Not everyone’s dismissing Billabong. TIAA-CREF, owner of
the fourth-largest U.S. life and health insurer, holds a 6.2
percent stake after buying shares between October and February.
The group’s TIAA-CREF Investment Management unit and Teachers
Advisors Inc. acquired shares for between 84 cents and A$1.05
each, below the latest takeover bids, a Feb. 6  filing  shows.  VF’s Motives  VF, the largest U.S. clothing company and owner of The
North Face, Wrangler and Reef labels, is mainly interested in
the Billabong brand for its actions sports business. Naude, a
former professional surfer in the 1970s, is bidding with
Sycamore Partners, a New York-based private equity firm that
focuses on retail investments.  Naude, who leads Billabong’s U.S. business, was granted
access to Billabong’s books on Dec. 24, and VF and Altamont
followed on Jan. 14. Altamont  says  it prefers complicated
targets that are falling short of their potential, even if they
soak up time and resources.  Billabong said Jan. 14 it may take six weeks to determine
whether it can reach an acceptable agreement with either suitor.  “Both groups bidding for Billabong, and in particular the
VF Corp. group, stand a good chance to turn Billabong around,”
 Albert Saporta , head of research at Makor Capital Ltd. and a
Geneva-based managing director of AIM&R, an alternative
investment research firm and hedge fund group, said by e-mail.
AIM&R and Makor have a research joint venture, he said. He
expects an agreement at A$1.10 a share or higher.  TPG, Bain  Still, investors haven’t forgotten the collapse last year
of proposals from TPG and Bain, said  Jordan Rogers , an analyst
in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank. If due diligence fails to yield
a bid, Billabong will face pressure to raise cash by selling
stock, probably for less than 70 cents each, he said.  “The issues at Billabong are significant,” Rogers said in
a phone interview. “There is a risk that after you do due
diligence, you decide you’re not even going to try.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  