-- Goldman, BlackRock Reopen Euro Money Funds as Yields Rise
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-18T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/blackrock-re-opens-euro-money-market-fund-amid-climbing-yields.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  joined
 BlackRock Inc.  in reopening euro-denominated money-market funds
to new clients as yields on the safest debt rose.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, lifted a
restriction on new investment in its 17.7 billion-euro ($24
billion) Institutional Euro Liquidity Fund this month,  Mark Stockley , the firm’s head of international cash sales, said in
an interview in London on Feb. 14. Goldman reopened its Euro
Government Liquid Reserves fund to new subscriptions last week,
spokeswoman Anisha Patel said by phone.  BlackRock placed restrictions on investors putting money
into two euro-denominated funds in July, while Goldman shut its
government fund, after the European Central Bank cut its deposit
rate to nil and yields on the safest government debt tumbled.
The yield on German  three-month notes  rose above zero percent
last month for the first time since May as ECB policy makers
left rates unchanged.  “We’ve seen a modest improvement in the short-dated euro
market to the point where, in the prime fund, we’re able to
place investments and are therefore accepting subscriptions,”
said Stockley.  The one-month yield on BlackRock’s Euro Liquidity Fund was
0.15 percent in January, the New York-based firm said.
BlackRock’s fund invests in top-rated commercial paper issued by
governments, banks and companies and is the firm’s biggest
money-market fund in the currency.  BlackRock is keeping restrictions imposed on its Euro
Government Liquidity Fund, though it will monitor the market
“until hopefully we see more signs of improvement,” Stockley
said.  Goldman Fund  Goldman’s government fund has about 644 million euros under
management and is open for clients to deposit 25 million euros a
day each, the New York-based bank said. Its Euro Liquid Reserves
Fund, which had a 25 million-euro daily limit, is now allowing
inflows of 250 million euros per client per day. The fund
manages about 10.1 billion euros, the company said.  Money-market funds invest in short-term, high-grade debt
securities that are safe and liquid with the aim that clients
are guaranteed their money back.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the world’s biggest provider of
money-market funds, also closed euro funds last year as it
became more difficult to invest clients’ assets at a profit. The
manager has since reopened its Euro Liquidity Fund, Euro Money
Market Fund, Euro Liquid Market Fund and JPMorgan Series II Fund
in euros, Jim Fuell, head of global liquidity EMEA, said by
phone. The firm’s Euro Government Liquidity Fund remains closed
to new money, he said.  Restrictions Relaxed  “The restrictions that we put in place in July were in the
best interest of all our shareholders and they were gradually
relaxed over time,” Fuell said. The manager reopened the funds
in November, when the market was indicating a very low
likelihood of a further rate cut by the European Central Bank,
he said.  President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 7 the decision to
continue to hold rates at record low levels was unanimous and
economic activity in the euro area should gradually recover this
year.  Gross domestic product  in the region shrank 0.6 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said Feb. 14, stoking
appetite for the safest securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Linsell  in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  