-- BlackRock Sounds Covered Bond Collateral Alarm: Credit Markets
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-02-18T15:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/blackrock-sounds-covered-bond-collateral-alarm-credit-markets.html
The world’s  biggest  investors are
warning that a plan to introduce new collateral into the $3.5
trillion covered bond market risks undermining the safety of
securities pioneered in 18th-century Prussia.  BlackRock Inc.  said using loans to small- and medium-sized
companies, or SMEs, to back the securities rather than safer
real estate or public-sector debt may devalue the asset class.
Pacific Investment Management Co. said the first European deal,
being marketed now by Commerzbank AG, may call into question SME
issues as true  covered bonds  if it fails to qualify for indexes
benchmarking performance.  “We should be very protective of the covered bond market
because it’s had certain features for so many years, including
the resilience of the collateral, and it’s a very safe asset
class,” said  Jozef Prokes , a London-based fund manager at
BlackRock, which oversees $3.79 trillion as the world’s largest
money manager. “We don’t think these are covered bonds.”  Germany’s second-biggest bank is selling the notes with
junk-rated company loan collateral after exiting property
lending, where losses helped trigger an 18 billion-euro ($24
billion) state bailout in 2009. Europe’s real estate slump
curbed global covered bond sales to 34.5 billion euros since
Jan. 1, the slowest start to a year since 2009 and less than
half the 87.8 billion euros issued in the same period last year.  Program Created  Frankfurt-based Commerzbank set up a 5 billion-euro  program 
to sell the notes in December. The first securities will be
guaranteed by the lender and a pool of 650 million euros of
company loans, according to a presentation to investors seen by
Bloomberg News.  More than 75 percent of the collateral will be high-yield
debt, though the bank guarantee means the notes are due to be
ranked AA by Fitch Ratings, its third-highest investment-grade
ranking, according to the presentation.  In grading the bonds, Fitch assumed a recovery rate, or the
percentage of a defaulted loan repayable in foreclosure or
bankruptcy, of about 8.8 percent for the underlying company
debt. That compares with 58 percent to 87 percent that Fitch
assumes on German mortgage-backed covered bonds.  Karsten Swoboda, a spokesman for Commerzbank in Frankfurt,
declined to comment on the deal or the investors’ concerns.  Index Decision  A decision on whether the Commerzbank notes will be
admitted to indexes will be taken after they’re issued,
according to the bank’s presentation. Markit Group Ltd. and
Barclays Plc administer two of the most popular indexes.  “For this asset class to be recognized it’s key to see
whether the deal is admitted in the Barclays or iBoxx covered
bond indexes,” said  Timo Boehm , a Munich-based fund manager at
Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund. If they aren’t,
he said, “investors may question the nature of the asset class
as a real covered bond.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of insuring company
debt was little changed in Europe while U.S. markets are closed
for a holiday.  ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s biggest steelmaker,
was among companies to raise money in debt markets.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps tied
to 125 investment-grade companies held at 113 basis points as of
3:03 p.m. in London, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The gauge, which investors use to hedge against losses or
speculate on creditworthiness, declined three basis last week,
snapping four weeks of increases.  U.S. Risk  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
swaps dropped 2.4 basis points last week to a mid-price of 86.9
basis points. The gauges typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Essen-based  ThyssenKrupp  sold 1.25 billion euros of bonds
due August 2018 in its first benchmark-sized deal in a year.
Bayerische Landesbank, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and
UniCredit SpA managed the sale, said a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the deal isn’t
public.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold company debt
around the world instead of benchmark government securities fell
to 146 basis points, or 1.46 percentage points, from 149 basis
points on Feb. 8, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Corporate Index. The spread touched a three-year low of
142 basis points on Jan. 4.  Sales Slump  Sales of company debt worldwide declined to $40.9 billion
last week, from $53.8 billion in the five days to Feb. 8,
according to Bloomberg data.  Vodafone Group Plc  raised $6
billion in the largest dollar issue in almost a month as the
world’s second-biggest wireless carrier was said to be preparing
an approach to take over German rival  Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG  as soon as this week.  Covered bonds started in 1769, when Prussia’s  King Frederick  let aristocrats, churches and monasteries raise money
by pledging their estates as security. Denmark followed suit
after the 1797 fire that destroyed Copenhagen.  Commerzbank’s issue may be about 500 million euros and have
a maturity of five years, Fitch said when the debt program was
announced. Covered bonds are cheaper for banks to issue than
unsecured notes, with average yields falling to a record 1.95
percent, from 3.2 percent a year ago and 1.98 percent on Jan. 1,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Covered Bond index shows.  In its presentation to investors, Commerzbank said it’s
seeking to expand its base of SMEs by 15 percent in the next
four years.  ‘Physical Collateral’  Eberhard Hackel, a Frankfurt-based senior director at
Fitch, said “at least two other issuers” are considering SME
loan-backed covered bonds, without naming them.  Pricing of an SME loan-backed deal “should be wider than
for traditional covered bonds, where you ultimately have
recourse to physical collateral,” said  Jean Michel Tremet , the
Paris-based senior analyst for financials and covered bonds at
AXA Investment Managers, which oversees the equivalent of about
$382 billion. “This isn’t necessarily the case for SME loans.”  Commerzbank  is seeking to sell the loan-backed notes as
Europe’s share of the global covered bond market declines,
according to Credit Agricole SA data.  Korea to Australia  European banks are taking advantage of investor demand for
riskier securities to sell senior bonds that don’t tie up their
assets, while covered bond issuance is springing up elsewhere in
the world as new laws are implemented from Chile to South Korea
and Australia.  Covered bonds yield an average 61 basis points less than
corporate debt as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate index. A year ago, the secured
bank debt yielded just five basis points less.  Covered bonds earned investors 8.5 percent in the past 12
months, more than twice the gain for AAA rated German government
bunds and six times that of U.S. Treasuries, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  European investment-grade corporate bonds returned 8.7
percent in the past year, the data show.  “While it makes sense from the issuer perspective trying
to put more bonds under the label of covered bonds because the
issuer can get better terms, the risk is the inherent quality
features of the asset class end up diluted,” said BlackRock’s
Prokes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  