-- Bourse IPO No Moscow Boost to Otkritie: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-18T10:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bourse-ipo-no-moscow-boost-to-otkritie-russia-overnight.html
The  Moscow Exchange ’s $498 million
debut on Russian markets will probably fail in enticing
companies to list exclusively on the bourse, according to
Otkritie Financial Corp. The shares slid below their offer price
in intraday trading for a second day.  The initial public offering of Russia’s main stock and
fixed-income exchange was the biggest on in Moscow since 2007.
The Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund invested $80
million in the IPO and attracted $200 million from other funds,
Chief Executive Officer  Kirill Dmitriev  said Feb. 15. Chengdong
Investment Corp., a unit of Chinese sovereign wealth fund CIC
International Co., also invested, according to two people with
knowledge of the deal who asked not to be named.  The IPO, which priced at the bottom of its target range,
“was a political, rather than a market IPO,”  Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief strategist at Otkritie, the third-biggest
 trader  of Russian equities, said by phone from Moscow Feb. 15.
“What Russian companies learned from this is that if they want
to raise money their best bet is still foreign markets, unless
of course there is a big state-owned fund that is willing to buy
their shares domestically.”  Shares  of the exchange lost as much as 1.5 percent today
before trading down 0.1 percent at 54.94 rubles as of 1:47 p.m.
in Moscow. They ended their first trading day Feb. 15 unchanged
at the IPO price of 55 rubles, after falling as much as 0.4
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Putin’s Strategy  The nation’s 50-stock Micex Index slid 0.8 percent last
week, while the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index  of the most-
traded Russian shares in the U.S. tumbled 1.3 percent to a one-
month low.  Futures  on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index fell
0.5 percent to 156,550 in U.S. hours Feb. 15.  The exchange, created out of a merger between the Micex and
the RTS, is at the center of President  Vladimir Putin ’s push to
make Moscow a global financial center. The bourse has been
modernizing to lure companies and investors deterred from the
local market by rules such as the requirement for trading
accounts to be set up through local custodians and the practice
of immediate settlement.  Of the $5.8 billion in IPOs undertaken by Russian companies
in the past two years, $689.1 million was raised exclusively on
the Moscow market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average value of Russia’s biggest companies is about 51 percent
higher in London than in Moscow, separate Bloomberg data show.
Companies seeking foreign listings domicile abroad so that they
can get around Russian law requiring them to also sell shares
domestically.  ‘Broad Range’  RDIF, the Kremlin’s private equity fund, attracted other
investors to the exchange before the IPO, according to a Feb. 15
statement.  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager,
the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development, Cartesian
Capital Group LLC and China Investment Corp., known as CIC, have
all co-invested in the bourse, CEO Dmitriev said.  “We set an example for many Russian companies,” Moscow
Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Afanasiev  said in a
Feb. 15 interview. “Our target was to prove it is quite
possible to make a very successful IPO locally. We got a really
broad range of investors. It’s a very good example of the
potential.”  OAO MegaFon , Russia’s second-biggest mobile phone provider,
mining company  Polymetal International Plc.  and oil producer
RusPetro Plc., domiciled in the U.K., are among Russian
companies that chose to sell shares abroad in the past two
years. State-controlled  OAO Sberbank , the nation’s biggest
lender and an organizer of the Moscow Exchange IPO, issued both
local shares and global depositary receipts in its 159.3
billion-ruble ($5.3 billion) secondary offering in September.  Fast-Growing  “The company has no track record, it’s a risk,”  Elena Loven , who helps manage 70 billion euros as a fund manager at
Swedbank Robur, said by phone Feb. 15. “We can say it’s not
cheap. On the other hand, fast-growing companies are expensive
everywhere, in Russia and abroad.” Swedbank Robur’s funds
purchased shares in the IPO and sought to buy at the low end of
the range, she said.  Last week’s exchange IPO was the biggest entirely on the
local market since OAO Polymetal, Polymetal International’s
Russian unit, raised $630 million in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Russian companies will still be eying listing on foreign
exchanges as their first priority,”  Igor Nuzhdin , an analyst at
Alfa Capital Management, which manages $2 billion in equities
and fixed income, said by phone from Moscow Feb. 15. “There is
not enough demand on Russia’s domestic market, while foreign
investors still prefer depositary receipts.”  Yandex Rating  The Bloomberg Russia-US stock gauge slid 0.8 percent to
102.93 Feb. 15. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the biggest U.S.
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, decreased 1.1
percent to $29.99 Feb. 15, dropping 1.3 percent last week. The
 RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected swings in the
index futures, rose 1.4 percent to 22.11.  Yandex NV , Russia’s biggest Internet company, rallied 3.6
percent to $25.59 last week, the steepest jump in the Russia-
U.S. gauge.  “Russian Internet provides the best opportunity to gain
exposure to the consumer story,” Boris Vilidnitsky and Roman
Arbuzov, analysts at Barclays Plc in London, wrote in a Feb. 15
report where they rated Yandex the equivalent of buy in initial
coverage. “Yandex is best positioned to benefit from Internet
and advertising growth.”  Oil for March delivery fell 1.5 percent to $95.86 a barrel
in New York Feb. 15. Brent oil slid 0.3 percent to $117.66 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals
crude  declined 0.1 percent to $116.06.  Ruble Steady  The ruble was little changed at 30.12 per dollar in Moscow
todayu. The currency was steady at 34.6658 against the dollar-
euro basket used by the central bank to minimize swings in the
ruble that hurt exporters.  Futures on the currency showed it steady at 30.259 per
dollar Feb. 15.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
lost 0.2 percent to HK$4.74 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:30
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  