-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Climb on Inflation Outlook; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-18T21:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-inflation-outlook-real-little-changed.html
Brazil’s swap rates rose on renewed
speculation that policy makers may increase benchmark borrowing
costs this year to contain inflation running faster than the
central bank’s target.  Swap rates rose, with the contract due in January 2015
increasing 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8.45
percent at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. The real advanced
0.3 percent to 1.9633 per dollar, after earlier gaining as much
as 0.5 percent. U.S. markets are closed today for a national
holiday.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week that the
government will do whatever it takes to fight inflation and
signaled an interest-rate increase may be an option. The pace of
price increases in Brazil reached a one-year high of 6.15
percent in January and has exceeded the 4.5 percent mid-point of
policy makers’ target for more than two years.  “The official discourse about inflation has changed,”
 Flavio Serrano , a senior economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s possible
that they’ll use a mix of policies, with the currency a little
stronger and some increase in borrowing costs.”  The central bank has reduced benchmark borrowing costs by
5.25 percentage points since August 2011 in the most aggressive
cuts among Group of 20 nations.  GDP Growth  Economists lowered their Brazil growth forecasts,
predicting gross domestic product will expand 3.08 percent this
year and 3.65 percent in 2014, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts published today.
That compares with last week’s projections for growth of 3.09
percent in 2013 and 3.80 percent next year. The analysts also
cut their forecast for 2013 inflation for the first time since
November, to 5.70 percent from 5.71 percent.  Consumer prices in Brazil’s seven biggest cities, as
measured by the IPC-S index, rose 0.55 percent in the month
through mid-February, less than the 0.62 percent forecast of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Today’s reduced GDP forecasts and better-than-expected
inflation figures had little impact on the rate futures market
because local investors are focused on signals from the
government that inflation is becoming a more serious concern,
according to  Joao Junior , a fixed-income trader at Icap Brasil
DTVM in Rio de Janeiro.  “The interest rate isn’t fixed. If you have more worrying
inflation, it can move, but this is up to the central bank to
decide,” Mantega said in an interview from Moscow Feb. 15.
“The government will do what it takes to keep inflation under
control.”  Real’s Gain  Mantega also said the government won’t allow the currency
to appreciate too much. The real has strengthened 4.5 percent
this year, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The central bank sold $1.35 billion of reverse currency
swap contracts on Feb. 15, the same day as Mantega’s comments.
Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps to
prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering reverse
currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real from
strengthening beyond 2 per U.S. dollar.  The real pared gains today amid growing speculation the
central bank will lift borrowing costs this year, reducing the
need to control inflation through currency appreciation, said
 Alfredo Barbutti , an economist at Liquidez DTVM in Sao Paulo.  “The market is betting on an interest-rate hike,” he said
in a telephone interview. “If the central bank really does
raise rates to contain inflation, as the market is now betting,
maybe the government won’t need such a weak dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  