-- Bulgaria Fires Finance Minister After Spending Protests
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-18T15:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bulgaria-fires-finance-minister-after-spending-protests.html
Bulgarian Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov , who’s been praised by the European Union for reining in
spending, was fired after thousands of people marched in protest
at austerity four months before general elections.  Prime Minister  Boyko Borissov , who faces re-election July
7, wants the remit of  Tomislav Donchev , the minister in charge
of EU funds management, widened to include the Finance Ministry,
the government said today in an e-mailed statement from the
capital, Sofia. Regional Development and Public Works Minister
 Liliana Pavlova  will assume Djankov’s duties as a deputy
premier, it said.  Bulgarians demonstrated yesterday in dozens of cities,
blocking main roads to demand higher wages and lower energy
bills. Four people were arrested after clashes in Sofia, while
protesters threw stones and broke windows at the office of Czech
utility Energo-Pro in the Black Sea city of Varna, police said.  Djankov, who’d been finance minister since 2009, won EU and
International Monetary Fund plaudits for his tight spending
policy as Bulgaria navigated the global economic crisis without
borrowing abroad. The economy of the EU’s poorest country by
per-capita output expanded 0.5 percent from a year earlier in
the three months through December, the 10th quarter of growth.  ‘Bad Signal’  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated government bond
due 2017 rose 12 basis points to 2.116 percent at 5:01 p.m. in
Sofia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Djankov’s exit is “a bad signal to international markets”
as the minister was seen as “a guarantor of financial
stability,”  George Prohaski , head of the Center for Economic
Development in Sofia, said today by phone. “It would be unwise
for reasonable spending policy to be overtaken by excessive
spending in the few months before the election to sooth various
forms of social unrest.”  In addition to the anti-austerity rallies, far-right
activists burned an EU flag in Sofia and farmers awaiting
overdue subsidy payments threatened a nationwide protest.  The government transferred 840 million lev ($573 million)
from the fiscal reserve on Feb. 15 for farm subsidies that the
EU will reimburse within 45 days, the Agriculture Ministry in
Sofia said today. The Finance Ministry had delayed the payments
from Jan. 31 because of a lack of funds after Bulgaria repaid
835 million euros of bonds that matured Jan. 15.  ‘Long Overdue’  “This resignation was long overdue,” Konstantin Trenchev,
leader of the Podkrepa trade union, said in an interview with
National Bulgarian Radio today. “His austerity policies led
many small companies into bankruptcy, raising unemployment and
causing widespread poverty.”  Djankov, 43, who worked previously at the World Bank in
Washington, instigated a cap on future budget deficits that
lawmakers approved last month. The gap, which the government
plans to keep at 1.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2013,
will be limited to 2 percent to ensure fiscal prudence. GDP will
grow 1.2 percent this year, according to official estimates.  “I thank Prime Minister Borissov and my Cabinet colleagues
for the long hours of joint work and successes we achieved,”
Djankov said today in an e-mailed statement. “I also thank the
Finance Ministry experts, with whose help Bulgaria recovered its
financial health. I’ll continue helping in any way I can in the
future.”  Donchev, 40, joined Borissov’s Cabinet in 2010 after
serving as mayor of the city of Gabrovo in central Bulgaria
since 2007.  “I don’t expect a policy shift as Mr. Donchev subscribes
to EU values and would continue spending cautiously,” Kaloyan
Staikov, an economist at the Institute for Market Economics in
Sofia, said today by phone. “I hope the government resolves
spending demands through dialogue, rather than by caving in to
street pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  