-- Bulgaria May Revoke CEZ Distribution License After Probe
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-18T11:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/bulgaria-may-revoke-cez-distribution-license-after-probe.html
Bulgaria will consider revoking  CEZ
AS ’s power distribution license after the State Financial
Inspection Agency’s probe into the largest Czech utility.  The government will decide whether to start the procedure
in several days, the Energy, Economy and Tourism Ministry in the
capital Sofia said on its website yesterday, after thousands of
Bulgarians marched in 10 cities and blocked main roads demanding
lower electricity bills and higher wages.  The inspection agency started a probe into CEZ’s Bulgarian
units last year and submitted a report on Feb. 8, saying that
CEZ “evaded requirements of the Law for Public Tenders,” the
ministry said. The ministry requested the inspection authority
to do a similar probe into the local units of Austria’s  EVN AG 
and Prague-based Energo-Pro, it said.  “The State Energy and Water Regulation Commission will
assess whether the conclusions of the financial inspection
report give grounds to start a procedure to revoke the company’s
license,” the ministry said.  Barbora Pulpanova, a CEZ spokeswoman in Prague, had no
immediate comment on the situation in Bulgaria when contacted by
phone today.  Shares Drop  CEZ Electro Bulgaria said in a statement on Feb. 15 that it
earns 9 percent on every electricity bill, while the rest is
paid to power producers, the National Electricity Company and
the state grid operator.  CEZ shares declined 0.5 percent to 616 koruna at 12:05 p.m.
in Prague, falling for a fourth day and valuing the company at
331.4 billion koruna ($17.4 billion). The company controls
companies that supply electricity to Sofia and the northern city
of Pleven, which together account for 41 percent of Bulgaria’s
power consumption.  The Albanian energy regulator revoked CEZ’s license last
month following disputes over tariffs and taxes. The Czech
utility said on Jan. 21 that it will start an international
arbitration against Albania.  Bulgaria sold seven power distributors in 2005 to EON SE,
CEZ and EVN before joining the European Union. EON sold its
Bulgarian companies to Energo-Pro in 2011.  Bulgarian Protests  The EU’s poorest state in terms of per-capita output
weathered the global crisis without borrowing from international
lenders and wants to keep its budget gap at 1.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, to help contain the impact from the
euro-area crisis.  Higher electricity and heating bills caused by the cold
weather combined with low wages and rising unemployment
triggered nationwide protests against energy utilities and the
government in the past 10 days.  Protesters threw stones and broke the windows of the office
building of Energo-Pro in the Black Sea city of Varna yesterday,
police said. Four people were arrested after police clashed with
protesters in Sofia yesterday, according to the police. A
protest rally is scheduled in the capital today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  