-- Cameron Leads Biggest U.K. Business Delegation to India
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-18T10:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/cameron-leading-biggest-british-business-delegation-to-india.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
leading the biggest ever business delegation to India for three
days of talks aimed at increasing trade.  Cameron arrived in Mumbai today with representatives from
more than 100 U.K. companies, in a visit heralding the creation
of a network of government-sponsored trade offices throughout
the South Asian country by 2017. As an opening salvo, Cameron
said the U.K. will relax visa rules for business people, cutting
the time it takes to clear the paperwork to one day from about
three days currently.  “Britain wants to be your partner of choice,” Cameron
said at  Hindustan Unilever Ltd .’s Mumbai headquarters. “We have
only just started on the partnership we can build. The sky is
the limit.”  Cameron spoke of his desire to see a “special
relationship” with India, a term usually reserved to describe
ties with the U.S.  “I think the basis for that special relationship and
partnership is absolutely there,” he said in broadcast
interviews in Mumbai. “This is going to be the third-largest
economy in the world by 2030 and I want to make sure it is
British firms that are helping to build those hospitals,
construct those roads, provide those universities, and we want a
real exchange between our countries.”  Typhoon Push  Cameron is seeking to revive  Indian interest  in the
Eurofighter Typhoon, the next generation of jet fighters made in
part by  BAE Systems Plc , as authorities in New Delhi continue
talks to buy 126  Dassault Aviation SA  Rafale planes from France.
A Rafale contract wasn’t signed during French President  Francois Hollande ’s Feb. 14-15 visit to India.  “Typhoon is a superior aircraft,” Cameron told reporters,
saying that some planes could be built “within months.” The
premier added that “we also have very interesting offers in
terms of industrial participation, technology transfer and the
company has said they can look again at price.”  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc, Brit Health Care,  Ashok Leyland  Ltd. and  Hinduja Global Solution Ltd.  are among
companies that will announce deals during the trip.  The British government has identified eight areas where
companies can make commercial inroads, including infrastructure,
finance, health care, education and defense.  Premier’s Delegation  With Cameron are leaders from  Standard Life Plc ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc ,  BP Plc , Serco Plc, Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc,
accountants KPMG,  De La Rue Plc  and Arup Group Ltd. Cameron is
joined by four government representatives including Universities
Minister  David Willetts  and Trade Minister  Stephen Green  as well
as nine lawmakers from both chambers of Parliament.  With economies in Europe struggling, Cameron said Britain
needs to boost exports to developing nations such as India. “I
am a great believer that you have got to fill up aeroplanes with
business people, get out to these fast-growing countries and
sell your country as hard as you can,” he said.  Cameron travels to New Delhi tomorrow to meet Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  and President  Pranab Mukherjee . He will
push for greater access to the Indian market, particularly in
the insurance industry and will seek to help move forward an EU-
India free-trade agreement.  The premier will also seek to reassure Indian leaders that
Britain will remain a member of the European Union, saying that
skepticism among his Conservative Party and the electorate needs
to be tackled.  Student Controls  “The reality is that people were already questioning
Britain’s commitment to the EU,” Cameron said in an interview
with the Hindustan Times. “What we need to do is tackle this
issue head-on and agree a changed settlement.”  Efforts to tighten controls on students coming to the U.K.
from nations like India will also be discussed. Cameron told the
Hindustan Times “there is no limit to the number of students
who come from India,” provided they have a place at an
established university and speak English.  He said there’s also no cap on the number of students who
can stay and work in Britain in a graduate job.  “There’s more we can do here, and that’s an area where I
hope we can put an even more attractive offer on the table
during this trip,” the prime minister said, without giving more
details.  Cameron also announced that the British government will
work with Indian counterparts to develop a 1,000-kilometer (620-
mile) infrastructure corridor between Mumbai and Bangalore.  The U.K. government and companies will assist in building
nine districts “matching British expertise up with the dynamism
of India’s commercial sector,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Mumbai at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  