-- Canadians Skate for Hockey Charity in Central Park Tournament
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-18T15:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/canadians-skate-for-hockey-charity-in-central-park-tournament.html
Donald Lewis was startled by a
flying object coming from the hockey rink.  “I thought a puck was going to hit me in the face,” said
Lewis, general counsel and acting president of the Roosevelt
Island Operating Corp. “A bird flew by.”  Such are the quirks of outdoor hockey in New York, as 16
teams competed to raise money for charity over the last two days
at  Lasker Rink  in Central Park. Teams came from as far away as
Canada to help raise money for  Ice Hockey in Harlem .  The event, put on for the seventh year by the  Canadian
Association of New York , raised as much as $30,000 for the non-
profit group that gives disadvantaged kids a hockey community in
which to grow up.  “I’m not feeling great, but I’m hanging in there,” Lewis,
39, said in an interview before his third 40-minute game of the
day, playing for a team sponsored by his former law firm,
 Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP . “The biggest problem
is the time in between games. It’s hard to get the engine going
again. I’m tight.”  Each team played three round-robin games on Feb. 16 to set
up seeds for yesterday’s playoff round. The tournament was won
by the UCC Blues from Toronto’s Upper Canada College with a 4-2
win in the final against the IceHawks.  Dean Keyworth , the CANY president who organizes the event,
said it was a non-checking, “not overly competitive”
tournament in which teams earned points for wins and ties and
lost points for committing penalties.  A team sponsored by Canadian law firm  Norton Rose  plays the
tournament each year to enjoy the outdoor hockey as well as New
York’s nightlife, said attorney Stephen Kelly. After a night out
on the Lower East Side, his team went to bed at 2:30 a.m. and
hit the ice at 7:15 a.m.  Long Nights  “We lost 6-0 in the first game,” said Kelly, who heads
the firm’s business group in Montreal. “Not surprising.”  After another long night, they never made it back for the
playoff round.  “They always forfeit on Sunday because they’re too banged
up,” Keyworth, who is on the hedge-fund coverage team at  HSBC
Holdings Plc ’s HSBC Securities in New York, said with a laugh.  Several of the teams were sponsored, mostly by law firms,
including  Proskauer Rose LLP  and  Winston & Strawn LLP .  Toronto-
Dominion Bank ’s TD Securities also entered a team and Keyworth
said he’d like to have more Wall Street involvement in future
tournaments.  “I would love to have a banks division,” he said.  CANY, whose mission is to foster goodwill between Canadians
and Americans, began the tournament with a bunch of guys who
simply wanted to play hockey.  “I feel like I could fill this thing three or four times
over, but there’s only so much ice time I can get,” Keyworth
said. “The pond hockey concept has got a lot of traction.”  Charity Work  CANY has raised more than $100,000 for Ice Hockey in
Harlem, which works to give children access to equipment, ice
time and travel opportunities, said John Sanful, the charity’s
executive director. Participants learn to skate and play at
Lasker Rink and have classroom time, studying topics such as
geometry and geography as they relate to the sport.  “All of those things come as result of what CANY does for
us,” Sanful, 45, said in an interview. “Certainly we’re a non-
traditional hockey community. The real beauty in what we do is
that any night we’re practicing here you not only see the kids
enjoying themselves but you see parents lined around the rink.”  Keyworth spoke in a rink locker room with its signature
smell wafted through the building, a reminder of his days
growing up playing hockey in British Columbia.  “It’s tough living in Manhattan being a hockey player
because the question is always what do you do with your hockey
bag?” said Keyworth, a father of two. “It becomes ever more
challenging when you have a significant other who does not
tolerate the hockey bag smell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  