-- Chavez Return to Venezuela Fuels Speculation He’ll Quit
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-18T20:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/chavez-says-he-s-back-in-venezuela-after-cuba-treatment.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  was
rushed to a military hospital early this morning after returning
home from two months of cancer treatment in Cuba.  “We have returned to the Venezuelan fatherland. Thank you
my God, thank you my beloved people,” Chavez wrote on his
Twitter account. “I’m clinging to Christ and trust in my
doctors and nurses.”  Chavez arrived in Caracas at 2:30 a.m. local time and was
immediately taken to the hospital near the capital’s downtown to
continue treatment, government officials said.  Government supporters massed outside the hospital to
celebrate Chavez’s arrival even as the leader’s surprise return
touched off speculation he’ll soon step down and hand power to
his preferred successor, Vice President  Nicolas Maduro . Apart
from photos released last week and today’s Twitter messages,
Chavez hasn’t been seen or heard from since traveling to Cuba
Dec. 10 for his fourth surgery in 20 months.  “It’s possible this return will be the beginning of a
transition process,” Margarita Lopez Maya, a historian at
Central University in Caracas, said in a phone interview. “From
the photos it’s clear that he isn’t in a condition to govern.”  Political Uncertainty  Officials have been struggling to run affairs in South
America’s biggest oil exporter since Chavez missed a scheduled
Jan. 10 swearing-in ceremony, plunging the nation into a period
of legal and political uncertainty. Now back home, Chavez is
likely to take the oath in a private ceremony, clearing the way
for him to hand power to Maduro while elections are organized
within 30 days, as mandated by the constitution, Lopez Maya
said.  “We wanted him back so bad,” Susana Velasco, a 56-year-
old radiology student, said outside the military hospital as she
waved a Venezuelan flag. “The opposition wanted him to return
in a coffin, but here he is. We haven’t seen him but we know
he’s back.”  About 100 people gathered across the street from the
military hospital in Caracas to celebrate Chavez’s return with
chants and vuvuzelas. Hundreds of supporters also gathered in
Caracas’s Plaza Bolivar central square.  “I want him to hit the streets and put people on alert,
let them get to work,” said Fanny Gutierrez, a 57-year-old
former store owner, who wore a Chavez pin on a necklace around
her neck. “If he hasn’t died, then he’s going forward. If God
sent him again, it’s for a reason. He came here because he’s
advancing.”  Maduro Support  Maduro had 50 percent support compared with 36 percent for
opposition Governor  Henrique Capriles Radonski , according to a
survey by Caracas-based polling company Hinterlaces published
today on the front-page of state-run newspaper Correo del
Orinoco.  The poll, whose margin of error is 2.9 percentage points,
was taken Jan. 30 to Feb. 9. That’s mostly before the 32 percent
devaluation of the bolivar on Feb. 8, a move that aims to close
a budget deficit larger than that of the U.S. but which also
entails risks for Maduro as he tries to solidify support with
Chavez’s base among the poor. Economists expect the devaluation
to pressure inflation, already running at 22 percent, and worsen
shortages of goods from toilet paper to cars.  Chavez’s absence and deteriorating health triggered a 35.4
percent rally on Venezuelan dollar bonds over the past year as
investors boosted bets he’ll be unable to complete another term,
opening the door for a new regime that will introduce more
market-friendly policies.  Bonds Gain  Venezuela’s bonds had the third-best performance among
emerging markets in the past 12 months, after the Ivory Coast
and Belize, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index. U.S.
markets are closed today for the Presidents’ Day holiday.  “It’s hard to know what’s next,” David Smilde, a
sociologist at the University of Georgia who wrote a book about
Chavez’s rule, said in a phone interview. “Chavez supporters
may think it’s a new stage in his recovery while the other side
may think that Chavez has come back for his last weeks.”  Before flying to Cuba, Chavez urged Venezuelans to vote for
Maduro, a 50-year-old former bus driver and union leader, should
he die or step down because of ill health.  Riding Roughshod  Maduro has been running affairs in Chavez’s absence amid
charges by the opposition that the government is riding
roughshod over the constitution, which it says requires National
Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  to serve as a caretaker
until Chavez is able to resume his duties.  “It would be disingenuous to think that Chavez is in a
full recovery because he came back to Caracas,” Evans said.
“His health continues to be delicate.”  The government on Feb. 15 released pictures of Chavez in a
hospital reading the Cuban Communist party Granma newspaper with
two of his daughters. Information Minister  Ernesto Villegas  said
on the same day that Chavez is suffering from a “delicate”
respiratory infection that has left him speechless and requires
the use a tracheal tube.  Unlike the government’s procedure after past medical visits
to Cuba, no images of Chavez’s return to Venezuela have been
released or broadcast.  Devaluation Decision  The president is in communication with Cabinet members by
writing and made the decision to devalue the currency this
month, Technology Minister  Jorge Arreaza , who is also his son-
in-law, said Feb. 15.  “Hopefully the president’s return means that Mr. Maduro
and his ministers can get to work,” Capriles wrote in a Twitter
message today. “There are thousands of problems to resolve.”  Maduro said in a phone call to state television today that
Chavez’s health “battle continues.”  “Chavez’s return significantly increase the possibility of
elections,”  Diego Moya-Ocampos , a political risk analyst at IHS
Global Insight and a former top aide in the attorney general’s
office under Chavez in 2000, said in a phone interview from
London. “Elections are a given this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  