-- China’s New Leader Needs Grip on Wacko Next Door
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-02-18T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/china-s-new-leader-needs-grip-on-wacko-next-door.html
Few news items over the past year
had more entertainment value than one concerning  the Onion  and
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Un .  It was funny enough that the faux-news website named the
double-chinned Kim the  sexiest man  of 2012. More entertaining
still was that the People’s Daily, the stern mouthpiece of
China’s Communist Party, fell for it.  Last week, another joke came at China’s expense, one
straight from Kim. His nuclear test left his economic
benefactors in Beijing flustered and the world wondering if
North Korea was taunting China. Kim’s open act of defiance is a
challenge for President  Barack Obama  and his plan to reduce the
U.S.’s nuclear arsenal. But the real dupe here may  Xi Jinping ,
who will become China’s president next month.  China has long viewed the Kim Dynasty as a useful hedge
against U.S. influence. Yes, China’s leaders know the Kims are
wacky, but they keep the West off balance. China won’t back
Korean reunification because it means surrendering a vital
bargaining chip and allowing the U.S. to have troops on its
border.  Xi should end China’s unconditional support for North
Korea’s tantrums and the shameful way it treats its 24 million
people. China’s claims that it can’t rein in Pyongyang’s
officials lack credibility. There is nothing to stop China from
cutting Kim’s allowance. You want food and fuel? Then here are a
few things you need to do in return for continued Chinese
support.  Try Modernizing  First, Xi should demand that North Korea transform its
economy and welcome international experts to help it upgrade
industries such as agriculture, manufacturing and power. Insist
that North Korea accept assistance from technocrats in China’s
 Finance Ministry  to usher the country into the 20th century,
never mind the 21st.  China fears a regime collapse that would lead to millions
of North Koreans seeking refuge or that would inspire an Arab
Spring among its own people. Well, how does allowing North
Korea’s economy to atrophy further make that risk less acute? Xi
might save China plenty of future problems by encouraging the
modernization of its client state.  Second, he should join forces with  Park Geun Hye , South
Korea’s next president. Park pledged to improve relations with
the North in ways only a person of her background can. In 1974,
her mother was killed by North Korean agents in an assassination
attempt on her father when he led the South. If Park can make
nice with the Kim family, Xi could certainly meet her halfway
and ensure that officials in Pyongyang are receptive.  Third, Xi must remember that China’s rise comes with
commensurate responsibility. So does having a permanent seat on
the  United Nations Security Council , where China runs
interference for its ally. North Korea’s latest nuclear test,
its third, demands a robust Chinese response. At the very least,
China must back real UN sanctions, not the flaccid ones now in
place.  Think of the huge geopolitical points China would score by
being a good global citizen. As the world’s most populous nation
and second-biggest economy,  China  understandably wants a bigger
say in world affairs. The route to more clout at the
International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization and other
institutions runs through North Korea more than China’s leaders
realize.  China should heed its blogosphere, which is pulsating with
debate about the wisdom of supporting North Korea. If folks in
the U.S. were annoyed that Kim tested a nuke on the same day as
Obama’s State of the Union address, imagine how aggrieved
mainlanders were that he did so during China’s Lunar New Year.
Many consider it an unforgiveable affront.  Bad News  The Internet is becoming harder for China to control at a
time when anger is rising over income inequality. It would be
bad news for Xi if the public and the Communist Party’s leaders
lost patience over North Korea’s outbursts while China foots the
bill. The last thing Xi wants is to be seen as Kim’s enabler at
the expense of China’s global standing. If North Korea squeezed
off a missile tomorrow, causing major destruction and loss of
life, many would blame China for not doing more.  There comes a point where the cons outweigh the pros. China
opposed Kim’s nuclear test, and he did it anyway. Xi will
grapple with a long list of economic, diplomatic and social
challenges while a giant bug buzzes around him. The days of
swatting it away are long gone now that North Korea is a nuclear
power, willing to blackmail governments with its arms while
hiding behind China’s unconditional support.  It was impossible to keep a straight face while reading a
 Xinhua  analysis, which argued that the U.S. and its allies
forced Kim’s aggression last week by making him feel insecure. I
found myself wondering if it were written by the jokesters at
the Onion, not China’s official news agency.  Obama framed the issue in an intriguing way in his State of
the Union speech: “The regime in North Korea must know they
will only achieve security and prosperity by meeting their
international obligations.” One could easily replace “North
Korea” with “China” in that line.  Xi, for his part, wants the U.S. and China to forge a “new
type of relationship between two great powers,” according to a
speech he delivered last February. With North Korea, he has a
perfect opportunity to make that more than a punch line.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  