-- China Vanke Enters U.S. Property Market With Tishman Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-18T19:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/china-vanke-enters-u-s-property-market-with-tishman-speyer-deal.html
China Vanke Co. , the biggest
developer listed on Chinese exchanges, has entered a
residential-property venture in San Francisco, its first foray
into the U.S. real estate market.  The company signed the deal on Feb. 12, Chairman  Wang Shi 
wrote on his microblog on Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo
service, and confirmed by Vanke. The project will be a luxury
high-rise condominium, according to statement today from the
developer and its partner, New York-based Tishman Speyer
Properties LP.  Chinese developers are starting to venture overseas,
chasing wealthy locals who are buying apartments as the
government restrains the property market at home.  Xinyuan Real
Estate Co.  in September took control of a lot slated for more
than 200 units of housing near New York’s Brooklyn waterfront
for $54.2 million, a deal the Beijing-based company said was the
first of its kind by a Chinese firm in the U.S.  “China Vanke has always been a company with a global view,
good at learning from excellent peer enterprises,” Wang said in
the statement. “We are entering the U.S. market to continue
this learning process, to understand business models in a mature
market and accumulate management experience through project
cooperation.”  The San Francisco project at 201 Folsom St. will be two
connected towers with a total of 655 units, the companies said
in the statement. The site is across the street from the
Infinity, another Tishman Speyer residential development, where
prices ranged from $600,000 to $6 million.  Price Jump  San Francisco real estate prices have been surging, buoyed
by growth in the technology industry. The median price of a home
sold in San Francisco county jumped 16 percent last month from a
year earlier to $699,000, according to research firm DataQuick.  The deal is Vanke’s first outside Asia and comes after the
company’s Hong Kong unit jointly won a HK$3.43 billion ($442
million) bid for a site in that city, marking its entry into a
new market. The developer, based in the southern Chinese city of
Shenzhen, set up international units to expand overseas after it
acquired a Hong Kong developer in May.  China Vanke  shares  fell 2.7 percent 11.7 yuan at the close
of trading in Shenzhen, the lowest in three weeks.  “Good enterprises in the 21st century must have global and
international vision,” Wang wrote in the microblog, commenting
on the deal.  Vanke’s investment is pending approval from the Chinese
government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  