-- Chinese Ship Seized by Striking Workers at Brazil’s Santos Port
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-18T19:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/chinese-ship-seized-by-striking-workers-at-brazil-s-santos-port.html
Striking workers in Brazil today
seized a Chinese ship at one of the country’s main export hubs,
as union leaders pledged to intensify protests if the government
refuses to alter its plan to restructure ports.  Picketing workers from the Forca Sindical labor federation
occupied the Zhen Hua 10 ship at the port of Santos, Forca
Sindical said in a statement. The vessel was carrying equipment
for use in the construction of a terminal at the port by Empresa
Brasileira de Terminais, the company known as Embraport said in
a separate statement.  Port union leaders in Brazil, the largest exporter of sugar
and orange juice, are protesting government plans to cede
control of as many as 95 terminals to private operators.
President  Dilma Rousseff  has instructed officials to resist
union pressure and continue with the program, which intends to
attract 54.2 billion reais ($27.6 billion) in private port
investments and help stimulate an economy that grew at the
slowest pace among major emerging markets last year.  “If the proposal isn’t improved, other ports in Brazil
could be affected by work stoppages,” Joao Carlos Goncalves,
Forca Sindical’s secretary general, said in a telephone
interview. Talks between officials and labor union
representatives are scheduled to reconvene on Friday.  While government officials have said the plans will improve
ports by increasing competition, labor leaders have said the
initiative will lead to firings and worsening work conditions.  Embraport has requested the liberation of the Zhen Hua 10
ship, the company said in its statement. Company officials are
negotiating with union representatives, and “rigorously
comply” with all legislation, Embraport added.  Open Negotiations  Brazil’s government will continue negotiations with workers
to avoid a strike, Ports Minister  Leonidas Cristino  told
reporters in Brasilia today. The government is open to
“important” ideas from workers regarding port regulation,
Cristino added.  Unions are discussing amendments to the plan, said Mario
Teixeira, head of the Fenccovib, a group of port unions, in a
telephone interview today from Brasilia.  “Radicalism isn’t good,” Teixeira said. “We are
negotiating with the government and have a meeting next Friday.
I’m not against the strike if the government plays hardball, but
I believe negotiations are more important at this moment.”  The world’s second-largest emerging market grew 1 percent
last year, according to the central bank. That’s down from 2.7
percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  