-- China’s Tourism Stocks Advance After Lunar New Year Break
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-18T02:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/china-s-stocks-advance-after-lunar-new-year-break.html
Chinese  tourism and technology
companies advanced after the week-long Lunar New Year holiday,
while liquor companies fell as retail sales growth slowed.  China International Travel Service Corp. jumped after the
Xinhua News Agency estimated record numbers of people may have
traveled during the festival. Kweichow Moutai Co. paced declines
for liquor makers as retail sales rose at the slowest pace in
four years after a crackdown on extravagant spending by
officials limited outlays on food and drink.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  was little changed at 2,432.29
at 9:57 a.m. local time, with advancers and decliners almost
evenly split. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.3 percent to 2,763.37.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong slid 0.7 percent, after jumping 1.7 percent
over the two days that the market was open last week.  “Stocks will play catch-up with the region after a one-
week break,” Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Tebon Securities Co.,
said by telephone in Shanghai. “China’s shares will continue to
rally because the economy is still recovering as seen in January
economic data and there is sufficient liquidity. There may be
some impact on consumer staples today because of weak Lunar New
Year sales.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets index advanced 0.5 percent last
week, while the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-
traded Chinese equities in the U.S. fell 0.4 percent.  The Shanghai index has risen 24 percent from a three-year
low on Dec. 3 on signs economic growth is accelerating. The
gauge is valued at 13.5 times reported profit, near the highest
level since Sept. 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Retail Sales  A gauge of consumer-staples producers in the CSI 300
including liquor makers declined 1.4 percent, the most among 10
industry groups. Kweichow Moutai, the biggest maker of baijiu
liquor, slid 3.7 percent to 180.99 yuan, the most since Jan. 28.
Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second-largest, dropped 2.4 percent to
25.29 yuan.  Sales at shops and restaurants monitored by the  Ministry of
Commerce  increased 14.7 percent in the Feb. 9 to Feb. 15 period
from the year-earlier break to 539 billion yuan ($86 billion),
the ministry said in a statement on Feb. 15. That was down from
a 16.2 percent pace in 2012 and the least since a 13.8 percent
gain in 2009, according to previously released figures.  The New Year holiday, comparable to the peak Christmas
shopping rush in the U.S., is a period when consumers in the
world’s second-biggest economy splurge on food, jewelry and
gifts, and government officials are wined and dined. Sales may
have been damped by a campaign started by  Xi Jinping , the new
head of the Communist Party, to rein in lavish spending while
rising incomes prompt more Chinese to travel overseas.  Record Travel  China International Travel Service advanced 1.2 percent to
30.02 yuan, on course for the highest close since Nov. 6.  A record 3.41 billion passenger trips may be made this year
during the Lunar New Year, Xinhua reported on Feb. 5, citing the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Sanan Optoelectronics Co., which sells light-emitting diode
wafers, gained 3.7 percent to 13.56 yuan, poised for the highest
close since Jan. 21.  “As the government attempts to boost the economy, it will
put emphasis on technology innovation so some tech companies
will benefit,” said Tebon’s Zhang. “There’s expectations of
better growth.”  China will encourage investments in the so-called “Internet
of Things,” according to a statement on the central government’s
website. The “Internet of Things” describes data networks
linking different electronics. The country will offer tax breaks
to companies in the industry, according to the statement.  Economic Outlook  China’s economy averted a steep slowdown and is poised to
grow “reasonably fast” as incomes in the most-populous nation
rise,  Li Daokui , an economist at Tsinghua University who was an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China from 2010 to 2012, said in
an interview with CNN that aired yesterday.  The government is scheduled to release January foreign
direct investment data as early as today.  New local-currency lending was 1.07 trillion yuan in
January and M2 money supply climbed 15.9 percent from a year
earlier, the People’s Bank of China said on its website on Feb.
8. New loans compared with the median 1 trillion yuan estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists and 738.1 billion
yuan in January 2012. The median forecast for money supply was a
gain of 14 percent.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  