-- Coal India Said to Revive Overseas Mine Search: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-19T05:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/coal-india-said-to-revive-overseas-mine-search-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. , which failed to use
any of its  $12 billion  cash to buy mines overseas in the past
five years, is renewing efforts as demand soars from power
producers, said two people familiar with the plan.  Seven stake-sale proposals from Indonesia and Australia are
being considered and initial offers will be sought this week,
said the people, who asked not to be identified, citing
confidentiality terms. The  state-owned  company was unable to
overcome bureaucratic hurdles to clinch as many as four deals
abroad two years ago. It now plans to open a unit in South
Africa next month to study asset prospects, the people said.
Spokesman Devendra Prasad declined to comment.  Coal India, which fires more than half of India’s power
generation capacity, faces government pressure to ensure
uninterrupted supplies to utilities and cut blackouts that
impede economic growth. The  Kolkata-based  company’s bids to
expand at home have been stymied by difficulties in getting land
and environment approvals and frequent labor unrest.  “Coal India has been handcuffed in India by slow approvals
for new projects, logistical difficulties and unpredictable
monsoons,” said  Abhisar Jain , an analyst with Centrum Broking
Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a neutral rating on the stock. “It’s
being forced to look overseas because of the government decree
to guarantee supply to power plants.”  Coal India  shares  have risen 4.7 percent in the past year
in Mumbai, short of the 6.6 percent increase in the benchmark
Sensitive Index. The stock fell as much as 1.3 percent to 338.55
rupees and traded at 338.95 rupees as of 10:49 a.m. local time.  Rising Demand  India’s coal demand is expected to rise 41 percent by 2017
to 981 million tons, while supplies from local mines may gain 28
percent to 715 million tons, the  Planning Commission  said last
year. The nation, which generates 57 percent of its electricity
from coal, plans to add 118 gigawatts of capacity in the five
years ending March 2017, said I.A. Khan, energy adviser at the
commission. Power companies added about 55,000 megawatts in the
five years ended March 31, the most in a five-year period. The
country has a capacity of 211 gigawatts.  Coal India’s efforts to purchase stakes in assets of St.
Louis-based Peabody Energy Corp. and Indonesia’s  PT Dian
Swastatika Sentosa  were foiled as the government dragged its
feet. A 30 percent stake offered in Swastatika Sentosa unit
Golden Energy Mines, which Coal India pursued for more than a
year, was eventually bought by Bangalore-based GMR
Infrastructure Ltd.  Stalled Output  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, has
been grappling with stalled production growth for the past three
years. The company plans to invest 75 billion rupees ($1.4
billion) in a 203-mile (327-kilometer) railway network that will
help free up almost 300 million tons of annual output in five
years, Chairman  S. Narsing Rao  said earlier this month.  The company, whose annual output is expected to grow at a
compounded annual rate of 3.5 percent in the four years ending
March 31, is striving to double that rate, Coal Minister
 Sriprakash Jaiswal  said last month. A global presence for Coal
India, whose only overseas foray is a state-led prospecting
initiative in Mozambique, will help the government attract
investors when it plans to sell more of its stake in the company,
said  Deven Choksey , managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  “Widening the base reduces a company’s geographical
dependence, which in today’s world is liked by investors,”
Choksey said in a telephone interview.  Widening Deficit  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, struggling with
a widening budget deficit, plans to raise 350 billion rupees in
the year starting April 1 selling shares in state-owned
companies, including Coal India, Indian Oil Corp., Engineers
India Ltd., Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. and Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd., two finance ministry officials with knowledge
of the plan said last week. The Coal India sale will be the
biggest and will seek to raise 200 billion rupees, the officials
said.  The government sold 10 percent in the coal miner in a
record initial public offering in 2010 for 152 billion rupees.
India raised more than 115 billion rupees selling shares in the
nation’s biggest power producer  NTPC Ltd.  on Feb. 7.  Coal India has started exploration at two mining areas in
Mozambique’s Tete province and has called bids for additional
drilling in the area, according to a document on the company’s
website. The company plans to award the contract by March, the
two people said.  Talks are on with the South African government for a
similar venture in Limpopo province, they said. The discussions
will take place at a bilateral level between the two nations,
they said.  “This is a good time for Coal India to buy as it can get
bargains because of lower commodity prices,” Choksey said. “It
can also expect the government’s support as the need for coal
imports is rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  