-- Coca-Cola Amatil Earnings Miss Estimates on Foods Writedown
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-18T23:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/coca-cola-amatil-earnings-miss-estimates-on-foods-writedown-1-.html
Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. , Australia’s
largest soft-drink bottler, posted full-year profit that missed
analyst estimates after taking A$146 million ($150 million) of
writedowns on its packaged food business.  Net income fell 22 percent to A$460 million in 2012, the
Sydney-based Coke bottler said in a statement today. That
compares with the A$558 million average of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit before one-time charges
rose to the top of the company’s forecast of a four percent to
five percent growth rate.  Imports of cheaper overseas produce and a 20 percent fall
in the price of fresh fruit forced a writedown at its SPC
Ardmona foods business, whose products include tinned tomatoes
and Goulburn Valley fruit in syrup, the company said. The
previous year’s profit included a A$60 million one-time gain
related to the sale of its beer venture to SABMiller Plc.  “The high Australian dollar continues to have an impact on
SPC, reducing its product’s competitiveness versus imports,”
 Mark Christensen , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in Sydney, wrote
in a Feb. 5 note to clients.  Coca-Cola Amatil shares rose 1.7 percent to A$13.86 at
10:36 a.m. in Sydney. The stock has gained 17 percent in the
past year, trailing the 20 percent rise in the  benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index . The Coke bottler is 29 percent owned by the Coca-Cola
Co., the world’s biggest soft-drink maker, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Restructuring Charges  The one-time items included a A$48 million writedown of
goodwill in the SPC Ardmona business and A$98 million in
restructuring charges as it cut the value of inventory to more
realistic selling prices.  “Our business is in the best shape ever,” Terry Davis,
managing director, told an investor briefing in Sydney. Coca-
Cola Amatil’s level of profit margin, which was 21 percent in
its Australian drinks business during the year, “are still seen
as the benchmark performance levels across the global Coke
system”, he said, referring to the group of companies that
bottle Coca-Cola’s concentrates.  Total revenue increased 6.3 percent to A$5.18 billion
during the period, while cost of goods sold -- the amount spent
on cans, bottles, soft-drink concentrate and other product
inputs -- was little changed at 56 percent of trading revenue.  Earnings  before interest and tax in Australia rose 3.3
percent to A$627 million as the company increased sales volumes
in the face of discounting by Asahi Group Holdings Inc., the
Australian bottler of Pepsi and Schweppes.  Indonesian Growth  Indonesia and Papua New Guinea posted a 17 percent rise in
Ebit to A$103 million, with volumes up 10 percent on the back of
strong performances from Minute Maid Pulpy juice, the company
said.  Sales from the unit would exceed A$1 billion during the
year, Davis said, and it would take up about A$200 million of
the A$420 million the company plans to spend on capital projects
this year.  Ebit from New Zealand and Fiji fell 12 percent to A$70
million as New Zealand experienced a cool, wet summer and local
retailers reduced stock levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  