-- Cochlear Implants Are Miraculous and Maddening
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B o u t o n
-- 2013-02-18T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/cochlear-implants-are-miraculous-and-maddening.html
“You’ll never be deaf,” my longtime
ear doctor,  Ronald Hoffman , said to me years ago. At the time, I
thought he meant I’d never lose all my hearing.  What I know now is that technology would take over when my
ears no longer worked. Through a cochlear implant, I would
continue to hear long after my ears ceased to function.  Cochlear implants have been available in the U.S. since
1984, but only a very small minority of the deaf and hearing
impaired has them. The  Food and Drug Administration  estimates
that 250,000 Americans (out of 48 million with hearing loss)
could benefit from a cochlear implant.  As of December 2010, only 71,000 people had one. Medicare,
Medicaid in many states and most private insurers cover the cost
of more than $75,000. (Very few cover the cost of hearing aids,
from $2,000 to $6,000 apiece, and even then the reimbursement is
paltry.)  A cochlear implant consists of three components: a
microphone to pick up sound from the environment; a speech
processor, which transforms the input from the analog world into
a radiofrequency signal; and a receiver, a tiny computer
surgically implanted under the scalp, which converts the
radiofrequency signal into a digital one.  The receiver sends the digitalized information down the
implanted cable and into the cochlea, where the electrode array
stimulates the neurons that send the signal to the auditory
cortex. With luck, the cortex will hear those signals as
identifiable sound.  Skull Surgery  The implant itself, in my case an oval device the size of
two quarters side by side, was placed under the skin about two
inches northeast of my left ear. I can feel the outline of it
under my hair. If I ever go bald, the implant will look like a
plateau rising out of the landscape of my skull.  To insert the implant, the surgeon first has to drill
through the petrous bone, the hardest bone in the body. “You’ve
got this delicate little sensory structure with all these
incredibly delicate hair cells encased in the hardest bone in
the body,”  Charles Liberman  of Harvard Medical School told me.  It’s completely inaccessible, except with the drill bit.
Once the surgeon has drilled into the cochlea he has to position
the electrodes so that they line up with the proper neurons.  At a conference at  Gallaudet University , I saw a video of
the insertion of the electrodes, 1 or 2 millimeters at a time,
into the spiral cochlea, which measures just 9 millimeters
across and turns on itself two and a half times. It was hard not
to think of a very skilled Roto-Rooter operation.  Implant surgery is done on an outpatient basis, though you
are sedated for several hours. The area where the drilling takes
place, the skull base, is filled with dozens of blood vessels
and nerves, including the facial nerve just millimeters from the
drill. You want a surgeon who has done the procedure before,
preferably many times.  When I woke up from the surgery, my head was swathed in a
bandage that made me look like a refugee from “Swan Lake.” My
ear and skull were bruised and tender, and I had a raw scar
behind my ear that would take weeks to heal. Only then can the
implant be activated.  The wait for the implant to be turned on is an anxious time
for many patients. Even though an audiologist has determined
that the connection between the electrodes and the neurons has
been made, there is no way to tell how well, or even if, the
recipient will be able to hear. Will it work? What will I hear?  Not Perfect  For those who have been deaf since birth, any sound at the
point of activation can seem miraculous. For a formerly hearing
person, the sound coming into the ear initially is just noise.
No matter how modest your expectations, the moment can be deeply
disappointing.  But within minutes, as the audiologist works with the
preset programming, making adjustments on her computer, the
noise begins to resolve into recognizable sound. With luck and
practice, the brain will learn to hear the sounds as words, and
the noise as the recognizable whoosh and clatter and rustle of
everyday life.  The cochlear implant is indeed a miraculous device,
restoring hearing to those who would otherwise live out their
lives in silence. What the implant -- and the brain -- can’t do,
however, is restore hearing to the way it used to be. Cochlear
implants are a tremendous advance for people with hearing loss.  But they are not perfect.  Stefan Heller , a researcher at
Stanford University who has made significant advances toward
restoring hearing loss through stem cell therapy, noted that
except for patients who get implants in the first years of their
life, the efficacy of hearing aids and implants can “vary
substantially with regard to frequency discrimination,
performance in noisy environments, as well as simple day-by-day
tasks such as speaking on the telephone.”  My success with the implant has been mixed. My hearing is
still poor in the speech frequencies. I rely heavily on my right
hearing-aided ear, and I continue to have a great deal of
difficulty with the vowel sounds. Bit or bet; prim or prom;
lift, left, loft, laughed. They’re all one to me. I can hear the
rustle of a palm tree but not what my husband is saying in the
beach chair next to me.  My left ear, the implant ear, had been relatively
nonfunctional for 30 years when I got the implant, though I lost
all hearing only the year before. The neural pathways for
language had received little stimulation and were atrophying.  The longer the period between the onset of deafness and the
implant, the less plasticity the auditory neural pathways have
retained. In addition, my neural pathways were trained to hear
acoustically. Now they were being asked not only to function
again, but to function in a different way than they once did.  Bad Timing  Probably the greatest detriment to my success with the
implant was the timing. My implant was turned on in October
2009. The months of October, November and December, when I left
 my job  at the New York Times, were a period of intense personal
and professional turmoil. I wore the implant, but I made little
effort to train myself to hear with it.  Those first three months are crucial and should be filled
with rehabilitative work, either with a speech language
pathologist (which is routine for children but not adults) or
through the many interactive programs offered online. I didn’t
seriously start rehab until almost six months after
implantation. That was too late.  Relearning to hear is in many ways similar to
psychotherapy. Studies have shown that talk therapy, like
antidepressants and other medications, actually changes the
neural pathways over time.  The time I have spent trying to change the neural pathways
in my auditory system has overlapped with the time I have spent
trying to change the neural pathways that regulate emotional
behavior. Those pathways -- which resulted in depression, anger
and anxiety, often prompted by my inability to hear -- were as
deeply entrenched as the auditory neural pathways that had come
to recognize language only in the form of sound.  I imagine my brain sometimes, when I let my vigilance down,
shooting off electrical connections down the old pathways,
breaking through the fragile barriers like a car crashing
through a sawhorse barricade onto an old road.  I have to back up, set the barricade up again and
consciously turn down the new route, whether it is the newly
formulated auditory pathway or the new emotional pathway. Both
are still freshly paved, sticky, throwing up bits of gravel.
Eventually, I hope, they’ll smooth out, solidify, become the
easier way to go.  Before I could learn to hear with the implant, I had to
learn how to keep it on my head. For the first several months, I
was prone to pratfalls, the earpiece constantly slipping off,
dragging the silvery magnet with it, or the magnet itself
becoming attracted to an umbrella spoke or the chain on an
overhead light, detaching itself and dragging the earpiece with
it.  Flying Magnet  If I brushed back my hair, or turned my head, or zipped the
collar of my jacket, or adjusted a scarf, off went the earpiece,
sometimes flying across the room.  The earpiece is a handsome titanium curve the size of a
large hearing aid -- a mammoth hearing aid, if you’re trying to
keep it invisible -- powered by a rechargeable battery that
snaps onto it. It’s designed to fit behind the ear.  The battery, the size of one joint of a thumb, was supposed
to hug the back of the ear, behind the earlobe. But my ears
weren’t made for nestling or hugging. They’re small. And, as my
audiologist put it, “floppy.”  The real problem was that I didn’t want to acknowledge the
device -- to myself, and especially not to anyone else. I did
everything I could to hide it, and when it refused to stay
hidden I scrambled furtively to cover up the evidence.  If the earpiece fell off, I’d shove it in my pocket instead
of putting it back behind my ear. I tugged at my hair in a
futile attempt to keep the earpiece covered.  I was all too eager to keep up the subterfuge and denial
that I had hearing loss, but it was harder with a large piece of
hardware behind my ear.  The wobbly earpiece wasn’t the only problem. The magnet
itself has to be strong enough to hold the implant in place but
not so strong that the pull of it would damage the skin
underneath.  Once when I was cleaning the oven, the magnet came loose,
and it and earpiece fell alarmingly close to a foamy puddle of
Easy-Off. I worried it would fall into the toilet or onto the
subway tracks.  The audiologist had me try a little plastic ear harness,
something like a dog muzzle that fit over my ear and the implant
holding it in place. I wrapped Band-Aids around the battery to
make it less slippery and less visible. I tried moleskin.  Tricky Tape  Then my audiologist suggested wig tape -- double-sided tape
designed to hold a wig steady on your head. It’s deviously
tricky to expose both sides without getting your fingers stuck,
or accidentally folding it onto itself. I finally got both sides
exposed and the processor glued to my head.  But that night, when it came time to take it off, the tape
ripped out the skin and hair that had gotten stuck to it. (I
never wore wig tape again, but it turned out to be great for
installing shelf paper, getting cupboard doors to shut firmly
and holding a photo in place under a mat.)  Once I finally stopped worrying about the visibility of the
implant processor, once I came out as a person with hearing
loss, I had no more trouble with it. My ears are as floppy as
ever, but the processor stays put, the magnet resists the lure
of the umbrella spoke and it looks no sillier than those
Bluetooth devices that very important people are always talking
into.  Despite the advances in technology, and despite the promise
of a cure, hearing loss is permanent, at least for now. Once you
enter the land of the near deaf, you don’t leave. But you can
learn to make it feel like home. As I’ve come to accept my
hearing loss, I’ve replaced denial and anger with something more
productive. I know I have to work to hear, that I have to
practice hearing and practice listening. I have to turn off the
captions on the TV. I have to pay attention and force my brain
to work as hard as it can to understand, instead of shrugging
and giving up.  Even with the imperfection of hearing instruments, it’s a
good time to be deaf. Hearing aids and cochlear implants are
increasingly sophisticated and someday soon will come close to
mimicking the human ear. Hearing aids are widely available, and
are sometimes even reasonable in cost.  Cochlear implants are more and more often an option for the
hearing impaired. And then there’s e-mail. Critics such as
Sherry Turkle,  author  of “Alone Together: Why We Expect More
From Technology and Less From Each Other,” bemoan the death of
conversation and the isolation of communicating through e-mail
or text. But for those with hearing loss -- and many others who
for one reason or another are not able to easily converse -- e-
mail and texting are the lifelines that allow us to continue to
be part of the world.  I spent much of my adult life, both personal and
professional, faking it. Not even my closest friends knew the
extent of my hearing loss. What a relief it is to be me. But old
habits die hard. I’m open about my hearing loss, but I still
guess at what’s been said, and often get it wrong.  “When are we eating?” my husband says. “Chicken,” I answer.  ( Katherine Bouton  is a former senior editor at the New York
Times. This is the third of three excerpts from “ Shouting Won’t
Help : Why I -- and 50 Million Other Americans -- Can’t Hear
You,” to be published Feb. 19 by Sarah Crichton Books, an
imprint of Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions expressed are
her own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Katherine Bouton at  katherinebouton@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  