-- Coffee Premium Seen Nearing Levels Roasters May Favor Arabica
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-18T18:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/coffee-premium-seen-nearing-levels-roasters-may-favor-arabica.html
The  premium  arabica coffee, favored
by Starbucks Corp., commands over the robusta variety is nearing
levels at which roasters may favor the more expensive beans
again, according to Amsterdam-based trader  Nedcoffee BV .  Arabica futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. in New York were
on Feb. 8 about 44.75 cents a pound more expensive than robusta
beans on NYSE Liffe in London, the smallest price difference
since March 30, 2009. The so-called arbitrage was at 46.90 cents
a pound on Feb. 15, the last time the two markets were open at
the same time. ICE is closed today for Presidents’ Day holiday.  Some roasters switched to using more robusta beans after
the price of arabica coffee reached a 14-year high in May 2011.
Consumption of the more expensive beans dropped 6.2 percent in
the 2011-12 season ended Sept. 30, while robusta usage gained 11
percent in the same period, Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s
biggest investment bank, estimated in a report last month.  “The real arbitrage, including differentials, is
approaching levels,” at which roasters could switch back to
cheaper varieties of arabica beans “without influencing the
cost price too much,” Nedcoffee said in a report e-mailed
today. Differentials refer to a discount or a premium paid to
obtain physical coffee in relation to the futures price.  While some more expensive types of arabica including semi-
washed fine-cup beans from Brazil are fetching a premium to the
exchange price, some of the cheaper varieties such as good cup
and grinders’ quality beans are trading at a discount of 17
cents to 28 cents a pound to the exchange price, according to
Cazarini Trading Co., a broker in Varginha, Brazil. The country
is the world’s largest coffee producer.  Price Difference  The majority of robusta beans are trading at the same price
as on the NYSE Liffe exchange, Volcafe, the coffee unit of
commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. said in a report e-
mailed Feb. 15. That would mean that the price difference
between the two varieties currently stands at about 19 cents
to 30 cents a pound in the physcial market, Bloomberg
calculations showed.  Arabica demand is forecast to rebound by 1.5 percent to
75.2 million bags in the 2012-13 season that started in Oct. 1,
while robusta demand will grow by 1 percent to 62.5 million bags
in the same period, forecasts  Kona Haque , an analyst at
Macquarie in London. Vietnam is the world’s top robusta grower.
A bag of coffee usually weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 