-- Colombia Coal Miners Seek More Wage Talks as Negotiations Fail
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-18T16:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/colombia-coal-miners-seek-more-wage-talks-as-negotiations-fail.html
Striking coal miners at  BHP Billiton
Ltd .’s Cerrejon joint venture with  Xstrata Plc  and  Anglo
American Plc  in Colombia will seek further negotiations after
government-brokered talks broke down, a union leader said.  The workers, who downed tools at the mine on Feb. 7 to push
for higher wages and improved health benefits, prefer a
negotiated settlement to an arbitration panel, said  Igor Diaz ,
president of coal workers union Sintracarbon. Company and union
officials were unable to agree on a time limit for wage talks,
Cerrejon said in a statement yesterday.  “If there are clear offers, we’ll accept the accord and
present it to the workers,” Diaz said today on a webcast press
conference from near the mine at Riohacha, Colombia. “We ask
that someone who can make decisions comes to the table, which
hasn’t occurred.”  Cerrejon, the world’s largest export-focused, open-pit coal
mine, produced 34.6 million tons last year, according to its
website. Along with Drummond Co., whose loading license was
suspended Feb. 6, it accounted for 80 percent of Colombia’s coal
exports of about 75 million metric tons in 2011, according to
the World Coal Association.  Juan Carlos Restrepo, a Cerrejon spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call and an e-mail seeking
comment. The company will seek arbitration if no “realistic”
agreement is reached or talks continue, he said in an e-mail
Feb. 14..  Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp rose for the first session in six today, gaining 0.5
percent to $99 a ton today. The benchmark price for hard-coking
coal in the first quarter is $165 a ton, down 2.9 percent from
the fourth quarter and the lowest since 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  