-- Correa Leads Ecuador Vote With Spending Pledge Amid Deficit
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-02-18T00:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/correa-leads-ecuador-vote-with-spending-pledge-amid-deficit-1-.html
Rafael Correa , who would be
Ecuador’s first president re-elected since 1968, leads early
voting counts of today’s balloting after promising to boost
spending on the poor amid the worst budget deficit on record.  Preliminary voting tallies show Correa will win another
four-year term with 57 percent of the vote, the  National
Electoral Council  said today. Opposition candidate  Guillermo Lasso , the former chief executive officer of the South American
nation’s second-biggest publicly-traded bank,  Banco de Guayaquil
SA , is in second place with 24 percent of the vote, according to
the agency. Final vote counts will be released in the coming
days, the agency said.  Correa would begin a new term with few options to finance
his campaign pledges as stagnant oil prices and slumping growth
limit funds to boost outlays on popular social welfare programs.
The self-described socialist revolutionary, who dubbed foreign
bondholders “true monsters” when he defaulted on $3.2 billion
of debt in 2008, may now return to overseas credit markets to
take advantage of a record rally in high-yield debt to help fund
spending needed to sustain an economic expansion.  “I don’t see very simple solutions today to attract more
investment,” said Carlos Andres Baca, an analyst at the Quito-
based economic and political consulting company Politik. “It
won’t be easy to find new financing.”  As the head of a nation where about one in three of its
15.4 million citizens live in poverty, the former economics
professor has promised to “radicalize” his “citizens’
revolution” with free education and health care.  “This victory belongs to each of you,” Correa said today
from the presidential palace in Quito. “No one and nothing is
stopping this revolution friends, we are making history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 