-- Ecuador Re-Elects Correa on Vow to Spend Amid Deficit
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-02-18T23:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/correa-re-elected-in-ecuador-on-vow-to-spend-amid-record-deficit.html
(Corrects size of deficit in 31st paragraph of story
published Feb. 18)  Rafael Correa  was re-elected as
 Ecuador ’s president yesterday after pledging to boost spending
on the poor while the country runs up its biggest-ever budget
deficit.  Preliminary voting tallies showed Correa with 57 percent of
the vote in his bid for another four-year term, the  National
Electoral Council  said yesterday. With 71 percent of the ballots
counted, Correa’s nearest rival, Guillermo Lasso, had polled 23
percent, the agency said. Final results will be released in
days, the agency said.  Correa, Ecuador’s first president to be re-elected since
1968, begins a new term with few options to finance his campaign
pledges as stagnant  oil prices  and slumping growth limit funds
to boost outlays on social welfare. The self-described socialist
revolutionary, who dubbed foreign bondholders “true  monsters”
when he defaulted on $3.2 billion of  debt in 2008, may now
return to overseas credit markets to take advantage of a record
rally in high-yield debt to help fund spending needed to sustain
an economic expansion.  “I don’t see very simple solutions to attract more
investment,” said Carlos Andres Baca, an analyst at Quito-based
economic and political consulting firm Politik. “It won’t be
easy to find new financing.”  ‘Citizens’ Revolution’  As the head of a nation where about a third of the 15.4
million population lives in poverty, the former economics
professor has promised to “radicalize” his “citizens’
revolution” with free education and health care.  “This victory belongs to each of you,” Correa said
yesterday from the presidential palace in  Quito . “No one and
nothing is stopping this revolution, friends, we are making
history.”  Runner-up Lasso, the former chief executive officer of the
South American nation’s second-biggest publicly traded bank,
 Banco de Guayaquil SA , conceded defeat in a speech from his
hometown of Guayaquil. “I recognize the triumph of President
Correa,” Lasso said last night.  While the 2008 default as well as new laws nationalizing
the country’s oil reserves provided short-term economic gains
for the president since he took office in 2007, the 49-year-old
Correa, an ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez , is now paying the
cost with stagnant crude output and declines in private
investment needed to boost growth.  Credit Markets  One option the government is planning is a return to
international credit markets.  Finance Ministry officials and the lending arm of Ecuador’s
state-run pension fund, Biess, are in talks with Citigroup Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to sell debt in international markets,
Chief Executive Officer Efrain Vieira said in a Jan. 28
interview.  Vieira, who manages $9.53 billion for the country’s
retirees, said Biess is seeking a yield of 6.5 percent, less
than the 7 percent to 7.5 percent banks say it may obtain.  Ecuador, whose B rating from  Standard & Poor’s  is five
levels below investment grade, would be the least-creditworthy
country to sell debt abroad since similarly ranked Lebanon in
November issued $500 million of bonds due in 2023 to yield 6
percent.  Bolivia , rated two levels higher at BB-, sold $500 million
of bonds due in 2022 to yield 4.875 percent in October. Zambia,
ranked one level above Ecuador at B+, issued $750 million of
notes maturing in 2022 to yield 5.632 percent in September.  Pension Fund  The state-run pension fund’s plan to sell at least $200
million of bonds abroad this year would be a prelude to
Ecuador’s first global sovereign offering since 2005, according
to Walter Spurrier, director of Guayaquil-based economic
research company Grupo Spurrier.  “The government wants to return to the market, even more
after seeing the appetite for risky countries like Bolivia,”
Spurrier, whose clients include JPMorgan and the  International
Monetary Fund , said in an interview from Guayaquil. By using the
pension fund to sell bonds, “it could be that they’re putting
their toe in the water to check the temperature,” he said.  Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  and central bank President
Diego Martinez didn’t reply to interview requests made through
their press offices to discuss plans to issue bonds. In July,
former central bank President Pedro Delgado said Ecuador was
“working hard” to return to the credit market.  “Ecuador needs outside capital to continue to develop the
oil industry and remain competitive,” Cynthia Arnson, director
of the Latin American program at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, said in a telephone
interview. “They need outside capital but whether they will be
able to attract private capital is a huge question mark.”  An increase in the price of oil, tax increases and loans
from  China  have helped Correa more than double spending in the
past six years, fueling growth.  ‘Substitute Financing’  Now, with oil prices forecast to remain unchanged around
$95 per barrel into 2014, the next government will struggle to
find money to finance campaign promises, said former Finance
Minister Fausto Ortiz, who worked with Correa in 2007-2008.  Ecuador’s economy, South America’s seventh biggest, has
grown by an average of 5.2 percent a year since Correa came to
power in January 2007, while inflation has averaged 4.8 percent,
according to government data.  The central bank forecasts growth of 4 percent this year,
down from an estimated 4.8 percent in 2012. Inflation will slow
to an average 3.8 percent in 2013, less than the 5.1 percent
average last year, according to government data.  Ecuador uses the  U.S. dollar  as its official currency.  Ecuador is “at the mercy of oil prices,” Capital Markets
economist  Michael Henderson  said today in a research note to
clients. “Government spending cannot continue to grow at its
recent pace and if fiscal policy isn’t tightened now Ecuador
risks a harder landing further ahead.”  Before Correa  Before Correa, Ecuador saw three elected presidents fail to
complete their terms. Abdala Bucaram, who adopted the nickname
“El Loco” or “Madman” while in power, was voted out of
office by Congress in 1997 after being declared mentally unfit
to rule.  Jamil Mahuad, a Harvard University professor who led
Ecuador’s 1999 default and presided over the collapse of the
nation’s financial system, stepped down after street protests
and a military uprising left him without support in 2000.  Lucio Gutierrez, a candidate in this year’s election, was
thrown out by Congress in 2005 after his decision to fill the
 Supreme Court  with allies was met by months of street protests
and a military rebellion. Early voting results showed the former
president running in third place with 6.5 percent of the vote.  After taking power, Correa pushed through a constitutional
rewrite, which expanded state control over natural resources and
stripped the central bank of its autonomy. He then called for
special presidential elections in 2009 to affirm his mandate.  Neither Correa nor Lasso responded to interview requests.  Oil, Revenue  The price of oil, which provides the government with about
48 percent of its revenue, has jumped 81 percent to $95.86 a
barrel since Correa took office, touching a record $145.29 in
July 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
low of $10.72 per barrel in 1998 during Mahuad’s administration.  Ecuador holds South America’s third-largest oil reserves
and ranks as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
smallest producer with an estimated output capacity of 505,000
barrels of crude a day.  In remarks to reporters after the election yesterday,
Correa said he’s not worried about how the government will
attract investment to help finance this year’s $3.68 billion
 budget deficit , the widest on record according to the Finance
Ministry data dating back to 2001. The government needs about $6
billion to cover its total financing needs, according to the
ministry.  “There is foreign investment, if more comes, better,”
Correa said. “What this president will never do is mortgage
this country to achieve foreign investment goals.”  Public Works  Ecuador’s Finance Minister Patricio Rivera said in December
the government plans to use a $2 billion loan from China and
credit tied to specific public works projects from regional
multilateral lenders to cover the majority of its 2013 financing
needs. He didn’t say where the remaining $4 billion will come
from.  Ecuadoreans also voted for a new congress. Correa’s ruling
Alianza Pais political party may increase its control of the
legislature to 80 to 100 of the assembly’s 137 seats, Eurasia
Group analyst Risa Grais-Targow said in a Feb. 11 research note.
With 32 percent of votes cast for congressional candidates
counted, Correa’s party is leading with 51 percent of the vote
followed by Lasso’s CREO party with 12 percent, the electoral
council said. Final congressional voting results will be
published later this week.  China, Commodities  In programs similar to those implemented by Chavez, Correa
has used loans from China to rebuild the nation’s crumbling
energy infrastructure and expand its hospital system. The
government in January boosted monthly cash handouts to the poor
by 43 percent.  Home to untapped copper reserves similar to those of Chile
and  Peru , the world’s top producers, Ecuador has signed loans
for $7.3 billion from China since 2009, or about one-third of
the Andean country’s annual budget, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on government announcements.  While Ecuador will have difficulty persuading investors to
trust it after defaulting twice in a decade, global demand for
higher-yielding assets means the government will probably find
buyers willing to take the risk, Carl Ross, a managing director
at Oppenheimer & Co., said. Investors will probably demand a
yield of at least 10 percent for a 10-year sovereign bond, he
said.  ’Rogue’ Borrower  “Ecuador is about as rogue a borrower as you really get,
but this is the kind of market where maybe even an Ecuador can
issue,” Ross said in a telephone interview from Atlanta. “In
this market, with the low  interest rates  that we have, almost
anything is possible.”  Ecuador, which has South American’s lowest foreign direct
investment rate as a percentage of GDP, has seen yields on its
$650 million of dollar notes due in 2015, the country’s sole-performing foreign bond, drop 1.04 percentage point to 8.01
percent in the past two months amid a record rally in global
high-yield debt.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries this year has narrowed 116
basis points, or 1.16 percentage point, to 710 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG indexes. That compares
with a nine basis-point increase for the EMBIG, making Ecuador
the third-riskiest economy in  South America  after Venezuela and
 Argentina , JPMorgan data show.  “This is a government that’s characterized by being
ideological in its words and pragmatic in its actions,”
Politik’s Baca said. “If it’s necessary to sell bonds, I don’t
think they’d have a problem finding a justification to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  