-- Crest Nicholson Declines After IPO Returns Builder to Market
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-02-18T17:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/crest-nicholson-unchanged-after-ipo-returns-builder-to-market.html
Crest Nicholson Holdings Plc , the
U.K. homebuilder taken over by lenders during the financial
crisis, fell on the first day of trading in London after the
company’s 225 million-pound ($348 million) IPO.  The shares declined 1.4 percent to 261.25 pence at the
close of trading, giving the company a market value of 657
million pounds. The stock gained 20 percent from the 220 pence
IPO price in three days of conditional trading last week.
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc are among the banks that
managed the share sale, the company said on Feb. 13.  The Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders Index, composed of the
U.K.’s seven biggest publicly traded homebuilders, gained 70
percent last year as higher selling prices and improved margins
helped overcome the country’s stuttering economy and a lack of
mortgage lending. While Britain is facing the prospect of a
triple-dip recession this year, hurting efforts by potential
homebuyers to save for a deposit, the index has increased by
about 7 percent this year.  Banks including Lloyds Banking Group Plc swapped debt for a
90 percent stake in Crest Nicholson after British home sales
dropped the most in at least 30 years in 2009. Crest Nicholson
has been focusing on volume growth by acquiring large sites
while other homebuilders concentrate on widening their margins.  European companies have raised $3.3 billion in initial
public offerings this year, after volumes of the sales fell in
2012 to about a third of what companies sold in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. LEG Immobilien AG, a German
apartment landlord, raised about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in an IPO in January, becoming the country’s largest
publicly traded property company by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  