-- Cuban Dissident Visits Brazil After Travel Limits Eased
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-19T00:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/cuban-dissident-touches-down-in-brazil-after-travel-limits-eased.html
Cuban dissident  Yoani Sanchez 
embarked on her first trip abroad in five years, arriving in
Brazil a month after travel restrictions were eased by the
communist government that is keeping tabs on her visit.  Sanchez, who was last arrested in October, this morning
flew into the coastal city of Recife for the first stop in an
international tour. Sanchez writes the “Generation Y”  blog 
that documents government measures and life in Cuba, including
laws regulating travel, and has repeatedly tried and failed to
leave the island. Last year she was denied permission to visit
Brazil.  “Lots of friends welcoming me on arrival and other people
shouting insults at me,” Sanchez wrote on her Twitter account,
which has more than 400,000 followers. “I wish in Cuba you
could do the same. Long live freedom!”  Sao Paulo-based magazine Veja reported on Feb. 16 that
Sanchez may be under scrutiny while abroad. Cuba’s ambassador to
Brazil held a meeting with members of the ruling Workers’ Party
in Brasilia on Feb. 6 to discuss 24-hour-a-day surveillance of
the dissident and implementation of a smear campaign, the
magazine said. The Cuban embassy denied the report, Veja said.  Brazil’s secretary general  said  Monday evening that Ricardo
Poppi, the agency’s coordinator for new media, went to the Cuban
embassy on Feb. 6 to obtain an entry visa for the Caribbean
nation. The Cuban embassy invited Poppi into a meeting about
Sanchez and Cuban migration policy and he was given a compact
disc with information about her, according to the statement.  Exit Visas  Sanchez, who lived in Switzerland from 2002 to 2004 before
returning to Cuba, applied for a passport after President  Raul Castro ’s new rules on travel went into effect Jan. 14. Under the
regulations, Cuba no longer requires residents to apply for exit
visas to go abroad, a rule that has prevented many citizens from
leaving the island for decades.  Sanchez plans to visit 10 countries including the U.S.,
Mexico, Italy and Spain, according to Ted Henken, a professor of
Latin American studies at Baruch College in New York who is
helping organize her trip.  “It is significant that Cuba’s leading cyber activist
doesn’t come running to Miami or Washington, but begins her tour
in South America, and I think that’s not an accident,” said
Henken in a telephone interview. “To me she’s trying to make a
point that her support comes from all over the world and doesn’t
come, as is often claimed or assumed, just from Miami exiles or
from the U.S. government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  