-- CVC Said to Plan Sale of $1.5 Billion Matahari Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-02-18T04:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/cvc-said-to-plan-sale-of-1-5-billion-matahari-stake.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
private equity firm that owns Formula One, may seek as much as
$1.5 billion from the sale of shares in retailer  PT Matahari
Department Store , five people with knowledge of the matter said.  The sale, potentially Indonesia’s largest stock offering in
five years, may take place as soon as next month, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. CVC and partner Lippo Group control 98 percent of
Matahari, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shareholders plan to sell about 40 percent of Matahari
and will retain control of the company, three people said. The
sale would value Tangerang-based Matahari at more than $3
billion, two people said.  CVC is looking to exit a three year old investment as
companies from Apple Inc. to Japan’s Fast Retailing Co. lay
plans to open stores in Indonesia to profit from rising incomes
in the world’s fourth most-populous nation. Indonesia may add 90
million people to its so-called consuming class, with spending
in urban areas rising 7.7 percent a year to $1.1 trillion by
2030, McKinsey & Co. said in a report last year.  Matahari, founded in 1958, has 116 stores across Indonesia,
according to its website. The company posted a 66 percent rise
in net income to 771 billion rupiah ($80 million) in 2012,
according to a Feb. 11 filing.  Largest Deal  Officials at CVC declined to comment on the plan. Danang
Kemayan Jati, a spokesman for PT Lippo Karawaci, said he doesn’t
know of any plan to sell the stake in Matahari.  Officials at
Matahari couldn’t be reached to comment. The sale plan was
reported by the Wall Street Journal last year.  A venture between CVC and Lippo-backed PT Matahari Putra
Prima bought 91 percent of the department store in January 2010
for about $772 million, and acquired the rest of the stake soon
after. Matahari Department Store was a unit of Matahari Putra
Prima at the time.  CVC’s sale may be Indonesia’s largest share sale since a
$4.4 billion rights issue by PT Bakrie & Brothers in April 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies raised $3.6 billion
in Jakarta stock offerings last year, the data show.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., UBS AG, and Morgan Stanley are
managing the offering, the people said.  Although the retailer is already listed on Jakarta’s stock
exchange, just 54 million shares, or less than  2 percent  of
Matahari’s shares outstanding, are currently able to be traded,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  shares  have traded on only
one day in the last five months -- when 7,000 shares were bought
and sold on Feb. 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  