-- Draghi Urged Verbal Discipline on Currencies at G-20 Meeting
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-18T16:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/draghi-urged-verbal-discipline-on-currencies-at-g-20-meeting.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said he urged finance chiefs from the Group of 20
nations to be prudent when talking about currency movements.  During a G-20 meeting in Moscow last week, “I urged all
parties to very, very strong verbal discipline” because “the
less we talk about it, the better it is,” Draghi told European
lawmakers in Brussels today. “Exchange rates should reflect
fundamentals” and “looking at the real and nominal exchange
rates of the euro, it is by and large around its long-term
averages,” he added.  The G-20 sharpened their stance against governments trying
to influence exchange rates as they sought to tame speculation
of a global currency war without singling out Japan for
criticism. The yen is near its lowest level against the dollar
and the euro since 2010 after the Bank of Japan signaled further
monetary easing to fight deflation.  The euro has gained more than 10 percent on a trade-
weighted basis since Draghi pledged on July 26 to do whatever it
takes to safeguard the single currency.  “The exchange rate is not a policy target but it’s
important for growth and price stability,” Draghi said today.  The euro fell after the comments before recovering to trade
at $1.3350 at 5 p.m. in Frankfurt, down 0.1 percent today.  The ECB will assess in its new economic projections next
month whether the recent appreciation of the euro has changed
the inflation outlook, Draghi said. The ECB currently predicts
inflation will average 1.6 percent this year and 1.4 percent in
2014.  Draghi also said the latest euro-area data point to
“economic weakness in the early part of 2013,” and that this
is expected to be followed by “a very gradual recovery later in
the year.”  The “number one policy problem now” is to ensure that the
ECB’s record-low interest rates reach companies and households,
Draghi said. “We’ll continue thinking about ways and means to
enhance the transmission into the real economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  