-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at European Parliament: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-02-18T14:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-european-parliament-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory statement of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a hearing of the Committee on Economic
and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament.  Madam Chair,  Honourable members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary
Affairs,  It is a pleasure to be back here in Parliament and in front of
your Committee for our regular exchange of views.  We enter 2013 in a more stable financial environment than in
recent years. This has been achieved through concerted reforms
by governments and parliaments and decisive actions by European
institutions. But considerable further efforts are needed to
ensure that Europe continues emerging from the crisis, re-
creates confidence among investors and citizens, and re-
establishes stability and growth.  This house has a key role to play in the reform agenda. I am
thinking in particular of the adoption of the legislation for
the Single Supervisory Mechanism. This is of crucial importance
for progress towards financial union.  Today, I will first review economic and monetary developments in
the euro area since December. I will then address the two topics
that you have selected for our discussion: the impact of a low
interest rate environment; and the establishment of a Single
Resolution Mechanism.  Economic and monetary developments
Since our last meeting, the Governing Council has left key ECB
rates unchanged: the main refinancing rate currently stands at
0.75%; the rate on the deposit facility stands at 0%; and the
rate on the marginal lending facility stands at 1.50%.
Economic activity contracted for a third consecutive quarter in
the fourth quarter of 2012. Available indicators signal further
weakness at the beginning of 2013, with domestic demand
remaining dampened. This is due to weak consumer and investor
sentiment and to the necessary balance sheet adjustments in both
the public and private sectors. Foreign demand also remains
subdued.  Economic weakness in the early part of 2013 is expected to be
followed by a very gradual recovery later in the year.
Strengthening global demand, our accommodative monetary policy
stance and the improvement in financial market confidence across
euro area countries should all work their way through to
spending and investment decisions and support the recovery.
Even though we have yet to see sustained improvement in the real
economy, survey indicators have confirmed earlier evidence of a
stabilisation of business and consumer confidence, albeit at low
levels. Taking a somewhat longer view, the improvement in
financial market confidence since last summer has been
significant. As regards the exchange rate, let me be clear that
the exchange rate is not a policy target, but it is important
for growth and price stability.  Another sign of improved confidence is the larger than expected
early repayment by counterparties in the first of our two three-
year longer-term refinancing operations settled in December 2011
and March 2012. This indicates that banks are less uncertain
about their funding prospects than a year ago. We will closely
monitor conditions in the money market and their potential
impact on the stance of monetary policy, which will remain
accommodative with the full allotment mode of liquidity
provision.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They relate to the possibility
of weaker than expected domestic demand and exports, slow
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area, as well
as geopolitical issues and imbalances in major industrialised
countries which could both have an impact on developments in
global commodities and financial markets. These factors have the
potential to dampen the ongoing improvement in confidence and
thereby delay the recovery.  Annual inflation in the euro area has continued to moderate,
falling from 2.5% in October to 2.2% in November and December
and 2.0% in January, as we had foreseen. Inflation is expected
to decline to below 2% in the near term.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be seen
as broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks
relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes, as
well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming from
weaker economic activity and, more recently, the appreciation of
the euro exchange rate. Inflation expectations for the euro area
remain firmly in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining annual inflation rates below, but close to, 2%.
Our monetary analysis is consistent with price stability. The
underlying pace of monetary expansion and loan dynamics remain
subdued. The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
remains negative. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics
reflect the current stage of the business cycle, heightened
credit risk and the continuing process of deleveraging.
Overall, inflationary pressures should remain contained over the
policy-relevant horizon. Taking the evidence together, this
allows our monetary policy stance to remain accommodative.  The impact of a low interest rate environment
Let me turn to the first topic that you have chosen for our
meeting today, namely the implications of a low interest rate
environment.  The impact of the global financial crisis on the economy and,
potentially, on price developments has been unprecedented. We
have taken unprecedented measures in response, aiming pre-
emptively and forcefully to avert risks to price stability, in
accordance with our primary mandate.  First, we have reduced our key interest rate to 0.75%, a level
previously unseen in virtually all euro area countries. The
interest rate in the overnight interbank market is now even
lower, close to zero.  Second, we have acted to prevent an abrupt reduction in the
supply of credit to the real economy. We have given banks
unrestricted access to central bank funding in all our
refinancing operations. We have extended significantly the
average maturity of these operations. We have broadened the set
of eligible collateral. This assurance of funding to banks has
prevented disorderly deleveraging in the financial sector and
averted a collapse in money and credit, with potentially severe
implications for price stability, and thereby employment and
growth.  All these decisions have ensured price stability and stabilised
inflation expectations during an exceptional period.
Naturally, the ECB is aware of the challenges arising from a
protracted period of low policy rates and ample liquidity. Let
me elaborate on the three main challenges.  The first is that low interest rates may affect the ability of
savers and investors to generate returns. This is especially the
case for institutions targeting nominal returns, such as
insurance companies and pension funds. Yet, by ensuring price
stability throughout the crisis, monetary policy has contributed
to more stable financial conditions. This is central to the
interests of savers and investors: there can only be sustainable
returns in a stable environment.  The second challenge relates to incentives. A protracted period
of low interest rates and ample liquidity facilitates rolling-
over loans at very low costs. Banks may therefore have less
incentive to monitor credit risk properly and may provide too
many loans to non-profitable business. Over time, such
misallocation of financial resources would undermine overall
productivity and depress growth and employment.  The third challenge is that protracted monetary accommodation
may fuel bubbles in house prices and other asset markets. As the
crisis has painfully demonstrated, the bursting of such bubbles
inflicts large costs for the real economy.  In this context, a natural question is whether monetary policy
should be used actively to contain asset price booms and bubbles
- a response known as ‘leaning against the wind’. Thanks to our
monetary policy strategy, implicitly we do this to some extent.
We focus on the medium-term horizon and take account of monetary
developments in assessing risks to price stability.  Having said that, let us be clear that changes in policy
interest rates are normally not the first best instrument for
addressing financial imbalances. They should be considered only
under very special circumstances, for example when a widespread
rise in asset prices threatens price stability in the euro area
as a whole. In the absence of such imbalances relevant from a
euro area perspective, the appropriate tools to counter
imbalances in the financial sector and possible asset price
misalignments are at the country level. To avoid the build-up of
excessive risks in the financial system or housing markets,
national authorities have appropriate tax and supervisory
instruments at their disposal.  The establishment of a Single Resolution Mechanism
Let me turn to your second chosen topic, the establishment of a
Single Resolution Mechanism.  The Single Resolution Mechanism should be centred in a Single
Resolution Authority with a European Resolution Fund at its
disposal. I welcome the European Council’s December statement
that during the course of 2013, the Commission will submit a
proposal for such a mechanism for Member States that are
participating in the Single Supervisory Mechanism.  The ECB shares the European Council’s view on timing for the
Single Resolution Mechanism, namely that it will be required
once bank supervision is effectively moved to the Single
Supervisory Mechanism. We therefore welcome the European Council
urging the co-legislators to examine the proposal as a matter of
priority with the intention of adopting it during the current
parliamentary cycle.  There are four main reasons for a Single Resolution Mechanism,
with a Single Resolution Authority at its centre.  The first reason is that only a Single Resolution Authority will
ensure timely and impartial decision-making focused on the
European dimension. In a situation where a cross-border
resolution is required, the Single Resolution Authority would
avoid national focus and pursue the optimal resolution strategy,
thus mitigating coordination problems.  The second reason is that the Single Resolution Authority would
credibly pursue the least cost resolution strategy, assessing
possible cross-border spillover effects and systemic concerns,
and ensuring that resolution costs are first and foremost borne
by the private sector. It would thereby minimise resolution
costs without recourse to taxpayer money.  The third reason is that the Single Resolution Authority is an
essential complement to the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The
Single Supervisory Mechanism will provide a timely and unbiased
assessment of the need for resolution, while the Single
Resolution Authority will ensure prompt and efficient action
once the trigger is reached. This will avoid misaligned
incentives that could arise with supervision moved to the
European level while resolution responsibility remained
national.  The fourth reason is that a Single Resolution Authority would
help to break the vicious bank-sovereign nexus.  The Single Resolution Authority naturally needs to be strong and
effective to deliver what is needed. This requires three
features to be fulfilled:  First, the Single Resolution Authority needs to dispose of a
robust resolution framework, one that provides it with
enforceable resolution tools and powers. In this respect, the
proposed bank recovery and resolution directive is key. Adoption
of the directive, ideally by June, is an urgently needed step
towards a strong European resolution framework.  Second, the Single Resolution Authority needs access to
resolution financing. It should therefore have a European
Resolution Fund at its disposal, which should be financed by the
private sector via risk-based ex ante levies. The European
Resolution Fund should be backed by a public backstop mechanism,
the support of which would need to be recouped via special ex
post levies on the private sector. This means that it would be
fiscally neutral over the medium term.  Third, the Single Resolution Authority should have an
institutional set-up that allows for independence, sufficient
operational capacity and a robust accountability framework with
effective judicial protection against resolution decisions ex
post.  The Commission is currently assessing the options for the
institutional anchoring of the Single Resolution Authority. I am
looking forward to its proposal, which will need to ensure these
three essential features.  Thank you for your attention. I am now at your disposal for
questions. 