-- Draghi Says EU Needs Common Fund To Handle Failing Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-18T17:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/draghi-says-eu-needs-common-fund-to-handle-failing-banks.html
The European Union needs a common
fund as part of the plan to establish a banking supervisor,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said.  Draghi’s vision, outlined to European lawmakers in Brussels
today, contrasts with EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s proposal to rely on national funds, rather than a
central European resource, for a resolution authority agreed
upon by EU leaders.  “Only a single resolution authority will ensure timely and
impartial decision-making focused on the European dimension,”
Draghi said in the European Parliament. “A single resolution
authority would help to break the vicious bank-sovereign
nexus.”  The EU is in the process of creating a single supervisory
mechanism at the ECB and has pledged to begin work this year on
a framework for restructuring failing banks. Under Draghi’s
plan, investors would absorb costs ahead of taxpayers if a bank
has to be shut down or restructured. The centralized system
would aim to avoid coordination problems and national conflicts
of interest, he said.  Draghi said a common fund with a public backstop will be
required, augmented by industry fees collected in advance of any
crisis. Even if European authorities ultimately recoup their
costs from the financial industry, making the fund “fiscally
neutral” over time, they need to be prepared to fund short-term
needs from their own resources.  The single resolution authority “should therefore have a
European resolution fund at its disposal, which should be
financed by the  private sector  via risk-based ex-ante levies,”
Draghi said. “The European resolution fund should be backed by
a public backstop mechanism, the support of which would need to
be recouped via special ex-post levies on the private sector.”  ‘Operational Capacity’  The new resolution authority also will need “sufficient
operational capacity” to be independent, and it will need to be
held accountable in a way that provides some judicial protection
against challenges to its decision-making after the fact, Draghi
said.  As an interim measure, the EU needs to continue work on
current proposals to spell out which creditors are in line to
absorb losses when a bank runs into trouble, Draghi said.
Barnier has said he aims to wrap up that legislation by June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  