-- Dubai’s Union Properties in Talks to Settle $599 Million Debt
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-18T12:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/dubai-s-union-properties-in-talks-to-settle-599-million-debt.html
Union Properties PJSC, a Dubai
developer, is in talks to settle 2.2 billion dirhams ($599
million) of debt through measures that will include property
swaps, its chairman said.  The company is negotiating with banks including Emirates
NBD PJSC and Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC,  Khalid bin Kalban 
said today in an in interview. Options may include the sale of
assets to the banks or investors, he added.  “We are trying to reduce the company’s costs,” he said.
“Today, the biggest expense at the company is borrowing.”
Union Properties paid around 150 million dirhams in interest
last year, he said.  Dubai developers have struggled to survive after the
property market collapsed in 2008, leaving the emirate with a
mountain of debt. Union Properties halted projects after credit
dried up and customers defaulted. In 2009, the company suspended
work on F1-X, a Formula One theme park in the MotorCity
development at the Dubai Autodrome race track.  Union Properties made a profit of 170 million dirhams last
year, the chairman said. That followed net losses in the
previous three years, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  The developer plans to  reduce  its liabilities to 400
million dirhams, the chairman said. The value of the company’s
assets will be about 5 billion dirhams after the debt reduction
plan is completed.  Union Properties is planning to spend 60 million dirhams
expanding its retail outlet in its Mirdif development in Dubai.
It plans to add 200,000 square feet (18,580 square meters) to
its existing mall. The company is also considering building
single-family homes at its Green Community development, he said.  “There is a shortage of villas and I think the first phase
will probably include 100 villas,” the chairman said. “We are
also going to release some land plots for sale in MotorCity,”
he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  