-- The Need for Dignity, on Land and at Sea
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-02-18T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/the-need-for-dignity-on-land-and-at-sea.html
My late father used to say that no
quality of human life was more important than dignity. That
wisdom came to mind the other night when I sat with my wife
watching CNN as the exhausted passengers finally began debarking
from the cruise ship Carnival Triumph.  The ship had been adrift for five days in the Gulf of
Mexico. A fire cut the power, and that meant no propulsion, no
air conditioning, no communications, no sanitation.  Think of that, in the modern world: no sanitation. Social
historians tell us that no inventions have been more vital to
extending human life than the flush toilet and the closed sewer.
In the U.S., we can scarcely imagine life without them. But the
passengers on the Carnival Triumph had no choice. The CNN
anchor, commenting on the ordeal, said in passing that she was
sure those leaving the ship were looking forward to a little
dignity.  The word isn’t much used today, perhaps because it conjures
images of stuffiness, an old-fashioned sense of how one should
behave. That’s too bad, because my father was right. Dignity is
crucial to human flourishing. We need more of it.  Alas, we live in an era largely bereft of dignity. We
inhabit instead a world of shabby entertainment, of nasty and
unserious politics. (I assume that I need cite no examples.)  Feeble Excuse  To be sure, entertainers and politicians, along with their
apologists, will tell you that they are limited by the public’s
taste. We’ve all heard it, and most of us have said it: “If our
guy ran the kind of campaign you’re suggesting, he’d lose.”  This feeble excuse is nothing new and hasn’t improved with
age. Thus we find a critic writing in Blackwood’s Edinburgh
Magazine in 1836: “It is undignified to pander to a weak and
depraved taste, and then querulously to lament that it is no
higher.”  Dignity in this sense comes into English from French, but
its ultimate root is the Latin dignus, meaning “worthy.” Thus
the Oxford English Dictionary, as its top-line definition,
offers the following: “The quality of being worthy or
honourable; worthiness, worth, nobleness, excellence.”  Since the U.S. doesn’t have -- or at least isn’t supposed
to have -- any sort of hereditary nobility, let us take it for
granted that dignity in this sense can be earned.  This notion of dignity of manner -- dignity of behavior, of
style, even of dress -- is what historians have in mind when
they tell us, for example, that  Abraham Lincoln  grew his beard
in the fall of 1860 because some of his supporters found his
craggy, backwoods features undignified. Nowadays I suppose there
would be some criticism of this act of inauthenticity, but
Lincoln’s decision gave America the most iconic face in its
history. Lincoln’s visage drips dignity.  Alas, this sense of the word dignity is the one that has
largely faded. But there is another sense of the word dignity,
popularized by philosophers, that ought still to engage our
interest. That is the notion of dignity as attaching not to a
particular mode of behavior but to our very humanity.  All of which brings us to the great legal theorist Ronald
Dworkin, who died last week of leukemia at age 81. In his final
book, “ Justice for Hedgehogs ,” he called for a closer attention
to the ethics of dignity. Our search for the good life, he
argued, should always be governed by an important constraint:
“Acts are wrong if they insult the dignity of others.”  My father would have agreed. He spent his career, as
lawyer, activist and government functionary, battling against
the ravages of poverty -- because poverty was an insult to
dignity. He often explained his lifelong opposition to the death
penalty by pointing to the indignity: the helplessness, the
weeping, even the loss of control of bodily functions.  Standard Argument  The argument has become a standard one. Wrote  Pope John Paul II : “Not even a murderer loses his human dignity.” And U.S.
Supreme Court Justice  William Brennan , in both  concurring  and
 dissenting  opinions, contended that capital punishment was
inconsistent with the Eighth Amendment’s premise “that even the
vilest criminal remains a human being possessed of common human
dignity.”  I don’t mean to suggest that all who care about dignity
will reach the same conclusions, whether on capital punishment
or anything else. So, for example, in his book “ For Capital
Punishment ,” the political philosopher Walter Berns wrote in a
much-quoted reply to Brennan that the justice’s argument ignored
important moral differences between, on the one hand, men such
as Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr. and, on the other,
those such as  Charles Manson  and  Adolf Eichmann : “To say that
these men, some great and some unspeakably vile, equally possess
human dignity is to demonstrate an inability to make a moral
judgment derived from or based on the idea of human dignity.”  Notice that Berns is using the word in the OED sense of an
aspect of character that is earned; whereas Brennan is using it
in Dworkin’s sense of an aspect of personhood. But they aren’t
really talking past each other. The two senses of the word
converge -- and that convergence is important for our politics.  Consider again the passengers suffering for those five
dreary days aboard the Carnival Triumph. They lacked dignity in
both senses of the word. They were forced by the conditions
aboard ship to behave in a manner that was undignified, and the
conditions themselves constituted an affront to their human
dignity.  Dignity isn’t stuffy. Dignity isn’t old-fashioned. Dignity
is crucial to the idea of civilization. Dworkin worried that we
have corrupted the word by allowing it to slip into every party
platform or international covenant. But the basic concept, in
both of its senses, should nevertheless be the centerpiece of
political and ethical conversation.  Apolitical Issue  This shouldn’t be a left-right issue. A closer attention to
the concept of dignity would change only the terms of our
debates, not necessarily their outcomes: Does abortion protect
the dignity of the pregnant woman or invade the dignity of the
unborn child? Do union seniority rules preserve the dignity of
those who have put in long careers or curtail the dignity of
those who are starting out?  A politics centered on dignity would mark a vast
improvement over the kindergarten babble that passes for serious
argument these days. Indeed, we could do a lot worse than
choosing our leaders based on who carries himself or herself
with the greatest degree of dignity. And we could do a lot worse
than making policy based on its effect on the dignity of those
whose lives and futures it would affect.  That, at least, is the America my father would have wanted.
And I think it could be a pretty great one.  ( Stephen L. Carter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Yale University. He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 