-- Egypt Protests Paralyze Port Said as Army Protects Factories
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-18T10:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/egypt-protests-paralyze-port-said-as-army-protects-factories.html
Thousands of Egyptians marched on
the city of Port Said’s investment zone in a second day of
demonstrations, as the army was deployed to protect businesses.  The marchers are calling for a strike in the Suez Canal
city, to protest against death sentences handed down last month
against 21 people for their role in the nation’s worst ever
soccer riot a year earlier.  While the unrest hasn’t affected canal operations, it
underscores the challenges confronting President  Mohamed Mursi 
as his government tries to revive an economy that stalled in the
two years since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster. The currency has hit
record lows, unemployment has risen and a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan has been repeatedly delayed.  The marchers chanted “Leave, Mursi,” Ramy Rasmy, one of
the protesters, said by phone from the demonstration. The
military deployed troops in the free zone to prevent damage and
violence, Sameh Abdel-Khaleq, an employee at one of the affected
factories, said by phone from Port Said.  More than two dozen factories in the industrial zone were
closed today and government workers were sent home amid growing
security concerns. Yesterday, demonstrations forced the
evacuation of the Suez Canal authority’s building and brought
work across the city largely to a standstill.  Violence late last month in Port Said and two other canal
cities left more than 30 people dead and prompted Mursi to enact
emergency measures and a curfew in the areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  