-- Egypt Constitutional Court Rejects Election Law Articles
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-18T16:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/egyptian-constitutional-court-rejects-articles-in-election-law.html
Egypt’s top court rejected a draft
election law, risking delays to a vote that  Mohamed Mursi  says
will help restore stability, as signs emerged of a rift between
the president and some of his Islamist allies.  The Supreme Constitutional Court in Cairo objected to five
articles on areas including the division of electoral districts.
The measure will now be referred back to parliament’s upper
house, the only part of the legislature still functioning after
the lower house was shut down last year, the court said by fax.  Mursi has cited the proximity of parliamentary elections to
resist pressure from secular opponents and some Islamist allies
for a national unity government to help end unrest that has led
to sporadic violence and thwarted an economic recovery. The
latest protests are taking place in the  Suez Canal  city of Port
Said, where thousands rallied for a second day and strikes shut
down businesses.  Mursi also faced criticism from the Salafi Nour Party,
which has backed the call for a unity coalition, after he
dismissed one of its members as his environmental adviser.
Another Nour official at the presidency quit in sympathy,
suggesting tensions between the party, whose Salafi followers
practice a form of ultra-orthodox Islam, and the Muslim
Brotherhood-backed president.  Mursi Powers  The constitutional court has clashed repeatedly with Mursi
since he came to power in June, and about half of the judges
appointed under  Hosni Mubarak  have been removed. The president’s
struggle with the court led him to issue a decree in November
placing his decisions above judicial review, sparking a new wave
of protests.  A slump in tourism and investment because of political
tensions have left Egypt’s economy growing at the slowest pace
in two decades and foreign reserves more than 60 percent below
their end-2010 level. Egyptian  stocks , bonds and the currency
extended losses today.  The standoff with the court is “one more example of this
government’s lack of governing skills,” said Michael Hanna, a
Middle East analyst with the Century Foundation, a New York-
based research institute.  Mursi’s spokesman Yasser Ali could not immediately be
reached for comment.  Ousted Adviser  The president has rejected calls by secular and activist
groups for a delay in elections. While the court’s latest ruling
did not directly reflect on Mursi, it may complicate his plans
and add to political tensions, said  Omar Ashour , a lecturer in
Middle East Studies at the U.K.’s University of Exeter. He said
lawmakers had been unwilling to revise electoral boundaries for
fear of being accused of with gerrymandering.  In Cairo, Mursi’s ousted environmental adviser, Khaled Alam
El-Din, held a televised press conference and demanded an
apology from the president. The president’s aide for political
affairs, Bassem el-Zarqa, announced he was quitting in
solidarity.  Both men are from the Nour Party, an erstwhile ally of the
president which has been working to bring him together with a
secular opposition that has so far largely shunned calls for
dialogue. Another Nour official, Nader Bakkar, referred to
Mursi’s administration as a “totalitarian regime.”  Army Deployed  The National Salvation Front, the broadest secular group,
says elections should be delayed to allow political tensions to
ease and the economy to recover. Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood was
planning to rush ahead with the vote “so they can cover up the
real problems facing people,” Front spokesman Khaled Dawoud
said by phone.  In Port Said, a second day of demonstrations forced at
least two dozen factories in the free investment zone to shut
down. The military has deployed troops in the free zone to
prevent damage and violence, Sameh Abdel-Khaleq, an employee at
one of the affected factories, said by phone from Port Said.  The protesters are denouncing a court ruling sentencing 21
people to death for their role in the nation’s worst ever soccer
riot a year earlier. The verdict sparked violent clashes in the
province last month that left more than 30 people dead and led
Mursi to impose curfews.  Yesterday, calls for a mass strike led to the evacuation of
the Ports Authority building in the city, though Suez Canal
traffic was not affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net 
 Tarek El-Tablawy  in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  