-- Telecom Italia Holders Said to Plan Writing Down Stake
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-18T21:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/telecom-italia-holders-said-to-plan-writing-down-stake.html
Telco SpA, the largest shareholder
of  Telecom Italia SpA , is considering writing down the value of
its stake in Italy’s biggest phone company by at least 900
million euros ($1.2 billion), according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Telefonica SA ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA ,  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA  and  Mediobanca SpA , which together own 22.4 percent of
Milan-based Telecom Italia through holding company Telco, will
meet tomorrow to review the stake’s value, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the plan is private. The
Telco board may lower the value by at least 30 cents a share
from 1.5 euros, the person said.  A reduction would be the fourth in as many years as Telecom
Italia and Europe’s other former phone monopolies struggle with
losses of fixed-line customers and intensifying wireless
rivalry. Telecom Italia’s own board agreed today to start
exclusive talks with Cairo Communication SpA on selling the La7
television channel, exluding La7’s 51 percent MTV Italia stake.  Telco’s board will review a suggestion by adviser Lazard
Ltd., which is giving a fairness opinion on the value of the
stake in Telecom Italia, the person said.  Officials at Intesa, Telefonica, Generali and Mediobanca
declined to comment. A Lazard representative didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  Debt Pile  The shareholder cut the value of its holding by about 4
billion euros in the past four years. It valued Telecom Italia
shares at about 2.7 euros each in 2008, cutting that to 2.2
euros in 2009, to 1.8 euros in 2011 and to 1.5 euros last year.  Telecom Italia stock , which has lost 25 percent in the past
12 months, rose 1.5 percent to 62.45 cents in Milan trading
today, giving the company a market value of 11.7 billion euros.  Telco’s owners, which bought their holdings for 4.1 billion
euros in 2007, agreed in May on a 3.4 billion-euro financing
package, including a 600 million-euro capital increase, to help
repay loans obtained to buy the stakes. The holding company
posted a full-year loss in the fiscal year ended in April of 903
million euros because of the impairments on Telecom Italia’s
value.  “Telco’s investors haven’t a way out, they made a bad
investment at the peak of the market and can only try to limit
damages, considering it’s impossible to sell their stake at the
current levels,” said  Fabrizio Spagna , a managing director at
Axia Financial Research in Padua, Italy, who tracks Italian
stocks. “I expect they will lobby to get higher dividends, even
if there is little room for that.”  Dividend Cut  On Feb. 8, Telecom Italia reported debt missing its target,
forecast declining earnings for this year and said it plans to
cut its dividend. The company’s adjusted net debt fell to 28.3
billion euros at the end of December from 29.5 billion euros at
the end of September. It had predicted it would drop to about
27.5 billion euros.  The carrier is halving annual dividends to 450 million
euros to preserve cash. Directors will discuss goodwill
writedowns of as much as 4 billion euros at a meeting today,
Italian business newspaper Il Sole/24 Ore said last week.  Telecom Italia’s decision to cut the dividend followed
Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV’s plan to sell 4 billion euros in
shares after pouring cash into fast-wireless spectrum in the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  