-- Telekomunikacja Jumps Most in Month on ING Upgrade: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-02-18T16:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/telekomunikacja-jumps-most-in-month-on-ing-upgrade-warsaw-mover.html
Telekomunikacja Polska SA  jumped the
most in more than a month after ING Groep NV upgraded Poland’s
largest phone company following the stock’s 39 percent slump
last week.  The shares rose 2.8 percent to 7.30 zloty in Warsaw, the
second day of advances and the steepest gain since Jan. 7. The
Polish unit of France Telecom SA had the second-biggest jump
among 20 stocks in Warsaw’s  WIG20 Index , which rose 0.3 percent.  Telekomunikacja had its recommendation raised to hold from
sell at ING, which said it saw “no more downside from the
current levels.” The stock is rising from a record low reached
on Feb. 14 after the company cut its dividend proposal for the
second time in four months after fourth-quarter profit and
revenue slumped.  TPSA’s 14-day relative strength index fell to 7.2 at the
close on Feb 14. A reading below 30 indicates to some technical
analysts a security may gain. The RSI was at 12.8 today.  Telekomunikacja’s revenue has fallen since 2007 as
competition increased and the country’s phone regulator forced
operators to cut prices. The watchdog is lowering the rates that
mobile-phone operators charge each other for calls to their
networks, while competition from wireless providers is eroding
fixed-line revenue.  In the mobile telephony market, TPSA competes against the
local unit of Deutsche Telekom AG’s, Polkomtel Sp z o.o. and P4
Sp. z o.o., which is owned by Thor Bjorgolfsson’s Novator and
Tollerton fund.  “We are of the opinion that TPSA is the most resilient of
the four local operators due to the fact that over 60 percent of
the company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is still coming from the fixed-line segment,”
Andrzej Kubacki, an analyst at ING in Warsaw, said in the report
dated Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  