-- Helicopter Pilots Minimize Crash Risk With ‘Jedi’ Vision
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/helicopter-pilots-minimize-crash-risk-with-jedi-vision.html
Helicopter flights through fog,
which may have caused a fatal crash in London last month, should
become less hazardous following development of a helmet that
projects information regarding the terrain ahead onto its visor.  Helmets featuring so-called head-up displays, developed by
Israel’s  Elbit Systems Ltd.  to help fighter pilots shoot down
enemy planes, are being evaluated for use in civil helicopters
by the German Aerospace Center or DLR. The system can project
digital maps featuring obstacles and relief, as well as speed
and altitude, and could be adapted to show live radar images.  “Helmet-mounted displays open the helicopter pilot’s eyes
even in the worst weather conditions,” Helmut Toebben, business
manager at the center’s institute of flight guidance, said in a
telephone interview. “In particular, the technology opens up the
possibility of landing safely in limited visibility.”  Flight tests employing the DLR’s own EC135, a civil chopper
built by the Eurocopter unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. , have demonstrated the technology’s effectiveness in
poor weather, Toebben said. Mist or cloud was probably a factor
in the London crash on Jan. 16, in which the pilot and one man
on the ground were killed when an AW101 helicopter built by
 Finmeccanica SpA ’s AgustaWestland unit collided with a crane at
the luxury St George Wharf development near the River Thames.  Wind Turbines  The DLR’s trials used a version of an Elbit helmet designed
for military models such as  Boeing Co.’s  Apache and known as the
Jedeye -- a pun on the Jedi warriors from the Star Wars films,
who were able to sense their environment even while blindfolded.  Search-and-rescue helicopters are among likely customers
for the helmets, since they invariably operate in harsh weather
conditions but can be grounded when visibility drops below 1,500
meters (4,920 feet), the DLR says. It’s also looking at their
application in avoiding wind turbines, which are an increasingly
common hazard to helicopters, especially on offshore flights.  Industrialization of the plan would need to involve Elbit
or another manufacturer, with the DLR acting as technical
partner, according to Toebben, who is based in Braunschweig.
Bringing down costs to make civil sales viable is a priority, he
said, declining to reveal what the price of the helmet might be.  Elbit’s  Jedeye  can help military pilots land helicopters in
environments where sand kicked up by the rotor blades limits
visibility. Such “brownout” conditions have led to numerous
crashes in Afghanistan.  Civil helicopters generally navigate using visual landmarks
such as major roads, railways, buildings and lakes that are
easily identifiable from the air. While augmented in recent
years by satellite-positioning technology, operations remain
restricted mainly to daylight hours and clear weather.  Cockpits can be upgraded with instrumentation necessary to
fly without visual cues, though most can only interpret ground-
based navigation signals likely to be unavailable during the
bulk of a flight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  