-- Emerging Stocks Fall Most in Week on Metals, China Retail Sales
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-18T22:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-week-on-korean-won-metal-prices.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in a week, led by a decline in Chinese companies as retail sales
growth slowed during the Lunar New Year festival and a drop in
mining shares as metal prices slumped.  Daphne International Holdings Ltd. , a Chinese footwear
maker, sank the most in five weeks to lead consumer stock
declines. Retailer B2W Cia. Global do Varejo dropped the most on
Brazil’s Bovespa Index after economists reduced their 2014
growth forecasts for the country. Steelmaker  OAO Severstal  fell
for the first time in four days in Moscow.  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd.  slid the most in a month in Johannesburg after a
report of clashes between labor unions at a company mine.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.2 percent to
1,064.34 in New York, snapping four days of gains. The gauge’s
30-day volatility dropped to 6.33, the lowest level since 1997.
The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index declined
1.5 percent, the most since Dec. 20. China’s holiday retail
sales rose at the slowest pace in four years.  “The economic recovery in China remains weak,”  Jitra Amornthum , the head of research at Finansia Syrus Securities
Pcl, said by phone in Bangkok. “The weaker Japanese yen will
have an adverse impact on some exporters in the region,
especially in South Korea.”  The South Korean won dropped for the first time in a week
versus the dollar as the yen’s decline following the Group of 20
nations meeting sparked concern South Korea will step in to
weaken its currency in support of exports.  Russia, Brazil  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers ended talks in
Moscow on Feb. 16 pledging not to “target our exchange rates
for competitive purposes,” without singling out Japan. The yen
has tumbled almost 14 percent against the dollar in three months
in response to stimulus policies from Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe .  Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced 0.1 percent. Severstal, the
steelmaker controlled by Alexey Mordashov, lost 1.2 percent. OAO
Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, slid 0.4 percent
in its third day of losses.  The Bovespa lost 0.5 percent in Sao Paulo to an 11-week
low. B2W dropped 5.9 percent as a central bank weekly survey
with about 100 economists showed Brazil’s gross domestic product
will expand 3.65 percent next year, lower than the median
forecast of 3.8 percent a week earlier.  Steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  declined
3.4 percent before releasing its quarterly earnings today after
the close of trading.  Earnings Reports  “Emerging markets are currently failing to track developed
markets,”  Martial Godet , head of strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
London, said by e-mail. “Earnings downgrades are still strong
for both 2012 and 2013. Energy and materials stocks are
lagging.”  Sixty-two percent of companies in the emerging-markets
gauge that have reported earnings have  missed  analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge fell 0.2 percent.  BIM
Birlesik Magazalar AS , an operator of food and basic consumer-
goods discount stores in Turkey, lost 2.1 percent. Aksigorta AS,
the Turkish insurer co-owned by Belgium’s Ageas, rose 3.7
percent in Istanbul, after 2012 net income beat estimates.  Poland’s WIG 20 Index added 0.3 percent for the highest
close in a week.  Telekomunikacja Polska SA  rallied 2.8 percent
as ING Groep NV upgraded Poland’s largest phone company to hold
from sell following the stock’s 39 percent slump last week after
the company cut its dividend proposal for the second time in
four months amid declining profit.  South Africa  The Czech Republic’s PX Index fell 0.3 percent.  Komercni
Banka AS , the Czech unit of Societe Generale SA, added 1.6
percent.  CEZ AS  fell for a fourth day after the Bulgarian
government said it may revoke the Czech utility’s power-
distribution license in the southeast European country.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index dropped 0.4
percent, declining for a third day. The rand fell to its weakest
level in almost a week after clashes between rival labor unions
at an Anglo American Platinum mine spurred concern of a repeat
of violence that curbed production last year. The stock dropped
4.9 percent, the most in a month.  India’s benchmark stock index added 0.2 percent, the first
gain in three days. Sri Lanka’s Colombo All-Share Index tumbled
1 percent, the most in almost three months.  Consumer Discretionary  A  gauge  of consumer-discretionary companies sank 0.9
percent, the most among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, followed by a 0.7 percent drop for raw-
materials producers. The developing-nations broad measure has
added 0.9 percent this year, trailing a 5.2 percent increase by
the MSCI World Index.  The emerging-markets index trades at 10.4 times estimated
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8 times, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  declined 0.9 percent,
its biggest drop since Feb. 7. The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell
0.5 percent in its first trading day after the weeklong break.  Daphne lost 3.8 percent. Intime Department Store Group Co.
slid 3.7 percent in Hong Kong, the most since Jan. 25.  Hyundai Motor  Hyundai Motor Co.  dropped 1.9 percent in Seoul, the most
since Feb. 6. Kia Motors Corp. slipped 2.4 percent, the steepest
loss since Feb. 4. A stronger won erodes the competitiveness of
exporters. The won reached its highest level since October 2008
against Japan’s currency. The Group of 20 nations refrained from
censuring Japan’s policies that have weakened the yen.  AU Optronics Corp.  climbed 6.6 percent in Taipei, its
steepest gain in two months, after settling an antitrust case
and as January sales gained. Epistar Corp., a light-emitting
diode maker, jumped 6.9 percent.  Vincent Yu , an analyst at Jih
Sun Securities Ltd., said Epistar will benefit as the peak
season for the industry approaches.  Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. , a mobile-phone
operator, slumped 5.2 percent, the most since July 24. Barclays
cut the stock to an equivalent of hold from an equivalent of
buy, citing “disappointing prospects.”  Thailand’s SET Index climbed 0.1 percent, trading near the
highest level since November 1994. Gross domestic product
increased 18.9 percent in the three months through December from
a year earlier, after expanding a revised 3.1 percent in the
previous quarter, the government said today. The median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 15.3 percent growth.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  added 0.7 percent to a
record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  