-- Lend Lease Eyes Malaysia as Australia Boom Peaks: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-19T03:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/lend-lease-eyes-malaysia-as-australia-boom-peaks-southeast-asia.html
Lend Lease Group , Australia’s
biggest developer, plans to expand in Malaysia to make up for a
slowdown in residential sales and mining-related infrastructure
projects back home.  The company is in discussions to invest in about three
development projects in Malaysia and expects to complete the
first agreement by June 30, Chief Executive Officer  Steve McCann 
said in an interview from Melbourne yesterday.  Lend Lease wants to lower its dependency on the home market
to about 60 percent of earnings in five years from 73 percent as
of Dec. 31, McCann said. Malaysia’s growth exceeded 5 percent in
each of the five quarters through September, outpacing
Australia’s average 3.4 percent expansion in the same period.
Lend Lease’s Asian Retail Investment Fund in May opened  Setia
City Mall  in partnership with Malaysian developer SP Setia Bhd.  “Over time, say about five years, we’ll invest more
capital overseas,” McCann said. “There are a few encouraging
signs in the Australian residential market and there’s a bit
more enquiry off the reduction in interest rates but there won’t
be a material turnaround soon in the land subdivision market.”  The Sydney-based company’s future developments in Malaysia
will be mixed-use projects dominated by retail space, McCann
said. Two of its planned projects in the country will be in
Kuala Lumpur and one elsewhere, he said.  Lend Lease in October agreed to jointly develop a 10.9 acre
site in a project that will include office, retail and hotel
space and homes with Naza TTDI, according to an e-mailed
statement from the closely held Malaysian developer.  Consumer Experience  “With a growing middle class, there will be demand for a
consumer experience at shopping malls,” said  Nicholas Mak ,
Singapore-based executive director at SLP International Property
Consultants. “Some of the shopping malls in Malaysia are fairly
mediocre. So perhaps that’s where Lend Lease sees opportunities
if they can acquire the land and get a good partner that might
be a good expansion opportunity.”  Malaysia’s gross domestic product probably increased more
than the government’s 2012 goal of 4.5 percent to 5 percent, and
the economy has proven to be “resilient and robust,” Second
Finance Minister  Ahmad Husni Mohamad Hanadzlah  said earlier this
month.  Credit Suisse Group AG also raised its forecast for
Malaysia’s expansion this year to 5.5 percent from 5 percent
previously, citing a better outlook for exports, according to a
Feb. 6 report from the bank. The government is scheduled to
release its GDP data tomorrow.  Still, the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  has
fallen 5.6 percent this year, making it the worst performer in
Asia and the third-biggest decline among 94 stock markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Lend Lease shares have risen 9.5 percent
since the start of the year.  Malaysia Elections  Prime Minister  Najib Razak  must dissolve parliament by
April 28 for an election to be held within 60 days. At the 2008
polls, his governing National Front won the vote by its
narrowest margin since the Southeast Asian nation’s independence
in 1957.  The occupancy rate for retail properties in the capital
Kuala Lumpur rose 0.6 percentage point in the three months ended
Dec. 31 from the previous quarter and a year earlier, broker DTZ
Holdings Plc. said in its fourth quarter 2012 Property Times
report. Retail sales climbed a 5.5 percent in each of the last
two quarters of the year, according to the report last month.
Global brands including Sweden’s  H&M  and Japan’s  Uniqlo  expanded
in Malaysia, it said.  Growth in Australia’s gross domestic product will slow to
2.4 percent in the three months through March 31, the least
since June 2011, according to the median of 22 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. GDP expanded 2.9 percent in the
past quarter, the surveys show, and the RBA predicted “below
trend” growth of about 2.5 percent for 2013.  Full-time employment in Australia declined for a third
month in January while part-time jobs rose, government data
showed this month.  Long-Term Game  Other than Malaysia, Lend Lease is seeking opportunities in
China, where it may add capital partners to invest in a new
development fund, McCann said.  “China is a long-term game and with the astonishing growth
coming out of that market, which we don’t expect to stop,
there’ll be significant growth for some time to come,” he said.  In China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, demand for
iron ore and coal has fueled a resource investment boom that the
Reserve Bank of Australia predicts will crest later this year.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest miner, shelved three
major projects in August, costing an estimated $68 billion to
build, and  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s second-biggest mining
company, said in November it will cut $5 billion in costs by
2014.  The government’s tax on iron ore and coal profits raised
A$126 million in the six months to Dec. 31, Treasurer Wayne Swan
said on Feb. 8. That compared with a Treasury forecast in
October of A$2 billion for the year to June 30.  The RBA reduced its benchmark  interest rate  to 3 percent in
December, matching a half-century low, as it tries to spur
investment in industries outside of mining as it prepares for
the peak in the nation’s resources boom.  Yesterday, Lend Lease reported a 39 percent jump in  net
income  to A$302.3 million ($311 million) in the six months ended
Dec. 31, driven by earnings from its Barangaroo South
development in Sydney. Profit in the Australian development
business more than doubled, accounting for 73 percent of profit.  In Europe, London housing is a “pretty strong market” and
will remain a focus for the company, McCann said. While Lend
Lease is scaling back its operations in Europe, it will retain
its hospital developments in northern Italy, and is unlikely to
exit the continent completely, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  