-- Let Markets Decide Legal Migration Rights
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-18T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/let-markets-decide-legal-migration-rights.html
The last time Congress tried to fix
the U.S. immigration system, an overly stringent guest-worker
program led to the legislation’s demise. Labor unions, fearing a
wave of unskilled foreign workers who might depress wages and
take jobs from Americans, backed the measure. Business groups,
worried they wouldn’t be able to find qualified engineers or
low-skilled janitors, opposed it. The coalition needed to pass a
bill splintered.  This time, President Barack Obama, who as a senator in 2007
voted for the stingy guest-worker provision, is pushing labor
and business leaders to compromise. A deal so far eludes them.
Unions are more open to guest-worker programs than in 2007, yet
they still want to protect the jobs of Americans first. And if
there are to be low-skilled guest workers, their stay must be
long enough that they have an incentive to join a union.  The AFL-CIO favors a  plan  proposed by  Ray Marshall , the
labor secretary under President  Jimmy Carter , in which an
independent commission would decide how many visas to award --
and to which types of companies. A panel of business, government
and labor experts would set caps based on  regional job-market 
and consumer-demand data.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, on the other hand, says a
commission wouldn’t have timely enough data to judge what
companies need. Nor would it be insulated from union pressures
to lowball the need for immigrant workers. It would be better,
the Chamber says, if companies made those decisions.  Market-Based  Push the posturing aside and it’s clear what’s needed: a
legal immigration program that expands and contracts with the
economy and provides visas that last multiple years.  Fortunately, a plan for an incremental, market-based guest-
worker system exists.  Designed  by Giovanni Peri, an economics
professor at the University of California at Davis, the program
would begin with quarterly auctions of temporary permits to
employers. Congress would set a maximum number of permits for
which companies could bid, based on their own readings of market
demand -- not a commission’s -- for the goods and services they
sell and the workers they need to meet that demand.  Each permit would correspond to a temporary visa, which
would go to a foreign worker (and the worker’s immediate
family). Based on what employers have told him, Peri figures
they would pay annually between $5,000 and $10,000 for high-
skilled visas (now called H-1Bs). Low-skilled permits (now
called H-2s) would go for $1,000 to $2,000. The fees would be an
incentive to hire American workers. The revenue -- as much as
$1.4 billion annually -- could be used to reimburse state and
local governments for schools and other services provided to
immigrants or to retrain U.S. workers.  The Peri plan would create an internal labor market among
companies with permits and employees with visas. If a company’s
labor needs change, it could sell or trade its permits. Foreign-
born workers with visas could move freely among permit-holding
employers and could eventually buy back their permits for
maximum job flexibility.  Temporary workers would earn at least minimum wage and pay
taxes, but they wouldn’t be eligible for health-care, retirement
or other federal benefits. After three years (six for low-
skilled workers), those with a good work history and no criminal
record could apply for permanent status.  The new system would be more responsive to the economy than
the current one, in which visas are awarded first-come, first-
served. Bottlenecks are legion; many immigrants wait decades for
visas.  Sent Home  The biggest problem, though, is that workers with temporary
visas often must return home because of a 7 percent cap on
permanent-residence visas from any one country. Some of the
U.S.’s best-educated and most-innovative workers are lost after
a few years. Under the Peri plan, immigrants with the most to
offer the U.S. economy would get preference.  Some permits could be set aside for small businesses.
Enforcement would be simpler -- only employers with permits
could hire temporary workers with matching visas. Paired with an
electronic verification system, employers would be able to
quickly determine if an applicant is legal. And if the needs of
businesses determine how wide the immigration gates open, the
ranks of the undocumented should shrink.  Peri’s plan would proceed in phases, reducing the risk of
an experiment run amok. If the auction system works, the program
would advance to the next step, in which temporary visas become
permanent-resident visas. In the final stage, the existing
system of country-specific and family-based quotas would largely
give way to employment-based quotas.  There are downsides, not least that the U.S.’s current
family-based immigration system, in which siblings and adult
children of residents have preference, would be undermined. Some
lawmakers might not like the idea of a visa system that is so,
well, mercenary. And labor will probably need convincing, though
putting an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants on the
path to citizenship (and potential union membership) seems
pretty enticing.  The economic reality is that immigrants will go wherever
economic opportunity exists, even if it’s illegal. The Peri
plan, more so than the Marshall plan, offers the U.S. a way to
take advantage of this imperative, rather than being overwhelmed
by it. In a nation desperate for innovative approaches to
immigration, it’s an experiment worth pursuing.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 