-- Break Up the Ratings Oligopoly!
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M a n n s
-- 2013-02-18T23:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/let-s-downgrade-s-p-moody-s-ratings-oligopoloy.html
The Justice Department’s landmark
lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s has captured headlines and
broken the facade of rating-company immunity. But the threat to
bludgeon, if not bankrupt, S&P through litigation masks the
failure of the Securities and Exchange Commission to reform the
raters.  Imposing a settlement of more than $1 billion on S&P may
appease the popular cry for the rating companies to pay for
their shortcomings in understating financial risks, yet will do
nothing to fix the distorted incentives that shape the industry.  Instead, the SEC should take bold steps to use its
regulatory authority to transform the industry and break up this
entrenched oligopoly in which three firms -- S&P,  Moody’s
Investors Service  and Fitch Ratings -- provide 96 percent of all
ratings and frequently mimic each other’s grades.  The Justice Department’s case against S&P amounts to an
indictment of the issuer-pays business model for ratings. S&P,
like its leading rivals, is selected and paid by debt issuers.
The Justice Department alleges that S&P tilted its ratings to
favor the hands that fed its lucrative mortgage-backed
securities business, helping to fuel the financial crisis.  The catch is that litigation is a blunt and inadequate tool
to deal with this systematic conflict of interest that arguably
inflates all issuer-paid ratings. Although the government may
win in the court of public opinion by airing S&P’s dirty
laundry, it faces an uphill fight to prove that senior
management knowingly committed fraud.  Colorful E-Mails  The lawsuit’s long list of colorful e-mails by underlings
isn’t tantamount to fraudulent corporate policy. At best,
evidence of internal debates and policy paralysis at S&P about
how to deal with the crisis merely mirrored the inaction and
indecision of government regulators. S&P, of course, faces
incentives to settle the case to resolve this blight on its
business. But a monetary penalty will do little to address the
industry’s ills.  Fixing the raters requires action from the SEC, which so
far has delayed, if not scuttled, the most significant feature
of rating-company reform: the  Dodd-Frank  Act’s mandate to
replace the issuer-pays system for ratings of asset-backed
securities. The SEC has spent 2 1/2 years engaging in the
classic Washington avoidance strategy of conducting studies on
potential alternatives rather than implementing changes. Further
delay, or more studies, is pointless.  The SEC should embrace the Dodd-Frank Act’s mandate by
creating an independent board to select which rating companies
will evaluate specific asset-backed securities. That will put an
end to issuers shopping for the company that will award the
highest ratings. A user fee imposed on issuers or a transaction
tax on purchasers could finance the selection and compensation
of rating companies and eliminate the  issuer-pays  conflict of
interest.  This experiment, if successful, could be gradually expanded
to ratings of all debt securities. The potential downside is
that the leading rating companies may continue to dominate any
selection process that an independent board sets up, and they
might undercut performance standards by mimicking each other’s
ratings. Alternatively, the three main raters may leverage their
strong brand value to bypass any constraints that the system
imposes and continue to contract directly with issuers.  For this reason, the SEC should go a step further and break
up the oligopoly to create meaningful competition.  Unique Leverage  The SEC has a crucial trump card because raters must be
certified as  Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations  in order to issue evaluations of the
creditworthiness of many forms of debt. This requirement
provides the SEC with unique leverage to encourage divestitures
by the leading rating companies.  The SEC could, for example, create separate certifications
for rating categories of debt, such as government and corporate
bonds, and bar raters from issuing evaluations for more than one
asset category. Leading rating companies would then have a
choice of vacating segments of the market or spinning off parts
of their business into freestanding companies.  Smaller raters or new entrants could focus on a debt sector
in which they could build experience and legitimacy and more
plausibly compete over time. The result would be to create a new
landscape in which a larger number of businesses would compete
based on the quality of their ratings, rather than their
willingness to cater to the interests of issuers.  The odds are that the Justice Department’s lawsuit will do
little to change a problematic business model. Let’s just hope
that the attention it focused on the rating companies spurs the
SEC to do its job and embrace the mantle of reform.  ( Jeffrey Manns  is an associate professor of law at George
Washington University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Manns at  jmanns@law.gwu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  