-- Ethiopian Military-Run Corporation Seeks More Foreign Partners
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-02-18T04:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/ethiopian-military-run-corporation-seeks-more-foreign-partners.html
Metals & Engineering Corp., an
Ethiopian military-run corporation, said it plans to partner
with more foreign companies as it spearheads a government-drive
to develop industries in Africa’s second-most populous nation.  METEC, as it’s known, is already working with companies
including  Alstom SA , Europe’s second-largest power-equipment
maker, U.S.-based solar-panel manufacturer  Spire Corp.  and  China
Poly Group Corp.  on engineering and manufacturing projects. Some
of the company’s budding industries, like vehicle-assembly and
engineering businesses, may generate more than 20 billion birr
($1.1 billion) of revenue a year, spokesman Michael Desta said
in an interview.  “We’re doing this in collaboration” with foreign
companies, he said on Feb. 15 in the capital, Addis Ababa. “We
want to learn from them.”  Ethiopia is using one of Africa’s largest armies to help
develop an economy that grew an average 8.7 over the past five
years, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The country
operates a state-led development model that targets public and
private investment in value-adding industries in order to
diversify an economy in which agriculture accounts for 46
percent of total output.  The government is in the midst of a five-year plan in which
it’s spending 569 billion birr until 2015 on projects including
the $5 billion Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, which would be
the site of Africa’s biggest hydropower plant.  Military Efficiency  “The military happens to be relatively efficient,
disciplined and well-organized to be entrusted with such grand
projects,” said Merkeb Negash, a lecturer in political science
and international relations at the Department of Governance and
Development Studies at Jimma University in Ethiopia.  Ethiopia’s armed forces numbered about 200,000 in November
2011, making it one of the biggest on the continent, according
to the  website  of Global Security, the Washington-based research
company. Officers connected with the rebel movement that
overthrew the country’s military regime in 1991 dominate senior
positions in the government, it said.  Former Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi , who ruled Ethiopia for
21 years before he died in August, may have created METEC to
give the military a “stake” in the economy, said Merkeb. “Now
the military will always defend the system whatsoever,” he said
in an e-mailed response to questions on Feb. 6.  Grand Renaissance  The Ethiopian Electric Power Corp. contracted METEC to
build the electro-mechanical works for the $5 billion Grand
Ethiopian Renaissance Dam on the Blue Nile River in partnership
with Alstom. The Paris-based company will provide eight turbines
and generators for 250 million euros ($333 million) to METEC and
commission the plant.  METEC is also building the 50 billion-birr Coal Phosphate
Fertilizer Complex Project in Illubabor Zone of Oromia Region
for the Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency,
and is the main contractor for the Sugar Corp., a government
enterprise that’s building 10 cane plantations and processors
nationwide at a cost of about $5 billion, Michael said. The
fertilizer project will be transferred to the newly formed
Chemical Industry Corp. when it’s finished, he said.  The organization is involved in “priority areas and
import-substitution,” Deputy Prime Minister Debretsion
Gebremichael, who is responsible for economic coordination, said
in a Jan. 23 interview. “They cannot do it by their own so they
look for partners, international as well as local. They’re
bringing many actors to the picture but at the heart of
everything it’s METEC.”  Vehicle Manufacturing  METEC was  established  in June 2010 with 10 billion birr of
capital by grouping nine businesses previously owned by the
Defense Ministry, including Dejen Aviation Industry and Gafat
Armament Industry, Michael said. Six other industries, including
plastic, tractor and vehicle spare-parts manufacturers, were
transferred to METEC from the privatization agency and it now
operates as many as 75 factories nationwide, Michael said.  METEC is overseen by a board headed by Defense Minister
Siraj Fergessa, Michael said. It employs about 13,000 people,
including more than 1,000 engineers, he said.  Siraj in September opened a 200 million-birr factory in
Modjo, 70 kilometers (44 miles) southeast of Addis Ababa that
will make turbines, generators and high-voltage electricity-
transmission cables, according to state-owned Ethiopian Radio
and Television Agency. A METEC arms factory was opened the same
day, it said on its website.  Poly Technologies Plc, part of the Beijing-based China Poly
Group, is building truck-assembly plants in Modjo and Bishoftu
for METEC,  Xinhua  reported on Sept. 27.  “In the future we will avoid importing everything but the
engine,” Michael said. “Maybe in the future the engine will be
produced here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  