-- Metro’s Billionaire Co-Founder Beisheim Commits Suicide
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-02-18T22:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/metro-s-billionaire-founder-otto-beisheim-dies-aged-89.html
Otto Beisheim , the billionaire co-
founder of Metro AG who imported the U.S. Cash & Carry concept
to Germany in the 1960s, has died. He was 89.  Beisheim lost the will to live as he battled with an
incurable illness, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Beisheim Group today that implied he took his own life. His body
was discovered at his home in the southern German town of
Rottach-Egern, according to the statement.  His fortune is estimated at $4.5 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Beisheim held a 10 percent stake
in Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, which he co-founded in
1964 with the help of the Haniel and Schmidt-Ruthenbeck
families. He also owned a namesake real-estate complex in the
center of Berlin, which contains two five-star hotels. He
managed his investments through Beisheim Holding Schweiz in
Switzerland.  Beisheim retired from Dusseldorf-based Metro’s board in
1994 and, in 2009 and in 2010, reduced his stake from about 18.5
percent after abandoning a voting agreement with the families,
who two years earlier had increased their holding to 50.1
percent.  “With Cash & Carry, he pushed the wholesale format, which
was ideal for countries in central and eastern Europe after the
end of communism because the retail landscape was so fragmented
there,” Boris Planer, chief  economist at Planet Retail in
Frankfurt, said by phone. “Even today, Cash & Carry in emerging
markets continues to be a very strong growth driver for Metro as
a global group. It continues to be Metro’s biggest hope to this
day.”  Gains Pared  Metro shares pared gains, closing up 0.5 percent at 24.32
euros in Frankfurt after rising as much as 2.6 percent earlier
in the day.  The retailer, which posted revenue of 66.7 billion euros
($89 billion) last year, gets almost half of its sales from its
Cash & Carry  wholesale business  and the rest from retail units
including the Media-Saturn electronics chain, Kaufhof department
stores and Real hypermarkets.  “Otto Beisheim was a pioneer and a legend in the German
and international retail sectors,” Metro Chief Executive
Officer  Olaf Koch  said in an e-mailed statement today. “He
revolutionized the entire industry” with the Cash & Carry
concept from the middle of the 1960s, he said.  Beisheim introduced the Cash & Carry concept in Germany,
Alexa von Wietzlow, a spokeswoman for the Beisheim Group said by
phone today. He opened the first Cash & Carry stores in Rottach-
Egern and Muelheim an der Ruhr, Germany, she said.  Prisoner of War  Beisheim served in the First SS Division Leibstandarte
during the Second World War -- a division that also operated as
Adolf Hitler’s personal bodyguard unit. He was taken prisoner by
the British in 1945. He didn’t have children and remarried in
2008 after becoming a widower, according to information compiled
by Bloomberg. He lived in Baar, Switzerland, in the summer and
resided in Miami in the winter.  Beisheim donated to educational causes through his namesake
foundation. His largest was a 50 million deutsche mark donation
to the  Otto Beisheim School of Management , located in Vallendar,
Germany. He was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal
Republic of Germany in 1994.  Beisheim’s estate will go to the two foundations in his
name in Baar and Munich, according to a statement from the
Beisheim Group today.  His death was first reported by newspaper Bild Zeitung.  “With Otto Beisheim’s death, we are losing an important
businessman and a particularly valuable man and our thoughts are
with his family,” Franz Markus Haniel said in a statement.
Beisheim “wrote a significant piece of economic history,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  