-- EU Amends Sanctions Against Syria to Boost Aid for Civilians
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-18T19:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/eu-amends-syria-sanctions-to-boost-aid-for-protecting-civilians.html
European foreign ministers agreed to
extend economic sanctions against Syria for another three months
while boosting aid to protect civilians from the violence that
has wracked the country for two years.  The decision was made at a meeting in Brussels today where
the U.K. and France also pushed to amend the sanctions to
provide weapons for rebel forces fighting against President
 Bashar al-Assad ’s government.  European governments “will actively continue the work
under way to assess and review, if necessary, the sanctions
regime against Syria in order to support and help the
opposition,” the EU said in a  statement  on its website. The
union will “provide greater non-lethal support and technical
assistance for the protection of civilians.”  Fighting between forces loyal to Assad and rebels who want
to end his family’s rule in Syria has left almost 70,000 people
dead, according to the United Nations. The EU imposed  sanctions 
against Syria in 2011. The U.K. and France introduced the
proposals to alter the weapons embargo so the rebels can be
better armed.  Assad’s government indicated last week that it’s ready to
meet with  Moaz al-Khatib , the leader of the Syrian National
Coalition who has called for talks to end the violence.  Syrian ‘Willpower’  The president told a Lebanese delegation during a meeting
in Damascus that he’s confident his army will defeat the
foreign-backed rebels, according to the Lebanese Assafir
newspaper.  “We are certain the future is ours,” the newspaper quoted
Assad as saying. “Syria has the willpower to defeat the
conspiracy, we are reassured by the political and military
developments.”  A UN panel found the conflict is becoming increasingly
sectarian with both sides “significantly more radicalized and
militarized.” In its  latest report , based on interviews with
445 people, the UN’s Independent Commission of Inquiry on Syria
said the human-rights situation has deteriorated since July amid
an escalation in fighting.  Government forces and allied militiamen have committed
crimes against humanity, torture, rape, kidnappings, war crimes
and gross violations of human rights, the commission said. While
rebels have also committed war crimes including murder, torture
and hostage-taking, it said the government’s violations have
been worse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  