-- EU Diplomats Weigh Adjusting Syrian Arms Embargo to Help Rebels
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-18T13:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/eu-diplomats-weigh-adjusting-syrian-arms-embargo-to-help-rebels.html
European foreign ministers debated
proposals to ease an arms embargo against Syria to strengthen
rebel forces while tightening economic sanctions against
President  Bashar al-Assad ’s government.  The European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , was scheduled to hold a news conference at 4 p.m. in
Brussels to report on today’s meeting in Brussels. U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  advocated amending the embargo to
support the Syrian National Coalition led by  Moaz al-Khatib .  “I’m sure there will be an agreement on restrictive
measures on Syria,” Ashton told reporters before joining the
foreign ministers. “The question we have to debate is to ensure
that we’ve got the right format.”  Fighting between forces loyal to Assad and rebels who want
to end his family’s rule over Syria has left almost 70,000
people dead in almost two years of conflict, according to the
United Nations. The EU imposed  sanctions  against Syria in 2011.
The U.K. and France introduced the proposals to alter the
weapons embargo so the rebels can be better armed.  Assad’s government indicated last week that it’s ready to
meet with al-Khatib, who has called for talks to end the
violence.  A UN panel found the conflict is becoming increasingly
sectarian with both sides “significantly more radicalized and
militarized.” In its  latest report , based on interviews with
445 people, the UN’s Independent Commission of Inquiry on Syria
said the human rights situation has deteriorated since July amid
an escalation in fighting.  Government forces and allied militiamen have committed
crimes against humanity, torture, rape, kidnappings, war crimes
and gross violations of human rights, the commission said. While
rebels have also committed war crimes including murder, torture
and hostage-taking, it said the government’s violations have
been worse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  