-- EU Parliament Members Threaten to Reject Budget Accord
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-18T17:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/eu-parliament-members-threaten-to-reject-budget-accord.html
Leading members of the  European
Parliament  threatened to veto the seven-year budget agreement
reached by government heads 10 days ago, seeking more money for
Europe as they prepare for negotiations on a final deal.  The European Union’s national leaders set the bloc’s 
budget for 2014-2020 at 960 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) 
during a Feb. 7-8 meeting. The sum, down from an original 
proposal of 1.047 trillion euros and less than the 994 billion 
euros committed in the current budget cycle, would mark the 
first shrinking of the EU’s “Multiannual Financial Framework.”  “I am disappointed,”  Joseph Daul , floor leader of the
European People’s Party, the 27-nation EU assembly’s biggest
political group, said during a budget debate today in Brussels.
 Guy Verhofstadt , floor leader of the pro-business Liberals, the
third-biggest faction, said: “This is not an MFF that the
Parliament can accept.”  The EU’s seven-year budget guidelines, traditionally a
tussle between richer nations that are net contributors and
poorer countries mainly in eastern and southern Europe, are a
gauge of the bloc’s political mood and coherence. Regional and
agricultural aid soaks up around four-fifths of EU expenditure,
funding everything from transport networks to farmers’ incomes.  European spending is about 1 percent of EU gross domestic
product compared with national spending in the bloc that is
around 50 percent of domestic GDP. The debate over 2014-2020 EU
spending has taken on added significance as the bloc seeks to
contain the three-year-old debt crisis that has threatened to
break up the 17-nation euro.  Deficit Goals  The accord struck by EU government leaders came at a
gathering that lasted 25 1/2 hours and followed a failed attempt
in November. The richest EU countries including Germany and the
U.K. insisted on a reduction, saying it would be consistent with
efforts by national governments to narrow their budget deficits.  EU Parliament members have argued that European expenditure
is a collective investment tool that becomes more important
during a time of national austerity. The assembly must approve
the 2014-2020 spending plan along with national governments,
which finance 70 percent of the EU budget.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , who chaired the meeting at
which national leaders reached their accord and attended today’s
debate in the Parliament, urged the 754-seat assembly to give
its support “swiftly.” A failure to endorse a 2014-2020
spending program would lead to a rollover of the 2013 budget.  ‘Major Setback’  “That would be a major setback,” Van Rompuy said. “Big
projects depend on a longer-term perspective.”  Verhofstadt, who like Van Rompuy is a former Belgian prime
minister, raised the prospect of the EU Parliament withholding
any approval until after the assembly holds elections in May or
June 2014.  “The only solution is to renegotiate everything,”
Verhofstadt said. “Try to reach an agreement within two years
on a new financial framework for the EU that is truly future-
oriented.”  Jose Barroso , president of the European Commission, the
EU’s executive arm, which made the initial proposal for higher
spending by the bloc in 2014-2020, predicted tough talks for a
deal that the Parliament will endorse.  “It’s going to be a difficult negotiation, I am sure,”
Barroso said while sitting beside Van Rompuy during today’s
debate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  