-- EU Strengthens Sanctions Against North Korea After Nuclear Test
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-02-18T18:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/eu-strengthens-sanctions-against-north-korea-after-nuclear-test.html
The European Union strengthened
sanctions against North Korea, including the imposition of new
financial restrictions, following the Asian country’s test of a
nuclear device last week.  “In view of the recent nuclear test and ballistic missile
test on Dec. 12, this is the EU’s first step in defense of the
international non-proliferation regime,” the EU said after the
bloc’s foreign ministers agreed on the measures at a meeting
today in Brussels. “This nuclear test represents a serious
threat to regional and international peace.”  The EU move follows the adoption in the U.S. House on Feb.
15 of a non-binding resolution condemning North Korea for the
nuclear test and calling on the government to impose all
available sanctions against the nation. The resolution urges
collaboration with allies and seeks a new United Nations
Security Council resolution.   The decision today by EU foreign ministers meeting in
Brussels implements sanctions approved by the UN and also
includes “autonomous EU measures.” The EU’s travel ban and
asset freeze now applies to 26 people, while the number of
organizations targeted by an asset freeze amounts to 33, the 27-
nation bloc said.  The EU also banned the export and import of key components
for ballistic missiles with North Korea. It also prohibited
trade in new public bonds from the country, outlawed trade in
gold, precious metals and diamonds with North Korean public
bodies and stopped the delivery of new North Korean denominated
banknotes and coinage to the nation’s central bank.  Joint Ventures  Under the EU measures, North Korean banks will no longer be
allowed to open new branches in the EU nor establish joint
ventures with European financial institutions, the EU said.
European banks won’t be permitted to establish offices and
subsidiaries in North Korea.  The ministers also “took steps enabling future
restrictions against persons and entities involved in trade with
the DPRK in conventional arms or nuclear and ballistic
components,” the EU said. The ministers will “consider further
restrictive measures in consultation with key partners,” it
said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  