-- Eurobank Shareholders Accept National Bank’s Acquisition Offer
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-02-18T18:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/eurobank-shareholders-accept-national-bank-s-acquisition-offer.html
National Bank of Greece SA  received
the backing of a majority of  Eurobank Ergasias SA ’s shareholders
for its buyout offer, clearing the last hurdle for a deal which
will allow it to remain Greece’s  biggest  bank.  A total of 84 percent of Eurobank shareholders accepted
 National Bank ’s offer, according to an Athens bourse filing
today. The offer period ended on Feb. 15. National Bank, the
country’s largest lender with a market value of 951 million
($1.27 billion euros), in October offered 58 new shares for each
100 shares of Eurobank. Eurobank has a market value of 250
million euros.  Greece’s banks are undergoing an overhaul sparked by losses
from the country’s sovereign debt restructuring last year, the
biggest in history, and surging non-performing loans. The
country obtained a 130 billion-euro second bailout in March from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund that
earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  “This strategic move sets the necessary foundations to
achieve the bank’s adequate and fast recapitalization,”
National Bank Chief Executive Officer  Alexandros Tourkolias  said
in an e-mailed statement. The merger will boost liquidity and
help contain operating costs and provisions, making the group
able to successfully deal with challenges facing the Greek
financial system, he said.  The new entity, to be called NBG Group, will have 178
billion euros in assets, 110 billion euros in loans and 87.9
billion euros in deposits, National Bank said in October.  With the economy set to contract for a sixth straight year
and concern lingering over the country’s ability to implement
measures agreed to in exchange for bailout funds, domestic banks
have been joining forces and overseas banks have been seeking to
exit the country.  Piraeus Bank  acquired  Agricultural Bank of
Greece  SA as well as  Societe Generale SA ’s Greek unit  Geniki
Bank , and  Alpha Bank  bought  Emporiki Bank  from  Credit Agricole
SA .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  