-- Ex-Singapore Civil Defense Chief Denies Sex-for-Contract
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-02-18T04:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/ex-singapore-civil-defense-chief-denies-sex-for-contract.html
Singapore’s former civil defense
chief, accused by prosecutors of trading contracts for sex,
didn’t influence the awarding of business, his lawyer said.  Peter Lim , accused of obtaining oral sex in a car park in
May 2010 from the general manager of  Nimrod Engineering Pte ,
isn’t corrupt, his lawyer Hamidul Haq said at the start of a
trial in Singapore subordinate court.  “His only wrongdoing here is the commission of a physical
encounter,” Haq said.  Lim, 52, abused his official position as a senior civil
servant and placed the integrity of government procurement
processes into disrepute, prosecutor Tan Kiat Pheng said. The
trial comes after Singapore’s former drug enforcement agency
chief was acquitted Feb. 14 in a similar case. Both men were
Singapore’s most senior officials accused of corruption since
1995 when they were dismissed last year.  “To excuse such behavior as mere ‘infidelity’ would
severely compromise our longstanding zero tolerance of
corruption,” Tan said. Under Singapore’s anti-graft laws, civil
servants are presumed guilty of corruption if they receive
favors, sexual or otherwise, with someone seeking business with
the government and must prove their innocence, the prosecutor
said.  Nine other charges against Lim involving two other women
will be dealt with at a later stage, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Attorney-General’s Chambers. If convicted,
Lim may be jailed for as long as five years and fined as much as
S$100,000 ($81,000) on each corruption charge.  Reasonable Doubt  Prosecutors failed to prove their case against Singapore’s
former Central Narcotics Bureau chief beyond a reasonable doubt,
district judge Siva Shanmugam said in acquitting him last week.  Singapore courts had a 96 percent conviction rate in 136
graft-related cases which concluded in 2011, according to the
latest available annual report from the Corruption Practices
Investigation Bureau. A former deputy chief executive of
Singapore’s Public Utilities Board was jailed in 1995 for taking
kickbacks.  Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  said in September there
would be no cover ups of any corruption even if it embarrasses
the nation. Lee said the recent cases “are not typical of the
public service.”  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Peter Benedict Lim
Sin Pang. DAC20106-115/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  