-- FIX Publishes Electronic Bond-Trading Standards as Volumes Rise
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-18T16:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/fix-publishes-electronic-bond-trading-standards-as-volumes-rise.html
FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the owner of the
global messaging format for financial trading, announced the
first guidelines and best practices for electronic bond markets
as new platforms open in response to changing regulations.  Guidance  on how to trade and identify traded securities,
data, quotes and prices were published on London-based FIX’s
website today. FIX is focusing on cash markets for government,
high-yield and corporate bonds after tackling the over-the-
counter swaps market in March 2012.  Lenders that traditionally acted as middlemen, by holding
inventories of bonds until customers sought to buy them, are
starting electronic trading platforms that match buyers and
sellers.  Citigroup Inc.  opened Citi Credit Cross last month.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. began GSessions for corporate bonds in
2012. FIX started drawing up best practice guidelines at the
request of 12 fixed-income dealers in June 2011.  “This market has witnessed massive change and, as it
becomes increasingly electronic, the protocol is necessary”
Sassan Danesh, who co-chairs FIX’s global fixed income
committee, said today in a statement. “Historically, fixed-
income markets have made less use of open trading standards such
as FIX for electronic trading compared to other asset classes.
This has been because a great deal of fixed-income trading has
been carried out over voice.”  EU Plans  The European Union is proposing that traders must disclose
firm prices before and after a transaction is completed under
its Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, known as Mifid
II. Almost $2 trillion of corporate debt was issued in Europe
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EU Financial
Services Commissioner Michel Barnier is reviewing Mifid as part
of a wider overhaul of the securities industry. In the U.S., the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul started in 2010 in reaction to
the role of swaps contracts in the 2008 credit crisis.  “This should dramatically promote industry adoption as
they will provide consistent guidance to bond market
participants looking to explore the many benefits that
standardisation offers,” UBS AG’s Ric Elvir , who co-chairs
FIX’s global fixed-income committee, said in the statement.
“The next stages of this project will help to continue this
progress, expanding the use of FIX for other credit base
products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  