-- Forint Gains First Time in Three Days on Matolcsy Bank Reports
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-18T15:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/forint-gains-first-time-in-three-days-on-matolcsy-bank-reports.html
The forint gained for the first time
in three days as the government signalled Economy Minister
Gyorgy Matolcsy won’t become president of the central bank.  Hungary’s currency appreciated the most in more than a week
as government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said Prime Minister
Viktor Orban ruled out changing around ministerial posts,
signalling Matolcsy won’t take over when Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Andras Simor’s term ends next month. Matolcsy will
probably stay at the ministry, Napi Gazdasag reported today,
citing state officials.  Matolcsy, who led the government’s self-described
unorthodox policies such as pension fund nationalizations and
industry tax increases, was the front-runner to succeed Simor,
Nomura Holdings Plc and Standard Bank Group Ltd. said in reports
on Feb. 12 after meeting with officials in Budapest.  “The government has swung from one extreme to the other so
many times before and so clearly market participants want to
wait for the official announcement,”  Carolin Hecht , a
Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a
research report today. Matolcsy would be the “horror
candidate” for the forint, Hecht said in a note on Feb. 15.  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to 291.21 per euro by
4:16 p.m. in Budapest. Yields on 10-year government bonds fell
two basis points to 6.33 percent.  Matolcsy is poised to become central bank chief, news
website Origo reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  The forint tumbled as much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said
in December that the bank should “bravely” use unorthodox
methods to bolster the economy. Hungary’s currency rebounded
after Matolcsy and the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary
Council each urged caution on using “unconventional” monetary
tools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  