-- France Looking for Spending Cuts to Pare Deficit, Moscovici Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-18T12:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/france-looking-for-spending-cuts-to-pare-deficit-moscovici-says.html
The French government wants to focus
on spending cuts to trim the budget deficit in the face of a
stalled economy and pressure from the European Commission to
meet its target, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  Prime Minister  Jean-Marc Ayrault  will send instructions to
ministries within two weeks explaining the need for spending
cuts, his spokesman said today. Ayrault said last week that
France wouldn’t make its 2013 deficit goal following a
government report that the economy shrank in the fourth quarter
after falling into recession earlier in the year.  “If we have a deeper recession, we’ll have an even tougher
time hitting our targets,” Moscovici told journalists today in
Paris. “We should not add austerity to the recession that’s
already out there.”  President  Francois Hollande  is trying to balance the need
meet France’s commitments to its partners in the region without
pushing Europe’s second-largest economy more deeply into
recession or triggering a political backlash. Housing Minister
 Cecile Duflot  said yesterday that Hollande can’t only look to
spending cuts to make up a shortfall.  Moscovici said today that the commission, which oversees
national budgets among the 17 countries using the euro, should
give more importance to “structural” deficits that exclude the
impact of recessions than the nominal targets.  75% Tax  France had targeted a budget deficit for this year of 3
percent of gross domestic product.  Hollande’s government is reducing the structural shortfall
by about 2 percentage points of GDP this year and aims to trim
state spending to 53 percent of GDP by 2017, he said.  The government is also being careful on any plan to re-
introduce a 75 percent tax on earnings over 1 million euros
($1.34 million) after it was struck down by courts.  “The 75 percent tax is an important reform,” Moscovici
said. “It’s an exceptional tax for exceptional times on
exceptional income for an exceptional duration. I’d like to do a
75 percent but if we can’t we won’t do it. I don’t want another
sanction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  