-- German Stocks Advance as Bundesbank Sees Economic Growth
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-18T17:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/german-stocks-fluctuate-lufthansa-surges-bmw-drops.html
German stocks  advanced, rebounding
after the longest streak of weekly declines since April, as the
country’s central bank said Europe’s largest economy will return
to growth this quarter.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG rose 1.7 percent after Deutsche Bank
AG recommended shares in the airline. Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG surged to a record as a person familiar with the situation
said a takeover approach from Vodafone Group Plc may come as
soon as this week.  The  DAX Index  added 0.5 percent to 7,628.73 at the close in
Frankfurt as U.S. markets were shut for the Presidents’ Day
holiday. The benchmark gauge retreated for three straight weeks
through Feb. 15, bringing its annual drop to 0.3 percent. The
broader HDAX Index advanced 0.4 percent today.  “Earnings season is now in full swing in Europe, and it
doesn’t look too bad given the macro environment was so weak in
the fourth quarter,”  Michael Kapler , an equities portfolio
manager at Mittelbrandenburgische Sparkasse in Potsdam, Germany,
said in a phone interview. “Investors will then focus on
elections coming up and important macro data we have ahead as
the recovery is still not very strong.”  Some 53 percent of western European companies reporting
results since Jan. 8 have topped analysts’ estimates for profit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while 52 percent have
beaten revenue projections.  Volume Declines  The number of shares changing hands on the DAX was 32
percent less than the average of the past 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The German economy will return to growth in the current
quarter as industrial production rebounds, the Bundesbank said
said in its monthly report today. Gross domestic product
contracted 0.6 percent in the final three months of 2012.  “The economic outlook for Germany has improved relatively
quickly and in remarkable fashion in the past three months,”
the Frankfurt-based central bank said. “For the first quarter
of 2013, an expansion of overall economic output can be expected
from today’s perspective.”  The European Central Bank will assess whether the recent
appreciation of the euro has changed the inflation outlook in
its new economic projections next month, President Mario Draghi
said at a quarterly hearing at the European Parliament in
Brussels today. The ECB currently predicts inflation will
average 1.6 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2014.  In Italy,  Silvio Berlusconi  started the week with a rally
today in Milan, capital of the battleground region of Lombardy,
before the nation’s election on Feb. 24-25.  Italian Polls  Front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani, had 33.8 percent support
in an SWG Institute survey published Feb. 8, the day before
Italy’s two-week polling blackout began. That compared with 27.8
percent for former premier Berlusconi.  “Political risk is potentially reasserting itself in the
short term,”  Kevin Lilley , a fund manager at Old Mutual Asset
Managers U.K. in London, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Mark Barton . “It’s clear that the Italian
election is going to be a lot closer to call. The market would
not like a Berlusconi government in any way, shape or form.
Italian bond yields would go up, and that would destabilize the
equity markets.”  Lufthansa rose 26 cents to 15.70 euros after Deutsche Bank
upgraded its recommendation on the stock to buy from hold. The
carrier’s cost savings and earnings targets make its
restructuring efforts more credible than past programs, analysts
led by  Michael Kuhn  wrote in a report.  Kabel Deutschland  Kabel Deutschland gained 4.1 percent to 71.25 euros, the
highest price since its March 2010 initial public offering.
Vodafone may approach Germany’s largest cable provider about a
potential takeover bid as early as this week, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Vodafone is waiting for Kabel
Deutschland’s  earnings release , scheduled for Feb. 20, before
initiating negotiations, said the person.  Kabel Deutschland rallied 7.2 percent last week after a
person familiar with the matter said Vodafone, the world’s
second-largest wireless carrier, is considering a takeover bid.  RWE AG , Germany’s second-largest utility, gained 3.4
percent to 28.27 euros, its biggest jump in six months. Prague-
based Energeticky & Prumyslovy Holding AG will bid for RWE’s
Czech unit, Net4Gas, EPH spokesman Daniel Castvaj said, without
elaborating on the offer.  Beiersdorf AG , the maker of Nivea skin cream, dropped 2.3
percent to 64.30 euros, the biggest decline in almost seven
months. Ellen-Brigitta Heidenreich, the wife of Chief Executive
Officer Stefan Heidenreich, sold 6.8 million euros ($9.1
million) worth of shares on Feb. 15, the company said in a
statement today.  Aixtron SE  retreated 2.4 percent to 9.35 euros. The maker
of equipment for the semiconductor industry said CEO Paul Hyland
will step down on Feb. 28, after holding the position since
December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  