-- German Property Price Gains ‘Lost Vigor,’ Central Bank Says
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-02-18T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/german-property-price-gains-lost-vigor-central-bank-says.html
German property price gains “lost
some vigor” in 2012 as the cost of new homes rose more slowly,
according to the country’s central bank.  Home values in Germany’s 125 largest cities in 2012
increased by 5 percent, the same pace as a year earlier, the
Bundesbank said in a report published today, citing data
compiled by research firm BulwienGesa AG. The gains may pose
economic risks, even though real estate lending remains
moderate, the bank said.  “We must be vigilant,” Board Member  Andreas Dombret  said
in a prepared speech. “International experience shows that the
early phases of overheating can exist along with low lending
growth.”  Home prices have been climbing as Germans invest in assets
that would retain their value if the euro crisis leads to higher
inflation. Foreign investors are also buying property in
Europe’s largest economy as they try to increase their returns
amid low interest rates.  The price of newly built apartments rose 7 percent in 2012,
down from 10 percent in 2011, the Bundesbank said. Home prices
outside the largest cities climbed at a slower rate, indicating
that there’s no sign of a countrywide bubble, the Bundesbank
said.  The property boom is also affecting rents, squeezing
households unable to afford to buy a home. The rental increases
for new properties since 2010 are about four times as high as
the 10-year average, and for existing homes it’s about three
times as high, the central bank said.  “However, the gain is not anywhere near the growth rates
of the early 1990s,” it said.  Rents in Germany’s 125 largest cities rose about 4 percent
for new buildings and 3 percent for existing homes, the
Bundesbank said, citing BulwienGesa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 