-- Gillard Eclipsed by Abbott as Preferred Leader Ahead of Election
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-18T00:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/gillard-eclipsed-by-abbott-as-preferred-leader-ahead-of-election.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has
been eclipsed by her opposition rival  Tony Abbott  as Australia’s
preferred leader as the governing Labor party popularity slides
ahead of elections due Sept. 14.  Support for Gillard as prime minister slumped 5 percentage
points to 45 percent while Abbott’s rating jumped 9 points to
49, according to the Australian Financial Review/Nielsen poll
published today. That’s the first time in almost seven months
Abbott has led.  Since setting the election date, Gillard has been been
confronted with a scandal involving a former Labor lawmaker, the
resignation of two ministers, and speculation former Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  may make another challenge for the Labor
leadership. The survey showed 61 percent of respondents prefer
Rudd as Labor leader and 52 percent think the party should drop
Gillard in his favor.  Rudd, who was ousted by Gillard in a party coup in 2010 and
failed in a challenge for the leadership a year ago, rejected
suggestions that he would make another bid. “It’s time to put
this debate into cryogenic storage,” Rudd said in an interview
with Sky News yesterday.  The government’s economic credibility was dented by the
announcement Feb. 8 that its tax on iron ore and coal profits
raised A$126 million ($130 million) in its first six months,
less than 10 percent of the A$2 billion the Treasury forecast
for the year to June 30.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition led Labor 56 percent to
44 percent on a two-party preferred basis, versus 52 to 48 in
the opposition’s favor in the previous poll taken Dec. 13 to 15.
The measure is designed to gauge which major party is likely to
win the seats required to form government.  The latest poll of 1,400 voters was conducted Feb. 14 to 16
and published in the Australian Financial Review today. The
margin of error was plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  